 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Positions Under Local Authorities. 
     
      
       asked the President if any marks are allowed for military service to applicants for posts under local authorities; and, if so, if he will state the method of allocation. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy's question relates to appointments made by local authorities on the recommendation of the Local Appointments Commissioners, the reply is that no marks are allowed for military service to any applicants for any appointments made by local authorities on the recommendation of the Local Appointments Commissioners. 
     
     
      
       Will the President state how many ex-officers of the medical service have been recommended in the past six months for such positions, and how many such officers are in receipt of pensions? 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy must realise that is an entirely different question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Double Income Tax. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is prepared to consider reverting to the arrangement which was in force prior to 1926, when the Saorstat collected income tax from all manufacturers and traders operating in the Saorstat, whereas under the new arrangement outside competitors carrying on business in the Saorstat   do not pay income tax to the Saorstat on their Irish profits. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy's question presumably has reference to the arrangements with the British Government in respect to double income tax, embodied in the Finance Acts of 1926 and 1928.  If so, the answer is in the negative.  The Double Taxation Relief Agreement with the British Government embodied in the Double Taxation (Relief) Order (No. 1 of 1923) and virtually superseded by the 1926 Agreement, gave rise to so many difficulties and complexities that it was almost universally condemned by Saorstat taxpayers, and in my opinion there can be no question of reverting to it. There is, of course, no provision under which a foreign commercial concern trading in the Saorstat can claim exemption from Saorstat income tax in respect of its Saorstat profits, unless it can bring itself within the scope of the 1926 Agreement with the British Government. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Muinteoiri ins na Colaisti Gaedhilge. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid ar iarr an Roinn Oideachais ar an Roinn Airgid diol an ceathramhadh huair as muinteoiri a bhionn ag foghluim na Gaedhilge ins na Colaisti Gaedhilge fa rialu Brainnse an Cheard-Oideachais, agus os baoghal go bhfaghaidh na Colaisti sin bas mara ndeintear socru eigin den tsort san an nglacfaidh se le moladh na Roinne Oideachais. 
     
     
      
       Is leis an Aire Oideachais a bhaineann an sceal so agus is chuige sin ba cheart ceist a chur an bhfuiltear ar aigne aonni eile a dheanamh mar gheall air. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Tax Collector and Knowledge of Irish. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that one of the collectors of taxes, Letterkenny, County Donegal, is unacquainted with the Irish language; and, if so, what steps, if any, does   the Minister propose taking in the matter. 
     
     
      
       The collector referred to was appointed prior to the change of Government, and I am unable to state whether he is acquainted with the Irish language.  As collectors of taxes are not normally transferable from one district to another, it is not proposed to take any action in the matter.  If and when a vacancy in this collector's district arises, a person able to transact business in Irish will be appointed, if a suitable candidate is available. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Steel Roof Work at Baldonnel. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether requests have been made to certain Cross-Channel firms by the Board of Works for quotations for steel roof work for officers' quarters at Baldonnel; whether an equal opportunity to quote for the work was given to either or all of the Dublin firms which are capable of undertaking such work by the employment of local labour; whether any advertisement was issued for tenders; and if not, what is the reason. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first part of the question is in the negative.  As to the remainder, the position is that the provision of structural steel-work is included in the ordinary way in the general building contract which was given to a Saorstat firm after invitation of tenders by advertisement in the public Press. The specification contains the usual clause requiring that materials, etc., are, wherever possible, to be obtained from manufacturers operating in the Saorstat.  The contractor was instructed to order the steel work for the mess block from a local firm, quotations having been obtained only from local firms having steelyards in the Saorstat and capable of erecting the steel-work. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary state if the   Government gives any preference to Saorstat firms for contracts of this and of other descriptions?  Is he aware that the Six-County Government give a five per cent. preference to firms in the Six-Counties? 
     
     
      
       We certainly do give a preference. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary state what is the percentage? 
     
     
      
       It is in excess of 5 per cent. 
     
     
      
       It varies according to the amount of work done in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       Is that stated in the advertisement? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Public Money Grant for Works at Co. Donegal Pier. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Donegal County Council has expressed its willingness to make a substantial contribution towards the cost of the works proposed to be carried out at the Pier and Harbour of Portnablagh, County Donegal; and whether, having regard to the fact that those works are much in excess of anything required for ordinary maintenance or repair, he is now willing to sanction a grant of public money for this purpose. 
     
     
      
       In reply to another question on this subject on the 30th October, I stated that I was unable to agree to make a grant towards the erection of a new break-water at Portnablagh.  I was then aware of the attitude of the county council and of the fact that the works proposed were in excess of those necessary for ordinary maintenance or repair. No developments have since taken place in the matter which I could regard as justifying a modification of the decision already arrived at. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know from the Minister if he has in mind   the promise made by one of the officials in the Fishery Department to the Donegal County Council that if they contributed towards the construction or repair of Portnablagh pier the Department would give a contribution? 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy addressed a question in those terms before to the Minister for Finance, and suggested that a promise was made.  I have gone carefully through the files in my Department to ascertain if any such promise was made, and I could find no trace of it. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister say that no such promise was made? 
     
     
      
       As far as I know, there was not. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - South Sligo Subscribers to Dail Loan. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state the total amount refunded to date to subscribers towards the Dail Loan (Internal), 1919-20, in the old Parliamentary Constituency of South Sligo and when the remaining applications will be dealt with. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the first part of the question, I would refer the Deputy to my reply to the question which he addressed to me on the 4th July last regarding subscribers in South Sligo.  With regard to the second part of the question the position is that my Department has communicated with several persons who are stated to have collected subscriptions to this loan requesting them to furnish particulars of the sums they collected.  In a few cases satisfactory particulars have been furnished and authority to repay the subscriptions has been given to the Department of Posts and Telegraphs.  Further inquiries are being made in the remaining cases, but the difficulties arising from the loss of original lists and other records of subscriptions render the task a difficult one. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Kilmallock Post Office. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether he will state if Kilmallock Post Office is held under lease or tenancy from year to year, the term in the lease, if any, and the rent of the premises. 
     
     
      
       The Kilmallock Post Office premises, which were reconstructed and enlarged by the lessor in 1922 to meet Post Office requirements, are held by the Department on a lease for 30 years from the 1st August, 1923.  It is not the practice to make public the terms of contracts, leases, etc., entered into by this Department. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Alleged Solitary Confinement of Political Prisoners. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will state if it is a fact that a number of political prisoners in Mountjoy Prison have been kept in solitary confinement during the past eight weeks; and, if so, for what reason those prisoners are being so treated. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what the Deputy means by political prisoners, but I may say that solitary confinement is a form of punishment in prison discipline, and there are no prisoners in Mountjoy Prison undergoing this punishment. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Limerick Fishery Board Meeting. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will state the reasons why Mr. Anthony Mackey, of Castleconnell, Co. Limerick, was interrogated by a member of the Garda Siochana when proceeding to a meeting of the Limerick Fishery Board, held at Limerick on November 20th, 1929; who was the officer who gave such instructions, and what was the reason for issuing them; and if the public can be excluded from being present at meetings of the Limerick Fishery Board. 
     
     
     
      
       The interrogation of Mr. Anthony Mackey when proceeding to a meeting of the Limerick Fishery Board at Limerick on November 20th took place in the following circumstances: The Garda Siochana were informed that on the 26th October, 1925, Mr. Mackey brought a crowd of some 30 persons who were not conservators to a meeting of the Limerick Board of Conservators for the purpose of obstruction. They were aware that in October, 1928, special precautions had to be taken to prevent an organised attempt to interrupt the business of the Board on the 24th of that month, and they also were informed that on the 1st October of the present year Mr. Mackey, accompanied by one Michael Mackey and one Sean Carroll, broke up a meeting of the Conservators in Killaloe, having forced the chairman to leave the chair, and then held a meeting of their own.  The Conservators were apprehensive that a further effort at obstruction would be made at the meeting of the Board on the 20th ultimo, and they requisitioned the services of the Garda Siochana to help in the keeping of good order.  A suitable number of police were detailed in the ordinary official way for this duty, and with a view to ascertaining the names of persons attending the meeting each person approaching the meeting was interrogated, including Mr. Mackey.  Nobody was prevented by the police from entering the building.  As regards the power of exclusion of the public, I am informed that Rule 7 of the Standing Orders adopted by the Limerick Board of Conservators provides for the exclusion of the public from meetings of the Board.  No doubt Mr. Mackey, who is a member of the Board, is familiar with the provision of this Standing Order. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Alleged Ill-Treatment of Co. Clare Man. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Justice if he will state whether his Department has instituted inquiries into the alleged ill-treatment of Jeremiah Madigan, Derrylough, Killimer,   County Clare, by members of the detective division of the Garda Siochana, whether he has seen an affidavit made by Mr. Madigan in which the names of certain members of the Garda Siochana are mentioned as having taken part in the assault, and if he will state how the inquiry by his Department was conducted, and who was responsible for making the inquiries. 
     
     
      
       I have seen no affidavit made by Jeremiah Madigan, of Derrylough, Killimer, County Clare. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Arrest and Alleged Assault in County Clare. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will state the charge on which Mr. Jeremiah Madigan, Derrylough, Killimer, County Clare, was arrested in his workshop on October 9th, 1929, removed to Knock police station, and there detained until the following morning; whether during his detention Mr. Madigan was assaulted by a member of the detective branch of the Garda Siochana; and, if so, if he will state what disciplinary action has been taken against the officer concerned in the assault. 
     
     
      
       Jeremiah Madigan, of Derrylough, Killimer, County Clare, was arrested on October 9th, because he was suspected of being implicated in the commission of a felony.  He was brought to Knock police station, where he made a statement, and he was then discharged.  I have no evidence of any assault except his own  ex-parte  statement, and I do not propose to take any further action in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister approve of prisoners being beaten under such circumstances in order to extract a confession? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       When it has been definitely stated that this man was beaten by the Civic Guards would not the Minister think it advisable in his own interests and in the in   terest of the Civic Guards to have an inquiry held so that his statement could be contradicted and shown up? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister hold any inquiry with reference to the truth of the statement made by Mr. Madigan? 
     
     
      
       (Clare): In view of the fact that Mr. Madigan has specifically mentioned two members of the Civic Guards who beat him will the Minister in order to free these members from suspicion have an inquiry held? 
     
     
      
       There is no suspicion in the mind of any reasonable person. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister receives an affidavit by Mr. Madigan bearing out what he alleged, that he was assaulted by the Civic Guards, will he hold an inquiry into the matter? 
     
     
      
       Mr. Madigan has already made a statement, and I do not suppose his affidavit would vary very much from his statement.  I have already stated the attitude I intend taking upon that statement. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand that the Minister refuses to hold an inquiry into the allegations made? 
     
     
      
       Into the allegations made by Mr. Madigan. 
     
     
      
       If the Civic Guards received a report from an ordinary individual that he had been beaten would an inquiry be held into the matter?  And if they did not hold an inquiry would the Minister think it right to take disciplinary action against them? 
     
     
      
       The Civic Guards received no complaints in this case. 
     
     
      
       What distinction does the Minister make in a case of misconduct into which the Civic Guards do not hold an inquiry and a case into which an inquiry is held? 
     
     
     
      
       In cases where there is a  prima facie  case for investigation an inquiry is held, but not otherwise. 
     
     
      
       I asked the Minister whether, if the Civic Guards received a report that an ordinary individual had been assaulted, he would think it their duty to inquire into the circumstances of that case? 
     
     
      
       It depends on whether the man would prosecute, in the first instance, himself.  He must, in the first instance, prosecute or decline to prosecute. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Alleged Assault in Clare by Detective Officer. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he has received a copy of a statement by Mr. Thomas J. Breen, Coolmeen, County Clare, giving particulars of an alleged assault on him by a member of the detective branch of the Garda Siochana on November 19th, 1929; if he has caused an inquiry to be made into the allegations made therein; and, if so, if he will state by whom such inquiry was conducted, the names of the witnesses examined, the result of the inquiry, and the disciplinary action, if any, taken against the officer concerned. 
     
     
      
       On the 29th ultimo I received from the Deputy's secretary a letter enclosing a copy of a statement of the kind mentioned in the question.  I do not propose to take any further action in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Why does not the Minister intend to take further action in the matter? 
     
     
      
       I explained my reasons fully in answer to the last question: because I do not believe the allegations.  This man is perpetually making allegations. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that Mr. Breen was also assaulted by the Civic Guards on 12th September? 
     
     
      
       I am quite aware of the fact that Mr. Breen   likes getting a cheap advertisement in this House by declaring that he was assaulted by the Guards, and he gets a good deal of cheap advertisement from Deputies opposite. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister think it is a cheap advertisement when a man is beaten with revolvers? Does the Minister think that that sort of thing should go on without the public being informed about it? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is assuming that this is going on, which is not a fact. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister again if he has received a sworn statement to the effect that this is going on, and if it is not true, why does he not proceed against the man for perjury? 
     
     
      
       Because, as I have explained to the House already, proceedings for perjury in a case like this would not lie.  You can only proceed for perjury when there has been perjury in judicial proceedings.  I think I made that very clear in a statement I made to the House before. 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand from the Minister that he will not investigate any allegations concerning assaults committed by the Civic Guards? 
     
     
      
       You are not. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say in what way the case of Mr. Breen differs from any other case?  Is it because Mr. Breen is not a supporter of the Government? 
     
     
      
       No, because I do not believe Mr. Breen's allegations.  I believe what is lying behind the whole thing is a desire for publicity.  Mr. Breen objects to being interrogated by the Guards&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Naturally. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;or to be stopped by the Guards, or to be   searched by the Guards for firearms, and he then brings these charges of violence against the Guards. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister for Justice know Mr. Breen personally? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Are we, therefore, to understand that the Minister is judging the case by the information which he has received from the people who are alleged to have carried out the assault? 
     
     
      
       I am judging the case on the evidence before me in this and in other cases. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Wounds and Arrest. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he can state whether the wounds inflicted on George Gilmore on Sunday, November 10th, happened while he was in police custody; (a) and further, whether George Gilmore was suffering from any wounds at the time of his arrest in Harcourt Street; (b) what wounds he was suffering from when received in Kevin Street Station. 
     
     
      
       The matter of George Gilmore's detention on Sunday, November 10th, was the subject of the adjournment debate on the 27th ultimo, and I have nothing to add to what I said on that occasion. 
     
     
      
       My purpose in putting this question down was because the Minister had made no inquiries to verify or contradict the statement which I made previously.  I put the question down the second time so that the Minister could take the trouble of trying to verify the accuracy of the charges made against the C.I.D. in this case.  I would like to know if the Minister would be prepared to answer this question if I put it down again? 
     
     
      
       I have answered the question already. 
     
     
      
       What is the answer? 
     
     
      
       The Minister refuses to give an answer to this question. 
     
     
     
      
       I have already answered it, as the Deputy would know if he had listened to what I said. 
     
     
      
       I contend that the substance of this question was not answered by the Minister on the adjournment debate.  I would ask for an answer now.  If the Minister would tell me where he did refer to it on the adjournment debate I would be satisfied. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy put his case on the adjournment debate as strongly as he possibly could.  I then dealt with it, and I do not propose to deal with it further. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state whether George Gilmore was suffering from any wounds at the time of his arrest in Harcourt Street and, if so, what wounds he was suffering from when in Kevin Street? The Minister never made any statement on that, either here or outside. 
     
     
      
       Was the Deputy here for the adjournment debate? 
     
     
      
       I was. 
     
     
      
       Then the Deputy should know that there was a medical certificate that he was suffering from two small incised wounds on his head, in other words, from two scratches. 
     
     
      
       A medical certificate was produced to show that he was suffering from these when he was let out of the barracks.  Was he suffering from them before he went in, and, if not, how did he get them? 
     
     
      
       He was not medically examined before he went in. 
     
     
      
       I can definitely state that he was beaten by the Guards, and this is the result of it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Circuit Court Appeals. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that   appeals lodged against a number of cases decided in the circuit courts in the year 1928 are still awaiting hearing, and if he will take steps to have all such cases heard before the Appeal Court as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       The number of appeals not yet disposed of, lodged in the central office up to the end of December, 1928, is 27.  All these cases have been listed; but, whether due to the convenience of parties or counsel or owing to the absence of proofs, have not yet been heard.  In these circumstances, I do not think that any action on my part is called for. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that in the Circuit Court in the year 1928 a number of awards were given under the Workmen's Compensation Act, that these were appealed against, that they have not yet been heard, and that the very greatest hardship in many cases has been inflicted on the claimants from the long delay? 
     
     
      
       I do not know what the particulars are; the Deputy only asked me the number. I have ascertained the number, which is 27.  As to whether that number contains any workmen's compensation cases I do not know.  But I can inform the Deputy, if he does not already know it, that the whole question of the hearing of Circuit Court appeals will be very shortly investigated by a Joint Committee of the two Houses. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that in many cases the delay is due to the fact that judges do not sit on an average more than three months in a year? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can give evidence before the Joint Committee if he wishes. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister endeavour to expedite the hearing of these cases? 
     
     
      
       Everything possible to expedite the hearing of these cases is being done. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Teacher Candidates for Certificates in Irish. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais an neosfadh se ce dheineann na paipeir i gcoir an scruduighthe Gaedhilge i gcoir muinteoiri naisiunta do cheapadh agus do cheartu agus cad e an meid airgid a meastar a chosnochaidh obair an scruduithe sin sa bhliain 1929-1930. 
     
     
      
       The Inspectors of my Department, as part of their ordinary duties, prepare the examination papers, mark the written answers and hold the oral tests, of teacher candidates for certificates in Irish. 
       There is no separate provision for expenditure on this work, which cannot be segregated for the purpose of estimating costs from the other duties of the inspectorate staff. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Irish Teaching in Secondary Schools. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais an dtabharfaidh se cead do mhuinteoiri ins na meadhon-scoileanna an Ghaedhilg a mhuineadh do reir an chlair ata leagtha amach i gcoir na Gearmainise, na Frainncise, na hIodailise agus na Spainnise in ionad an chlair ata ceaptha i gcoir na Gaedhilge i rialachain 1929-30. 
     
     
      
       The Department's Regulations for Secondary Schools do not prescribe definite courses of programmes in the subjects referred to; they contain, however, general directions regarding the programmes to be followed, and a school is expected to prepare and submit for approval detailed courses of study in accordance with these directions. 
     
     I am not quite clear what the Deputy means when he asks if I will give permission to teachers to teach Irish according to the programme suggested for German, French, Italian and Spanish.  If the arrangement of the programme and the methods of teaching are referred to, I would point out that the Department's   directions in these respects make very little difference between Irish and the other modern languages named, and there appears to be no reason why a school, if it prefers to do so, should not follow a programme in Irish based on the directions given for continental languages, provided this programme complies with the conditions as to standard and extent required for Irish, and makes sufficient provision for the acquisition of conversational fluency in the language. 
     
      
       If the Minister will consult the regulations regarding curricula, certificates, examinations, and scholarships for 1929-30, p. No. 3, and if he will look at pages 17 and 31, and compare them, he will understand what I referred to.  I had something to do with the Commission which drafted the programme for secondary schools, and Irish was on a level with the other subjects.  It is not in a critical spirit I put this question, but in the interests of Irish, and if the Minister looks at page 17 he will find what I am referring to&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not in fact putting a question. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister if he knows that it is laid down on page 17 of the programme, that in the first course new words and idioms, and so on, are to be learned, imitating good examples of writing and composition, and in the next year you have a number of words to learn&mdash;salutations, the weather, parts of the body, health, disease, and so on&mdash;whereas if you turn to the other languages referred to, you have phonetic drill, dialogues, songs, stories by heart, learning poetry, the memorising of poetry and prose. There have been papers set in Irish in which there was not a single line of poetry required.  Does the Minister consider that is good enough for a knowledge of Irish&mdash;the mere acquisition of lists of words which is what the programme tends towards?  That is what I had in mind in putting the question. 
     
     
     
      
       No, I can assure the Deputy that the standard required in Irish is actually higher than the standard required in other languages, owing to the fact that we assume that when coming to a secondary school pupils will have some knowledge, with the result that I do not think our inspection staff will be satisfied with the same actual knowledge&mdash;I do not say that as to the amount of teaching given, but they would have the same actual knowledge in Irish as when other languages begin to be acquired for the first time. 
     
     
      
       I put the question as, from information I have received from many sources and from the papers, I do not think there is as much scholarship associated with the Irish papers and as good grammatical knowledge of the language as is required for other languages. 
     
     
      
       Well, I hold the opposite. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - American Capital and Irish Industries. 
     
      
       (An Clar): asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state (a) whether any efforts have been made by the Irish Free State Government with a view to inducing American capital to help in the financing of Irish industrial enterprises; (b) whether any offers of such capital have been received; and, if so, what industries it was proposed to extend, revive or initiate by the use of such capital; and (c) further, whether any industries or enterprises have been financed with the help of the Industrial Trust Company of Ireland; whether all such industries or enterprises are situate within the Irish Free State, or whether some are situate in a foreign State; and whether he can state what the financial position of all these enterprises is now. 
     
     
      
       Various enquiries   have from time to time been received from American interests as to the possibilities of starting industries in the Saorstat.  In reply to these enquiries full particulars have been given as to the importation of industrial products and the volume of manufacture in this country together with details as regards protective tariffs and other relevant matters.  No specific offers of capital for the purpose of a particular industry to be developed according to a defined plan have yet been made to me as a result of these enquiries. 
       The Industrial Trust Company of Ireland has financed loans to a number of industries in the Saorstat which took advantage of the provisions of the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Acts.  I am not advised as to the other activities of this company and am, therefore, not in a position to reply to the latter part of paragraph (c) of the question. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister not say whether the company has indulged in any activities outside the Saorstat and if these activities have been successful? 
     
     
      
       The Minister says he is not advised as to other activities of this company. 
     
     
      
       Would it be true to say that a Minister of this State said in America that this State was not in need of any American capital, and suggested that American capital need not be utilised or sent or offered to this State for the development of industry? 
     
     
      
       I have not heard of any such statement. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister inform us if it is a fact that the State is the largest single shareholder in the Industrial Trust Company, that the State nominates representatives on the board of the Industrial Trust Company, if the State is satisfied that the management of the company has been judicious in the past, and if the State is satisfied with the   financial results of that management? 
     
     
      
       My reply was given on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  I imagine if there is anything in the statement the Deputy makes, whether true or untrue, the Minister for Industry and Commerce would hardly be the appropriate person to give information about it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - New Bridge Over the Foyle at Derry. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether any steps were taken by him in connection with the Bill introduced in the Parliament of Northern Ireland to make a new fixed bridge over the Foyle at Derry; and if he will state the result of such steps or action in the matter. 
     
     
      
       The Bill referred to by the Deputy is a private Bill, and it was open to persons affected by its proposals to lodge objections against it if they so desired. 
       The provision of a movable span adds considerably to the cost of erection of a bridge, and the intention to replace the existing bridge which contains such a span by a fixed bridge was doubtless dictated by this consideration. 
     
     As the bridge is wholly within the territory of Northern Ireland, the matter is of interest to this State only in so far as the replacement may have an adverse effect upon the interests of our citizens.  I have, as the Deputy knows, had this aspect of the matter examined, and I have been informed that no practical use of the opening span in the present bridge has been made for over 20 years.  I have been unable to obtain any evidence that in the present conditions the proposed replacement will impose hardships on citizens of the Irish Free State&mdash;of such an extent, at any rate, as to justify a demand for the largely increased expenditure which a movable span would involve. Nevertheless, in view of what in present circumstances seems to be a rather remote possibility, that   developments might occur which would at some date in the future render the provision of an opening span desirable, representations have been made to the Government of Northern Ireland that they should undertake, in the event of such a possibility arising, that the necessary steps would then be taken.  The matter rests there for the moment. 
     
      
       Does the Minister not think that the proposed erection of this bridge is a breach of the Articles of Agreement of 1921, and, as such, would prohibit a free passage inside territorial waters to parts of the Free State situated in Donegal? Further, is the Minister aware that this is the third bridge to be built, and that each previous one made provision for an opening span? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy will have to wait for the return of the Minister for Industry and Commerce to find out what he thinks beyond what is set out in the answer. 
     
     
      
       I desire to give notice that I will raise the matter on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister give any indication as to the line of demarcation between the waters of Northern Ireland and the waters of the Free State in the Foyle?  I would like an answer to that question. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Blaney has given notice that he desires to raise the matter on the adjournment. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Foreign Firms in the Saorstat. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he can state the number of concerns registered outside the Saorstat, but operating in the Saorstat, and the number of branches of each such concern at the end of 1926, and further, the like particulars for the nearest date to the present available. 
     
     
      
       The number of companies incorporated outside Saorstat Eireann which had established places of business within   Saorstat Eireann and filed the particulars prescribed by the Companies (Consolidation) Act, 1908, to be filed by such companies was, on 31st December, 1926, 394.  The corresponding number on the 31st December, 1928, was 459.  The information at the disposal of my Department does not, I regret, permit of a more detailed reply to the Deputy's question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Fatal Accidents on the SS. Celtic. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that four of the employees working for the salvage contractors on board the SS.  Celtic, Cork Harbour, lost their lives by gas poisoning while at their work on 28th November, 1929, and a number of others are seriously ill from the effect of poisoning by gases escaping from tanks in the hold of the vessel; whether any examination of this vessel for poisonous gases or other potential sources of danger to the workmen employed has been made by his Department since work of salvage commenced some six months ago; whether he will now cause a thorough examination of the vessel to be made before work is re-started, and hold an investigation into the cause of the terrible tragedy. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the facts stated in the first part of the question.  I have no statutory power or duty to examine into the condition of a wrecked vessel on which salvage operations are being carried out, but I understand that the Garda Siochana is dealing with the question of the conditions under which work could be re-started. 
     
     
      
       Then the Minister or his Department has no power over the work on this vessel and has no power to intervene? 
     
     
      
       The Minister says: &ldquo;I have no statutory power or duty to examine into the condition of a wrecked vessel on which   salvage operations are being carried out.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       He ought to get power. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the men working on the Celtic for the past few months have been working under conditions of very great hardship, involving serious risks, and have been paid wages below those paid by local employers?  Will he investigate the conditions with a view to having an improvement effected?  After all, this wreck, I submit, is within the territory of the Saorstat, and if the conditions there are abnormal that is a matter which the Minister should investigate. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - French Government and Proposed Tariff Holiday. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs if he will state whether France was one of the nations which supported the economic proposal at the recent League of Nations assembly at Geneva for a two years' European Tariff Holiday; and whether he can state if it is the intention of the French Government to restrict the importation of foreign wheat, and to considerably increase the customs duty to safeguard the cultivators of home-grown beet. 
     
     
      
       The first part of the question was answered on 28th ultimo.  The French Government has recently introduced Bills regulating the conditions under which wheat may be imported and increasing the customs duties on imported sugar. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Article 6 of the Treaty of 1921. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs if he will state what steps, if any, have been taken to implement Article 6 of the Articles of Agreement for a Treaty of 1921, and if he will state, in view of the expiration of the period specified therein, the Government's policy in regard to the conference on coastal   defence, and when it is expected that it will take place. 
     
     
      
       An examination of the matters arising out of Article 6 of the Treaty has been undertaken and a preliminary conference was held.  No conclusions were reached at this conference, which was adjourned until a date to be later determined. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Mullingar Military Barracks. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state his intentions with regard to the use of Mullingar military barracks, and whether, if it is not intended to utilise the barracks for military purposes, he will consider handing it over to the local authorities for housing or industrial purposes. 
     
     
      
       It is intended to utilise the barracks in connection with the requirements of the Army Reserve. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister give any indication as to the date when the barracks will be utilised? 
     
     
      
       The earliest possible date. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Donegal Old Age Pension Claim. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health (a) whether he is aware that Eliza Munn, of Dromatoland, St. Johnston, was awarded an old age pension of 10/- per week by the Strabane No. 2 Pensions Sub-Committee, and that it was disallowed on appeal; (b) whether he is aware that this applicant is living with and totally dependent upon her son; and (c) whether he will state the grounds upon which the calculation is based that this applicant's means exceeds the sum of £39 5s. Od. per year. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  The information before me does not show that the applicant, who is living with   her son, is totally dependent upon him.  Her means exceed £39 5s. Od. If the Deputy desires I will send him particulars of the estimate of her means. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister not be prepared to give that estimate now? 
     
     
      
       I do not see the necessity for putting details of means of old age pension questions into answers given in the Dail, but I will circulate to the Deputy a copy of the estimate of means. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the Minister has brought out a new regulation which deprives Deputies from going to make representations to the Department, and in view of what I consider to be an unsatisfactory answer to the question, I intend to raise this matter to-night on the adjournment, or on the first available opportunity. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask if the Deputy will be prepared to say what advantage is to be gained by putting a statement of the means in regard to old age pension questions into the records of the Dail? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Navan Housing Scheme. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will state the reasons for his refusal to allow the Navan Urban District Council to proceed with the building of 24 houses on land bought by the council at New Road, Navan; and whether he is aware that if the erection of these houses had been allowed to proceed, much needed employment would have been given to a number of unemployed during this winter. 
     
     
      
       I did not refuse to allow the Navan Urban District Council to proceed with the erection of 24 houses on land at New Road. Objections by local residents to the acquisition of the land for the erection of working class houses were brought to the notice of the council and the proposal was abandoned.  The council are at present building 5 cottages   and have taken the preliminary steps to acquire land for a further scheme.  The second part of the question does not accordingly arise. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Appointments by Agricultural Committees. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will state what procedure was followed in appointing the present secretaries to the counties Dublin, Donegal, and Cavan Committees of Agriculture, and whether a similar course was followed in the more recent appointments of the secretaries to counties Galway and Tipperary (North Riding) Committees of Agriculture, and if not if he will state the reasons why. 
     
     
      
       In the cases of the County Committees of Agriculture for counties Donegal, Dublin, and Cavan, when the post of secretary became vacant the Itinerant Instructor in Agriculture was promoted to the new post of principal instructor and organising secretary. 
       While, as a general policy, I am in favour of a similar procedure being followed when the post of secretary to a county committee of agriculture becomes vacant, it is not always possible, owing to local circumstances, to insist upon or to agree to a county committee making an appointment to the dual post above-mentioned, and accordingly in the case of counties Galway and Tipperary (North Riding) the post of secretary was continued. 
     
     
      
       Do I understand the Minister to say that the Minister for Agriculture was as a rule in favour of having the itinerant instructor appointed secretary? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Can he say why a similar course was not followed in Galway and North Tipperary? 
     
     
      
       The Minister indicated that when he said: &ldquo;It is not always possible owing to local circumstances to insist upon or to agree to a county committee making   an appointment to the dual post above mentioned.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Do local circumstances include the fact that an ex-National Army officer applied for the position in North Tipperary? 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy suggest that he was debarred from the post? 
     
     
      
       No, but I suggest that that was what influenced the Minister in departing from the usual procedure and that was the reason that the ex-Army officer got the position. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the North Tipperary County Committee refused to adopt the suggestion of the Department that the itinerant instructor should be promoted. 
     
     
      
       The Donegal Committee refused for two years to adopt the suggestion of the Minister but in the end they were beaten.  He gave in readily in North Tipperary. 
     
     
      
       It took two years in Donegal, so, perhaps, the Deputy should put down a question again in two years' time. 
     
     
      
       The circumstances were reversed in Donegal. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Redundant Creamery Managers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether it is the intention to introduce proposals for legislation to increase the gratuity to redundant creamery managers who have given long service and whose prospects of future employment are very remote owing to advanced age. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the question is in the negative.  As stated by me in the Dail on 19th October, 1927, I shall be prepared to give such special consideration as is possible to cases of distinct hardship of the nature referred to by the Deputy; and legislation in the matter is not necessary. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Future of the Fishing Industry. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is yet in a position to acquaint the Dail of his intentions in the matter of the promised legislation for the fishing industry, and of the probable date of the introduction of a measure towards this end. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when it is proposed to introduce proposals for legislation to deal with fishery development in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       I am answering both these questions together. 
       I had hoped that it would have been possible to introduce this measure before the House rose, but this step has not been possible.  The progress of the matter will not, however, be delayed on that account. Steps towards the promotion of the proposed association are on foot, and indeed, from the point of view of the better information of the House when considering the Bill, it will be more convenient that these arrangements should have then reached an advanced stage.  The Bill itself will, I anticipate, be a comparatively short measure. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister give any indication as to whether the Bill which he promised to introduce will embody comprehensive proposals in regard to the export brand for mackerel and the recasting of loans for fishermen of which he spoke this year? 
     
     
      
       The export brand for mackerel which is at the moment voluntary would not, if made compulsory, make such a difference as the Deputy seems to think.  The position about legislation in this matter is that certain heads of a Bill were ready but it was discovered not so very long ago that most of the proposals embodied in these heads could be done without legislation and proceedings are being taken accordingly. The Bill, in fact, when it comes along will be merely a short measure in the nature of the transfer   of property and other things from the Department to the association. 
     
     
      
       The Minister's statement is not an answer to my question as to whether there is any provision in the Bill to carry into effect the statement made by the Minister with regard to the recasting of loans and facilities for securing loans by fishermen as promised by the Minister some time ago. 
     
     
      
       The whole object of the association is to deal with questions of loans to fishermen, that is, that loans would be available to them without two solvent sureties as now required.  The co-operative society will lend boats on the men's own security and will collect from them out of their takings.  Whether that Bill or a separate Bill will deal with the branding of mackerel I cannot say off-hand. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that in County Mayo about two years ago his promises about a Fishery Bill were taken seriously by a large number of people? 
     
     
      
       The Minister is not officially responsible for that. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Question 31. 
     
     
      
       There is a question I want to get answered. 
     
     
      
       Question 31. 
     
     
      
       How am I going to get the information? 
     
     
      
       I do not know. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Dredging at Bantry Pier. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware of the necessity for dredging at Bantry Pier, and whether he will send an Inspector to report on the matter, with a view to finding a remedy. 
     
     
     
      
       I have not received any reports as to the need for dredging in Bantry harbour, but I am having inquiries made into the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Unemployment in Co. Donegal. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that owing to the failure of this year's fishing around the Rosses (County Donegal) seaboard a very large amount of poverty with attendant hardship exists, and whether he will state what steps the Government propose to take to give much needed employment in this area during the winter months. 
     
     
      
       While the herring and salmon fishing on the Donegal coast during the past year has not been remunerative, I am not aware that any exceptional poverty exists in the Rosses in consequence.  The year has been very favourable for agriculture upon which the Rosses mainly depends, and the harvest has been above the average.  Herrings have unexpectedly appeared off the Rosses coast during the past fortnight, and in a few nights the local yawls at Burtonport and Kincasslagh have earned over eleven hundred pounds. The stormy weather of the past week has interrupted this fishing, but the herrings are reported to be still on the coast, and the fishermen are waiting improvement in the weather to resume operations.  I am having inquiries made as to lands suitable for reclamation work in this district. Such schemes, if found feasible, will involve employment on road-making and fencing.  The Land Commission has expended over £4,000 in the recent past on roads, drainage and reclamation of lands in the Lower Rosses.  Some employment will be given in the Burtonport district on repairs to slips and other small marine works.  Larger drainage schemes for this district are under consideration at the moment, but these, if they materialise, can be carried out only after the winter. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that poverty is more acute in that area this year than in an   ordinary year, owing to the comparative failure of the fishing industry and to the fact that there were fewer labourers employed in Scotland than in an ordinary year? In view of the poverty that exists will the Minister be prepared to outline any scheme which he proposes to put into operation this winter, as it is work for the winter which the people are looking for. 
     
     
      
       It is not due to the failure of the fishing industry that that situation arose, as the people in the Rosses are not mainly dependent on fishing.  They are mainly agriculturists and there has been a better harvest and crops have been better than usual, so that it would be an extraordinary thing if there had been unusual poverty in the Rosses this year. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister know anything about agricultural prices? 
     
     
      
       May we take it that the Minister is not prepared to initiate any scheme this year? 
     
     
      
       I am not prepared to do anything more than has been mentioned in my answer. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Reclamation Schemes in Donegal. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will give details of any schemes of land reclamation recently carried out in County Donegal; whether such schemes have proved generally successful; and what further works of this character it is proposed to initiate in the near future. 
     
     
      
       Reclamation work has been undertaken on the Rose O'Donnell estate, near Dungloe, involving drainage, cropping, lime-burning, the erection of a specimen dwellinghouse and out-offices and the planting of a shelter-belt.  The experimental cropping has given satisfactory results.  Following inquiries which have been made other reclamation work will be undertaken. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Division of Westmeath Lands. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when it is proposed to divide the lands of Heathstown and Ballinlough; how many migrants are being brought to those lands, and how much of the lands it is proposed to give to the migrants. 
     
     
      
       The proceedings for the acquisition of the lands of Heathstown and Ballinlough by the Land Commission have been almost completed and it is anticipated that the Land Commission will be in a position to put the scheme of division of the lands into operation at an early date.  In the division of the lands it is proposed to allot parcels to three migrants who are surrendering their holdings for the relief of congestion in the counties of Mayo and Leitrim. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state how many of these migrants are Land Commission officials and also when the practice of giving away large holdings to Land Commission officials is going to cease in view of the amount of congestion in that area? 
     
     
      
       No land official has got any holding on this particular estate. 
     
     
      
       On the adjoining estate, one Land Commission official got 250 acres and another got 300 acres on the Gradwell estate. 
     
     
      
       That is pure nonsense. No Land Commission official has got land in Westmeath or in any other of the Twenty-Six Counties. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Kilroy and Mr. Kelly got these two holdings. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Westmeath Bog Petition. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state why the petition of the people using Watterstown Bog, Harris-Temple Estate, Westmeath, was not dealt with. 
     
     
      
       The petition referred   to was fully considered, and an inspector attended on the lands and heard the views of tenants using Watterstown Bog.  He explained to them the scheme of improvement work proposed to be carried out by the Land Commission, and they expressed their satisfaction with it. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that the Land Commission inspector made an appointment with the secretary to the petitioners, that he cancelled that appointment afterwards and that he came down and carried out a drainage scheme for one man who had not signed the petition at all and left the other petitioners alone, left them waterlogged and without a way of getting out their turf? 
     
     
      
       Every one of the memorialists expressed complete satisfaction with the scheme carried out by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary advise the petitioners to join the local Masonic Lodge? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - A Longford Holding. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he intends to compensate John Ghee, of Briskil, Newtownforbes, County Longford, for the improvement he carried out on the temporary holding at Leitrim. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have fully considered the circumstances of the case of John Ghee, and do not consider that he carried out any improvements on the parcel of land allotted to him on a temporary letting which would entitle him to compensation.  He has now been allotted another parcel of land more conveniently situated in lieu of the plot temporarily occupied by him. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Acquisition of Sligo Bog. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he can state if the Land Commission have acquired, or intend to acquire, the   bog on the Duke Estate, in the townland of Mountown, parish of Geevagh, County Sligo, for sub-division among the tenants cutting turf thereon. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have not acquired, and do not propose to acquire, any bog on the Duke Estate. 
       Regulations under the provisions of Section 21 of the Irish Land Act, 1903, and Section 42 of the Land Act, 1923, providing for the exercise of turbary rights by 32 persons on the bog on Thomas Redington's holding in Mountown have been made, and will be put into operation as soon as possible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Acquisition of Galway Estates. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission have acquired the lands of Dr. Costello, Tuam, and Thomas O'Brien, Clough, Williamstown, situated at Islands, Williamstown, County Galway (Isabella Hawe Estate); and, if so, whether it is their intention to have those lands divided in the near future. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have not acquired the holdings of Doctor Costello and Thomas O'Brien, situated in the townland of Briersfort, held by them as tenants subject to judicial rents, on the estate of Isabella Hawe, which is pending for sale under the Land Act, 1923.  When the estate is being dealt with the question of the retention and resumption of the holdings will be considered. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission have yet acquired any lands on the Synge Estate, Gortnagraune, Dunmore, County Galway; and, if so, whether he will state what progress has been made as regards the division of same. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have not yet acquired any lands on the Synge Estate at Gortagarraub, but they have been in   negotiation with Mr. Charles Flattery, who is a tenant of 314 acres, 2 roods, 26 perches of the adjoining lands of Brackloon on the Synge Estate, with a view to the acquisition of his holding in exchange for lands elsewhere, but so far it has not been found possible to effect the exchange.  This holding will be retained by the Land Commission when they are dealing with this estate in due course under the purchase provisions of the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Drainage of Leitrim Bog. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state if he has received the Report of the inspection made by the Land Commission with a view to the drainage of the bog in Kilmakerl, Glenfarne, on the Massey Estate, County Leitrim; to what extent he proposes to effect the drainage of this bog; and when it is intended to start work on it. 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to answer the Deputy's question as the file is down the country, but I shall communicate with him in a week or so. 
     
     
      
       As regards the Parliamentary Secretary's inability to answer my question would he explain what is the cause of the delay, seeing that he himself on the eve of an election almost two years ago saw the bog and then promised to have the matter investigated and dealt with? 
     
     
      
       I never had the pleasure of visiting any bog in the district of Glenfarne. 
     
     
      
       I must stick to my statement.  The Parliamentary Secretary visited this bog. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Vesting of Leitrim Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the lands on the Benison Estate, Ballinaglera, County Leitrim, will be vested in the tenants; and the cause of the delay in vesting of   same; also whether this estate has been inspected; and when it is proposed to have the necessary improvements in drainage, road-making, etc., carried out. 
     
     
      
       There are two estates under the title of Joseph A. Benison in the parishes of Fenagh and Mohill respectively at present pending before the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923.  The lands comprised therein are Ballycalleen and Stuck.  These estates have not yet been reached in their turn of priority to be dealt with under the purchase provisions of the Land Act, 1923, and when they are being dealt with the question of improvement works will be fully investigated. 
     
     
      
       Have any steps been taken by the Parliamentary Secretary to ensure that the owner of the lands would lodge the necessary papers with the Land Commission so that the vesting order could be proceeded with? 
     
     
      
       The owner has not lodged the schedule of particulars yet notwithstanding repeated communications from the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       Has the Parliamentary Secretary not power to insist that the owner should lodge these papers? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Why has he not taken these steps? 
     
     
      
       He is taking these steps. 
     
     
      
       In the meantime the tenants have to pay interest in lieu of rent. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission cannot do anything further, until the schedule and particulars of rentals are lodged with them. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral&mdash;Answers. - Acquisition of Roscommon Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state whether the lands of Tim   Giblin, townland of Muff, Athleague West, Coote Estate, are acquired, or about to be acquired, by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       The lands to which the Deputy appears to refer are those purchased by Timothy Giblin under the Land Purchase Acts and subject to a Land Purchase annuity, comprising 121a. 3r. 10p., of the townland of Muff, and 10a. Or. 20p. of the lands of Creemully and Aghagad.  The Land Commission have not taken any proceedings for the acquisition of these lands under the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     Business of the Dail. 
     
      
       With regard to matters to be raised on the adjournment, Deputy Boland had a Question on yesterday's Order Paper which he desired to raise on the adjournment, and which was left over until to-day.  Deputy Blaney has given notice to raise a question in regard to Question No. 19 and Deputy Cassidy with regard to No. 25. 
     
     
      
       I would be prepared to waive my right with regard to Question No. 25 for to-day.  I propose to raise it at a future date, possibly to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       I would be satisfied if I were allowed to raise my question to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       I will take Deputy Boland's question this evening. With regard to to-morrow, I would like to examine Question No. 19 to see what it is precisely that can be raised.  If it is decided that Question No. 19 contains a matter that can be raised and is of general   interest, I think I would prefer it to the specific case which Deputy Cassidy wishes to raise to-morrow.  We will take Deputy Boland's question on the adjournment to-night. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister for Justice if it is his intention to introduce a Town Tenants Bill to-morrow? 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister for Local Government if it is his intention to introduce the Traffic Bill to-morrow? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - Report of Committee of Public Accounts. 
     
      
       I move: 
       That the Report of the Committee, together with the Minutes of Evidence, the Proceedings of the Committee and Appendices do lie upon the Table, be printed and circulated. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
       Ordered accordingly. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - Report of Joint Committee on Remuneration of Ministers and Allowances to Members of Dail and Seanad. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That the Report do lie upon the Table; 
       That the Report and the Proceedings of the Joint Committee be printed. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
       Ordered accordingly. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - Local Government (Dublin) Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce this Bill.  I ask that a slight alteration be made in the Title as it appears upon the Order Paper. The Title should read:&mdash; 
     
     Bill entitled an Act to extend   the area of the city of Dublin by including therein the Urban District of Pembroke, the Urban District of Rathmines and Rathgar and certain rural areas, to establish a new borough comprising the Urban Districts of Blackrock, Dun Laoghaire, Dalkey, and Killiney and Ballybrack, to regulate and amend the local government of the city of Dublin as so extended and the local government of the county of Dublin, to establish and regulate the local government of the said new borough, and to make provision for divers matters connected with or incidental to the several matters aforesaid. 
     
      
       I agree with the amendment, but I want to ask for a ruling on a point of order.  In the Title of the Bill as now introduced there are the words &ldquo;to establish a new borough comprising the urban districts of Blackrock, Dun Laoghaire, Dalkey, Killiney and Ballybrack.&rdquo; I want to know whether that would shut out any amendment to extend the boundaries of the new borough by the inclusion of certain rural areas.  Would that under this Title be inadmissible?  I apologise for not having given notice, but it only came to my notice recently. 
     
     
      
       The scope of the Bill will be determined by what is in the Bill, not by what is in the Title.  The actual words of the Title, therefore, will not in fact exclude any particular amendment, but I am not able to rule whether an amendment would or would not be in order until I have considered the Bill and the amendment.  I am afraid I could not give any assistance to the Deputy on that. 
     
     
      
       I apologise for putting a hypothetical case, but this is a definite case.  I should like to ask the Minister if he will postpone the First Reading until to-morrow and consider adding the words &ldquo;certain rural areas in Ballybrack,&rdquo; or if an amendment to that Title in that   manner would be in order at a later stage. 
     
     
      
       There is no use in asking the Minister's opinion about a matter of order. 
     
     
      
       The latter part of the question is addressed to you, sir. 
     
     
      
       I should like to say that my attitude in the matter of the new borough is, that until the new borough is consolidated under a new scheme of government I do not want to suggest the adding of any rural areas.  It is proposed that the Bill will contain machinery by which the new borough can take in rural areas after they have fully considered it.  I have personally given a good deal of consideration as to whether the rural areas ought to be brought into the borough in the Bill, and I would prefer the new Council to consider that problem.  If they consider that there are rural areas that ought to be brought in, there will be machinery provided by which they can be brought in without very much cost or delay. 
     
     
      
       Do I understand from the Minister that the borough will not have to bear the expense of promoting a private Bill in order to include additional areas? 
     
     
      
       That is so. 
       Leave granted. 
       Bill read a First Time; Second Stage to be taken on 12th February, 1930. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say when the Bill will be circulated? Shall we have it for a Christmas present? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can expect it as a kind of New Year present. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - State Lands (Workhouses) Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     Leave granted to introduce a Bill &ldquo;entitled an Act to make better provision in relation to the making of leases and the granting of licences of certain lands which were formerly   vested in the Local Government Board for Ireland, and now belonging by virtue of Article 11 of the Constitution to Saorstat Eireann, to confirm certain leases and licences heretofore made or agreed to be made of portions of such lands, to make provision for the maintenance of such lands and for the discharge of outgoings payable in respect thereof and for other purposes connected with the aforesaid matters.&rdquo;&mdash;(General Mulcahy). 
     Bill read a First Time; Second Stage to be taken on 12th February, 1930. 
   
   
     Supplementary and Additional Estimate. - Vote 55&mdash;Land Commission. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £32,000 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31 adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Choimisiun Talmhan na hEireann. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £32,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st March, 1930, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Irish Land Commission.&rdquo; 
       As Deputies will see by the Estimate, the money now asked for is required to supplement the sub-head under the Vote for the improvement of estates.  It is suggested that it would be more desirable not to enter upon a discussion of the Land Commission work in this matter on this Supplementary Estimate to-day.  If the House will accept that, then we undertake that immediately on the resumption after Christmas a token Vote will be introduced which will give the House a full opportunity of debating the matter. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Report of Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Expiring Laws Bill, 1929&mdash;Fifth Stage. 
     
        Bill passed, and ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - National Health Insurance Bill, 1929&mdash;Fifth Stage. 
     Bill passed, and ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Courts of Justice Bill, 1929&mdash;Money Resolution. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     Resolved:&mdash;&ldquo;That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas of any remuneration and allowances payable to judges of the Circuit Court appointed under any Act of the present session to provide for the occasional appointment of persons to act temporarily as judges of the Circuit Court during such times as a judge of the Circuit Court is, owing to other public duties or services temporarily imposed on him or on account of illness or for any other sufficient reason, wholly or partly unable to perform the duties of his office.&rdquo;&mdash;(Mr. Blythe). 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Report of resolution agreed to. 
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Courts of Justice Bill, 1929&mdash;Committee. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     Section 1 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     SECTION 2. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;This Act shall continue in force for two years from the passing thereof and shall then expire.&rdquo; 
     
     This amendment arises out of a discussion which we had in the House yesterday afternoon.  I then   stated that I would bring in an amendment that this Act should remain in force for two years and no more.  As I explained in the course of the discussion, the object of putting in two years is this: that there is now a Committee sitting which is investigating the entire administration of justice in this country.  The number of judges and the appointment of judges, as well as other questions, like the question of appeals from the Circuit Court, will come under the purview of that Joint Committee of the Dail and Seanad.  If they advise anything which is contrary to the principle of this Bill, the legislation embodying their recommendations will automatically wipe out this Bill.  But in order that they may have full time to deliberate and that the Bill following on their deliberation&mdash;as a Bill is pretty sure to follow&mdash;may have full consideration before it becomes law, it seems to me that a period of two years would be a sufficiently long period, but that any shorter period might mean coming to the Dail for further powers, if a case like the present very urgent and pressing case for the appointment of a temporary judge were to arise. 
     
      
       I move an amendment to the amendment of the Minister: 
       To delete the words &ldquo;two years&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;six months.&rdquo; 
     
     In thinking over the possibilities of getting rid of some of the worst elements in this Bill one is driven to the conclusion that the only way of dealing with it was to shorten its life as nearly as possible to non-existence.  The attempt we hoped to make was to try and dissociate the work of the temporarily appointed judge from any case in which the State would be a party. But there are obvious practical difficulties in the way which led to the conclusion that the Bill is inherently defective.  In order to prevent the Bill doing damage for a period of two years our only way out of   the difficulty is to reduce that to a period of six months.  The committee that will have in review the situation dealt with by this Bill will have finished its work in a short time and the Minister will have ample opportunity within six months to bring in the Bill required to deal with that matter.  But I think it is rather an abuse of the patience of this House to give a period of two years for dealing with a serious matter which the Minister himself admits leads to evils, and stands against the principle of the independence of the judiciary. 
     
      
       While carrying out his undertaking given to me last night to limit the operations of this Bill to a period of two years, still I would like to endeavour to get the Minister, if possible, to reconsider his decision now in regard to that period.  I think it might be well, in discussing this amendment, which, of course, alters the whole character of the Bill, because it makes it a temporary one instead of a permanent one, to consider the real object of the Bill.  There is some misunderstanding about its object.  Under the law as it now stands, it is possible to substitute a temporary Circuit Court judge for one who is unable to perform his duties owing to illness.  That is provided for by Section 45 of the Courts of Justice Act, 1924.  What this Bill proposes is, as I said yesterday, an entirely different thing. It is not to extend that principle, but it is introducing an entirely new one.  It says that in future not only in a case of illness may a Circuit Court judge be replaced by a temporary Circuit judge, but also, that owing to other public duties or services temporarily imposed upon him or for any other sufficient reason such substitution may be made.  I would like to impress upon the House the width and the scope of this measure, and the difference between what it proposes and what the existing law is.  That is one of the principal reasons why I endeavoured to get the Minister to make the Bill as short as possible in duration. 
     
     
        The Minister said yesterday that he did not think there was any introduction of a new principle.  He said it was merely extending the principle embodied in the existing law.  But, as I pointed out to him, surely the fact of a judge being ill is not due to any act on the part of the State, but is what we, in legal parlance, call an act of God.  The fact of a Circuit Court judge being taken from the position in which he is put by the State, and taken from the Bench, and put into another position by the State, is entirely a different state of affairs, and should be governed by entirely different regulations. 
     There were three alternatives open for the Minister.  The first alternative was, as pointed out yesterday, that when occasions arose to appoint men of integrity and ability and legal acumen to certain positions, the Executive need not necessarily confine themselves to the rota of Circuit judges.  There is a large body of lawyers amongst whom a good many would be found to answer the description I have just given. That would do away altogether with the necessity that has arisen in this case.  But the Minister did not seem inclined to adopt that suggestion. To my mind that was the proper course for the State to pursue.  Once a man is appointed to the position of Circuit Court judge, no matter how great his ability in that direction, and in other directions, he should not be disturbed from his post and he should be left to stick to his last.  Others might be found to preside over commissions and do other public service equally as well. 
     The second alternative would be to create more permanent judges.  Undoubtedly there is a necessity for more judges, more Circuit Court judges, as well as High Court judges.  That would render it possible to have the areas of jurisdiction presided over by those judges curtailed, and it might give them, I do not say necessarily would give them, a certain time that they could devote to other public duties imposed upon them at the pleasure of the Executive Council.  That course   either has not been adopted yet.  But the course adopted by this Bill as it now stands is, that at least for the period of two years, according to the Minister's amendment, the State is to have the power to appoint any number of temporary judges it pleases on the grounds that owing to other public duties or for any other sufficient reason a judge cannot fulfil his duties on the Bench.  That I suggest is a very wide scope of discretion to give to the Executive Council.  The principle of appointing temporary judges at all is I think a vicious one and one which should not be entertained; and all the more so if that principle was to be made permanent in this Bill, if it became law, as it originally stood enabling, at any future time, the then existing Government to appoint any number of temporary judges to take the place of existing Circuit Court judges who might be pursuing elsewhere public duties or for any other sufficient reason. 
     The Minister has carried out his undertaking to limit the operations of this Bill to two years and certainly so far so good.  In doing that I admit that the whole character of the Bill has become altered because instead of being a permanent measure it has become more or less a temporary one.  What I would have preferred would be that the Minister would have introduced a strictly  ad hoc  measure for the immediate necessities of this case which he said was a particularly urgent one but he preferred not to do so. 
     He has preferred the method that is now adopted.  There is one gratification we must have, at any rate, and that is, that this measure is not to be taken as a precedent for the whole future policy of this country in regard to the appointment of judges.  We have that crumb of satisfaction from the Minister's intention and amendment to limit the operation of this Bill to two years. I would have preferred, and I still prefer, that it should be limited still further.  I do not see the necessity for the two years' limitation.  I think it might have been six months   or might possibly even yet be reduced to one year.  I do not know whether he would consider splitting the difference between Deputy Little's proposal and his own in agreeing to limit the Bill to one year.  Personally I abhor the Bill because I think it is against the principles of the Constitution and the principles of justice as it should be properly administered by impartial and independent judges. 
     I am not going to weary the House by going into any other argument on that score because I think there is no one in the House, including the Minister himself&mdash;in fact, he has himself admitted that he has not any love for the policy of creating temporary judges&mdash;in favour of it, and the only thing I would like to ask is if it would be possible for the Minister to consider now the reduction of the period from two years if not to six months at least to one year.  Then it would be really more an  ad hoc  proposal to meet the immediate emergency and necessity of the case.  If he does not choose to do so, of course, I am personally bound by my undertaking to support this Bill, because he has distinctly altered the character of it by conceding the period of two years as against making it a permanent measure which I would have strenuously opposed. 
     
      
       Taking Deputy Redmond's speech as a whole I think what really his argument would be if carried out to a logical conclusion is this, that you have a certain number of Circuit Court judges.  You are never to have a temporary judge there.  You are only to have a superfluous whole-time judge.  That is what his argument would come to.  Judges will always get sick. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should allow me to speak.  I did not interrupt him.  You must take one or other of two alternatives; one is you leave the court without a judge; and the other is that   you appoint a temporary judge. You must do one or the other. Therefore, I will assume that the House thinks that litigants ought not to be left without a court to litigate. 
     
     
      
       I really must interrupt the Minister.  I am very sorry, but the Minister rather misrepresented me, because in regard to sickness or illness of judges I never suggested that not only should he not have powers, but I went on to show that there is power under the Courts of Justice Act to appoint a substitute. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will not allow me to develop my argument.  He always comes in before my argument is half finished. I will try and get back to my argument. It is this.  You have got alternatives, one is you either leave litigants without a court, and if you do it is unjust to litigants not to have a court in which to settle their differences.  That is, I think, agreed by the whole House.  If you do not you have in the case of illness either a whole time judge in reserve ready to be called upon in the case of illness of the judge who actually gets sick.  That would be too expensive an expedient for the State.  With regard to the other and last case left, that in the case of illness there must be a temporary judge, the Deputy endeavoured to draw a distinction between a temporary judge appointed because a judge is sick and a temporary judge appointed because it is thought advisable that a man eminently suited for the position should be for a short time employed otherwise than in his capacity as judge.  The particular instance which has arisen now is that of the Chairman of a Commission.  I cannot see the difference.  If a judge is appointed in the case of sickness and is temporary he will act exactly the same as the same man would act if appointed for any other reason.  The objection to temporary judges is that they have not got the permanency of position and, therefore, it is said that they cannot have the same complete independence as a permanent judge would have, but that argument is   equally applicable to a judge appointed in the case of illness and a judge appointed for some other reason. 
     
     The Deputy says it is introducing a new principle.  I do not think it is.  It is introducing a temporary judge when for some very grave reason the regular judge is not available or as has happened now in a very unusual case, when you have what you might call the partial illness of one of the judges.  It is impossible to carry out the work of the Courts at the moment.  For that reason, because litigants are at the present moment without a forum in which to litigate, I put forward this Bill to the House as a really urgent and necessary Bill in the interest of litigants.  Deputy Little suggests six months.  Everybody knows, I am sure, that before a committee could sit on a large question like the Courts of Justice Act, hear evidence, think out and draw up its well considered report, and before that could be duly considered by the Executive Council and, when duly considered by the Executive Council, put into the hands of the parliamentary draftsman, a considerable time would elapse.  Every Deputy in the House knows that the hands of the Parliamentary draftsman are very full indeed at the moment and, in consequence, I see absolutely no hope of a new Courts of Justice Bill within six months.  I think it is highly improbable that there will be a new Courts of Justice Bill within a year.  I think it almost certain that there will be a new Courts of Justice Bill within two years.  It is rather generally assumed that the principle of this Bill may not commend itself to the Joint Committee which is sitting. I do not know whether it will or will not, but it will be a matter which they will have to very gravely consider.  I am not going to make any attempt to forecast what their decision may be, nor do I think it would be altogether courteous for me to suggest to them what their decision should be.  I do not think that that would be   right.  I simply leave it completely in the air, as a matter which they will consider.  If they come to the conclusion that a temporary judge should not be appointed in any circumstances or that a temporary judge should only be appointed in certain limited circumstances well and good.  But, at any rate, give us time to be sure if a crisis like this comes, and I look at it from the point of view of certain litigants as a crisis, during the period before they have reported and before the principles they have reported become embodied in law, let us have some means of giving litigants a forum in which to litigate.  For that reason, I cannot accept either Deputy Little's six months or Deputy Redmond's year, and I would ask the House really to consider this as a Bill that is urgent.  I cannot see that there is any new principle involved in it.  Nobody likes temporary judges, but it seems to me that we must recognise that temporary judges are an exception to be used as little as possible. There are occasions when they must be used.  It seems to be a sound principle.  I venture to think it is not a principle at which anybody in the House could seriously cavil. 
     
      
       I would suggest that the Minister should accept the compromise. 
     
     
      
       There is nothing in principle about the compromise but, on the time table which I have given to the Deputy, it would mean bringing up this Bill again in all possibility. 
     
     
      
       In view of the delay there has been in the matter of legislation in the past, I would like to see this Bill so framed as to hasten the drafting of a Bill of this sort&mdash;to give them definitely a year in which to have the Bill ready. 
     
     
      
       If the Bill expired and this crisis arose there would have to be a new Bill pending a larger measure.  There is this question of delay in Bills.  The Parliamentary draftsman's office is very full.  The Deputy knows that you   cannot sit down and draft a Bill in an hour or two.  Drafting a Bill is a most difficult and intricate matter.  I venture to say that nobody will disagree, with me when I say that Bills which come into this House from the Parliamentary draftsman's office are very well drafted indeed, and that every amendment we see drafted in the Parliamentary draftsman's office gives the utmost satisfaction. 
     
     
      
       Surely we are not discussing the Parliamentary draftsman. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry but I think the Parliamentary draftsman's office is congested and will   have to be congested for some time to come. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that this Bill be considered amongst the Bills which come up as Expiring Laws from year to year. 
     
     
      
       That would not be satisfactory. 
     
     
      
       I certainly would not be in favour of the Deputy's suggestion that this Bill should be renewed from year to year. I am entirely against the principle of this Bill.  I want to see it limited and dead and buried at the end of the time it is limited to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the words `two years' stand&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 72; Nil, 54. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. 
             Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins.  Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick.
 Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Colohan, Hugh. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Goulding, John. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. 
             Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank.
 Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 2, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Bill ordered to be reported with one amendment. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Bill reported. 
     
      
       With the leave of the House I propose to take the remaining stages of the Bill now in the interests of litigants. 
       Leave granted. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move that the Bill be received for final consideration. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move that the Bill do now pass. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Message to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
     
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Military Service Pensions Bill, 1929&mdash;Second Stage (Resumed). 
     Question again proposed: &ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I do not intend to keep the House very much more than a few minutes to-day. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       I know possibly that the Minister for Defence is very anxious that the full implications of this Bill should not be set before the House and I take it as a compliment when I hear him expressing a desire that I should keep from the House one or two other important points which I think it may not be aware of. 
     
     
      
       Were not one and three-quarter hours enough? 
     
     
      
       As I reminded the House last evening one of the first Acts of the year 1923 was the Act appointing the Comptroller and Auditor-General and charging him with the duty of examining every appropriation account.  That Act conferred upon him, for the proper discharge of that duty, powers of inquiry, investigation, and report limited only by his own discretion. He was to discharge that duty in accordance with the principles which had been laid down by the earlier British Acts of 1876 and 1921 which Acts were cited in the present Act of the Oireachtas.  Among the other things which were to determine him in the conduct of his inquiry there   was the principle that no Department has the right to refuse information&mdash;even though of a highly confidential character&mdash;to the Comptroller and Auditor-General if he requires it to satisfy himself that the expenditure had agreed with the Parliamentary Appropriation. 
       A further principle was also laid down by the Public Accounts Committee of Great Britain, and that was that the Comptroller and Auditor-General alone was competent to say what information is necessary for the discharge of his statutory functions That was the position when the Act was introduced.  That was the position which held here until the Board of Assessors, I think, in the year 1925 challenged the right of the Comptroller and Auditor-General to have access to documents which that Board held were confidential.  As a result of that there developed a controversy which has ended in the introduction of the present Bill. 
     
     I would like to put before the House an important principle which is at stake here.  Up to the challenge by the Board of Assessors these two things were held&mdash;that the Comptroller and Auditor-General should have access to all documents, even documents of a highly confidential nature; and that he alone was competent to say what documents were necessary to him in order to discharge his duty.  This right was challenged by the Board of Assessors.  The matter was argued for some time and then the Executive Council come here and introduce a Bill by which it is implied that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has no right to demand confidential documents in this particular case, and, therefore, confidential documents in any case.  If the Comptroller and Auditor-General has no right of access to the files in this matter, what right has he in any other case in which this plea of confidence and secrecy may be advanced?  And if that principle is once conceded by this House then, in the words of the Minister for Agriculture, the Comptroller and   Auditor-General has no function worth twopence in relation to these files, in relation to any documents, or in relation to any accounts.  That is the issue that is involved in this Bill. 
     Let the House once admit that the Comptroller and Auditor-General exceeded his right in asking for these confidential documents and what was pleaded by the Board of Assessors will undoubtedly be pleaded by other Departments whenever a question that it might be awkward for them to have investigated arises. Because of their action in introducing this Bill the Executive Council are deliberately limiting the powers of inquiry and investigation which hitherto had been reposed in the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     Now, suppose that this is done under Cosgrave's Government; suppose that the Department of Justice decides that certain moneys expended on it for certain services are based upon confidential documents; that pledges of secrecy have been given to certain persons and they advance that as a reason why the Comptroller and Auditor-General will not have access to certain files; if that is done by the Department of Justice as it is being done by the Board of Assessors under Cosgrave's Presidency what is to prevent it being done under the presidency of Deputy de Valera or some successor of his? Supposing there was under Deputy de Valera's Presidency a sum of £4,000,000 appropriated for services of education and that in the matter of that £4,000,000 the Accounting Officer said to the Comptroller and Auditor-General: &ldquo;You may examine and audit how we have expended £3,000,000 of that money, but there is £1,000,000 of an expenditure that you must not inquire into because we are bound in that case by pledges of secrecy to those who have been the recipients of that money.&rdquo;  That money quite possibly might have been expended in carrying out propaganda in another State.  By a process of reasoning to which we have been accustomed   in this House from the Minister for Justice, it is quite possible another Minister of the same mentality might argue that propaganda in another State was really educating the populace of that State.  All the time while that was being done the Accounting Officer responsible to the Comptroller and Auditor-General could argue that because of certain pledges of secrecy which he had given, the Comptroller and Auditor-General was not going to be permitted to inquire into the manner in which these funds were expended. 
     If this Bill goes through you will shear the Comptroller and Auditor-General of all the powers that are necessary to enable him to discharge his duties properly.  You will leave to the Comptroller and Auditor-General functions which, as the Minister for Agriculture has already said, would not be worth twopence.  You will destroy the constitutional principles that the Dail must have control over all public expenditure without exception. Those are the principles which are at stake in this matter. I ask those who feel that the control of the Dail over public expenditure should be upheld, that the Comptroller and Auditor-General should act in accordance with the principles laid down in Great Britain so long ago as 1876, that he should have access to all documents no matter what their nature may be, and that he alone is competent to determine what documents are necessary to enable him properly to discharge his duties, to support those principles by voting against the Bill. 
     
      
       I think it has been emphasised well enough by Deputy MacEntee that an attempt is being made to create a precedent here that should not be permitted by this House.  If, for instance, under this Bill a precedent is created by which certain money spent by the Department of Justice cannot properly be inquired into by the Comptroller and Auditor-General or by this House, what is to prevent any other   Department of the State, having bungled in dealing with public funds, from coming to the House with another Bill of this nature and demanding that it be passed?  The strongest argument in favour of its adoption would be the passing of this Bill.  This is creating a precedent which should not be established by the House in relation to public funds. 
       Surely if it is thought that people who have got pensions under the Military Service Pensions Act have been entitled to them, and if there is no fraud to cover up, why is there any anxiety on the part of the Minister for Defence or the Government when the Comptroller and Auditor-General claims the right to examine the files on which these pensions were granted?  I believe that the Government, knowing that the Comptroller and Auditor-General is not biassed by any political opinions, and knowing him to be just and honest in his office, fear his justice more than anything else.  That is the reason, and the only reason, for this Bill.  They fear that if the documents on which these pensions have been granted were examined by the Comptroller and Auditor-General, it would be discovered that an amount of fraud has been committed, and that in the committing of this fraud not only the recipients of the pensions are involved, but the Board of Assessors, two members of which are members of the Government Party also involved. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy charging two members of the Government Party with fraud? 
     
     
      
       No.  I think I am entitled to assume that this Bill is being brought in by the Government to prevent fraud being discovered. 
     
     
      
       What the Deputy conveyed was that there was fraud not only on the part of the recipients of the pensions, but on the part of the members of the Board. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  It may be possible that the Comptroller and Auditor-General will discover that the   Board of Assessors did not deal justly with the cases that came before them. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said that it will be discovered that not only were the recipients of the pensions guilty of fraud, but also the Board of Assessors. 
     
     
      
       If that was the impression that my statement conveyed, I withdraw that suggestion. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should be more careful because it is improper in a privileged Assembly such as this to make what can only be regarded as a very scandalous statement and then to make a simple withdrawal.  It is not a procedure that will reflect any credit on the Assembly to make grave statements which could be made nowhere else against individuals and then calmly to withdraw. 
     
     
      
       I would not be satisfied with a withdrawal in a case like that.  I would be prepared to go out of my way to try to repair anything that might be implied in my remarks. I assume, anyhow, that this Bill is brought forward for no other reason than to prevent a thorough inquiry into the granting of pensions. The Government feel that pensions have been obtained fraudulently by certain people and, in their efforts to cover up that, this Bill has been introduced.  It is the general opinion in the country that very many people have got army pensions who are not entitled to them.  From the evidence that I have, and the names that have been given by other Deputies here and the cases cited by them, it has been proved that people have obtained pensions who were not entitled to them.  Deputy MacEntee also proved a case where the Pensions Board produced a certificate that a certain gentleman was entitled to a pension because of wounds received.  When that certificate was examined by the Comptroller and Auditor-General it was discovered that the claimant for the   pension was not involved in the making of that certificate so much as the Pensions Board, that they had framed that certificate, and that certificate was falsely framed.  I think we are entitled to assume that when this Bill is introduced it is an attempt on the part of the Government, or on the part of the Minister for Defence&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy mentions a case in which the Board falsely framed a certificate.  I would ask the Deputy to be more explicit. 
     
     
      
       It was proved by the Comptroller and Auditor-General that the certificate was false. 
     
     
      
       Surely not. 
     
     
      
       It was proved by the Comptroller and Auditor-General that the certificate was not correct according to the documentary evidence before the Pensions Board. 
     
     
      
       It is bad enough for the Deputy to make charges himself against the Pensions Board.  I take it that he is not talking now of the Military Service Pensions Board but of another Pensions Board. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       To be precise, what other Pensions Board? 
     
     
      
       The Wounds Pensions Board. 
     
     
      
       It is bad enough for the Deputy himself to make charges against boards, but now he says the Comptroller and Auditor-General proved that a Pensions Board&mdash;it is not clear what precise Pensions Board &mdash; falsely framed a certificate.  I have read everything that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has ever written. and nearly everything that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has said at the Public Accounts Committee, since he was appointed, and to attribute to him the statement that a Pensions Board falsely framed a certificate is fantastic. 
     
     
     
      
       What I said was that the Comptroller and Auditor-General discovered that the certificate was not in accordance with the evidence before the Pensions Board. 
     
     
      
       Again might I ask the Deputy for the reference? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must not make these charges implicating the Comptroller and Auditor General.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General may have stated, as it is his function to state on occasions, that a particular payment was not in accordance with statutory authority.  That is the form of many statements by the Comptroller and Auditor-General on such matters. What the Deputy has stated is that the Comptroller and Auditor-General proved that a particular Pensions Board had falsely framed a certificate. The Deputy ought not to make such statements. 
     
     
      
       Might I intervene to say that I think Deputy Clery is speaking under a misapprehension as to what I said last night? 
     
     
      
       I suggest that Deputy Clery should explain what he means. 
     
     
      
       I think before Deputy Clery makes a statement of this kind he should make himself sure of the matter, and not be under a misapprehension.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General ought not to be attacked, and ought not to have attributed to him statements which he could not under any circumstances be conceived to have made.  He could not have made the statement that the Deputy has attributed to him. 
     
     
      
       I was in fact paying a tribute to the Comptroller and Auditor-General rather than attacking him. 
     
     
      
       Not at all. It is an absolute attack on the Comptroller and Auditor-General to say that he said that a Pensions Board had falsely framed a certificate. 
     
     
     
      
       I think it is due&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Before Deputy MacEntee is allowed to intervene, I suggest that Deputy Clery is the person to clear the matter up. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy MacEntee must let Deputy Clery clear the matter up himself. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the Ceann Comhairle clear the matter up, too. 
     
     
      
       When Deputy MacEntee was speaking last night he cited a case of a gentleman claiming a wound pension who came before the Pensions Board, and the Pensions Board issued a certificate that that claimant had received wounds within a certain period which entitled him to receive a wounds pension as a volunteer.  When the Comptroller and Auditor-General went into the documents he discovered that the certificate was wrong. 
     
     
      
       I must again ask for the reference. 
     
     
      
       I am entitled to assume that the certificate was, deliberately or otherwise, made out false by the Pensions Board. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is entitled to assume nothing of the kind. 
     
     
      
       I mean by the Wounds Pensions Board. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not entitled to come to any such conclusion.  I do not propose to let the Deputy continue his speech on that basis.  He must conclude his speech.  He is making the wildest possible statements which are contrary to all Parliamentary procedure. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw that statement and say it is quite clear that the certificate was not drawn up in accordance with the documentary evidence before the Board. 
     
     
     
      
       No, it is not.  The Deputy will have to conclude his speech.  He is taking us altogether outside the scope of the Bill and making wild statements about a matter which he apparently does not appreciate.  As I said before, the Comptroller and Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee must be kept in a particular position.  The Deputy has no appreciation of that position.  The Deputy is dealing with a matter he does not understand and apparently has not taken the trouble to understand. The Deputy must conclude his speech as he is completely irrelevant and out of order.  I will not hear Deputy Clery further. 
     
     
      
       He is getting the Minister on the raw. 
     
     
      
       I am not going to hear Deputy Clery further, because the Deputy is not discussing this Bill at all.  He is simply making a series of irrelevant allegations. 
     
     
      
       If you declare that my mentioning those things is out of order I have no intention then of continuing in that strain.  I want to know if you, therefore, rule me out of order. 
     
     
      
       Yes, I rule the Deputy out of order for persistent irrelevancy. 
     
     
      
       I maintain that there has been no disorder. 
     
     
      
       I have made a definite ruling and I will not hear   Deputy Clery further.  I call on Deputy Clery, therefore, to conclude his speech.  Deputy Esmonde. 
     
     
      
       An impartial Chairman. 
     
     
      
       I entirely protest against being ruled out of order in this manner. 
     
     
      
       I think&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I think it is entirely uncalled for.  This is another method of covering up the fraud that has been committed by the Pensions Board.  The Chief Whip of the Government Party opposite has given pensions to all his followers in the County Meath.  It was never before discovered why Meath has more pensioners than any other county in Ireland.  The Chief Government Whip gave them to his followers. 
     
     
      
       Since the Deputy refuses to obey my ruling, I order him to withdraw from the Dail. 
       
         (The Deputy not offering to withdraw from the Dail.) 
       
     
     
      
       I direct the attention of the Dail to the conduct of Deputy Clery. 
     
     
      
       My statement cannot be denied by the Chief Government Whip. 
     
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Suspension of a Deputy. 
     
      
       I move that Deputy Clery be suspended from the service of the Dail. 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 76; Nil, 50. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Broderick, Henry. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt.
 Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. Mongan, Joseph W. Morrissey, Daniel. Mulcahy, Richard. 
             Colohan, Hugh. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Corish, Richard. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John.
 Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Goulding, John. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). 
             Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers : Ta, Deputies Duggan and P. S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     
      
       I must accordingly ask Deputy Clery to withdraw from the House. 
       
         (Deputy Clery withdrew from the House accordingly.) 
       
     
     
      
       Before the discussion on the Bill is resumed, I would like to call attention to the fact that during the unseemly performance before the division was taken Deputy Cooney, amongst other things, shouted out: &ldquo;It was because he got the Minister on the raw,&rdquo; and he then said: &ldquo;There is an impartial Chairman.&rdquo;  That was a clear indication not only to the members of the House but to the Press and to the visitors in the Gallery that he declared you, sir, not an impartial chairman but a partial chairman.  I think that should be withdrawn before the debate on the Bill is resumed. 
     
     
     
      
       Both statements are absolutely untrue as quoted by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I heard what Deputy Cooney said, and I did gather that his words contained the innuendo which the Minister has suggested.  But I was then engaged on another matter, and I did not take any notice of what Deputy Cooney said, nor did any other Deputy bring the words to my notice. A division having intervened, I think no notice need be now taken. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I do not wish to deal at any length with this Bill.  I welcome it, but I think on the whole that the Bill is unnecessary and has been introduced more as an act of courtesy on the part of the Government than for any other reason. The innocent Deputy O'Higgins, in the course of an otherwise interesting speech, made an extraordinary attempt to reason with the Labour Party with regard to this Bill.  The innocent Deputy O'Higgins was too new to this House to realise that to reason with the Labour Party with regard to this Bill is absolutely useless and unnecessary, because from the very beginning the Labour Party has approached this question of the audit of the military service pensions, not from the point of view of reason, but from the point of view of the passionately emotional, and I think that if we have a speech from Deputy Davin on this Second Reading debate Deputies will realise that he also approaches this matter from a passionately emotional point of view.  This is, in fact, a skeleton in the cupboard of the Labour Party. The matter which is being settled in this Bill is the addled egg which was laid by the Labour Party three and a half years ago, and which was made a political party question by the Labour Party in the General Election before the last, and although the Labour Party have been sitting on this addled egg for the   last few years nothing has yet come out of it. 
     
     
      
       A cackling goose! 
     
     
      
       There were more than eggs addled. 
     
     
      
       The Labour Party made this question of the audit of the military service pensions a political party question long before the agents and followers of the anti-State came into this Dail. 
     
     
      
       Your place is up in the clouds.  There is no doubt about that. 
     
     
      
       They made this matter a political party question long before the agents of the anti-State came into the Dail in order to turn it and this State into an engine of internal combustion. 
     
     
      
       Is that spontaneous? 
     
     
      
       The reason why the Labour Party are opposed to this Bill, and the reason why they approach it with such passionate emotionalism, is due to the fact, in my opinion, that they are in a curious position as between the two main Parties in this Dail.  A large number of the members of both the main Parties have had common experiences and have common memories of the revolutionary period before the Truce which is defined in this Bill with reference to pre-Truce military service, and the Labour Party, I think very patriotically, refrained from taking part in political activities until the national question had been settled.  But there seems to be a morbid curiosity on the part of the Labour Party to discover exactly who shot who before the Truce. 
     
     
      
       That is wrong. 
     
     
      
       There has been a morbid curiosity to discover exactly who shot who.  The great mistake was made by Senator Johnson at the time when he pontificated over the Public Accounts Committee.  During his long and, I must say, glorious pontificate&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       I am really sorry to interrupt the Deputy's amusing speech, but is he in order in making a reference like that to the late Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, whose services to the House, to the State and to the principles of sound financial administration in this country are admitted by everyone?  Is it fair that a reference like that should be made to him by the Deputy? 
     
     
      
       I think that this House is entitled to a little entertainment, and the chief entertainer should be allowed to go on.  It is a very good interlude. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps Deputies would restrain themselves for a moment.  As far as the Deputy has gone I do not think he has said anything from the point of view of order that calls for any comment from the Chair.  Fortunately the Chair is not a judge of what is or what is not good taste. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I might suggest to the Deputy when he speaks about Parties, that he should bear in mind that he has changed his party allegiance on more than one occasion. 
     
     
      
       Was Deputy Anthony in order in referring to Deputy Esmonde as a cackling goose? 
     
     
      
       I think this was the one occasion in the course of Senator Johnson's long service on the Public Accounts Committee that he had his judgment of what was the correct constitutional procedure to adopt challenged by the Committee, and he was defeated. 
     
     
      
       Has that got anything to do with this Bill?  The Deputy will recollect that we are not discussing on this Bill what Senator Johnson or any other member of the Public Accounts Committee did or did not do. 
     
     
      
       I submit that this Bill has been introduced, according to the statement of the Minister for   Finance, who introduced it, in order to allay any suspicions that there may have been as to the position of the Comptroller and Auditor-General with reference to the military service pensions and their audit.  Extraordinary statements were made by Deputy Davin.  He made the suggestion that the Public Accounts Committee had suggested that the pensions paid up to the present were illegal.  He made a statement to that effect in the House last week&mdash;&ldquo;It is regularising and legalising the payments already made or to be made in future.&rdquo;  He definitely said or suggested&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Ah! 
     
     
      
       &mdash;that the Public Accounts Committee had implied in its Report that the payments already made were illegal.  If Deputies read the Report of the Public Accounts Committee they will see that that is an entirely wrong doctrine.  The first theory with reference to the audit of these accounts was put forward by Senator Johnson and is mentioned in the account of proceedings of the Committee of Public Accounts for 1927, the first year in which this was considered.  He produced a long statement which was, in the opinion of the Public Accounts Committee, apocryphal and heretical, and the true doctrine as to the constitutional position was enunciated by the Public Accounts Committee of that date, which pointed out that pre-Truce service bore a strong analogy to what is ordinarily the subject of secret service.  The Committee subsequently brought in a slight amendment to their previous decision, and when Deputy Davin suggests that the Committee deliberately reversed its previous decision and declared that these payments were illegal, I think he is not giving a correct interpretation of the minutes as found in the Report of the Committee.  The only words which are to be found are these:&mdash;&ldquo;On further consideration the Committee is of opinion that it is undesirable to deal with a charge which occurs annually in a manner which   appears to limit the powers conferred on the Comptroller and Auditor-General.&rdquo; That word &ldquo;appears&rdquo; is very important.  Then it concludes:&mdash;&ldquo;The Committee is therefore of opinion that immediate steps should be taken to remove this anomalous position and to regularise the audit of the expenditure arising out of the Military Service Pensions Act.&rdquo;&ldquo;To regularise the audit.&rdquo;  There is no question about regularising the payments; it is a question of regularising the audit. It is for that reason, in order to satisfy the Comptroller and Auditor-General, that this Bill has been introduced. Naturally the followers of the anti-State in this House oppose this Bill, just as they oppose the Military Service Pensions Bill, because these pensions are given to men who knocked hell out of them a few years ago.  They should develop that new spirit which is so much in evidence now throughout the world, as exemplified by the dinner given recently by General Smuts to his former opponent, and they should show a little more sportsmanship in dealing with these matters. If I were not a private Deputy I would be most anxious to extend the scope of this Bill, and to include amongst the pensioners all those who had taken part in this struggle to establish the State, irrespective of whether they had subsequently been misled by the wiles of the anti-State. 
     
     
      
       Or whether they did it at home or abroad. 
     
     
      
       You were an ambassador on the high seas. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I am referring to military service.  I am afraid the time has not yet come for that, but it will come in time, and although the moneyed classes may regret it, still the moneyed classes have always shown a good example to the Fianna Fail Party of citizenship and of obedience to public authority, and when all the persons who have participated in the struggle for the establishment of our State come to   get pensions I am sure that the moneyed classes will bow their heads and obey.  I am very glad that this Bill has been introduced, not because I think it is absolutely necessary but in order to wind up the muddle&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Agreed. 
     
     
      
       Which Senator Johnson and Deputy Davin&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       And Deputy Esmonde. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;have created in this connection in order, I presume, to set their consciences at rest. 
     
     
      
       I rise to oppose this Bill.  I quite realise how sensitive members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party are in this discussion, and I realise how difficult it is to make a case against this Bill without being ruled out of order.  However, I will have to try to keep, as far as possible, at any rate, within the procedure laid down by the Ceann Comhairle during the course of the discussion on this Bill.  If this Bill is passed the Board of Assessors will be entirely uncontrolled in the matter of awarding military service pensions.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General will not be allowed to examine the documents on which the claim to the pension is alleged to be based.  It is an extraordinary thing that in all other public expenditure the minutest details, and all documents relating to such expenditure, are placed before the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  When we come across a Bill such as this, aiming at such extraordinary legislation, we have naturally to ask ourselves, why is this extraordinary exception made?  The Board of Assessors are to work in secret, and the documents on which they are to base their awards are not to be disclosed. I suggest that the reason why these documents are not disclosed is to be found in the fact that the Military Service Pensions Act has been availed of for the purposes of political graft.  I do not make that statement in this House, guided by the knowledge that I am in a privileged Assembly.  Anything I state in   relation to the Military Service Pensions Act in this House I am quite prepared to state outside. 
       But I am aware that, for instance, in Co. Monaghan during the recent elections there military service pensions were disbursed wholesale by the Cumann na nGaedheal Party to men who were not entitled to those pensions according to the Military Service Pensions Act, and I will undertake to prove, in any number of cases, that as far as 60 per cent. of the people who have got these pensions are concerned, they are not entitled to these pensions according to law.  In the town of Monaghan alone, and it is not a very big town, I will undertake to mention half-a-dozen cases, and I will undertake to prove that they are not entitled, according to the Military Service Pensions Act, to pensions.  It is a strange thing that most of these applications had been pressed forward on many occasions between the passing of the Military Service Pensions Act of 1924 and the general elections of 1927. 
     
     It is an extraordinary fact that they were turned down time and again for some unknown reason, at least for some reason that will not be put before the public or the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  These people, during the elections of 1927. in June and September, became entitled to military service pensions.  I understand that names are not being mentioned in the course of this debate, and that we must confine ourselves to cases which we are prepared to cite.  I am quite prepared to conform to that rule of debate.  I want to draw the attention of the House to a number of questions concerning military service pensions which I asked in this House on the 13th June, 1928.  I beg now to draw the attention of the House to these questions and to the answers.  The first question is No. 21 on the Order Paper for the 13th June, 1928, and I will refer to the person mentioned in that question as No. 21.  I asked the Minister for Defence if he was aware that No. 21 was in receipt of a military service pension: that he was courtmartialed during the   Truce period and dismissed from the Irish Republican Army, and that the courtmartial sentence was confirmed by the Divisional Commandant, Dan Hogan.  I also asked the date on which the pension was awarded and the date on which the first payment was made.  The Minister replied that the person mentioned was in receipt of a pension as stated; that he was not aware that he was courtmartialed during the Truce period, or that he was dismissed from the Volunteers.  The pension was awarded on the 30th November, 1927, and the first payment was made on the 12th December, 1927. This man was courtmartialed and dismissed from the Irish Republican Army early in 1922.  He never served in the Free State Army in his life, not one hour&mdash;neither did his brother, for that matter, and he also has a pension. 
     I would like to know from the Minister what steps he has taken since the 13th June to ascertain the accuracy, or otherwise, of the allegations which I made regarding this man's position and his claim for a pension.  He certainly has not asked me about it, nor has he asked my assistance in establishing whether this man was entitled to a pension.  He knows that I would have first hand knowledge by reason of the position which I held at that time. 
     
      
       I got even more first-hand information. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister got more first-hand information regarding this particular case it has been the class of information which has been placed before the Board of Assessors, and it is the class of information which I want to be put before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy wants, he can reduce his pension. 
     
     
      
       Is it a fact that this man was courtmartialed at all? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
     
      
       That is not so bad.  Is it denied that he was dismissed from the Army? 
     
     
      
       From the Volunteers, no. 
     
     
      
       Is it alleged that he ever served a solitary hour with the National Army? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       He served in the Army during the general elections. 
     
     
      
       He served in the elections, and laid down a demand to Cumann na nGaedheal that he was going to oppose the Minister for Finance unless he was guaranteed his pension.  Many men in Monaghan made the same demand, and made it successfully.  I would draw the attention of the House to Question No. 22 on the same date. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Deputy's method of dealing with these cases, by drawing the attention of the House to the question and giving the date, is tantamount almost to giving the man's name.  I think it is very undesirable. The Deputy might find some other means. 
     
     
      
       I submit that we are entitled to cite cases.  This is a case which has been mentioned in the House before.  It is on the records of the House, and I submit that I am entitled to refer to it.  If anyone is sufficiently curious to refer to it, and to look up the records to see who is the person mentioned in Question 22. I submit that he is entitled to do so. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that it is undesirable that the Deputy should deal with the matter in that way. 
     
     
      
       We have been hemmed in so much it is very hard to devise means by which one can deal with this matter.  I think it will do, with all due respect.  I asked the Minister for Defence whether No. 22 is in receipt of a military service pension and to state the date on which the pension was awarded, the date on   which the first payment was made, and the period of service on which the pension was made.  Further, I asked whether he was aware that No. 22 was courtmartialed and dismissed from the Irish Republican Army during the Truce period, and that the courtmartial sentence was confirmed by the Divisional Commandant. The Minister admitted that this person was in receipt of a pension which was awarded on the 12th September, 1927, and the first payment was made on 23rd November, 1927.  He further stated that the periods of service on which the pension is based are as follows:&mdash;One-twelfth of period from 1st April, 1920, to 31st March, 1921; entire period from 1st April, 1921, to 30th June, 1922; entire period from 24th September, 1922, to 30th September, 1923.  The Minister said that he was not aware that the person mentioned was courtmartialed during the Truce period.  The Minister is not aware that this courtmartial took place either. 
     
     
      
       Is this the same case? 
     
     
      
       No.  Several men were courtmartialed in our parts of the country.  If the Minister wants to know, or if the House wants to know, the nature of the offence for which this man was courtmartialed and dismissed I will state it.  I do not want to disclose it.  I have no intention of disclosing it publicly, but if anyone wants to know I will give the information privately.  I desire to tell the House and to tell the Minister that, for being a party to the same offence, a civilian was fined £200.  He did not pay and he was taken to a military camp and confined for three weeks.  He was released, and the first day that he opened his shop the military from Beggar's Bush seized £50 towards payment of the fine.  That man's business was ruined, and he is now out of the country, whereas the other man, who was courtmartialed and dismissed, is now drawing a pension. 
     
     
      
       Granted on the 12th September. 
     
     
     
      
       Surely, the 12th September. I wonder how we got any votes at all.  The person referred to in Question 23 is in receipt of a pension. The period of service on which the pension was based was from the 1st April, 1921, to 30th September, 1923, and the pension was awarded on 2nd September, 1927.  I also asked the Minister for Defence whether he would state the date on which a military service pension was awarded to No. 24, the date on which the first payment was made, and the service on which the pension was based.  The date on which the pension was awarded was 2nd September, 1927.  These people live in the town of Monaghan, and the date on which the first payment of the pension was made was 5th November, 1927.  The period of service upon which the pension was based made up the following periods:&mdash;entire period from 1st April, 1921, to 30th June, 1922; one-twelfth of period from 1st July, 1922, to 31st March, 1923.  I live in that area, in the town which is not a very big town.  That man was never in the Free State Army.  We may be told that he was a Secret Service agent and that he was pensioned on that basis, but if all the men who are drawing pensions in the town of Monaghan were in the Secret Service, I wonder that we were able to carry on at all.  It looks as if everybody was spying on us. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Deputy a question?  In the first case about which he asked a question, on that occasion he volunteered certain information.  In the case of the others, whom he calls 22, 23 and 24, might they not be exactly identical cases to that about which he asked a question and in regard to which he volunteered some information? 
     
     
      
       I must say the Minister's question is particularly long-tailed. What exactly is the point on which he wants information? 
     
     
      
       I will tell the Deputy.  In the first case about   which the Deputy asked a question, I know all about it, because on the occasion he volunteered certain information. He said that he knew the facts, that the man had been courtmartialed and dismissed from the Army.  He referred to a certain officer who knew the details of that. He refers to other cases as Nos. 22, 23 and 24.  Did he in a similar way give such information as he would be in a position to give about these cases?  Did he, or did he not? 
     
     
      
       If the Minister thinks that he is going to side-track me in this discussion, he is very greatly mistaken.  I put down these questions on the 13th June of last year, and drew his attention to certain facts.  Considering that I have been available since, if he wanted any information or to make any inquiry into these cases, he could easily have got it. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance was the candidate then. 
     
     
      
       Of course that would not enter into it.  I pass on to No. 25 on the Order Paper of the 13th June of last year.  The person referred to in that question is in receipt of a pension.  The pension was awarded on the 7th September, 1927. The period of service was one-twelfth of the period from 1st April, 1920, to the 31st March, 1921; the entire periods from the 1st April, 1921, to 30th June, 1922, and one-twelfth of the period from the 1st July, 1922, to the 31st March, 1923. The person referred to in that question is a tradesman in the whole-time employment of a public body. During the Anglo-Irish war he was never an hour away from his work. He was on full pay all the time.  He was not in the Intelligence Department during the Anglo-Irish war.  I do not know if he was a secret servant during the civil war, but I do know that during the civil war he never lost an hour from his employment. I submit that No. 25 is one of the cases that could not very well go before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
        The next case is No. 26 on the Order Paper of the 13th June.  This person is in receipt of a pension, as admitted by the Minister, and the period of service covers 1921, 1922, and one-fourth of the period from 1st July, 1922, to 31st March, 1923. The pension was awarded on the 5th May, 1927, and the first payment was made on the 1st June, 1927&mdash;a very good time to make it.  I happen to know this man was a public representative.  I happen to know that he was particularly hostile to the Minister for Finance in April and May, 1927. 
     
      
       Before he got the pension. 
     
     
      
       Before he got the pension. He had applied time and again to the Board of Assessors, and the Board of Assessors turned him down because he was not entitled.  He never served an hour in the Free State Army unless service behind a bar in a publichouse counted as military service. 
     
     
      
       He served during the General Election. 
     
     
      
       He served there faithfully and well.  I can mention as many cases similar to those as the Minister would like to hear.  Perhaps he has heard enough.  If he requires any more, as I stated at the outset, I will give him any number of similar cases.  In my deliberate opinion, based on my own intimate knowledge of the situation, these people are not entitled, according to the Military Service Pensions Act, to a pension. 
     
     There is another aspect of this matter.  I have so far stated the cases of men who were not entitled to a military service pension and who, in my opinion, at any rate, were awarded military service pensions because of their political services. There is another class of case to which I want to refer.  That is the class of case where persons were entitled to pensions and did not get them.  I know the cases of men who   do come within the terms of the Military Service Pensions Act, but who would not swallow the imperial pill.  They left the Free State Army after a couple of years' service, and when they would not give their allegiance to the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, there was no pension for them.  One of these cases, in the Scotshouse area, the Minister may know of.  If he does not know about it, I will give him any details that he requires.  This man served for two years in the Free State Army.  He was certified by Irish Republican officers as having taken part in every Irish Republican Army activity in the area during the Anglo-Irish war.  He was discharged with a good record from the Free State Army, but that record failed lamentably when he would not subscribe to continue to give his allegiance to the Cumann na nGaedheal Party. 
     The other case of which I have personal knowledge is in the Killeevan district.  This man served all during the Anglo-Irish war.  He served two years in the Free State Army and he was discharged with a good record but he got no pension. I mentioned this case at one time by way of curiosity, to a member of the Board of Assessors.  I just wanted to know how they arrived at these decisions as I thought it would be of interest and he told me that his service in the Free State Army was all right, but that he did not give the necessary pre-Truce service and that if he had given the necessary pre-Truce service, he would have been entitled to a pension.  I ventured to ask what particular amount of service was required to entitle him to a pension and I was told by that member of the Board of Assessors that he should have taken part in an actual ambush.  In fact, he would nearly want to know the colour of the eyebrows of the men he shot, if he was on the wrong side. He would have to take part in an actual ambush; he was not of the right political persuasion.  The men I have mentioned here did not have to take part in actual ambushes.  I have here a certificate from General   Eoin O'Duffy regarding this particular man's record, and his pre-Truce service.  If that certificate is worth the paper that it is written on, and if this man was not entitled to a pension on his pre-Truce service, there is no man in County Monaghan, including General O'Duffy himself, who is entitled to a pension. 
     Here is what he says:&mdash; 
     I have pleasure in testifying to the splendid national record of Mr. A.  He took part in all the Volunteer activities in his area, and owing to his connection with the movement he lost his job. After the truce he joined the National Army and served until he became incapacitated from a fall in barracks.  He is a widower with three young children dependent upon him, and, having no employment, his present circumstances can be easily imagined.&mdash; Eoin O'Duffy, Chief Commissioner. 
     
      
       What is the date of it? 
     
     
      
       4th May, 1928.  Eoin O'Duffy's evidence in similar terms was before the Board of Assessors when they turned down the case. 
     
     
      
       Can he not apply again before the next general election? 
     
     
      
       I do not think even at the price that he would do it.  There is another angle of this Military Service Pensions Bill to which I wish to draw attention, and I think I can satisfy the House that from this angle also it is very necessary that the light of day should be let in on the decisions of the Board of Assessors. On 10th July last I asked a question in this House for the names, the rank, the gratuity, the annual service pension and the annual reserve grant of officers who resigned from the passing of the Military Service Pensions Act in 1924 down to that date.  I got a reply to that question, but it is too long to read it.  I find, however, that the amount of the gratuities paid up to date to officers who resigned since   the passing of the Act of 1924 down to that date was £368,000&mdash;in gratuities alone already drawn.  I think that on that heading alone, on a matter involving an expenditure of £368,000, the Auditor-General is entitled to know, we are entitled to know, and the country is entitled to know, if the people who have drawn that money held the rank that it is alleged they held and if they are entitled to it. 
     
     When I looked down this long list involved in that £368,000 of gratuities I found that there were certain familiar names missing.  I thought for a little while and I discovered where the loophole was.  The question asked for the names, the rank, the gratuity, the service pension, and the reserve grant of officers who had retired since the passing of the Act of 1924.  It did not include, of course, the officers who had retired before the passing of the Act of 1924, but to whom the terms of the Act were subsequently applied. I wrote to the Department of Defence pointing out that from my point of view it was more important that we should get this information concerning the officers who had retired before the passing of the Act, inasmuch as there would be more suspicion in the public mind regarding the transactions carried out at that period.  The Minister and his Department parleyed with me a little, but they refused to disclose the information.  I do not want to read the letters as it would take too long but they pointed out to me the amount of labour that would be involved in going through the files of the number of officers involved, and they informed me that if I were interested in eliciting the information regarding any particular individual that, of course, they would place the information at my disposal. But this important disclosure was made &mdash; that the number of officers who had retired before the passing of the Act, and to whom the terms of the Act were applied, was 2,800.  If I am to find out the details that I want regarding each one of these officers, it is suggested that the simple way to do it, the   business way to do it, the methodical way to do it, and the labour-saving way to do it, is to write 2,800 letters. I am not prepared to do that.  I suppose we will find it out some way, or, of course, we could, if we knew all these people, put down 2,800 questions on the Order Paper, and, I suppose, have 2,800 debates on the Adjournment, but the Minister would probably have vacated the Front Bench before we would have finished it. 
     I do not want to be misunderstood in this matter.  Under existing circumstances, until this Act is repealed, people who are entitled by law to pensions must get them.  We hope in the near future to be in a position to repeal that Act, because we do not stand for pensions for able-bodied men.  We are quite prepared to see that people who have been wounded in any of the wars of independence in this country will get pensions, but, in the present state of things in this country, or under any circumstances, we cannot stand for giving pensions to able-bodied men. It is altogether contrary to the spirit that animated the men who took part in the struggle for independence. 
     I should like to know how do men like Deputies Haslett, Good, Cole and Myles come to support the Cumann na nGaedheal Party on a matter such as this, involving such a huge amount of the people's money, and how do they come to support a Bill such as this, that is to wrap in secrecy and mystery the circumstances under which this money is being doled out.  Deputy Haslett, for instance, was returned by the Protestant Association of the Co. Monaghan.  He was a farmer; he may live to be a farmer again; he may go back to the land, perhaps, after the next election; and I would certainly consider it most interesting to hear a speech from Deputy Haslett on this Bill.  I do not suppose we will be treated to it, but to vote silently on a question such as this, is more than I can understand. There is an extraordinary qualification   for a pension &mdash; a most amazing qualification &mdash; and again I would very much like to know the mentality in approaching this of the men on the Independent Benches&mdash; the men who used to be on them. In order to qualify for a military service pension you must have served in arms in establishing the Government of the Irish Republic, and you must have served in arms in suppressing the Government of the Irish Republic.  It seems to me to be a most extraordinary qualification for a pension, but there it is.  Presumably, the Deputies on the Independent Benches, including Deputy Haslett, satisfied themselves that the service to the Empire in suppressing the Republic outweighs the service to the Irish Nation in establishing it. 
     
      
       On a point of order, I think the Deputy is discussing the Principal Act and not this. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid he is wandering somewhat from the Bill before the House. 
     
     
      
       I am at a loss to know why it is not in order to discuss the qualifications for a pension under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, seeing that we are now legislating to shroud these pensions in secrecy and mystery.  Anyhow, I do not think there is any use in continuing. A man could talk even to Christmas Eve here upon this subject, and it does not matter how damaging the facts might be, or what case is put up, or how indefensible is the position taken up by the Cumann na nGaedheal Party or the Independent Party, or any other party that supports this Bill.  The whip is being put on, a secret arrangement has been come to, the vote will be cast and the Bill will probably become law.  I am satisfied of this, that we at any rate have put the truth before the House, and if the House is prepared to vote for the Bill and make it the law of the Twenty-six Counties, they are entitled to do so, but I believe the people will have something to say to it later on. 
     
     
     
      
       I wonder if the Minister for Defence intends to persist with this Bill after hearing the statement made by Deputy Ward.  Is he going to proceed in accordance with the words of the Minister for Finance, who said that this is definitely a Bill to prevent any inquiry into the pensions of such cases as were mentioned by Deputy Ward? Does any Deputy opposite with any sense of fair play or honesty stand for that?  The Minister for Finance, in his opening statement, said that the Public Accounts Committee discussed it, and finally it was promised by the Government that the matter would be regularised and the dispute would be brought to an end by legislation.  Now if the manner of bringing the dispute to an end by legislation is to be legislation that the Comptroller and Auditor-General shall not, by any means, get to see even a single one of the cases mentioned by Deputy Ward, I do not think that there is any honest Deputy in this House who will vote for this Bill.  That is if there is any honesty left to Deputies on the benches opposite. 
       After what I saw here last week, when the Minister for Local Government and Public Health introduced an amendment, and then he himself and his Party voting against it afterwards, I cannot say much for the Party opposite.  I understood when I heard Deputy Ward's statement the anxiety of Deputy O'Higgins that this Bill should go through.  I understand exactly the reasons for the statement he made here when he said that these cases would be referred back by the Comptroller and Auditor-General to the Public Accounts Committee and that there would be scandal in so many words. That was a statement made by Deputy O'Higgins. 
     
     
      
       If the statement was made in the House the Deputy should give the exact quotation. 
     
     
      
       Yes, the statement was made in the House.  It will be found at page 1759. No. 5, Volume 32, of the Official Report, and the statement   made was: &ldquo;Deputies on all sides of this House know that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has got to report to the Public Accounts Committee, and the Public Accounts Committee in turn have to report back to this House, and that, year after year, that particular report is made the subject of rather large headings in the daily papers. Do they want us to believe that there is going to be departure from that if the Public Accounts Committee deal with this particular subject?  If it is referred to the Comptroller and Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee it will naturally appear in the Press.&rdquo;  Deputy O'Higgin's statement is that if these cases go back to the Comptroller and Auditor-General they will be referred by him to the Public Accounts Committee.  Every Deputy knows that no case is referred by the Comptroller and Auditor-General back to the Public Accounts Committee except a case which, in his opinion, was a wrong payment, and there are going to be a great many of these cases referred back, and according to Deputy O'Higgins there are going to be glare headings in the Press every day about them. That is the condition of the Bill which Deputies on the opposite side will have to support and to go back to their constituents after having done so. 
     
     I happened to serve as a responsible officer in the I.R.A. in one particular area from 1917 to 1922.  I was in charge of that district for the whole period and I knew every individual in that area who had any service in the I.R.A. during that period.  As a matter of curiosity I addressed a question to the Minister for Defence some time ago and got a reply.  I might say that in that reply the Minister for Defence did not give the information required. The reply, to my mind, was a falsehood in itself.  The reply said that a man named So-and-so from Cork had got a pension of so-and-so.  It did not say whether the man was from North Cork, South Cork, East Cork or West Cork.  It gave no information on that.  Cork is a very   large county and I congratulate the Minister for trying to cloak the issue.  I made inquiries and I may state for the information of the House that about March, 1921, individuals in my district who were not members of the I.R.A. went round at night to the homes of those who were out on active service and told their people that it was a shame for their sons to be out fighting for another district.  They endeavoured to interfere with the activities of the I.R.A. in that matter.  In order to prevent that, early in April, 1921, I issued an Order by which all able-bodied men in my district who were not members of the I.R.A. were liable to be called up in a labour battalion and to be engaged cutting trees and digging drains and breaking bridges and that.  I have tracked down two of these pensions that are being paid.  All the services these individuals had rendered pre-Truce and the services for which they got these pensions were that on two occasions they were dragged out of bed to join the labour battalion in cutting down trees and breaking bridges.  That is all the service they rendered.  If the House thinks that this entitles these men to pensions then they will vote for this Bill. 
     I would ask even any members of Cumann na nGaedheal here who are interested in the welfare of the country if they consider it just and honest that the source of information on which those pensions&mdash;the cases quoted by Deputy Ward and others&mdash;should be withheld and that they should continue to draw their pensions without any inquiry into the manner in which the pensions were given.  I can give other cases, the case of one individual, for instance, who was sworn in by the present Minister for Finance in 1914 when he was carrying a pike down in Cork in the days before he turned over to the Empire.  This man served actively during the whole period up to the truce.  He joined the National Army after the truce, and on account of his pre-truce service was made a lieutenant.  He served up to 1924, when he resigned from the   National Army, and got no pension or anything else because apparently he took some small part in activities for which some of the ringleaders were&mdash;I will not say drummed out, but&mdash;swept out of the Army, and for which those individuals who were ringleaders in whatever happened are at present in receipt of large pensions.  This man joined, owing to the fluent tongue and persuasion of the present Minister for Finance, the Irish Volunteers in 1914, served actively up to 1921, and joined the National Army when the split came and served as a lieutenant in the National Army up to 1924.  Is there any justice in depriving that man of a pension because apparently he was one of the dupes, and at the same time award the ringleaders in the revolt large pensions?  That was the position of affairs.  Men whose names at the time were mentioned in this House were driven out of the Army.  They were afterwards given large pensions.  I met this unfortunate dupe walking about at home, with the heels gone from and the toes out of his shoes.  He was deprived of any pension, whilst the gentlemen I mentioned continue to draw large pensions.  Where is the justice in that? 
     I appeal to Deputies opposite that if there was ever an occasion when they should assert their rights here, this is it.  The time has gone, owing to our presence here, when the Front Bench will hit them with a mallet if they do.  If there is any backbone in them, now is the time for them to assert themselves and not to let a burden be placed on the unfortunate taxpayers of their constituencies for whom they are appealing here day after day and week after week. Personally, while the Military Service Pensions Act continues I would like to see those who served actively during the Tan period drawing their pensions, but I do not think it by any means fair or just that, as in the case mentioned by Deputy Ward, service for a month or two at a General Election should be considered military service, pre and after Truce.  But in the cases mentioned by Deputy Ward there is no other   reason why those people should have got a pension except that they served actively from June, 1927 to October, 1927.  You will notice that the pensions mentioned by Deputy Ward were awarded immediately before June, 1927, or in September, 1927, immediately after the election. I think if these cases are correct, and I have no reason to doubt them, that the seat of the Minister for Finance in this House is pretty well paid for by the taxpayers in the country. 
     Are the Deputies opposite going to walk blindly into the lobby here and vote for the cloaking of any inquiry into anything of that description? Are they going to do it and go back and face their constituents and say: &ldquo;We voted to prevent any inquiry into this?  We know the fellows did not earn it, but all the same, the poor devils want it.&rdquo;  I think it is time that Deputies opposite asserted some independence, that they should say to themselves that they will not get any wallop on the head for what they do, but say: &ldquo;We will show that the Minister for Defence is not going to lead us by the nose to vote for pensions for election service,&rdquo; for that is what those pensions amount to.  I do not think there is very much use in speaking here after the scene here last week, when I saw the Minister for Local Government leading his whole party into the lobby to vote against his own amendment. 
     I think as soon as the people in this country will realise what has happened here you will have a body something stronger than the unemployed coming up here to clear them out.  The Minister for Defence is smiling.  No doubt he is sure that he can work the mallet on any member who dares to vote against the Bill, but I say this much to the Minister for Defence, that if he and his friends, after they introduced that Bill, were the Government of any other country in Europe, the lampposts of their city would be adorned at night.  A body comes in here and endeavours by an Act of this Dail to cloak up the giving of military service pensions for election work.  I do not think they would have the   neck in any other country in Europe but this to do it, and I do not believe that the citizens even of this piece of Ireland are so smashed down that they are going even now to put up with it. 
     
      
       (Clare): I have somewhat recovered from the rhetorical anæsthetic that Deputy Esmonde administered to the Dail some few minutes ago.  Having more or less recovered from it, I made some incursions into the volumes in the library to find out what Deputy Esmonde had to say on other occasions.  We have got to remember that pensions are awarded for service in the Republican Army and in the National Army.  I can quite understand why Deputy Esmonde is anxious to keep from the Comptroller and Auditor-General the files on which the assessments of pensions were made because his estimate of the National Army on one occasion was very interesting.  It was on one such occasion as that that he suggested that in any normal country I would myself be executed for certain statements I made regarding the National Army.  However, what the Deputy himself said in connection with the National Army is more interesting.  In Volume 8, column 1299, he is reported as saying: 
     
     &ldquo;We are supposed to have an Army, but what exactly is that Army for?  What could that Army do?  We have a Ministry of Defence. Is that Ministry capable of defending the country?  I doubt it very much....  The President is Commander-in-Chief and Minister for Defence, but I doubt if the President could defend Dalkey Island against an invasion. How many guns has he got? ... I do not know how many machine guns the President has.  He may say that for the purpose of the defence of the country he is covered by Article 6 of the Treaty, under which the English Government, for the next two and a half years, will take charge of the defences of the coast, but what guarantee have we that if any danger   arises the British Government will not invite the Lord Chief Justice of New Zealand to discuss their responsibilities under this Article? I doubt if the President, even inside Ireland, could defend the capital.  I doubt if he has enough machine guns to hold the line of the Boyne.&rdquo; 
     Deputy Esmonde knew the National Army could not defend the line of the Boyne, and could not defend Dalkey Island, and could not defend the city.  Is there any misunderstanding then as to why he should be careful that the files as to rank and service should be withheld from the Comptroller and Auditor-General? Is not he perfectly consistent in his attitude in withholding these files?  He has not changed.  He knows perfectly well what was the extent of service the National Army could give.  He has said it.  It is in black and white in this volume. Therefore he is acting quite consistently in endeavouring to keep the files from the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     I listened to Deputy MacEntee yesterday evening with some interest. He said that the action of the Executive Council, and of the Minister for Defence in particular, was a slur on, or was not giving due consideration to the Committee of Public Accounts or to the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. But it is more than that. It is a slur on the Dail, who, in the last analysis, should control every item of expenditure and who cannot control every item of expenditure except by their officer, the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     When the Minister for Defence and the Executive Council say they cannot give to the Comptroller and Auditor-General the files on which these assessments were made, then they are saying to the Dail in effect: &ldquo;We ignore your jurisdiction, we ignore your control over the finances of the State.  We will make disbursements and payments for which we will not give you any account.&rdquo; In the interests of the men themselves who are getting pensions the   Executive Council ought not reduce this vote to the level of a secret service vote.  It ought to give these files to the Comptroller and Auditor-General and take these men out of the position of those people who are getting payment for secret service. In certain respects, I am inclined to agree with the Minister for Agriculture. He would preserve the Comptroller and Auditor-General from contamination by coming in contact with these files.  The Minister himself, of course, is one of those rare products of Irish life, an innocent politician.  He would save the Comptroller and Auditor-General his innocence and simplicity like himself. He does not want him to see the files on which the pensions are based.  He could see the files of pensioners, but he does not want him to see the files on which the assessments are based.  He says that rank and length of service are the only things which influence the decisions of the Board of Assessors.  I think anybody who kept his ears open for the last few years must have heard it said that rank and length of service were made to suit the pensions granted and not the pensions made to suit rank and length of service. If the Minister cares a great deal about the men who are getting pensions he will give these files to the Comptroller and Auditor-General and have the public mind disabused on that matter. 
     The Minister for Agriculture told us that the great value in evidence was the opportunity that one got for cross-examination, an opportunity in coming to a decision as to the veracity of the evidence given and the general character of the person giving evidence.  That, no doubt, is quite true.  The evidence of a person under cross-examination and his general attitude towards the questions are very valuable to anybody in coming to a decision.  Does the Minister for Defence or the Minister for Agriculture say that the entire Board of Assessors were present when all evidence was given, and if those members of the Board who were absent could come to a conclusion   on the longhand transcript of the evidence what was to prevent the Comptroller and Auditor-General from arriving at a conclusion as to the evidence that was tendered and submitted in longhand?  It is another example of the innocence of the Minister for Agriculture. 
     The Minister for Agriculture also told us that the Minister for Finance could refer back a case if new evidence could be adduced.  How could the Minister for Finance say it was new evidence unless he knew what the old evidence was?  If he did not know what the first evidence, which we will call the old evidence, was, how could he say that statements which came in were new evidence? Is the Minister for Finance to be in a position to examine the files while the officer who is responsible to this Dail for all disbursements is to be prevented from knowing what is in these files? 
     I simply rose to stress the position that it is not the Comptroller and Auditor-General's office, and it is not the Committee of Public Accounts that is being ignored; it is the Dail, the elected representatives of the people, who in the last analysis should have control over every payment made in this State, and should have control through its principal officer, the Comptroller and Auditor-General, that is being slighted by the Executive Council and the Minister for Defence.  In effect, the Executive Council and the Minister for Defence are saying to this Dail: &ldquo;We will not allow you to have access to these files; we ignore your authority; we will do what we like.  We will vote the money and we will give whatever pensions we like.  We will give you no evidence as to how we make these assessments or as to how we arrive at the rank and years of service of those people to whom we pay the pensions.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Not being conversant with this question of pensions, and not being one who took any active part in either war, pre-truce or civil war, I must admit that my knowledge is not very great as regards   the manner in which pensions have been granted.  But as one representing a very considerable body of taxpayers in the constituency which I have the honour to represent, I think it is my duty to see that whenever pensions are granted there will be sufficient reason for granting these pensions, and also to see that the official who, by virtue of the position he holds, is the only one to whom the taxpayers in general can look for protection, namely, the Comptroller and Auditor-General, will be in a position to inquire into the granting of these pensions to find out the different reasons and to find out the services rendered by those who are in receipt of pensions at the present time. 
     
     The attitude taken up by the Government on this Bill seems extraordinary, because it is obvious to anyone who takes the trouble to give any consideration to this matter that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has very often been the means of more or less placing the Government in a position to be able to repel accusations of extravagance that have been levelled against them in the past.  The very fact of having the Comptroller and Auditor-General is a safeguard for the Government themselves or for any Government that may be in power, because they can state to their critics that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has to be satisfied as to the expenditure of any public moneys, that these moneys are being expended in the manner and way for which they were intended.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General, by virtue of his position, must be convinced that all moneys, even to the last farthing, has been spent as was intended by the Act.  To curtail the powers of the Comptroller and Auditor-General would, I think, be very bad policy, especially in regard to the matter of pensions, because there does exist at the moment not alone amongst the supporters of the chief Opposition Party in the House but even amongst the strongest supporters of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, without taking into consideration at all that very big proportion of electors   who are attached to no Party, a very strong suspicion that pensions have been granted to people who are not entitled to them. 
     In view of the present economic position of this country, it is almost criminal to think that men should be drawing pensions, some to an amount of £150 a year, or £3 a week, for services that they have not given. I could speak very strongly on this question of pensions if I wanted, because I hold that in an infant State like this no pensions should be paid at all.  The necessity for paying pensions should never have arisen in this country, but that is beside the question.  I would be like a voice crying in the wilderness in going any further into that matter, but the next best thing I can do is at least to ensure that before the pensions are granted all the evidence in connection with these pensions and the services rendered by the people in receipt of these pensions should be placed before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. That would apply to all those pensions that have been granted.  That is the only safeguard that we have at the moment in regard to the expenditure of public moneys, and it is a safeguard that, in my opinion, the Dail will be very wise to hold and to preserve. 
     It is a remarkable thing that side by side with the granting of pensions we had introduced into the Dail very recently a Bill having for its object the giving of relief to able-bodied men in the city of Dublin.  It is rather significant that the columns of the city Press, editorials have appeared protesting against the introduction of this Relief Bill and against the burden that it will place upon the ratepayers of the city.  But we have no leading articles in the same quarters on the question of pensions.  We have had meetings of the Dublin Chamber of Commerce protesting against the burden that would be placed on the shoulders of the ratepayers as a result of this Dublin Relief Bill, a Bill that has for its object the keeping of body and soul together in the case of thousands   of decent men who are entitled to that relief.  Yet I have no recollection of hearing or seeing any statement or protest from members of the Chamber of Commerce. 
     We have had speeches here in the Dail of members of the Government Party protesting against this Poor Relief Bill.  Yet I have been patiently waiting to hear these same Deputies raise their voices against the wilful waste that has undoubtedly existed in this country in regard to the granting of military service pensions.  A huge sum has been granted for these pensions.  I know of two men who, to my own knowledge, have not rendered any service whatsoever to the country, who have got pensions, and side by side with that we have thousands of men, including some of my own friends, who would scorn the idea of a pension, because they maintain that when they went out to fight they fought for the honour and freedom of the country.  I hold, in view of the position of this country in the present time, and taking into consideration the condition of the farming community, and especially the condition of thousands of farmers in the Cooley area, in the county of Louth, who at the moment are faced with bankruptcy owing to the fact that there is practically no market for the disposal of their agricultural produce, that these pensions are an intolerable burden.  The position is one that makes people furiously to think. 
     When I think of these things and see the ease with which it is proposed to vote large sums of money by way of pensions really the matter becomes too serious.  When one considers the fact that there is well nigh a quarter of a million pounds being paid out in pensions, when one considers the fact that this huge sum is being paid out and that this year there cannot be voted in the Dail fifty thousand farthings for the relief of unemployment, I think a position has been reached which should be changed and changed immediately. I think this House should set itself against the policy of curtailing the powers of the Comptroller and   Auditor-General in any way whatsoever. By virtue of his position he is looked upon as the watch-dog of public expenditure in the interests of the nation.  For that reason alone this House should be slow to curtail his powers.  I for one will never support a Bill having for its object the curtailing of the powers at present enjoyed by the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     I hold the Government would be wise to allow the light of day, as far as the granting of pensions is concerned, to be thrown on all the evidence and all the facts connected with those pensions.  If the pensions are genuine, why the necessity for any concealment of the facts in connection with them?  If the Government or the Board of Assessors can stand over the pensions they have granted, what is the necessity for preserving this secrecy?  What is the necessity for not allowing the Comptroller and Auditor-General to have free access to all the files and all the papers and to a full and complete transcript of the evidence which is in the possession of the Board of Assessors?  I cannot see for the life of me why the Government should seek to adopt this attitude in connection with military service pensions.  For the reasons I have stated, I think it is time for Deputies of all Parties to face facts. At the moment we are a poor, struggling nation and, while I am prepared to admit that any young man who rendered service to this country and who, as a result of that service, finds himself incapable of earning a livelihood, would be entitled to a pension, still I think the time has arrived when, if we are to solve many of the problems that exist at the moment, it will be absolutely essential that this question of pensions should command serious attention from all Deputies here. 
     I can assure the House that the time has passed for throwing dust in the eyes of the people.  The time has passed when it can be said that nobody pays any attention to what is said on the Opposition Benches. The people of this country are thinking, and there does exist a very considerable   body of opinion that is going to make itself felt in the very near future.  I say it is about time for the members of this House to realise the position in the country, to realise that we are going headlong to bankruptcy, that it is our duty to conserve our wealth and to be careful, above all, in matters affecting public expenditure. 
     One of the ways in which Deputies should exercise the greatest care and caution arises on this question of pensions.  The country is too small; it cannot afford these payments, and I hope and trust that as a result of this debate the Government will consider this question of pensions in all its aspects, bearing in mind the capacity of the people to pay, and bearing in mind that there do exist in this small State at least 40,000 to 50,000 men who cannot find the wherewithal to keep body and soul together.  We must legislate here for the whole people of the State and not for a section.  For these reasons I hold that the Dail should reject this Bill.  It should reject it because the Bill sets out to restrict the powers of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, the only official to whom the taxpayers in general can look as the one who will watch carefully their interests. 
     
      
       I think we should try to view this thing with something like common sense.  We will first take a little matter of history.  In 1924 an Act was passed providing for military service pensions.  That Act, unlike a good many Acts, provided for a Board of Assessors.  It provided that the Board should include a judge or a barrister of ten years' standing.  It provided that the Board should report to the Minister their findings as to the military service of any applicant for a certificate. It provided that every report shall contain findings upon the military service of the applicant in Oglaigh na hEireann, in the Irish Volunteers, the Irish Citizen Army, Fianna Eireann, or in the Hibernian Rifles. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the Minister indicate to us if the Act did provide for any particular specific qualification in the other members of the Board of Assessors? 
     
     
      
       No. I have already pointed out that, unlike any other Acts, this Act provided that the Board should contain a judge or a barrister of ten years' standing. 
     
     
      
       And the Whip of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party. 
     
     
      
       Obviously the Board should include one member who, by reason of his special training, was capable of valuating any evidence that would be put before the Board, being in that way qualified in a manner that we know perfectly well the Comptroller and Auditor-General is not qualified. 
     
     
      
       A minority of one on the Board? 
     
     
      
       All approved by the Cumann na nGaedheal Party. 
     
     
      
       I have mentioned that the Act provided for a judge or a barrister for the Board of Assessors.  The Board, the Act provided, would report on the military service of applicants in the pre-Truce days &mdash; military service in the National Forces or the Defence Forces of Saorstat Eireann &mdash; and, in addition, the Board would report on the period of services of such applicant in each such force or body as I have indicated.  It would include pre-Truce service and also National Army service.  These reports were to be forwarded by the Board, and eventually they would come before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. The Act also provides that such report shall be in the prescribed form.  The form prescribed is laid down in regulations which were laid on the Table of this House, and were available to members of the House.  These regulations were not questioned or challenged by members of the House.  It provides that the findings of the Board shall be final upon the applicant, but that the Board may re-open the findings at   the request of the Minister on the grounds that new evidence is available. It does not provide that the Minister may re-open it.  The Minister can only request the Board to re-open it, and it is only the Board that can re-open.  Moreover, the Board and the Board only may alter or discharge the findings therein as may seem to them just in view of further evidence.  The Act provides that the pension assessment is decided by the Board and by the Board only.  The Minister cannot re-open the question.  He cannot alter the periods or the service laid down by the Board.  The Act provides that the Board is the sole arbiter on the matter.  The Act provides: 
       For the purpose of calculating the amount of military service pension which any holder of a certificate of military service under this Act shall receive the military service of such person as found by the Board of Assessors and set out in his certificate of military service shall be reckoned as the equivalent of the respective periods of years of military service respectively specified in the second column of the First Schedule to this Act, and the total number of years of military service in respect of which any such pension shall be granted shall be calculated in the maner set forth in the said First Schedule and the Second Schedule to this Act. 
     
     Clearly from the Act itself the Board decides whether a man had service both pre-Truce and post-Truce, the rank that he held and the period during which he had given that service.  It is perfectly clear from the Act that the decision of the Board cannot be varied by any person whatsoever.  It cannot be questioned by the Minister, though the Minister may, but only on receipt of what purports to be additional evidence &mdash; that is, evidence which was not before the Board before &mdash; submit that evidence to the Board and request them to consider their decision.  The Board may or may not, as it chooses, re-open or reconsider,   and if necessary alter or discharge its findings.  As the Act lays that down it is perfectly clear that the service, rank and membership are defined by the Board and are not variable by anybody.  It was in order to safeguard the situation, that it was decided that the Board should not include an accountant, but that it should include a judge or a barrister of ten years' standing, because it is well known than an unqualified person is likely to misunderstand the value of evidence. 
     
      
       Would the Minister make this point clear, whether or not the Act provides that the expenditure on military service pensions should, or should not be subject to the control of the Comptroller and Auditor-General? 
     
     
      
       It is subject to the control of the Comptroller and Auditor-General in this way, that the Act provides that there shall be a board.  It provides what the board shall do.  It provides that the military service, rank and membership shall be such as is decided by that board. 
     
     
      
       Does it provide that access shall be denied to the Comptroller and Auditor-General in respect of certain documents which he asks for? 
     
     
      
       I suggest that perhaps I should bring this discussion back to common sense, as everything is best judged by common sense. The Deputy asks, does it provide that certain things shall not be available? Does it expressly provide that?  It does not say that, but it is implicit in every article that I have read out.  The suggestion of Deputies opposite in this discussion has been that the Comptroller and Auditor-General should read over whatever notes the Board made themselves on their authority and decided to keep.  They might have decided, if they so wished, to keep no notes whatever of the evidence. 
     
     
      
       Might I remind the Minister that the original application   of the Comptroller and Auditor-General in this matter was to have an opportunity of examining the applications sent into the Board. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is also aware, I think, that the offer was made to the Comptroller and Auditor-General to see the original applications, but in view of the nature of them a request for a guarantee of secrecy in the matter was asked for, if I remember rightly. 
     
     
      
       I think what the Comptroller and Auditor-General was asked to guarantee was that only he personally should examine certain files, and I believe he refused to give that guarantee, because he felt that the giving of it would be a restriction on his statutory and constitutional rights. 
     
     
      
       I want to come back to the history of this.  I think I have read out the more relevant sections of the Bill which indicate clearly to any person who wishes to see it, and has the intelligence to see it, that the decision with regard to the periods of service, rank and actual membership of the bodies mentioned is clearly defined by the Bill to be such as is set down by the Board in their report.  The Act does not empower any other person, whether it be the Comptroller and Auditor-General, the Minister or anybody else to vary the report of the Board.  As I read the Act, the Comptroller and Auditor-General cannot decide on the evidence, no matter what the evidence may be, that the period of service, rank or membership is other than it has been decided by the Board.  All that he could do at best would be to call the attention of the Board to certain facts and ask them to reconsider them. But the members of the Board are the final deciders on that and not the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     The function of the Comptroller and Auditor-General is to audit. When a question of law arises, the functionary to decide that, and the ultimate authority on the matter as far as we are concerned, unless the   case goes before the courts, is the Attorney-General.  This matter went before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. He was put in his position pre-eminently because of his capacity to audit.  The Attorney-General advises on questions of law.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General requested that these files should come before him to enable him to consider the evidence, the Act having already provided that a man qualified to judge evidence as the Comptroller and Auditor-General is not qualified, should be on the Board, and that the matters coming before the Board should ultimately be decided by that Board and by nobody else.  Deputy Derrig took up a lot of the time of the House in speaking on this Bill.  He tried to be superior to the Minister for Agriculture, and said that the Minister had not even read the report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
     It seems to me that while, as I have said, the Deputy took up a lot of the time of the House that he had not read the report of the Public Accounts Committee himself.  Time and again he came back on the point that the fact that the Attorney-General had given an opinion on this matter was not made available to the members of this House or to the members of the Board. Even after the President had given him the column, the date and everything else in connection with that, the Deputy still continued to come back on that point simply wasting the time of the House because he himself had not taken the trouble to read the report.  The Attorney-General having been asked whether these things should or should not be put before the Comptroller and Auditor-General gave his answer in the negative.  That information was made available to the Public Accounts Committee, and through them to this House and to the public generally.  On the question of law, the Attorney-General decided that there was no need for these things to go before the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  The Public Accounts Committee considered the   matter three times.  I do not propose to dig up the exact words they used, but roughly and without misrepresenting them, they decided on the first occasion that the action taken in not making these things available to the Comptroller and Auditor-General was quite justified. I think that was their decision. Very well, the thing went on. 
     On the next occasion, while not reversing the decision, they modified it to this extent, that they requested that the situation be regularised.  One could say that it was regularised in that the authority to state the law on the matter had made his statement, that authority being the Attorney-General who was qualified to state the law, and not the Comptroller and Auditor-General who was not qualified to state it. 
     
      
       May I ask who asked for the advice of the Attorney-General, who is the officer responsible for giving legal advice to the Government? 
     
     
      
       I am not quite sure, but I think it was the Minister for Defence.  That was made available to the Comptroller and Auditor-General through the Public Accounts Committee, and consequently to the Dail and to the public.  He was the authority qualified to state the law on the matter and not the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister realise that the Attorney-General is the officer who gives advice to the Government as against the Comptroller and Auditor-General, who is responsible to this House? 
     
     
      
       He is the highest authority we have to appeal to unless the thing goes before the courts, and it has not gone before the courts &mdash; the man whose advice the Government is bound to take.  He gives his advice, and not the Comptroller and Auditor-General, who is not a legal man, and not qualified to state the law. 
     
     
     
      
       What is the necessity for the Bill then? 
     
     
      
       The necessity for the Bill is, as Deputy Esmonde has said, largely a matter of courtesy. When there is the slightest doubt, or any possible doubt, it should be rectified.  There are other matters in the Bill which are introduced because some people may hold that there is a certain doubt.  The Committee of Public Accounts, first of all, approved of the withholding of these things from the Comptroller and Auditor-General, and secondly &mdash; not as Deputy Davin stated wrongly when he said the Committee had reversed their opinion; they did not &mdash; they merely asked to have the matter regularised.  Thirdly, as far as I understand their words, having been told it is going to be regularised, as it is now being done, they expressed their appreciation of that.  He said that &ldquo;in deference to the opinion of the Committee, proposals for further legislation will be laid before the Oireachtas.&rdquo;  To quote from the report: &ldquo;He states that, in deference to the opinion of the Committee, proposals for legislation will be laid before the Oireachtas, and he states that the object of these proposals will be to establish that the data on which the Board of Assessors based its findings shall not be, and shall be deemed never to have been, subject to audit by the Comptroller and Auditor-General. The Committee is satisfied with this determination to seek a decision of the Oireachtas on this matter.&rdquo;  When told this was being done the Committee expressed their approval of the fact.  Every Deputy on the other side gives elaborate explanations of the craft and villainy we are attempting to conceal by this, when it is merely introduced to remove certain doubts.  That, roughly, is the history of the Bill. An officer qualified to advise has given his advice, which should set people's minds at rest. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister mean by the language he has now used that the Comptroller and Auditor-General who is appointed   by this House on the nomination of the Government, is not qualified to advise the House? 
     
     
      
       Does anybody suggest because a man is the Comptroller and Auditor-General that he is qualified to advise this House on a matter of law?  I presume that if the House wants advice on the matter of law that it will go to a person who is qualified to give it. 
     
     
      
       This is not so much a question of law as the practice that has existed from 1876. 
     
     
      
       It is not a question of law, but it is a question of the expenditure of public money. 
     
     
      
       The question of practice is a matter for a lawyer to decide.  It is a matter of legal practice, and is not a question for the Comptroller and Auditor-General to decide.  When people like Deputy Derrig talk about the auditing of funds I suppose they mean adding up the pros and the cons, and subtracting one from the other, and the difference is the answer. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister quote my exact words? 
     
     
      
       When it comes to a question of public policy I think the primary advisers are the Executive Council.  You have an Act making it perfectly clear that decisions on certain laws should be ultimately decided by a certain board.  You have been advised legally that the evidence on which they make their decisions should not go before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       Are we to take it that the Government is not accepting the legal advice received? 
     
     
      
       The Government is accepting it. 
     
     
      
       Why this Bill? 
     
     
      
       Try to get down to commonsense.  The Deputy knows, I think, better than somebody else who has not the intelligence that he has &mdash; say Deputy Derrig &mdash; that to some people you   must make things doubly clear.  Say, if you are making a box and five nails will hold it together to carry so much weight, Deputy Derrig comes along and says the box will go to pieces in the post with only five nails in it, and to quieten him you put in another five or six nails &mdash; just to make the box doubly secure! 
     
     
      
       The Minister did not quote the Deputy's words yet. 
     
     
      
       If I begin to quote Deputy Derrig's speech it will be found that it was largely based on lack of knowledge. 
     
     
      
       That is your opinion. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Derrig said: &ldquo;In any case, the opinion of the Attorney-General has been quoted here.  I do not propose to quote it if I am wrong.  I can afford to do without it.  The statement of the Attorney-General, who is not here to answer, has not been produced to the Dail to show that the Comptroller and Auditor-General is wrong.&rdquo;  It was produced to the Dail, but the Deputy did not read the report. 
     
     
      
       I did. 
     
     
      
       And time was wasted because the Deputy did not know what he was talking about. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the committee which reversed its decision of the previous year had that advice before it? 
     
     
      
       Yes, but Deputy Derrig had not and he wasted the time of the House. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister has any other point to make let him make it. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy was wrong in this matter.  He was speaking in ignorance as usual.  At another stage he thought it was possible under this Act to give pensions to people who had acted on the side of anarchy as against the National Army.  I think that is very clear. 
     
     
     
      
       It is a very smelly red herring. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Derrig said: &ldquo;There can be no question or doubt that they had not complete evidence in these cases.  There can be no question or doubt that they exceeded their duty and power in making their court secret, and further, there can be no question or doubt that they were actuated by political motives, because they belonged to one party which had just been at strife with the other party, and it is only human nature that they should have a certain attitude towards the people on the other side, and that they should determine that these people or anybody associated with them could never get a pension. or should never in fact be called up. on in this matter, particularly if it were a case of giving evidence to prove that some staunch and tried supporter of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party in Co. Meath had a rather weak military record.&rdquo; The Deputy made the statement that nobody connected with those on his side, the side of anarchy, was called upon to give evidence and a few minutes after Deputy Fahy said that he gave evidence. 
     
     
      
       That shows that the Minister does not know what he is talking about, for Deputy Fahy spoke long before I did. 
     
     
      
       He was in America at the time. 
     
     
      
       Really this is absurd.  The Deputy ought to know what he talks about before he gets up and makes a statement.  Deputy Derrig wanders over a number of columns.  He is in col. 1747, 1754, and 1755, and Deputy Fahy only comes on in col. 1767.  If the Deputy would know what he is talking about before he wastes my time and the time of the House by interrupting me and lecturing the Minister for Agriculture&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You are not worth interrupting. 
     
     
     
      
       &mdash; as to his knowledge of the work of the Public Accounts Committee&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Read the rest of the speech now and try to get some points out of it. 
     
     
      
       There are really no points in it.  The Deputy spoke entirely with a lack of knowledge and with a complete misunderstanding of the question.  I would like to suggest that men with less than ordinary intelligence can only hold their own with other people by really sincere, honest, hard work, and when they try to do it without sincere, honest, hard work they only make a mess of it and waste other people's time. 
     
     
      
       The super-intellect of the Front Bench? 
     
     
      
       This business is challenged on two grounds, one, on precedent and the rights of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, and the other on the grounds of the prevention of public dishonesty. Now, the Comptroller and Auditor-General has such powers as this Dail gives him.  It is perfectly clear to me that if this Dail decides at any time to limit in any specific way the powers or the functions of the Comptroller and Auditor-General it is not creating a precedent except in so far as that specific case is concerned. We are not breaking a precedent, and we are not in any way injuring him in the carrying out of his function, because his function is to carry out the duties that are given him by this Dail.  Here is a case where I think most intelligent people will agree that his function is not to supervise the evidence as given before the Board of Assessors. Obviously he is not qualified to do that.  Obviously the body that by its very constitution had to contain a judge or a barrister of ten years' standing, was better able to judge, and when the ultimate decision in the matter must be theirs and not his, I suggest that it is futile that he should do it. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Minister is under a misapprehension.   The Comptroller and Auditor-General has no powers of decision whatever.  He has only powers of reporting that in his opinion certain cases are or are not justifiable.  That is all he can do.  He cannot decide. 
     
     
      
       I think if Deputies will take the trouble to read the Act they will find that the report of the Board is what decides certain things, and these are the very things that they want to throw in doubt. They say they can be varied by his seeing them.  They can only be varied by the action of the Board itself.  That is perfectly clear.  On the question of public policy, the proper authority is the Executive Council; on the question of law the proper authority is the Attorney-General &mdash; at any rate not the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       Might I also point out to the Minister that the Comptroller and Auditor-General contests entirely, in relation to his particular duties, that the Attorney-General has any jurisdiction over him whatsoever, or that he has even power to express any opinion that would be binding on him? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will admit, whether that is so or not, that it is a question of law, and I suggest that the Comptroller and Auditor-General's function is to audit and not to give opinions in law. 
     
     
      
       But even if it is a question of giving a judicial decision, the person to give it in this case is not the Attorney-General; it should be given by the courts of the State, and by nobody else. 
     
     
      
       Very well then. He did not take it to the courts of the State.  There is another method of settling the whole matter&mdash;common sense.  It comes before the Dail.  Is any useful purpose served? That is the question that has been discussed in the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Is the Attorney-General an officer of this House? 
     
     
      
       Of course he is, just as the Government are officers of this House. 
     
     
     
      
       Is the Attorney-General an officer of this House? 
     
     
      
       He is, of course. 
     
     
      
       He is not responsible to this House. 
     
     
      
       He is responsible to this House &mdash; to us, if you like. 
     
     
      
       Did the Executive Council consider the idea of bringing a case before a judge? 
     
     
      
       No, obviously not. Here is a perfectly simple case.  An Act was passed.  Whether the thing is explicitly made doubly clear now or not, it is perfectly clear that the intention there was, first of all, that the Board of Assessors should have a quasi-judicial function by the fact that it was insisted that it should have on it a judge or a barrister of ten years' standing. Deputies on the other side have constantly charged that the Board of Assessors consists exclusively of party hacks and so on.  The Chairman of the Board was a judge.  The Act did not in any way specify that the Board should keep any notes of the evidence.  Whether they did or not, whether, if they did keep notes they kept complete notes, is a matter I am not qualified to state, because I have never seen any of the files. For their own convenience, presumably, they may have kept notes of the evidence, but that would have been a matter for their own convenience. The Act speaks about their report and so on, but it says nothing about keeping evidence.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General comes along and says he must see the evidence to see if what is stated in the report put before him is correct.  I submit in common sense that that is really absurd.  As to the function of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, analogies were made.  His function is to audit the accounts of Ministers, and incidentally of their accounting officers. But the Comptroller and Auditor-General, in auditing the accounts of my Department, has made available to him everything that is available to me or to my accounting officer. 
     
     Two arguments were made, one   that there was no harm in having everything made public and, the second that if the Comptroller and Auditor-General did this it would not make for publicity.  If the Comptroller and Auditor-General, in auditing the accounts of my Department, is going to make any report I must see to it that anything he can report on I and the officials of my Department must have available to us.  If the Comptroller and Auditor-General is going to see evidence which may cause him to reverse a decision, according to the arguments of the Deputies opposite, obviously if he is going to do that the evidence on which he does it must be available to me and to my officials as well as to him, because he is auditing the accounts of my Department and my accounting officer cannot defend them when the Comptroller and Auditor-General has information and files available to him which are not available to my accounting officer. 
     This discussion has not been to get the truth; it has been purely casuistic.  It has been argued that it was necessary that he should get this information because it would prevent money going to people who should not get pensions.  On the other hand, casuistically, not with a desire for truth, it was argued that it would be no harm for him to see the documents because he would only report cases that are irregular, and therefore, as the Government is satisfied that everything is regular, he would not have to report anything. That is not aiming at the truth; it is a perfectly dishonest reason. Let us settle the facts.  Yesterday Deputy MacEntee read certain extracts from the Report of the Public Accounts Committee, carefully cutting things short so that the Dail would not know the true facts. When you try a ruse like that you are most likely to take in the most stupid people and not the most intelligent. It is perfectly evident that through his trying to work that on the Dail he has taken in one unfortunate Deputy, a Deputy who took Deputy MacEntee at his face value, and landed himself into   being put out of the Dail.  Deputy MacEntee referred to a number of cases.  Remember that he had urged that the Comptroller and Auditor-General when he would do these things would only report things which were irregular, and that his report would not make for publicity or injure any person. The Deputy stated the case of a person wounded in 1916.  He undoubtedly endeavoured to convey to this House that this was reported because it was irregular.  He said that the pension, if he was a private, would be £50, if he was a captain £75, if he was a major £100, and if he was a major-general £125, and he definitely tried to convey to this House that this money had been saved through the action of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
      
       I did not try to convey that. 
     
     
      
       Well, the Deputy conveyed it to one unfortunate man who got himself suspended. 
     
     
      
       Let that incident rest.  The Deputy is not here to answer. 
     
     
      
       I think I made it quite clear that I did not express any opinion, that these were cases only reported to the House, that the Comptroller and Auditor-General did not decide on the matter, and that these cases were subsequently investigated by the Public Accounts Committee. 
     
     
      
       And the Deputy carefully refrained from giving the results of the investigations.  He quoted the case of a member of the Civic Guard in receipt of a wound pension.  I would like to hear of anyone who was here yesterday and heard that speech who failed to take from it other than that the action of the Comptroller and Auditor-General had saved the State money. In connection with case (1) he proceeded to read from page 218 of the Report of the Committee on Public Accounts for the financial year 1924-25 and he quoted statements made by Mr. McGrath to the effect that this person was not a volunteer. 
     
     
        He very carefully refrained.  however, from continuing to read extracts from the evidence dealing with this case, which showed that it was proved to the satisfaction of the Committee of Public Accounts that the person concerned was properly certified as having been a Volunteer, he being on duty on that occasion. 
     
      
       That does not prove that the case was not one for inquiry. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy tried to convey that the Comptroller and Auditor-General was saving the State money in this case by an analogy&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       No, I only stated one instance. 
     
     
      
       In the second column on the same page, from which I quote the facts, are: &ldquo;that on the second or third day of the Easter Rising this man offered his services to the Irish Volunteers in Boland's Mills, but he was not accepted owing to his not being attached to the I.R.A.  He was, however, asked to do some independent intelligence work for them, such as watching the movements of British troops and reporting them.  While on this work he was wounded in Great Clarence Street by, it is alleged, a British sniper.  On that basis the certificate was given that the man was in fact a member of the Irish Volunteers.  There was no formal attestation, etc.&rdquo;  The Chairman, in passing from this case, remarked that &ldquo;the Adjutant-General certified that this man was a member of the Irish Volunteers, and that he was wounded performing his duty as such member.  I think whatever we may say about the particular case, that we are not here to judge between one officer or another as to whether the man was a member.  We must take the report in the matter to the Minister, and on that the Accounting Officer for this Vote would be justified in accepting the liability.&rdquo;  Anybody who knows anything about the Volunteers &mdash; even the little that Deputy   MacEntee knows about them &mdash; should appreciate that this statement of facts justifies the giving of a certificate that this man was wounded as a member of the Volunteers in the course of his duty. 
       Case No. 2.  He went on to quote page 216 &mdash; the Comptroller and Auditor - General's note &mdash; which says: 
       I observe that some ex-members of the forces in receipt of wound pensions were accepted for service in the Garda Siochana and continued to draw their wound pensions without any modification of either pay or pension. 
       But he carefully refrained from reading on the evidence in the same column, which proves conclusively that the Statutes of this House were fully respected in respect of the particular case he mentioned, and that no action followed the calling attention to the matter by the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  This House did not provide that in the case of persons entering Government service any portion of their disability pensions should be recovered, or that pensions should in any way be reduced.  He quoted again that a member of the Volunteers was injured at his private occupation, and that but for the Comptroller and Auditor-General the State would be paying pensions to persons shot or injured while following their ordinary occupations. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       He again carefully refrained from reading on the same column in page 215, in which the circumstances are clearly set out to show that the particular case referred to was that of a Volunteer who was shot by the Black-and-Tans in his shop.  The facts of the case, as stated in the minutes of evidence, show that he was shot because he was known to be a captain in the Volunteers.  It would be interesting to read the Chairman's remark in passing this item.  After quoting Section 31 of the Act, he says, &ldquo;and received such wounds while performing   such duty as a member.  That is the condition.  The authority set up &mdash; in this case the Minister &mdash; after enquiry has certified that the claimants were wounded in course of duty.  I think it is recognised that the course of duty in these days did not preclude a man following his employment, or appearing to follow his employment.  In the circumstances I think it is our obvious duty to pass it.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Will you admit with regard to the first case I stated that that was the only case in which I said that as a result of the report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General money was saved to the State?  That is the case of those who were paid pensions under the wrong head. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said in that case that owing to the action of the Comptroller and Auditor-General the money was saved to the State. 
     
     
      
       No, I quoted a remark of the accounting officer in that case that owing to the report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General some of the moneys had been recovered. 
     
     
      
       The steps for recovering the money were taken before the Comptroller and Auditor-General drew attention to it, the accounting officer or anybody else notwithstanding to the contrary.  On the question of public policy, the proper authority is the Executive Council, and are we forming an opinion on public policy which is not really shared by other people? Deputy MacEntee quoted from 1863 and 1874 in England.  Now, in this country there were special circumstances, and everybody in this House knows it.  Prior to the Treaty and prior to the Truce there were conditions of war here which were unlike war conditions in any normal country.  There were conditions in which people were resisting an alien Government, and they had to do it in the most subterraneous method possible. That was necessary.  Undoubtedly   it meant in effect that practically the whole work of the war took on itself the ordinary attributes of secret service.  Deputy Davin maintains that there will be no harm in these things becoming public. 
     
     
      
       On a point of personal explanation.  Will the Minister for Defence be quite accurate and quote from the Official Report any statement of mine to that effect?  I defy him to do it. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Davin urges that the files of evidence should go before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister withdraw what he previously said? 
     
     
      
       Very well, I withdraw. Deputy Davin urges that the evidence in these cases should go before the Comptroller and Auditor-General. He knows perfectly well that as the Comptroller and Auditor General will be auditing the affairs of my Department it must also go before the officials of my Department. He knows perfectly well that the Comptroller and Auditor-General must report anything he considers to be irregular.  He knows perfectly well that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has reported things that he considered to be irregular, but that were not irregular.  I will tell him this, that to my knowledge the reports of the Public Accounts Committee have already injured a man in his business in a most unfair manner.  I will tell him this also, that I have read the reports of the Public Accounts Committee and of the Comptroller and Auditor-General; I have read in them about Colonel A. and Major B. and the indications given were given sufficiently clearly for me to know who was who. 
     
     
      
       Were the members of the Public Accounts Committee who took responsibility for putting these facts before the House in that way going beyond their powers? 
     
     
      
       I am not saying that they were.  All I am saying is   this: Here is a proposal that this evidence be made available under certain circumstances which may make it necessary to be published to the world, with the experience that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has reported things that he deemed to be irregular, but that were not irregular, so that he might report things that are perfectly regular and make them public, with the knowledge that the reporting of these things has been done in such a way already as to allow anybody ordinarily informed in the matter, such as myself, to realise the identity of the persons.  It means that the proposal which is put by the Opposition is this, that steps should be taken which would almost inevitably mean that the contents of these files should be public, and Deputy Davin stands for that. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has previously withdrawn that statement &mdash; 
     
     
      
       Oh no. 
     
     
      
       &mdash; and I ask if it is right for him to repeat it. 
     
     
      
       What is the statement that the Deputy complains of? 
     
     
      
       That I stand for the publication of certain things which would not be in the interests of the people concerned.  He withdrew that previously but he has repeated it now in the insolent language which he usually uses in this House. He certainly does. 
     
     
      
       That is not fair. 
     
     
      
       The statement that the Deputy complains of is that he stands for the publication of these documents? 
     
     
      
       That I stand for the publication of information which would injure an individual in the wrong. 
     
     
      
       Is that what the Minister stated? 
     
     
      
       No, what I stated was this: I will deal with my conclusion before my premises, and the   conclusion was possibly more than I should have given.  The Deputy challenges that.  Then I demonstrated that in a particular circumstance, provided a certain course is followed, it will almost inevitably follow that the evidence in the files will become public. 
       I illustrated that by giving cases and showing that it was almost inevitable, and I said that Deputy Davin, by proposing that the action which he has urged, and which has been urged by the Opposition in this House, should be taken, is proposing that some of the evidence will almost inevitably become public property. I propose to go on to show that it will be an injury to the individual. 
     
     
      
       rose. 
     
     
      
       What is the Deputy's objection to that? 
     
     
      
       I cannot repeat word for word what the Minister said, but the gist of it was that the Public Accounts Committee published information, and that it injured a particular individual in his employment. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       And that I stand for that. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Minister is entitled to state that advocacy of a particular course has a particular meaning, and will have certain results.  That is precisely what he is saying, but I do not think that there is anything personal in the matter.  I do not know how the Minister can be asked to withdraw a statement of that kind.  It does not cast any reflection on the Deputy.  It is giving the Minister's view of the result of what the Deputy is advocating. That happens constantly. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that it is quite unfair for the Minister to mention me personally when he knows that I signed that report as the unanimous report of the Committee. 
     
     
     
      
       I think that the Deputy has misunderstood my line. I have stated, first of all, and I think it is agreed, that Deputy Davin has urged in this debate that these files be made available to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  I pointed out that in his examination of the files it will be part of the audit of my Department, and therefore I must see to it that, if he is going to have access to these files, my office which he will be criticising must also have access to the files, so that it may have an opportunity of rectifying anything that may be wrong before he calls public attention to it. 
     
     
      
       May I point out to the Minister that the speech which I made was made on my own personal responsibility, and that I never spoke as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee? 
     
     
      
       I am not talking about that.  I am just trying to point out a lot of things that the Deputy overlooked when he advocated a certain course, and I hope that, having seen that he has overlooked so many things, he will change his opinion when he comes to consider them.  First of all, if the Comptroller and Auditor-General has access to the files I must insist that we must have access to them.  We have not had access to them so far.  Secondly, I said of my own knowledge, as a result of the publication of things of this nature, that at least one individual has been injured in his business.  Thirdly, I pointed out that the Comptroller and Auditor-General refers things to the Public Accounts Committee which he deems to be irregular, but which are not irregular. 
     
     
      
       Which the Committee may not, in fact, deem to be irregular. 
     
     
      
       Which the Committee may not, in fact, deem to be irregular.  Therefore, I am building up the case.  I have said also that I have read the reports of the Public Accounts Committee, and I am not quite sure whether it was their   report or the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Minister should be made to withdraw that. 
     
     
      
       Withdraw what? 
     
     
      
       He said that the report of the Public Accounts Committee was the report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       I have not said so. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry. 
     
     
      
       It is the Minister's accent.  We cannot understand what he is saying. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I will take as long as Deputy MacEntee, there are so many interruptions.  I must try to build up this case again. 
     
     
      
       Without foundation. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can interrupt me to point out any flaw in my argument.  First of all, I say that the Deputy has urged that these files should be made available to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  I say that they should not, because I have known a man to be injured in his business by reports of that kind. I say that the report&mdash;I do not know whether it was portion of the evidence given by the Comptroller and Auditor-General or the report of the Public Accounts Committee&mdash;was made in such a way that I was able, by the data it gave, to recognise individuals. 
     
     
      
       But you have information that is not available to the public. 
     
     
      
       I was not at that time Minister for Defence.  It was merely through my association with the movement all through and with similar knowledge as is possessed by many people in this State. Therefore I say that it is almost inevitable that if the course proposed by the opponents of the Bill is pursued, the contents of, at least, some of these files will be public knowledge.  At least they will be   so widely diffused that that is practically inevitable and I cannot guarantee that a man's livelihood will not be interfered with.  If this information is widespread through my office, through the office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, and possibly referred to in veiled language at the Public Accounts Committee, referred to in their report in veiled language, published in the Press in veiled language, it seems to me practically inevitable that the public will get to know about it. 
     
     
      
       Surely the Minister has some sense of responsibility and he would not permit anyone but a trustworthy officer to have access to such files. 
     
     
      
       I have known it to happen already. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say what would be in the files except the rank, period of service and proof of membership? 
     
     
      
       The rank and period of service by law is such as is defined in the report.  Legally, it exists only in so far as it is reported by the Board and decided by them.  That is available to the Comptroller and Auditor-General. What he wants is the whole evidence adduced and any proof on which the report by the Board is made.  I suppose we need not bother looking up the exact evidence, but I think it will be agreed, or, at least assumed, that the person to whom detriment would be done would be a beneficiary who received a pension.  I do not want to go on digging through all the speeches but I do not think that it will be denied that in meeting this point it was assumed by opponents of the Bill that the person who might be injured by the evidence was the person who drew the pension. I have not seen any of the files.  Nevertheless, in one way or another, I have a fair idea of the evidence given in a number of cases and I know this, and I mentioned it to Deputy Davin, that there are   men employed in the special employment in which Deputy Davin takes special interest, men employed outside the jurisdiction of the State, who are not necessarily themselves drawers of pensions but who are involved in evidence which was made available to the Board.  I suppose that I myself was eligible for a pension but I have not got a pension. 
       I did not apply for a pension, so I think Deputies may grant me sufficient selfishness to assume that I would not be struggling here grafting for others when I did not graft for myself.  I happen to know that there are men employed in employment in which Deputy Davin is particularly interested, who were involved in this evidence, and who are outside the jurisdiction of this State.  Here is an Act laying it down perfectly clearly that the decision as to rank and so on rests with the Board.  Here is a question as to whether the Comptroller and Auditor-General, as well as seeing everything in the report, should also see the evidence upon which the legal men decide.  The Attorney-General, our appropriate officer, advises that he should not see it. Here is the fact that we know that the publication of the evidence is undesirable in the general public interest, first of all.  I have heard&mdash;I do not know whether it is true or not&mdash; that there is one man working alongside another man who, if the evidence came out, would be shocked because of the actions of the relatives of the other man against him. I know that there are men outside the jurisdiction of the State, not themselves beneficiaries under the Act, but whose names were invoked in the evidence, and actions they did on previous occasions were cited in proof of certain facts. 
     
     
      
       (An Clar): What about the Indemnity Act? 
     
     
      
       The Indemnity Act extends only to the area of the State.  People ridicule the idea of loss of life and liberty and Deputy Derrig said we were at peace with   Great Britain.  I do not know whether Deputy Derrig ever shot anybody, but suppose he had shot Mr. A, and that after the Truce he had migrated to England and had got a job with Mr. A's mother, does he think that it would injure him in his livelihood if Mr. A's mother knew that Deputy Derrig who had got a job over there, was drawing a pension, and had actually shot her son? 
     
     
      
       I would like to know how many of the I.R.A. have got jobs like that. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Derrig, in that case, would be getting a pension, and the fact that he was getting a pension would be published by the Minister's Department and Mrs. A would know that. 
       Things that are equal to the same are equal to one another. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that General Smuts and a German General dined together last week? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will agree than many men were associated, particularly with the type of employment in which Deputy Davin is particularly interested, and that they gave a great deal of assistance. The assistance they gave and its implications were quoted by totally different men in giving evidence and he surely recognises that, independent of the friendship of governments and of the fact that this country is at perfect peace with England, though Deputy Derrig is longing to throw himself against the might of the Empire&mdash;we cannot help that&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest in the argument he is now using that the trusted officer who has been unanimously appointed by this House cannot be trusted with information of that kind?  If that is so all civil servants are in the same position. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the Deputy ought to try to follow   me.  This trusted officer of the House is bound to report anything he deems to be irregular.  He has reported many things he deemed to be irregular.  He must report to the Public Accounts Committee and we know that their reports are published annually.  We know, as I have had proof already, that he often quotes things which he deems to be irregular and which the Public Accounts Committee deem are not irregular. 
     
     
      
       In the famous case of Mrs. A and Deputy Derrig is not the Minister's contention that the pension has been rightfully awarded to Deputy Derrig? 
     
     
      
       I am coming to that.  That is casuistic argument. The Deputy said that this should be done because of the money it would save for the State and, secondly, that nothing but irregular matters would be reported.  I say that, if anybody got a pension which he should not get, the record of the Comptroller and Auditor-General would be such that, if he did not believe that the Board was justified in believing these people, he would report the case.  I have taken some cases amongst those which Deputy MacEntee quoted to prove that.  I am dealing now with the question of public policy.  It is not in the interests of the State to have all the details that are set out in evidence published.  It is our duty to safeguard the State from that.  This Bill purports&mdash;I will not say to safeguard it because I think it is already safeguarded as the Comptroller and Auditor-General has not the right to see these things&mdash;to make doubly certain that no such wrong shall be done to the State or to any people who have assisted the State in its struggle for freedom. 
     
     
      
       I did not suggest that. 
     
     
      
       Although the Deputy has not suggested it, he has proposed a policy which leads to it almost inevitably.  Deputy MacEntee said something about persons getting pensions who are   not entitled to them.  I am not going to state that anybody gets a pension who is not entitled to it, but I would go so far as to say that if anybody is getting a pension which he should not get, he is getting it by virtue of perjury. 
     
     
      
       You want to save the criminals. 
     
     
      
       If the Comptroller and Auditor-General gets the file and turns it over, he says: &ldquo;Such a man took part in such an ambush.&rdquo; He has to take the evidence as he sees it there.  He cannot say: &ldquo;Here is the evidence of ninety-two people who came along to say that this man gave all the service which he claimed, but I have been told that every one of them were perjurers, and that he should not get a pension.&rdquo; He cannot do that. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Why not allow the Minister to conclude? 
     
     
      
       He is provoking questions. 
     
     
      
       I do not mind interruptions in the least. 
     
     
      
       The Minister should proceed with his speech. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state that the Board heard evidence in relation to every application? 
     
     
      
       I have told the Deputy&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Who is to discover the perjurer? 
     
     
      
       Obviously, not the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       Who? 
     
     
      
       Let us come to that.  Deputies ought to admit that there are, as I am quite prepared to admit there are&mdash;it is a thing that worries me just as much as it does the Opposition&mdash;people who did not give the service they are supposed to have given.  I am not saying that they should not get pensions, but I am quite satisfied that anybody who   is getting a pension which he should not get, is getting it by virtue of giving wrong evidence.  I am satisfied, once that wrong evidence is given, that when the Comptroller and Auditor-General goes through the files of evidence he has to take at its face value what these people said. He is not going to say that three people said that the man was there on the occasion, and that three other people did not know whether he was there or not.  He has got to take it at its face value.  Any wrong done in the way of pensions being given, is the result of perjury.  Nobody knows better than the Deputies facing me that there is not that feeling towards perjury that there should be amongst a large section of the people in this country. 
     
     
      
       Since you perjured yourself in 1921. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should not make that remark.  It is most disorderly.  Deputy Cooney ought to withdraw the statement that the Minister perjured himself. 
     
     
     
      
       That the Minister perjured himself? 
     
     
      
       I never said that an oath was an empty formula. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said that the Minister perjured himself in 1921.  Is the Deputy going to withdraw that statement? 
     
     
      
       I cannot withdraw. 
     
     
      
       Then I order the Deputy to withdraw from the Dail. 
       
         (The Deputy not offering to withdraw from the Dail.) 
       
     
     
      
       I direct the attention of the Dail to the conduct of Deputy Cooney. 
     
     
      
       It is an historical fact. 
     
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That Deputy Cooney be suspended from the service of the Dail.&rdquo; 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 78; Nil, 51. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Broderick, Henry. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margaret. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Corish, Richard. Cosgrave, William T. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davin, William. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J.
 O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. 
             Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. Mongan, Joseph W. Morrissey, Daniel. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel.
 Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. 
             Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies Little and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     
      
       I call upon Deputy Cooney to withdraw from the House. 
       
         (Deputy Cooney withdrew from the House accordingly.) 
       
     
     
      
       I want to say&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has not a right to speak now.  I want to hear the Minister. 
     
     
      
       The Minister made a similar statement. 
     
     
      
       I want to hear the Minister now. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to be put out. 
     
     
      
       I call upon the Minister. 
     
     
      
       The Minister made a statement as bad as the statement that Deputy Cooney made. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy making a point of order? 
     
     
      
       Yes, a point of order. The Minister made a similar statement to what Deputy Cooney made. 
     
     
      
       The Minister made no statement to the effect that an individual named in the House had committed perjury. 
     
     
      
       He made a worse statement&mdash;he accused the whole Party. 
     
     
      
       He did not. 
     
     
      
       If I did, I wish to withdraw it. 
     
     
      
       Deputies must be clear that what is out of order is a definite personal allegation. 
     
     
      
       Against one person or more? 
     
     
      
       Against a named person. 
     
     
     
      
       If general allegations required action from the Chair, I suggest that we have been accused of graft and everything else during this discussion.  If I have suggested that Deputy Cooney or anybody else&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Minister had better pass on. 
     
     
      
       I will come to the point&mdash;that in the case of men drawing pensions who should not be drawing them, it is the result of perjury and that, in so far as rectifying that is concerned, the examination of the files by the Comptroller and Auditor-General is no remedy whatsoever, because the evidence that would be given to him would be the perjured evidence, and he would have to accept that on its face value, so that the whole argument that his examination was going to save the State so much, and was going to get after the people drawing the pensions wrongfully, goes by the board. Deputy Coburn said he knew of cases of men who were getting pensions who should not.  I have never heard of them from him.  Deputy Ward quoted a number of cases.  I remember one case quite well.  Deputy Ward asked about a pension drawn by some man.  He gave me an account of it, stating the periods for which the man was drawing the pension.  He then said that during one of these periods this man had been court-martialed and expelled from the Volunteers.  Naturally, I immediately got after the case, and as a result, I got confirmation of what Deputy Ward stated, and the man's pension was reduced by the period for which he was out of the Volunteers.  Deputy Ward has now questioned whether this man had ever been in the National Army. The evidence I have is that he was in the National Army. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state whether he is referring to No. 21 or another? 
     
     
      
       No. 21 is the case. The Deputy will know the case by the fact that he stated the man had   been court-martialed and dismissed from the Volunteers.  He quoted other cases.  I got up while he was speaking and asked him in reference to one of the cases if he had stated the facts that he considered would negate the right to a pension, as he had done in that other case.  He said that I was trying to draw a red herring, or something like that, but I really wanted to know.  If the Deputy had given me any information throwing doubt on the man's right to a pension during any portion of the time, or during the whole time, I would have immediately made inquiries in my Department.  I remember one case.  I do not remember any other case.  I have the file here. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister explain how it came about that these men did not receive pensions until the two general elections six or seven years afterwards? 
     
     
      
       What file has the Minister before him in this case?  Is it the file that was before the Pensions Board? 
     
     
      
       No, I have the office file. 
     
     
      
       I understood the Minister to say that as regards No. 21 on the Order Paper of 13th June he has ascertained that this man served in the National Army.  I say that the man never served in the National Army; neither did his brother, who was also in receipt of a pension. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy may send me evidence about that.  I have before me, just as anybody else would have, evidence that he did serve in the National Army. 
     
     
      
       That is why we want the Comptroller and Auditor-General to look into them. 
     
     
      
       He would be just in the same position as I am. Another Deputy of the Fianna Fail Party one time asked me about a man drawing a pension.  I gave him the pension he was getting and the period it was for.  He assured me,   I think across the floor of the House, that he was in a position to prove that the man should not be getting a pension.  My immediate response to that was to ask him would he get evidence to that effect?  He brought me evidence, or what purported to be evidence.  I have never seen the file under which that man got the pension. 
       A number of signed letters were brought to me by the Deputy.  I went through them.  It was a coincidence that all these letters were written by members of the anti-State forces.  I did not discount them for that reason, but that was notable.  In these letters these men made statements, and incidentally referred to other men who were in a better position to give information about the man than they were.  I immediately got after these other men, and, as a result, that case was proved to my satisfaction, and I shall be prepared to show Deputy Lemass, or anybody else who is incredulous, exactly what happened. Any Deputy who goes through the case will say that such evidence as came in proved that the man was entitled to the pension he got, and that the Deputy, who stated across the House that he was in a position to prove that he should not get a pension, was wrong in his statement of the facts.  The Deputy did his duty as a citizen, of course.  When he thought that the man should not get a pension, he gave all the evidence at his disposal which he thought would prove that.  There have been two cases of men being prosecuted. 
     
     
      
       Why did they not get the pensions until the General Election in 1927? 
     
     
      
       What is the use of correlating two dates that way?  The date of the termination of the Pensions Board was, if I remember rightly, March, 1928.  Very often in this discussion Deputies spoke as if the Board were still functioning, and still sending in reports upon which pensions will be given.  I disbanded the Board nearly two years ago.  If   I remember rightly, it was in February or March, 1928, and they have not been functioning since.  If somebody came along and gave me what looked, if you like, sound evidence that a man was drawing a pension that he should not be drawing, I would naturally call the Board together, and ask them to compare the evidence which I had now received with the evidence put before them to see if further action was necessary with a view to cancelling or reducing the pension, or even prosecuting. In two cases actually the Board prosecuted people for perjury.  I think I have proved here&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state why these people I have referred to have been refused military service pensions time and again, down to the June and September elections, when they were brought together by Mr. Blythe's election agent and promised a pension on condition that they supported him? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy makes a statement which, of course, one can ignore.  What happened is this:&mdash; The Pensions Act was passed; a man wrote in for a form; he got that, filled it in and mentioned certain witnesses that he could call.  The evidence came in.  He was possibly called upon to send in further evidence on certain points.  He sent in all the evidence of his pre-Truce activities.  It was reported that he did not receive a pension because his service as required by the Act was not proved. 
       But he might come along at a later stage&mdash;and it very often happened, to my knowledge&mdash;with additional evidence: 
       &ldquo;Provided however that the Board may at any time re-open any or all of their findings at the request of the Minister on the grounds that evidence not available prior to the making of their report had since become available.&rdquo; 
     
     It very frequently happened that what purported to be additional evidence came in.  When a man sends in something and says it is evidence   additional to the evidence which has been before the Board when they refused a pension or only assessed a pension at so much I send that evidence to the members of the Board asking them if it is additional evidence, and if so, to re-open the case and consider it in the light of this additional evidence.  In cases the Deputies referred to, that were refused and were later granted, they were only granted as a result of the applicant producing evidence that he did not produce on the occasion of his previous application. 
     
      
       Is that the evidence of the election officers? 
     
     
      
       There is no use in the Deputy speaking to me because I do not understand him.  I do not think I miss much anyway. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister a question.  The Minister made a statement a while ago to the effect that where there was an adverse report against a certain man who was claiming a pension it generally came from people who were anti-State. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       No.  The Deputy misunderstood me.  The Deputy having asked a question about a certain individual and his pension&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is no use going back on that. 
     
     
      
       Anyway, I did not make the statement.  To sum up, an Act was passed which clearly laid it down that the period of service and the membership should be such and such only as was defined by the Board of Assessors in their report and they are the only people who can alter or discharge that. The Comptroller and Auditor-General, the Minister, nobody has a right to say that the rank was this and not that, nobody has a right to say that it is this membership and not that membership, nobody has the right to say in this period, not   in that period, other than the Board. They are the only people as laid down by the Act.  The Act clearly did not consider that the Comptroller and Auditor-General would review the decisions of the Board. It is perfectly clear in the Act, although the Act may not specifically have stated it, that the Comptroller and Auditor-General may not see the evidence.  It is perfectly clear that the Act never visualised the Comptroller and Auditor-General auditing, to quote Deputy Derrig, the evidence.  That is perfectly clear because the report of the Board, at whatever stage it is made, although they may vary it at anybody's request, is the final report. Nobody else can make a report, and, for the purposes of this Act, the rank, the period of service and the membership shall be such as defined by the Board only.  That made it clear that it was not proposed that the Comptroller and Auditor-General should review these cases. 
       It was stated here in the debate that it may be that the undesirability of having these files made public was overlooked at the time. I do not think it was, because it seems to me inherent in the wording of the Act that something of that nature was adverted to.  The mere wording of the institution of this Board insists that it shall contain a judge or barrister of ten years standing and that their report on these matters should be final.  That seems to me to indicate somehow or other that this situation was adverted to.  Anybody in this Dail knows perfectly well that these files contain statements of facts and incidents prior to the Truce that it is not in the public interest should be made public. 
     
     A decision of this House that these files, as in the case of other Government documents, should go through the ordinary course of survey by the Comptroller and Auditor-General, and that he, in his discretion, should report publicly to the Public Accounts Committee, meaning, as that does, that they should go through the ordinary machinery of   my department and be available to the various officials of my Department would make the publicity of the details contained in these files practically inevitable. 
     The proper deciding authority as to what is or what is not in the public interest is the Executive Council, and our decision that it is not in the public interest coincides, I believe entirely, with the real judgment of every member of this Dail.  It may be casuistically urged not to treat these differently from all other public documents, that it does not imply that there will be any publicity.  I have demonstrated that the action previously&mdash;I am not complaining about it&mdash;of the Comptroller and Auditor-General and of the Public Accounts Committee has been such as to justify one in presuming that it will make for publicity.  We are the proper people to decide, but I suggest that nobody in this House thinks otherwise than that it would be against the public interest.  To my own personal knowledge there are individuals inculpated in that evidence before the Board&mdash;although I have never seen any of the files&mdash;who are outside the jurisdiction of this State, and who are in such a position that publication of the facts about them in those files would injure them in their livelihood and possibly even to a greater extent.  I have pointed out that the Comptroller and Auditor-General is not by his training a man qualified to judge the value of evidence, that the law passed by this Dail stipulated that the Board should contain at least one man by his training capable of evaluating evidence.  As far as I remember, it contained two men of legal experience and one man who during the period was getting legal experience. The Comptroller and Auditor-General has no legal experience. The Act obviously considered that this Board required certain qualifications for considering evidence, and we know that in the appointment of the Comptroller and Auditor-General we did not go into the matter of his qualifications for valuing evidence.  I suggest that it   is not in the public interest that these files should go before the Comptroller and Auditor-General, resulting, as it inevitably would, in publicity of their contents. 
     I have suggested that there is no need for this thing to have arisen because the legal adviser to the Government has advised them that they need not be open.  The bringing in of this Bill does not mean, as so many people have suggested, that we in any way find fault with the action of the Public Accounts Committee.  As a matter of fact, the reports I have read I entirely approve of.  I do not know why people should not accept them in the spirit in which we are accepting them.  I have pointed out that all the arguments suggesting that the proposal that the Comptroller and Auditor-General should have access to these files would lead to the unmasking of people who had drawn pensions, who should not be pensioned, amount to nothing.  There is nothing in that because the Comptroller and Auditor-General could only read the evidence before him.  It is almost inevitable that there must be some who are drawing pensions who should not be drawing pensions.  That will not be met by the Comptroller and Auditor-General, because if there is perjury the Comptroller and Auditor-General going through the files must accept the perjury he reads there as gospel. 
     What becomes then of the whole opposition to this Bill?  Should the Bill pass or should it not? Even if the Bill did not pass I do not think that we would need to give the files to the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  Our best legal advice is that we need not, and the only contention to the contrary is that of the Comptroller and Auditor-General who is not qualified and of Deputy MacEntee whose position on the Front Bench led me to believe that he was to be in the Cabinet, but I understand now he is going to be the Attorney-General in the very shadowy Cabinet. 
     
     
      
       As regards the qualifications, is the House to understand that the Attorney-General, who is not an officer of this House appointed by this House and directly answerable to this House, is superior in a matter of this kind to the Comptroller and Auditor-General who is appointed by the House and answerable to the House? 
     
     
      
       All I am saying is that in a question of law the Government in its action has to be guided by the Attorney-General. 
     
     
      
       It is a question of right. 
     
     
      
       It is a question of law.  Rights do not enter into it.  I have tried to make the thing as clear as I can in spite of a great deal of interruption.  I suggest it is perfectly clear that it is not in the public interest that these things should come before the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  I suggest that the Act never anticipated that they would come before the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  I suggest that their going to the Comptroller and Auditor-General will not assist to the extent of one iota in discovering one pension that should not be given. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister state by what means he proposes to have inquiries made into these cases where he believes that pensions have been granted to people who are not entitled to them? 
     
     
      
       Many Deputies have got up here and have stated to their personal knowledge&mdash;in one case, the most bona fide case that I came across, it worked out the other way round&mdash;that many people were getting pensions to which they were not entitled.  As a matter of fact, usually that statement is made with a lack of the full conception of things.  If Deputies get up and say they know for a fact that a man is drawing a pension who should not be getting it, it is their duty as ordinary citizens, let alone as Deputies, to come along to me with that evidence. I will naturally consider it, and matters arising out of it may, as   happened in this case, enable me to approach other people who are even in a better position to give me information on the matter than they are.  Once I have done the best I can to get information on it naturally my action will be to call together the Board and say to them: &ldquo;Such a person is getting such a pension, people have come along with this statement and are prepared to swear on oath. I submit this to you to compare it with the evidence on the files and see whether action would not lie in the matter; in any case to summon the beneficiary and demand of him to rebutt any evidence that has come forward.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       If the Minister is so anxious to get cases like that why does he not give us the addresses so that we may be able to identify those who are getting pensions? There is no use in giving us a hundred names of John Murphys, Paddy Murphys, Tom Sullivans in the County of Cork and refusing to give us the addresses. 
     
     
      
       In the majority of cases the Deputy knows he will be able to form a fair idea as to the men who are getting the pensions. As far as I understand Deputy Ward he stated he wanted certain information.  He put an elaborate question which gave a considerable amount of work to my Department. I gave him a complete answer to his question as far as I understood him.  When he was speaking he said he had asked the wrong question. We were put to all that trouble for nothing.  Then he wanted to come along with another question about records which we really had not got in the Department. If he came along and was able to prove to us that there were illegal cases we would naturally then get after a whole lot of the illegal pensions.  We would put the whole machinery of the Department at work to get after them.  People get up time and again and say that they know cases of people who are getting pensions who should not. One member of the Fianna Fail   Party did certainly lay himself out to give that assistance.  Deputy Ward was of real assistance to us in reducing a man's pension.  We have prosecuted two other men.  As regards the list of names, while you may be doubtful about some, there will be at least more than half that you will be pretty certain of, John Smith in this place or Pat Houlihan in another place.  By writing up to us we will say that is the man, go ahead, there is no difficulty about that.  If Deputies say they cannot make out those getting pensions how can they say they know people getting pensions who should not be getting them? 
     
     
      
       Is the inquiry by the Board of Assessors to be open to the public or is it to be private? 
     
     
      
       The Board of Assessors ceased to exist two years ago.  What is the Deputy referring to? 
     
     
      
       In the event of reports being made about persons getting pensions who are not entitled to them I understand from the reply that the Minister has given that he will now summon the Board to examine the new evidence submitted. 
     
     
      
       To see if a case lies. 
     
     
      
       Is that inquiry to be public or private? 
     
     
      
       Will the Board of Assessors consider the new evidence in public? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy sends along certain evidence that would go before the Board, provided it did hold water, because often people think they are making a very great statement but it does not amount to much.  When that case goes before the Board the Deputy will be called, naturally, to come forward and to substantiate the evidence he had sent in. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has indicated that where certain information is brought under his notice referring   to a person who is in receipt of a pension that he will immediately take steps to inquire into the matter and see if there is any foundation in fact in the information placed at his disposal.  I want to draw his attention to Question 22 on the Dail Order Paper of 13th June. 
     
     
      
       That is not a question; the Deputy is making a statement.  I have sympathy with Deputy Maguire in asking a general question, but I do not want to hear Deputy Ward on a particular case. 
     
     
      
       I want to ask the Minister what steps he took to test the information regarding a certain person referred to in Question 22 of 13th June to the effect that this person had been courtmartialed and expelled for a certain offence. 
     
     
      
       Unfortunately, in the circumstances I could not answer that question.  The Deputy would naturally have to come to me with the question.  I do not remember cases. 
     
     
      
       What I want to know is, what steps did the Minister take with regard to the person referred to in Question No. 22, concerning whom I did give to him definite information, as well as about the person in Question 21. 
     
     
      
       I did not know that until this minute.  I would have to look that matter up.  In the one case he gave me information that the man was courtmartialed and expelled from the Volunteers.  He also stated that a certain officer had information on the matter.  That case I remember.  When I got that information I immediately called upon that officer to give information on the matter, and that officer confirmed what the Deputy told me. 
     
     
      
       The Minister did not inquire into the other case? 
     
     
      
       I could not tell the Deputy which case that was.  I know that in any case that was brought to my notice wherever there was definite information that threw a   doubt upon the thing, I and my Department immediately got after it. I only remember the one case that the Deputy referred to.  I do not   know what others there are.  I have tried to make the thing as clear as I could in very difficult circumstances. 
       Question&mdash;That the Bill be now read a Second Time&mdash;put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 67; Nil, 61. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus. A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. 
             Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo.
 O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). 
             Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim. Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew.
 Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies Davin and G. Boland. 
     Question declared carried. 
     
      
       When is it proposed to take the Committee State? 
     
     
      
       I propose to take the Committee Stage now. 
     
     
      
       We object.  Surely the President should give us some time to consider amendments for the Committee Stage and to look up the statements that have been made on the Second Reading.  We ought to be given time to prepare amendments. 
     
     
      
       I think it is very unfair to ask now for the Committee Stage of a Bill to which so much importance has been attached.  I think it is wrong to rush a Bill like this through the House and it is wrong to suggest that the Committee Stage be taken immediately after the Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       There is no Bill that has got so much consideration from Deputies opposite as this measure.  The really important stage is the Second Stage, and it is nonsense to suggest that the Committee Stage in the case of this Bill is important; it is nonsense to claim any serious importance for the Committee Stage of this Bill.  The real principle of the Bill was dealt with on the Second Reading and it is unreasonable on the part of Deputies opposite to object to the Committee Stage being taken now. 
     
     
      
       There is one section of the Bill in connection with which some provision should be made for reopening cases.  As we read the Bill these cases can never be reopened, not even by the Minister for Defence. 
     
     
      
       It is laid down in the Military Service Pensions Act that the Minister for Defence can at any time ask the Board of Assessors to reconsider any cases. 
     
     
      
       It is scandalous that this Bill should be rushed through the House in this fashion.  After all, we have been here since 23rd October, and the Government have taken no steps to provide us with sufficient work.  They now try their usual tricks of rushing legislation at the last moment.  It is absolutely ridiculous.  Bills of less importance than this have come before the House with sufficient time for their proper consideration and for the handing in of amendments on the Committee Stage. 
     
     
      
       I submit that we have not had adequate or sufficient time to draft amendments, which we are entitled to move on the Committee Stage.  The ordinary calculation is that in the case of a Bill of this importance the usual period of time allowed to draft amendments will be given.  Merely to use a majority in order to get a Bill through the Committee Stage&mdash;for this cannot be done without the consent of the House&mdash;is a misuse of the majority I submit that we should be given proper time to consider this Bill in the light of the new fact that it has gone through its Second Stage.  We could not be expected to assume that this Bill would go through its Second Stage.  Therefore we are entitled to the usual period of time between the Second Stage and the Committee Stage in order to be in a position to draft amendments. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee Stage be now taken. 
     
     
      
       I do think that it cannot be claimed that this Bill is one of urgent public importance.  I do not think that that claim can be made for this Bill.  That claim was   made to-day by the Minister for Justice in regard to the Courts of Justice Bill, 1929, and we were not unreasonable.  I think it is unreasonable on the part of the Government to ask that this Bill should be treated as a Bill of urgent public importance, because on the face of it, it is not a Bill to which these terms could apply.  I do not think it is reasonable to ask that the Committee Stage of the Bill should be taken now immediately after the Second Reading.  I think it would be treating the House in a very improper way to ask that a Bill of this kind, for which there is no justifiable reason for pressing in this urgent way through the House, should have its Third Stage rushed through now. I do not think that there is any adequate reason for asking that it should be done. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask what reasons the Government can bring forward to the House to justify them in pressing the Committee Stage at this time.  It is usual under the Standing Orders that there must be two or three days allowed for amendments.  That has been the procedure for six or seven years.  There is no urgency about this Bill.  I would like to know the reasons the Government have for treating the House in this way, except the fact that they have their six pensioners here forming a majority. 
     
     
      
       It would be better if the Deputy were less offensive when speaking.  He should remember that when they entered the House his Party had one pensioner, at least.  More than one pensioner was elected as a member of his Party drawing pensions from this State. 
     
     
      
       Wound pensioners and that is quite different from service pensioners. 
     
     
      
       It does not matter; the term is applicable and it is a term that the Deputies opposite ought not to make a term of reproach because it is not that.  It is   a term of reproach in respect of an alien authority giving pensions, if it so desires, to those who would be prepared to support that authority. That is quite a different case, however. The case for this Bill, as I said, was made on the Second Stage when the principle of the Bill was discussed.  We are asked now why we are pressing this measure. Deputy Briscoe, as the spokesman of the Party opposite, has been inquiring for at least two years when we intend to conform with the request of the Committee of Public Accounts.  We have now done so.  I may say that no Bill has got such an extensive Second Reading on the part of the Deputies opposite as this Bill.  Few speeches have been made by the Deputies on this side of the House. Many speeches have been made by Deputies opposite.  The Deputies on the Opposition Benches showed a desire at one time to have a decision on the Bill.  They have been afforded every possible opportunity of debating this measure.  They have not been limited in the course of the debate. The principle of the Bill was fully dealt with on the Second Reading and it is futile and foolish to suggest that this is a Bill which admits of amendment.  Once it is accepted that the principle of the Bill is the matter which is decided on the Second Stage&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What about the Standing Orders? 
     
     
      
       I should like to suggest&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has spoken already. 
     
     
      
       I am submitting another reason. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has already made a speech and he must not make a second speech. 
     
     
      
       I am merely raising a point of order. 
     
     
      
       Does it not apply to every Bill that the principle is decided on the Second Stage?  The President has given no reason why   this unique procedure should be adopted in connection with the Military Service Pensions Bill.  It has never happened before in our experience, unless in the case of a very harmless Bill, that the Committee Stage was taken immediately after the Second Reading.  Surely the President will give us some reason why we should depart from general procedure. 
     
     
      
       The definite question before the House is that the Bill be now taken in Committee. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Chair will indicate if there is any definite period that should elapse between the time when the Second Reading of a Bill is completed and the taking of the Committee Stage? 
     
     
      
       The Standing Orders in relation to amendments govern that matter.  The House could not possibly anticipate&mdash; 
     
     
      
       No.  The position is that when a Bill has received a Second Reading a motion may be made that the Bill be considered in Committee.  That is the motion which we are discussing, and it is in order.  We have had this point of order before. 
     
     
      
       Is it not the practice that it is only by the consent of the House that the period between the different stages of a Bill can be shortened? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid not.  Every matter that comes before the House must, if necessary, be decided by vote.  If this is not agreed to, and if the President puts it to the House, it must be voted upon. 
     
     
      
       How is the difficulty of putting in amendments to be got over?  I understood that two days' notice has to be given in connection with amendments.  As Deputy MacEntee pointed out, there are matters in this Bill which, on consideration, this Party might think it advisable to amend. 
     
     
      
       There has not been one mentioned yet. 
     
     
     
      
       I, as an individual member, object to the Committee Stage being taken now because it is not indicated on the Order Paper. There was no provision made for the Committee Stage and there was no announcement made that it should be taken.  I think it is taking an unfair advantage of the House. 
     
     
      
       We do not want unduly to inconvenience the Government, but I would like to point out that the case made by the Minister for Defence was that there was no need for the Bill; it was only introduced to clear up certain doubts and to meet a point brought forward by the Committee of Public Accounts. According to the Minister for Defence, the legal position will not be altered by its passage, nor will any serious change in the present position be brought about. 
     
     
      
       What about the Fourth and Fifth Stages? 
     
     
      
       I propose to take all stages this evening. 
     
     
      
       I think it is up to the Chair to rule this out of order. 
     
     
      
       Why is there not time given for the consideration of such important measures as the Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) Bill, the University Education (Agriculture and Dairy Science) Bill, and the Dublin City and County (Relief of the Poor) Bill?  Why are they not taken this evening? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had put that question when we were having long speeches made by his colleagues this evening it might have been of more advantage. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Defence talked for at least two hours. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I timed the Minister. 
     
     
     
      
       I take it that a decision on a matter like this proceeds from precedent, and I suggest you will be establishing a very dangerous precedent if you allow the Bill to be taken in all its stages now when a very considerable part of the House objects. 
     
     
      
       I have no function in this particular matter at all.  I have no doubt that under the Standing Orders a motion can be made for the taking of the Committee Stage of the Bill, and if that motion be carried, then the House can go into Committee on the Bill at once. 
     
     
      
       Without any notice? 
     
     
      
       Yes, without notice.  We must finish the Committee Stage, take a motion for the Fourth Stage and then take the Fourth Stage.  We can then take a motion for the Fifth Stage, and go on with the Fifth Stage. 
     
     
      
       I want to give notice that I propose moving three amendments to this Bill.  I want now to give two days' notice that I intend doing that. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of what the Ceann Comhairle has said, I want to ask whether, as well as the actual letter of the rules of the House, there are not certain practices making it possible for the business of the House to be carried on by common understanding and that this is a gross breach of these practices. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can urge that against the doing of a particular thing, but it is not a matter for a ruling by the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I notice that when a Bill has been read a Second Time and when it is ordered to be considered in Committee of the whole House, that a day is then named for the taking of the Bill in Committee. If there is a departure from that and it is decided to refer the Bill to a   Special Committee, the President must move a motion.  Would not the ordinary notice under the Standing Orders be required to cover a motion of this sort? 
     
     
      
       There is no doubt that the Standing Orders provide that the various stages of a Bill may be taken one after the other.  It is not generally done, but, if necessary a motion can be made, and the Chair has no option but to take it. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of our Party we object to the Committee Stage of this Bill being taken tonight. I think the President will agree that at any time he was in a position to point out to the House that a Bill was urgently required and that he wanted to take it without the period provided under Standing Orders elapsing, he was always given facilities.  I think in view of the fact that the Minister for Defence has made the statement that this Bill is not required, and in view of certain other statements that he made, that the Bill would require to get closer examination on Committee Stage than it will be possible to give it if it is taken tonight. I think in the light of the statements made by the Minister for Defence this evening and so as to enable members to prepare any amendments which they may think necessary, that the President ought to agree to the Committee Stage of this Bill being postponed. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the last statement made by Deputy Corish, I suggest, in view of the fact that this Bill has been introduced largely to salve the conscience of the Labour Party, that every facility should be given to carry through the Bill in its last stages. 
     
     
      
       It would have been more decent to move the closure in the Second Stage than to do this. 
       Question&mdash;That the Committee Stage of the Bill be taken now&mdash;put. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided: Ta, 73; Nil, 61. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. 
             Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J.
 Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. 
             Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin.
 Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Military Service Pensions Bill, 1929&mdash;Committee Stage. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     
      
       Before we start, in view of the importance of this Bill, and in view of the precedent which we are now seeking to establish, I suggest that we should get at least a quarter of an hour in which to frame our amendments. 
     
     
      
       That is contrary to the motion that has been passed.  We are in Committee on the Bill now. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       That Section 1 stand part of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       In Section 1 the expression &ldquo;the Principal Act&rdquo; means the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, and the expression &ldquo;military service pension&rdquo; means a pension granted under the powers contained under the Principal Act.  We contend that a lot of pensions have been awarded under powers not contained in the Principal Act but under powers assumed by the Government. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid that does not come under this section. 
     
     
      
       I object to the definition on the grounds that it does not cover what happened, and some other definition will have to be sought for what the Government wants to do.  The Government took extraordinary powers under the Principal Act.  They took away from the Comptroller and Auditor-General powers which he had secured to him under the other Acts of the State, and they absolutely brought forward no legal evidence whatever to show they should have those powers. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy cannot develop that argument under this section, but he can under the next section, perhaps. 
     
     
      
       We had no time in which to bring forward definite amendments to this Bill.  We had hoped that it might not pass.  Since we are restricted in time we have to make amendments on our feet. It is absolutely impossible for us to get in amendments to the sections to which they are appropriate. The expression in the Principal Act means the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924.  I think it would have been better to say that means Cumann na nGaedheal military service pensions.  As Deputy Dr. O'Dowd has shown, several applicants who had applied for pensions&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That does not come under the definition section. 
     
     
      
       I think if the Government really wanted the definition to be truthful they should say the expression &ldquo;military service pension&rdquo; means a pension which they granted under the powers they assumed, and which were not in the Principal Act of 1924. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is out of order. 
     
     
      
       I would like the President to show where I am out of order. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not know what he is speaking about. 
     
     
      
       The President does not know, and he should have more intelligence.  He knows how to get the pensions over, and he knows how to get the votes in this House when he has six pensioners present. 
     
     
      
       That is out of order. 
     
     
     
      
       Is it in order for the President to rule that something is out of order? 
     
     
      
       No, and I am glad to observe the Deputy's zeal for the honour and the dignity of the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I was saying, when I was interrupted by the President, that the expression &ldquo;military service pension&rdquo; means a pension which the Government granted, or forced the Board of Assessors to grant, under the powers which they have assumed the Board of Assessors to have under the Principal Act.  The Board of Assessors will be absolutely beyond their power&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy is going beyond the scope of the definition section.  I think he will have to go on to Section 2 
     
     
      
       How can I go on to Section 2 until we have discussed Section 1? 
     
     
      
       The point is, can we discuss Section 1?  If we cannot discuss Section 1 I think the Deputy ought to go on to Section 2.  I think we can discuss Section 2. 
     
     
      
       I propose, as an amendment, in line 27 after the word &ldquo;the&rdquo; where it first occurs in the line, to insert the word &ldquo;alleged.&rdquo;  The section would then read: &ldquo;The expression `the Principal Act' means the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924 (No. 48 of 1924), and the expression `military service pension' means a pension granted under the alleged powers contained in the Principal Act.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I could not accept that. 
     
     
      
       Would it be in order in moving an amendment to defer consideration of this section to this day six weeks? 
     
     
      
       The House has decided that. 
     
     
     
      
       The House has decided on taking the Committee Stage of the Bill.  Would I be in order in proposing that consideration of this section be deferred until after consideration of Section 2? 
     
     
      
       Not after consideration of the section has been entered upon.  I think the only thing the Deputy could ask now would be for leave to move a motion to report progress. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): Will you accept an amendment to this effect&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I want to settle Deputy MacEntee's point first. 
     
     
      
       I suppose if that is the only course open to us at this stage&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy read the Standing Order? 
     
     
      
       Standing Order 63.  I move under Standing Order 63&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not moving at all. 
     
     
      
       Neither is the Bill. It is either Standing Order 88 or Standing Order 63. 
     
     
      
       Standing Order 63 refers to a Committee of the whole Dail.  It says: &ldquo;A Committee of the whole Dail may from time to time direct the Chairman to report a Resolution or Resolutions, or to make a special report to the Dail.  A motion to report progress and ask leave to sit again may also be made: Provided that the Chairman may refuse to accept any such motion which he deems to be dilatory or obstructive.&rdquo;  I am afraid that, seeing that we have not yet been a quarter of an hour in Committee on this Bill, I could not now accept a motion to report progress. 
     
     
      
       In the special circumstances we have not had time&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Unfortunately what the Deputy is asking me   to do is, by my ruling, to give my view of the decision which the House has just arrived at.  Manifestly I could not do that. 
     
     
      
       Would I be in order in pointing out to the House that the Gaeltacht Housing Bill is waiting to be discussed after this? 
     
     
      
       I wish the Deputy had thought of that before. 
     
     
      
       The President has given precedence to the Gaeltacht Bill from the time it was introduced up to to-day, and now he suddenly turns round and puts it after this Bill.  I want the responsibility to be placed on the President. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will have to carry the load himself. 
     
     
      
       I want to tell him also&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That should have been raised before the House went into Committee on the Military Service Pensions Bill. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): The amendment I would ask you to accept is this: That in line 27 the word &ldquo;granted&rdquo; be deleted and the word &ldquo;awarded&rdquo; be substituted for it. In moving this I would draw your attention to the word &ldquo;granted,&rdquo; which means something given for nothing. 
     
     
      
       That is just what happened. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Awarded&rdquo; means something granted as the result of an inquiry. 
     
     
      
       Leave it as it is. 
     
     
      
       It is in accordance with the facts. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Hogan is also interested in the Housing (Gaeltacht) Bill. 
     
     
      
       Very well. I will accept an amendment to delete the word &ldquo;granted&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;awarded.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       In moving this amendment I have in mind the discussion   that has taken place this evening, and I have in mind the very strong case made by the Opposition with reference to some of the pensions awarded.  I do not want it to be understood that those people who are in receipt of pensions&mdash;I am really making an ad hoc speech; I suppose that will be understood&mdash;are not awarded pensions as the result of an inquiry, and I want to give the Minister for Defence an opportunity of explaining to the House, and through the House to the people of the country, how these awards were made, and that they were awards and not grants.  These people have certain sensibilities, a certain sense of dignity and honour, and my colleague&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The word in Section 4 of the Principal Act is &ldquo;grant.&rdquo;  There is no question of &ldquo;award&rdquo; in the Principal Act. The Military Service Pensions Act which is referred to in this Bill&mdash; No. 48 of 1924&mdash;says in Section 4 (1) &ldquo;The Minister may with the sanction of the Minister for Finance and subject to the provisions of this Act grant to any person.&rdquo;  It does not say &ldquo;award.&rdquo;  There is a distinction between the two. 
     
     
      
       Have you not accepted the amendment?  Is the President now ruling that the amendment is out of order? 
     
     
      
       The Chair may always accept an amendment, but until the point arises when the Chair is putting the amendment to the Committee, a point of order may be raised about the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Although it has been accepted by the Chair? 
     
     
      
       Yes, as long as it has not been put to the Committee. That has been ruled over and over again.  Up to the time it is put to the Committee, a point of order may be raised with regard to it. 
     
     
      
       The word in the Principal Act is &ldquo;grant.&rdquo;  Sub-section (4) (1) states: &ldquo;Subject to the   provisions of this Act grant,&rdquo; and later, Section 6 (1) states: &ldquo;If any person to whom a military service pension has been granted.&rdquo;  The word &ldquo;award&rdquo; does not come in, and although there may be a certain similarity in the two words, it is the word &ldquo;grant&rdquo; that is in the Act. The Minister has really no power to award; he has power to grant. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy's amendment is an amendment to the definition section.  It would alter the whole tenor of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): Is not this entirely new section in a new Bill entitled to modify or alter words in the Act? 
     
     
      
       Not to modify or alter. 
     
     
      
       I am not asking the President for a ruling.  If the President wants to make a speech I would be quite prepared and glad to listen to him.  I would be glad to hear him make a case for the pensions. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy would deal with the word &ldquo;award&rdquo;&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I submit, with all respect, that we are not dealing with that section.  We are dealing with a section that amplifies, regularises and annotates, if you like, the old section, and therefore I maintain I am entitled to submit to the House that the word should be changed from &ldquo;granted&rdquo; to &ldquo;awarded&rdquo; because of the special way by which the amounts of pensions are arrived at, and the special means by which they are awarded. 
     
     
      
       I would like to submit, following Deputy Hogan, as a point of order, that his point of order is well favoured, in the sense that while the original Act did set out to grant pensions under conditions in which they would be reviewed by the Comptroller and Auditor-General&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is now asking me to decide upon the merits of the debate we have just heard for the last couple of weeks. 
     
     
     
      
       No, sir. 
     
     
      
       I will not hear the Deputy on a point which is not a point of order at all. 
     
     
      
       You suggested&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I hope I did not suggest anything. 
     
     
      
       You suggested in connection with the amendment offered by Deputy Hogan, that it would alter the whole tenor of the original Act. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that.  I said of the Bill, not of the Act. 
     
     
      
       Your acceptance of Deputy Hogan's amendment would mean that you would afterwards accept a new sub-section stating that wherever the word &ldquo;granted&rdquo; appeared in the original Act the word &ldquo;award&rdquo; should be substituted. 
     
     
      
       If it is necessary to alter certain things in the Bill we might offer consequential amendments at a later stage. 
     
     
      
       This section reads:&mdash;&ldquo;In this Act the expression `the Principal Act' means the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924 (No. 48 of 1924), and the expression `military service pension' means a pension granted under the powers contained in the Principal Act.&rdquo;  I think it would be impossible to offer an amendment to line 5 of the section which would make that part of the section at complete variance with lines 2 and 3, that is to say, &ldquo;the Principal Act means the Military Service Pensions Act,&rdquo; and then you must adapt the succeeding words in the section to the words in the Principal Act.  Therefore you could not make an alteration in line 5 which would in fact remove the whole definition section away from the Principal Act already mentioned. 
     
     
      
       Then they were not awarded; they were granted.  That is a concession. 
     
     
      
       Would I be in order in moving to insert the word &ldquo;alleged&rdquo; at a different place?  The first section would then read:&mdash;&ldquo;In this Act   the expression `the Principal Act' means the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924 (No. 48 of 1924), and the expression `military service pension' means a pension alleged to be granted under the powers contained in the Principal Act.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I could not receive that amendment.  That would not be an amendment to the section at all. 
     
     
      
       Here it is taken for granted in the Title that all these pensions which we are now asked to put out of the purview of any other authority than the assessors have been in fact granted according to the law, while if our position was this, that it was acknowledged or that it could be held as being a matter which was open for discussion whether or not a particular pension had been properly granted under that law, but having been granted would not have to be reviewed, it seems to me we are getting into an entirely different area of discussion altogether. 
     
     
      
       We are. The amendment is out of order.  I am not receiving that amendment. 
     
     
      
       Would you receive an amendment proposing the deletion of the whole section? 
     
     
      
       No, because that can be decided on the question that the section stands. 
     
     
      
       Would you accept an amendment to insert after the word &ldquo;pension&rdquo; in line 26 the following words: &ldquo;shall be construed to read.&rdquo; and then the continuation of the sentence? 
     
     
      
       That is not an amendment at all.  It is the same thing. 
     
     
      
       Well, it emphasises that it shall now be construed to mean.  What I want to make clear&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I think that would not be an amendment.  It would be the same thing. 
     
     
      
       I would like to submit another one.  There is a form which is   common in the House&mdash;the insertion of the words &ldquo;shall mean and shall always be deemed to have meant.&rdquo; There is a definite signification in the Bill that it is retrospective.  I want to put in an amendment to show that this is not retrospective but begins as from this instant, that it means as from now, which is the reverse of a perfectly orderly amendment which we do not want to move:&mdash;&ldquo;shall mean and always has meant.&rdquo;  I suggest that you should take an amendment which would make this apply as from now. Do you accept that amendment? 
     
     
      
       To insert &ldquo;as from now&rdquo;?  That is what the section means. 
     
     
      
       No, sir, I suggest&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Oh, yes. 
     
     
      
       With all respect.  It refers back to the previous Act. 
     
     
      
       (An Clar): Is Deputy Flinn in order in referring to Section 2 before we have decided Section 1? 
     
     
      
       I thought he was talking on Section 1. 
     
     
      
       I object to being interrupted in this disorderly and irregular manner by the Deputy.  I do think that I ought to be allowed to make a speech without being subjected to unnecessary and inconsiderate interruptions. 
     
     
      
       Standing Order 46 says:&mdash; 
       A Deputy who persists in irrelevance or repetition in debate and who, in the opinion of the Ceann Comhairle or the Chairman, is speaking for the purpose of obstructing business, may be directed by the Ceann Comhairle or the Chairman to discontinue his speech after the attention of the Dail or of the Committee has been called to his conduct. 
       I am not suggesting that I should be the judge, but I think it is sustainable that practically every speaker so far has spoken for no other purpose than to obstruct business. 
     
     
     
      
       Including the President. 
     
     
      
       That is a matter for the Chair to decide, as the debate progresses, if it does progress. 
     
     
      
       The President is understood to apologise. 
     
     
     
      
       I will put Section 1. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and declared carried. 
       
         Division challenged. 
       
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 71; Nil, 58. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. 
             Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William.
 MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. 
             Derrig, Thomas. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedv, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas.
 O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Amendment declared carried. 
     SECTION 2. 
     So much of sub-section (6) of Section 3 of the Principal Act as enacts that the findings of the Board of Assessors set out in their report shall in all cases be final and conclusive and binding upon the applicant is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that such findings as so set out shall be and, in the case of findings set out in a report made before the passing of this Act, be deemed always to have been final and conclusive and binding on all persons and tribunals whatsoever, but subject and without prejudice to the power of the Board of Assessors to reopen any such findings under the proviso to the said sub-section (6). 
     
      
       In regard to this section, would you take an amendment from me on these lines?  The amendment which I propose to make is as follows:&mdash; 
       In Section 2, line 36, after the word &ldquo;power&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and right of the Comptroller and Auditor-General to examine all papers and documents, whether confidential or otherwise, as he in his own discretion may consider necessary to enable him to fulfil the functions and discharge the duties attaching to his office, as prescribed by Article 62 of the Constitution and the Comptroller and Auditor-General's Act, 1923, and the several Acts of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland cited therein and subject also and without prejudice to the power.&rdquo;  The section will then continue as in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I am not accepting it. 
     
     
      
       On what grounds? 
     
     
      
       On the ground that Section 2 is the operative section of the Bill.  The House has confirmed the principle of the Bill and the amendment of the Deputy is seeking to undo what the House did on Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       I submit that in this case the fact that this Bill is to make final, conclusive, and binding, on all persons and tribunals, certain findings without specifying in the Title that the powers of the Comptroller and Auditor-General are going to be limited, means that, even if the House has accepted the principle, we can move an amendment which will prevent the limitation of those powers.  I contend, as this Act is virtually an Act to amend Article 62 of the Constitution, that unless the Title of the Bill specifically recites that the powers of the Comptroller and Auditor-General are going to be limited.  I am entitled to move an amendment which will safeguard the powers which the Comptroller and Auditor-General has under Article 62 of the Constitution. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy will keep to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       That is my contention, that unless in the Title of the Bill it is set forth as the object of   the Bill, that it proposes in some way to restrict or limit the powers which the Comptroller and Auditor-General hitherto has enjoyed under the law and Constitution as they exist up to the moment, I am entitled to move an amendment even to the operative clause, which will safeguard and secure to the Comptroller and Auditor-General his present rights. 
     
     
      
       What the Deputy is endeavouring to move is an amendment which would practically take out or nullify the principle to which the House has agreed in Committee.  I am not accepting the amendment. 
     
     
      
       May I submit that the principle of the Bill is not as clear as you think.  The whole argument of the Government&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am not concerned with argument of the Government but with what is in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       They submit&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am not concerned with what they submit, but with what is in the Bill, and with the amendment which the Deputy asks leave to move. 
     
     
      
       I understand the Bill&mdash;if I am wrong you will correct me&mdash;to mean that the existing law, as certified by the Attorney-General, is that the Comptroller and Auditor-General has not these powers and, therefore, we must assume that this Bill must refer to somebody else. 
     
     
      
       On a question of order I am not concerned with the opinion of the Attorney-General. I am concerned with the Bill and the relevancy of the amendment.  I am not accepting the amendment. 
     
     
      
       (An Clar): Will you accept an amendment from me, namely, &ldquo;In line 35, to delete the words `and tribunals whatsoever?' &rdquo;  The effect of the amendment, as it stands, would be that whatever irregularities or illegalities may have been committed   by the Board, the Board would not be subject to any tribunal, which includes courts of law.  If it is deleted it will give the courts of law such powers as they have over ordinary boards or corporations.  I submit that it is a perfectly reasonable amendment and that you should allow the Dail to express its opinion on it.  Am I do assume that you accept it? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I would like to hear the reason. 
     
     
      
       Because the Dail decided on a definite principle in the Bill and the Deputy's amendment would have quite, but not almost, the same effect as the amendment which Deputy MacEntee asked leave to move. 
     
     
      
       (An Clar): I submit that this is a matter on the administration of the Bill.  It is a matter of bringing the Board of Assessors into the same plane as ordinary citizens who are members of corporations. It is not the principle of the Bill.  The principle of the Bill, as I understand it, is that certain documents which were available to the Board shall not be available to the Comptroller and Auditor-General. That is the big principle running through the measure.  In this case, if the Board of Assessors at any time did anything that could be construed as illegal, I want to ensure that that matter could go before a court of law.  If the Bill stands as it is, no court of law would have jurisdiction over them. As I say, it is not a matter concerning the principle of the Bill but it is a matter of bringing them into the same plane as corporations or collections of citizens. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will refer to the Principal Act as well as to this Bill I think he will see what would be the effect of the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I would like a quotation from the Principal Act which says that the Board of Assessors   shall not be amenable to the ordinary law by being taken into a court&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I want to move an amendment. 
     
     
      
       I want to know if my amendment is ruled out.  If the Fianna Fail Deputies are going to adopt the attitude of obstructing the Labour Party I will be as strong in my objection to them as Deputy Flinn or, rather, Deputy Little is to me. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry, but I thought the Deputy had given up An Leas-Cheann Comhairle as being hopeless on that point.  I withdraw for a moment. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, I want to call attention to the perfectly uncalled for personal attack made on me by Deputy Hogan.  I think it is quite wrong&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I did not hear any uncalled for attack. 
     
     
      
       It was not uncalled for?  I understand. 
     
     
      
       In all seriousness, you ruled out an amendment which I think is very important.  Of course, I accept your ruling. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy accepts my ruling, that is an end of it. 
     
     
      
       I am trying to explain the purpose of the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Has the Chair not given a ruling and has not the Deputy accepted it? 
     
     
      
       I am not speaking of the amendment on which the Leas-Cheann Comhairle has ruled. 
     
     
      
       I decided not to accept the amendment. Does the Deputy wish to speak on the section? 
     
     
      
       No, I wish to ask a question in regard to Standing Order 89. 
     
     
     
      
       What is the Deputy's point? 
     
     
      
       I am referring to Standing Order 89 which says:&mdash; 
       It shall be an instruction to all Committees to which Bills may be committed that they have power to make such amendments therein as they shall think fit, provided such amendments be relevant to the subject matter of the Bill; but that, if any such amendments shall not be within the title of the Bill, they amend the title accordingly, and report the same specially to the Dail: Provided, however, that no amendment shall be proposed which is in conflict with the principle of the Bill as read a second time. 
     
     
      
       I have given a ruling.  The Deputy stated that he has accepted that ruling. Therefore, it cannot now be further debated. 
     
     
      
       Very well then. Am I to speak on the section? 
     
     
      
       I wonder would you accept an amendment in these terms: after the words, on all persons and tribunals whatsoever, to insert: &ldquo;save and except the High Court of Saorstat Eireann&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       I think that is the same as Deputy Hogan's amendment. 
     
     
      
       I think it is not exactly. 
     
     
      
       It is practically the same. 
     
     
      
       I think not.  Deputy Hogan's amendment had a wider scope.  This is restricting it to a very narrow ambit.  You have there an authority that certainly this House could accept.  The High Court&mdash;the Supreme Court if you prefer it&mdash;at any rate, the High Court would be accepted as an authority by this House, and would, I think carry very great weight in its decisions on any matter, especially in a matter of this   kind, and an appeal to the Supreme Court would be open.  There should be an appeal.  I think this differs materially from Deputy Hogan's amendment, in that it provides some way by which some authority in the country would have a say in the matter.  After all, this House cannot very well go into the details of any case, and this would provide some authority.  This is no attempt at obstruction.  In all seriousness, I think that some authority of that kind ought to lie in the Court, to give serious consideration, as undoubtedly the High Court would, to any question of this kind put before it.  I think it is wise that there should be some authority in the country open to reconsider matters of this kind. 
     
     
      
       I submit that exactly the reason that induced you to rule Deputy Hogan's amendment out of order should induce you to rule this amendment out of order, and that is that it goes outside the principle of the Bill, as passed on Second Reading.  The fact that it gives power to one court and not to a number does not alter the principle upon which you acted. 
     
     
      
       I submit that Deputy O'Kelly's amendment raises a very important issue.  Under Article 65 of the Constitution the judicial power of the High Court is, it is stated, extended to the question of the validity of any law having regard to the provisions of the Constitution. Under Article 62 of the Constitution, the Comptroller and Auditor-General has been appointed and it is stated that he shall control all disbursements and shall audit all accounts of moneys administered by or under the authority of the Oireachtas, and shall report to Dail Eireann at such stated periods to be determined by law.  If the objection of the Minister for Education does express the mind of the Executive Council in this matter, which I take leave to doubt, considering the affection in which the Executive Council hold the Constitution, then it would appear to me that one of the purposes of this Bill not disclosed in the   Title and not discussed upon the Second Reading, would be to oust the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 65 of the Constitution. Some time ago&mdash;I think it was in connection with a prosecution under the Treason Act early in 1927&mdash;a judge of the High Court, Mr. Justice Hanna, expressed the opinion that the Constitution should not be amended, so to speak, by a side-wind &mdash;that Bills of this nature, affecting the fundamental Articles of the Constitution, should not proceed through this House in any other way, or under any other guise, than that of constitutional amendments.  It would appear to me, if the Minister for Education does really express the mind of the Executive Council on this matter, that the real purpose of the Bill is, first, to nullify the effect of Article 62 of the Constitution and, secondly, to oust the jurisdiction of the High Court to determine the validity of any law, including this law.  In order to safeguard against that possibility, Deputy O'Kelly's amendment ought to be considered. I put that to you, and I suggest it is a very serious point. 
     
     
      
       The principle of the Bill is, that the findings should be final and conclusive and binding on all persons and tribunals whatsoever.  The House agreed to that.  That is the main principle of the Bill, and Deputy O'Kelly's amendment is just somewhat narrower than Deputy Hogan's amendment, which was ruled out by the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I submit that the Title of the Bill has not been put to the House at all yet&mdash;the House has not yet agreed to the Title of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I am speaking about the principle of the Bill and not the Title. 
     
     
      
       It is the Title you are ruling on. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The really important point which Deputy O'Kelly has raised was not adverted to   during the Second Reading.  It did not occur to anyone what would be the effect of these words, &ldquo;final and conclusive and binding on all persons and tribunals whatsoever&rdquo; until Deputy Hogan raised the point.  It is a most important issue. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will realise that the Chair is not concerned with the merits of the matter. 
     
     
      
       You have jurisdiction in this matter. 
     
     
      
       Not so far as the merits are concerned, but purely on the question of order. 
     
     
      
       I submit, in view of the importance of the matter, that you are almost bound to accept the amendment in order that that point may be finally determined before the Bill leaves the House. 
     
     
      
       The Chair is concerned only with the question of order and not with the importance of the matter. 
     
     
      
       This matter was not adverted to before.  In view of your ruling, will you permit me under Standing Order 63 to move to report progress? 
     
     
      
       With all respect, might I put it to you that in deciding to rule out this amendment the Chair has taken upon itself almost alone to legislate?  The decision on the Second Reading of the Bill did, in a general way, adopt the principle of the Bill, but surely, if proper time were given for amendments a matter of this kind would certainly have come up, and the House would have had time to consider the very important legal and constitutional issue raised.  Although there were numerous and long speeches on the Second Reading, this point was not referred to by any speaker and, therefore, might be said not to   have been before the House.  It is a very important constitutional and legal issue that is raised, when a decision of that kind comes from the Chair, that we are precluded even from getting a vote of the House on a very important issue of this kind.  I put it to you, with all respect, that the Chair ought to allow this to go to the House, at any rate, and not take on itself the responsibility of precluding, if this Bill becomes an Act, any citizen who feels aggrieved by the passage of the Bill, bringing the matter into the courts to have it tested and a decision taken.  I think it is a very serious responsibility and, with all respect, I say that the Chair would be wise to allow the House to vote upon it. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the amendment is ruled out of order? 
     
     
      
       On that point I have already said I could not accept Deputy O'Kelly's amendment.  I do not want to limit either debate or the amendments any more than is absolutely necessary.  Of course Deputies are under a certain disability that they have to consider amendments without notice.  Perhaps it would be better for Deputies, and even for the Chair, if we had more time.  But I am quite clear that Deputy O'Kelly's amendment is in principle the same as Deputy Hogan's, except that it is narrower, and I have to rule Deputy O'Kelly's amendment out practically on the same ground as I ruled out Deputy Hogan's amendment. 
     
     
      
       Take me as making a very strong protest against the arbitrary action of the Chair in ruling out a matter which, if there was time, would have got very serious consideration from the Chair. Amendments which are sent in in the ordinary way are naturally considered, and the Chair gets legal advice if necessary in connection with them.  That is the Chair's own look-out.  At any rate, the Chair gives serious consideration to matters of this kind.  It is very   serious to take from the courts of this country any jurisdiction in a matter of this kind.  I know the Chair is in as difficult a position as we are, owing to no notice being given of amendments of this kind, and I think the Chair would be wise in allowing the House to vote upon this very important matter.  If there is any doubt in the Leas-Cheann Comhairle's mind about this matter&mdash;and I do not know whether there is or not&mdash;I think the safest course, if I might humbly advise the Chair, would be to let the House take upon itself the responsibility, and not to ask the Chair to take that responsibility, which is an unfair responsibility to ask the Chair in the circumstances to assume.  I think it would be safer for the House and the country generally if the Chair would put that responsibility upon the House and not assume so serious a position itself. 
     
     
      
       I have given serious consideration to the Deputy's amendment.  I have treated it quite seriously and given it as serious attention as time will allow.  It is not a question of the responsibility of the House; it is the responsibility of the Chair.  The Chair cannot put the responsibility that belongs to the Chair on a question of order, upon the House.  A question of order cannot be decided by anyone except the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I want to remind the Leas-Cheann Comhairle that when this Bill was debated on Second Reading&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I definitely ruled upon Deputy O'Kelly's amendment.  Is the Deputy now dealing with the section? 
     
     
      
       No, not yet. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Kelly has raised a serious point, and accordingly I now ask leave to move under Standing Order 63 to report progress in order to report to the Dail that a question has arisen in Committee as to whether the jurisdiction of the High Courts as set forth in Article 65 of the Constitution will be affected or is   affected by Section 2 of this Bill and the Title to the Bill, which sets forth that the findings of the Board of Assessors shall be deemed always to have been final, conclusive and binding on all persons and tribunals whatsoever.  Deputy Hogan has raised the point as to whether tribunals, in that instance, might be held to be the courts set up under the Constitution.  Deputy O'Kelly has gone further, and in order to safeguard the powers of the High Court in the matter has suggested the insertion after the words &ldquo;all persons and tribunals whatsoever&rdquo; of the words &ldquo;save and except the High Court.&rdquo; 
     
     You, sir, have ruled that you cannot accept such an amendment because you feel that the House has already decided on the principle of the Bill, and that the findings of this Board of Assessors would be binding even on the High Court.  That, I take it, would be the effect of your ruling if Deputy O'Kelly cannot insert in the section words that will save the powers of the High Court. Then I take it that your opinion is that the House has already accepted the principle that the findings of the Board of Assessors are to bind even the High Court.  As I pointed out, the question as to the jurisdiction of the High Court to re-open these matters was never referred to in the debate on the Second Reading because it did not occur to any person until Deputy Hogan raised the point that it possibly might arise.  Against that we have your ruling, which shows that you feel that the jurisdiction of the High Court would be affected by the passage of this Bill, because if Deputy O'Kelly's amendment were not against the principle of the Bill the powers of the High Court would not be affected, but if it is against the principle of the Bill obviously the appeal to the jurisdiction of the High Court would be affected.  As I pointed out already, a learned judge in the High Court has very severely criticised the practice of amending the Constitution by a side wind.  When dealing with the prosecution brought under the Treason Act in 1927   he stated that the Constitution should not be amended except by an Act brought in specifically for that purpose.  If the ruling of the Chair in this instance is right&mdash;if any amendment that would reserve to the High Court its existing jurisdiction is contrary to the principle of the Bill, then Article 65 of the Constitution is amended, and that is a very serious matter.  For that reason I am asking permission to move that, as a question has arisen in Committee as to whether the jurisdiction of the High Court as set forth in Article 65 of the Constitution is affected or prejudiced by Section 2 of the Bill the Dail be asked to reconsider the matter and to give a decision for the guidance of the Committee. 
     
      
       I rise to support the motion moved by Deputy MacEntee. It was made clear during the course of the debate that this Bill was expressly for the purpose of making clearer what was the present existing law.  It was contended continually by two Ministers that there was no change being made in the law but that it was simply clearing up a point that was at issue.  All the Ministers had to go on was the opinion of their Counsel, the Attorney General, and an opinion is not a decision.  They choose not to arrange as they might have done by agreement to bring the matter before a judge.  It is constantly done.  A friendly action could have been   brought by the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  By agreement the matter could have been submitted to a judge and the law finally tested by a case, but that course was not taken.  The course adopted was to make the existing law clearer by a further Act.  Now I take it that in the minds of the Ministry they did not think in any way that they were passing an Act which is repugnant to the Constitution as it at present exists.  Now we have discovered that it may be repugnant on at least two points.  The most important of these is the interference with the judiciary. I think that this is not a mere matter for amusement.  This is not a matter merely of obstruction.  The whole question of the Bill is a very serious one.  Men who at an earlier stage took a conscientious view of this matter, who in this House disassociated themselves from voting on this Bill at an earlier stage as men who have some regard for their honour, should not at this stage wash their hands of the Bill and vote automatically simply because we are going into the Committee Stage.  I suggest it is the duty of everyone in this House to consider this as a big constitutional issue and not merely as a sort of matter of detail which can be dismissed with a smile. 
     
     
      
       I am accepting Deputy MacEntee's motion, that progress be reported. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 58; Nil, 70. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh.
 Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. 
             Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John.
 O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. 
             Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Boland and Allen; Nil, Deputies Duggan and Doyle. 
     Question declared negatived. 
     And it being 10.30 p.m. the Dail went out of Committee. 
     Progress was reported, and leave was asked to sit again. 
     Ordered: That the Committee sit again on Friday, 6th December, 1929. 
   
   
     Adjournment Debate. - Sporting Rights in Roscommon. 
     
      
       I asked the following question of the Minister for Lands and Fisheries yesterday afternoon: 
     
     Whether the sporting rights on the Sandford Estate, Castlerea, Co. Roscommon, have been recently let by the Land Commission to the senior officer of that Department in Co. Roscommon, and to an officer of the Department of Local Government and Public Health; if so, will he state the rent offered and accepted, whether any public advertisement that the lands were to be let was published, and, if not, what procedure was adopted to ensure that the letting was made to the best public advantage, and further, whether he is aware   that for the last eighteen years the shooting on this estate was free. 
     I got the following answer which really was not an answer to my question at all.  I asked about the Sandford Estate and the reply referred to the Wills Estate.  This was the reply: 
     &ldquo;The shooting over the untenanted land on the Ed. W.S. Wills Estate, Co. Roscommon, was leased by the Land Commission to Mr. C.F. Kelly for a period of 20 years from 1st April, 1924, at an annual rent of £1.&rdquo; 
     That is supposed to be an answer to the first part of my question; also to the part as to what rent was offered and accepted.  I got no answer whatever as to whether any public advertisements were issued. The answer goes on: 
     &ldquo;Mr. Kelly is the sole lessee of these rights.  Except for the seasons 1921 to 1923 the shooting over this estate had been let annually since the lands were acquired by the Congested Districts Board in 1914.&rdquo; 
     The Parliamentary Secretary, in reply to a supplementary question by me, said that the only shooting rights that were available were on this Sandford Estate, although in the written answer he said there were shooting rights on this other estate called the Wills Estate.  He said that if any mistake was made, it was made by me and not by himself.  I can quite understand the Parliamentary Secretary, not being in the constituency, getting mixed up in these two estates.  If a mistake were made it was made by him.  There is a very important principle involved in this matter.  The official in question is the person who reports everything in connection with land to headquarters in Dublin.  He was familiar with all the proceedings in connection with the acquisition of this estate and knew what price the Congested Districts Board paid for it.  The Parliamentary Secretary, in his reply, referred to a certain house he has acquired.  This gentleman   wrote to a higher officer in the Land Commission and put his own valuation on this particular house and property which he was bidding for himself and got it for a song.  He actually asked to have credited to the estate timber sold to the Congested Districts Board to the value of between £240 and £340; also another £100 worth of timber sold in the district. 
     
      
       The sporting rights is the only question before us. 
     
     
      
       The answer I got referred to the shooting rights on the Wills Estate, which were granted to Mr. Kelly at £1 a year for twenty years. 
     
     
      
       The question is purely a matter dealing with sporting rights on the Sandford Estate. 
     
     
      
       The reply I got deals with another estate.  I think I can deal with the written reply I got from the Parliamentary Secretary. The position is involved in this way that there are two neighbouring estates in Roscommon.  It is well-known that Mr. Kelly got the sporting rights as a result of a letter from a Land Commissioner. 
       I will quote that letter in which the sporting rights were granted for 1,250 acres at £1 per annum for twenty years.  The sporting rights in the estate which is mentioned in my question, or at least the sporting rights in the Sandford Estate were simply left in abeyance.  The landlord, when he sold out to the Land Commission, left the country, and since then&mdash;that is, for about eighteen years&mdash;the people of the Castlerea district have been shooting freely over those lands.  Last summer, about June or July, there was an order served on two people. They were picked out because they were supposed to be soft people, two ex-R.I.C. pensioners, and they were warned that they were trespassing on this Sandford Estate over which they had been shooting for years. They were told to get off the lands. 
     
     
        They were inclined to get off, but their neighbours advised them to stand fast.  They were brought to the court and an order was made restraining them from shooting on those lands for the future.  That is what actually happened.  I have not got any answer at all from the Parliamentary Secretary.  I intend to give him time to give me the answer I require. 
     I am glad the President has remained in the House.  This is a matter of the utmost public importance. It means that a Land Commissioner, that a high official of the Land Commission, the man on whom the full responsibility of the work of that body in the County Roscommon devolved, was actually able to get the sporting rights of 1,250 acres of land in that underhand manner, and without any advertisement being issued.  The position now is that he has also got the shooting rights over the Sandford estate.  I looked at the &ldquo;Dublin Gazette&rdquo; this afternoon to find out what the area of the Sandford estate was.  I find from the &ldquo;Gazette&rdquo; of the 25th July, 1911, that the record number 9,193 C.D.B. estate, Thomas George Wills-Sandford, comprises, according to the schedule published in that paper, 1,300 acres, and the other estate, the Wills estate, which Mr. Kelly also has, comprises, according to the same &ldquo;Gazette,&rdquo; 1,600 acres.  I understand that of these 1,600 acres the sporting rights of only 1,250 acres have been given to this gentleman. It amounts to this, that he has got the sporting rights of the whole countryside for one pound a year. 
     Now there were in the Castlerea district seventy-two gun licences of £2 each taken out by sporting men there.  That means £140 a year to the Revenue for gun licences alone in that district.  I have been informed by the people of the district that if there had been an advertisement issued about the sale of these sporting rights these people would certainly bid.  I do not know what they would pay.  I have been asking people who are sportsmen and they say that if these men were prepared   to pay £2 a year for a gun licence they would not object to pay £1 a year extra to have the right of shooting on this big estate.  That is to say that in that area £70 a year could be got for these shooting rights if there had been done in this matter what in all fairness should have been done and the result would be that the tenants who bought that land under the Purchase Act would be relieved to that amount.  The tenants would be relieved or else the money would go to the Treasury in some way.  That has not been done.  The result is that in all there is a loss of £210 per annum.  Why I say that is that if this thing is persisted in the people who have taken out gun licences, and who now have no places in which to shoot will in the future cease to take out these licences. Four people have dropped their licences this year and if this thing is allowed to stand probably several others of them will also drop taking out gun licences and all this because one man has been able to buy the sporting rights of the whole place for £1 per annum.  In all, the State is going to lose something about £140.  I suppose they will lose at least £120 a year and there would have been another £70 for the sporting rights.  The thing has become very serious.  This is principally bog land.  The people there take grazing for their cattle.  Since this injunction was got against these people I am informed&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       When were the summonses taken out? 
     
     
      
       In September this year.  I have not got the exact date. In the case of one tenant who had taken grazing on this estate for his cattle I am informed that his son was bringing home his cattle accompanied by a dog.  He was stopped by the gamekeeper and told that if he brought the dog into that land any more he would find himself in the court too.  It is quite possible that the Government and that the Parliamentary Secretary were not aware that this thing took place.  I   can quite understand that that was not impossible&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Parliamentary Secretary takes full responsibility. 
     
     
      
       What has happened is this: the Parliamentary Secretary and the Government are going to stand over the action of two public officials coming along and grabbing the shooting on two estates amounting to 3,000 acres, and driving off these estates people who have been shooting there for the last eighteen years.  It may be said that everybody had the right to bid for these sporting rights.  I admit that.  I say that the people who had been enjoying those rights for the last eighteen years should have a chance of bidding for the shooting, so that a great benefit to the estate might have been got.  Instead of that we have the underhand method of the official in charge of this very estate and other estates in the county grabbing the shooting rights for himself.  I am sorry that the time for raising this matter on the adjournment was cut short by the division that took place after 10.30. I might mention that there are 694 tenants, roughly 700 people, on the two estates.  They are affected one way or another.  If they bring a dog in to hunt cattle home they are liable to be stopped by a gamekeeper and told that they are trespassing. 
     
     
      
       I would like to join in the protest made by Deputy Boland against the principle of a Government Department acting in such a manner as the Land Commission have done in this instance.  It is not at all conducive to giving a sense of security or giving any kind of belief in the fairness of the Land Commission, that that body should in such circumstances give the shooting rights over certain property to its chief official in the County Roscommon and to a highly-placed official of the Local Government Department.  I would like the Parliamentary Secretary to indicate what rent was paid for these shooting   rights under the C.D. Board.  We would like to know if the rent in these days was greater than £1 per annum.  Will he state why the two officials who now have the shooting rights are not called upon to pay the same rent as was paid for the shooting rights heretofore? 
     
     
      
       The answer to Deputy Boland's question was drafted on the assumption that it referred to a letting of sporting rights made by the Land Commission to Mr. Kelly on the Sandford Wills estate.  It transpired, however, in the supplementary question asked by the Deputy that the rights to which he referred were on the Wills Sandford estate.  There are two estates, one belonging to a man named Sandford Wills and the other to a man named Wills Sandford.  The confusion arose obviously through the close similarity of the names.  It is quite obvious from the wording of the question that the estate to which the Deputy refers is the Wills Sandford estate.  The sporting rights on that estate were at no time the property of the Land Commission; therefore, no letting was or could have been made by them at any time.  The estate was sold under the 1903 Act. It was a direct sale between the owner and the tenants.  The tenants agreed that the sporting rights should be reserved to the owner and subsequently when the demesne lands were sold it was also agreed that the sporting rights should be reserved.  I have succeeded in getting this information after a most exhaustive search through the records of the Land Commission.  It appears however that the vendor never took any steps to preserve the game rights and he recently sold those rights to three gentlemen in Co. Roscommon, one of whom is Mr. Kelly. 
     
     
      
       Has the Parliamentary Secretary any information about the price? 
     
     
      
       I could not give the Deputy any information about that.   It is not a matter that would concern the Land Commission, and it is not a matter of which we would have any record.  The Land Commission was not interested in the matter in any way whatever. 
     
     
      
       Except that it was an official of the Land Commission who got the advantage. 
     
     
      
       If an official of the Land Commission has sporting instincts and chooses to purchase private sporting rights, there is no reason why he should not do so. 
     
     
      
       But the point is that he may have certain information in his possession that places him in a position of advantage over the rest of the community. 
     
     
      
       Not at all.  There are two other men apparently interested in these sporting rights as well as Mr. Kelly.  Whatever action was taken against the people in Castlerea in connection with the sporting rights on a particular game reserve, which is rented at the present time by Mr. Kelly and others, was taken at the instance of these men, and the Land Commission has nothing whatsoever to do with this.  The transaction that took place was one between the vendor of the sporting rights and the three individuals concerned.  In connection with the question of sporting rights generally, during the last few years these sporting lettings are advertised as a rule in four or five papers.  They are advertised in two of the Dublin daily papers and, as well, are advertised in the &ldquo;Irish Field,&rdquo; the &ldquo;Irish Statesman&rdquo; and the &ldquo;English Field.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       These particular rights? 
     
     
      
       All sporting rights that belong to the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       The question under discussion is concerned   with the Sandford estate only. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy raised the question of sporting rights, and I was dealing with them.  I have given an answer to the Deputy's question. There is another estate to which the Deputy referred on which Mr. Kelly has sporting rights, too.  These were leased to him in 1924.  They were sporting rights which he enjoyed from 1915 under the regime of the Congested Districts Board, and he has enjoyed them continuously since. They were absolutely valueless at the time that Mr. Kelly took them over, and they were leased to him at a rental of £1 per year. 
     
     
      
       By the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary explain how the Land Commission came to write a letter to Mr. Kelly offering him the sporting rights of the estate at £1 annually if they had no interest in the transaction? 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission did not write Mr. Kelly any letter. 
     
     
      
       About the other estate. 
     
     
      
       They did not write him any letter. 
     
     
      
       The other estate does not arise now.  The House stands adjourned until tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. 
     
     
      
       There are five minutes more to spare, and I would like to raise other matters. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid it is too late now to do so. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.55 p.m. until Friday, 6th December, at 10.30 a.m. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Repayment of Dail Loan. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state when it is proposed to pay Mr. Matthew Doran, formerly of Coolalough, Hospital, County Limerick, now resident at 26 Doyne Avenue, Rusholme, Manchester, England, who subscribed £10 to Dail Eireann Internal Loan (1919-1920), Reg. No. 97536. 
     
     
      
       Authority to issue a Savings Certificate to Mr. Matthew Doran, of 26 Doyne Avenue, Rusholme, Manchester (formerly of Coolalough, Hospital, Co. Limerick), in respect of a subscription of £10 by him to the Dail Eireann Internal Loan, 1919-20, was given to the Accountant, Department of Posts and Telegraphs, on the 19th June, 1928.  I understand that the amount of the Certificate was paid to Mr. Doran on the 4th ultimo. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Land Improvement Schemes. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state the total amount expended by the Land Commission on improvement schemes, etc., in each county during the present financial year. 
     
     
      
       The expenditure by Land Commission on improvement of estates, etc., under the Land Purchase Acts during period 1st April,   1929, to 31st October, 1929, is as follows:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             County. 
             Amount. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
           
             Carlow 
             738 
           
           
             Cavan 
             530 
           
           
             Clare 
             4,198 
           
           
             Cork 
             2,329 
           
           
             Donegal 
             5,072 
           
           
             Dublin 
             289 
           
           
             Galway 
             21,275 
           
           
             Kerry 
             5,915 
           
           
             Kildare 
             3,595 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             92 
           
           
             Leitrim 
             1,787 
           
           
             Leix 
             3,989 
           
           
             Limerick 
             2,092 
           
           
             Longford 
             2,570 
           
           
             Louth 
             485 
           
           
             Mayo 
             13,779 
           
           
             Meath 
             4,587 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             551 
           
           
             Offaly 
             9,048 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             12,591 
           
           
             Sligo 
             4,143 
           
           
             Tipperary 
             4,792 
           
           
             Waterford 
             499 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             4,179 
           
           
             Wexford 
             1,776 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             618 
           
           
             Purchase of Tenants' Interest, etc. 
             10,961 
           
           
             Total 
             122,480 
           
           
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Repair of Bridge (Co. Donegal). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether, in view of the apprehended danger to a number of school children attending the Meenderry National School, the Land Commission is now prepared to reconsider its refusal to undertake the repair of the wooden bridge over the Tulloghobegley River, in the townland of Oldtown, Falearragh, County Donegal. 
     
     
      
       The bridge referred to is not the only means of access to the school.  The way by the county road is only about three-quarter mile longer and the Land Commission cannot see their way to incur expenditure on the reconstruction of this bridge particularly in view of the fact that, according   to the information they have, it only accommodates about six children. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Donegal Road Works. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission have received reports from their inspector in County Donegal on the proposed accommodation road, in the townland of Barnes Lower (Leitrim Estate), on the making of a bog road on the eastern side of Tullagh, Carrigart (Leitrim Estate), and on the extension of the incompleted road in the neighbourhood of Cashelnagore railway station (Kennedy Estate); and what steps it is intended to take in respect of each. 
     
     
      
       I have not been able to obtain the information in the time available.  A communication will be addressed to the Deputy at an early date. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Unemployment Insurance Benefits. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the total amount paid by way of unemployment insurance benefits in each county during the present financial year. 
     
     
      
       The total amount paid by way of unemployment insurance benefit in each county during the present financial year is as follows:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             County. 
             Amount. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
           
             Carlow 
             5,410 
           
           
             Cavan 
             1,995 
           
           
             Clare 
             2,444 
           
           
             Cork 
             32,127 
           
           
             Donegal 
             4,603 
           
           
             Dublin 
             97,935 
           
           
             Galway 
             5,821 
           
           
             Kerry 
             6,481 
           
           
             Kildare 
             4,669 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             6,112 
           
           
             Leitrim 
             279 
           
           
             Leix 
             2,847 
           
           
             Limerick 
             19,957 
           
           
             Longford 
             975 
           
           
             Louth 
             10,089 
           
           
             Mayo 
             3,342 
           
           
             
               Meath 
             2,799 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             1,908 
           
           
             Offaly 
             4,610 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             438 
           
           
             Sligo 
             3,710 
           
           
             Tipperary 
             9,257 
           
           
             Waterford 
             7,742 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             4,576 
           
           
             Wexford 
             10,236 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             5,459 
           
         
       
     
     It must be understood that these figures represent the amounts paid at the local offices of the Unemployment Fund situated in the respective counties, but not necessarily paid to residents in these counties since numerous offices are situated at or near the border of other counties. 
     In addition, a sum of £6,703 was paid through associations under Section 17 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, but it is not possible to allocate this by counties. 
   
 