 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - British Coinage. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if the British Government has agreed to take back at their face value the British silver coins at present in circulation in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The British Government has agreed to take back at their face value over a period slightly in excess of 10 years British silver coins at present in circulation in the Saorstat to the extent of £750,000, which is the total face value of the new Saorstat coins delivered or on order. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if there is any foundation for the statements which have been made that the British authorities refused to take back at its face value the British silver and copper coinage in circulation in Saorstat Eireann, and, if so, what is the ground of such refusal, is it still persisted in, and, if not, how has the difficulty been adjusted. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the reply given to the question put by Deputy Seamus Murphy. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tariff on Paper. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is yet in a position to state the date upon which the Tariff Commission will resume the hearing of the application for a tariff on paper. 
     
     
     
      
       I regret that I am not in a position to state when the hearing of this application will be resumed. The present members of the Commission were re-appointed in December last for the purpose of disposing of those applications in connection with which all the evidence had already been given.  When progress has been made with the reports on these applications arrangements will be made for disposing of the remaining applications, including that relating to packing and wrapping paper. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand from the Minister's reply there is some possibility that the present members of the Tariff Commission may not stay on until the hearing of this application has been completed? 
     
     
      
       I have not been really able to arrive at any conclusion whether or not this application will be disposed of before there is any change in the membership of the Tariff Commission.  I hope to be able to reach a final conclusion on that within a few days. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Irish Lights Service Pensions. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has yet arrived at a decision in connection with the adjustment of bonus on pensions of exemployees of the Irish Lights Service. 
     
     
      
       I have not yet reached a decision on this matter.  I hope to be able to arrive at one shortly. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Position of Transferred D.M.P. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if, in view of the agreement under Article X. of the Treaty, he will state the present position of the transferred officers of the Dublin Metropolitan Police who joined prior to 1921, and if claims for the refund of the amounts of their salaries deducted by way of reduction will be entertained, and further, whether those who elect to remain in the force will be paid on present rates. 
     
     
     
      
       The position of the transferred members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police is not affected by the agreement mentioned in the Deputy's question except that any question relating to compensation under Article X. of the Treaty that may be raised by any such transferred member will fall to be determined by the proposed statutory tribunal. 
       Claims of the nature referred to by the Deputy will not be entertained. 
       The pay of serving members of the Dublin Metropolitan Division of the Garda Siochana will be in accordance with the rates, scales and conditions laid down in the Garda Siochana Pay Order, 1927, so long as that Order remains in force. 
     
     
      
       In the event of a transferred officer at present serving in the Garda desiring to retire under Article X. before the day given, would he then have a claim for a refund of the reduction in his salary? 
     
     
      
       No.  The period for retirement has passed for members of the Garda Siochana. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Salaries of Transferred Civil Servants. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will give (a) a return of Civil Servants whose basic salary, at the time their services were taken over by the Saorstat, was £600 per annum and over; (b) their present salaries, and (c) their stations previous to appointments under the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       Information under the headings stated in the Deputy's question is not found necessary for official purposes and no return in the form indicated is available.  Inquiries necessary to ascertain the details and the compilation of the information, when obtained, would involve a good deal of time and labour, and changes in the service would soon render the return obsolete. Unless, therefore, there were   urgent reasons necessitating this return, I do not think it should be undertaken. 
     
     
      
       Am I to take it from the Minister's reply that there would be a great number of such civil servants? 
     
     
      
       I do not know. 
     
     
      
       The Minister's statement is that this would involve a large amount of work, and I take it that would imply that there would be a great number of such officers in the service? 
     
     
      
       The inquiry would involve a good deal of labour. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Drainage of River Robe. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state what stage has been reached in regard to the proposals for the drainage of the River Robe, Co. Mayo, and whether he is now in a position to state when the work will be commenced. 
     
     
      
       Petitions under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, were received by the Commissioners of Public Works from the Mayo County Council in respect of the main river Robe from Crossboyne upstream and of several tributaries.  As a result of preliminary investigation it was considered desirable that the area in the existing Lough Mask and River Robe drainage district should be included in one combined scheme with the proposals already received.  The Mayo County Council were informed on the 22nd November, 1928, that if the existing drainage district was to be included it would be necessary for petitions to be lodged both with that County Council and the Galway County Council.  To date the petitions and accompanying documents as required by the Act have not been received by the Commissioners of Public Works.  At present an engineer is in County Mayo making a survey of the areas in respect of which petitions have already been   received.  In the circumstances it is not possible to state whether or when work will be commenced in the district. 
     
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary say if the necessary petition was received from the Mayo County Council; that is, the petition to which he refers in the latter portion of the reply? 
     
     
      
       Not the second petition; and no petition at all was received from the Galway County Council.  There are only about 100 acres involved in Galway, and it would be a good thing if some Deputy down there set the thing going by asking the riparian owners involved to send in a petition, as such a petition is required before the work can be started. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand from the Parliamentary Secretary that the second petition has not been lodged by the Mayo County Council? 
     
     
      
       It has not come to us at all events. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Supreme Court Judgments. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he will give a list of all Supreme Court judgments that have been reserved for three months or longer, and the date the hearing was concluded in each case. 
     
     
      
       The following is a list of the cases in which judgment has been reserved by the Supreme Court for a period of three months and upwards and has not yet been delivered. There are three such cases: 1, the case of Gaussen v. Ellis, of which the hearing was concluded on the 13th February, 1928.  2, the case of Devoy v. Hanlon, of which the hearing was concluded on the 1st March, 1928; and, 3, the case of Rattigan v. Regan, of which the hearing was concluded on the 22nd October, 1928. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister give any indication as to when judgment will be delivered? 
     
     
     
      
       Of course, that is a matter solely within the discretion of the Court, but I should say that these two cases of Devoy and Hanlon&mdash;that is the second case &mdash;and Rattigan v. Regan, and the other case, all hang together.  Devoy and Hanlon raised a very important question under the Local Registration of Title Act.  Two other questions also came up for decision, and the Court held over judgment in Devoy and Hanlon until Rattigan and Regan and the third case could be argued.  The third case has been argued, and I understand judgment in the whole three cases will very shortly be delivered. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Affiliation Orders. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether, in view of the findings set out in paragraphs 256, 257 and 258 of the Report of the Commission on the Relief of the Sick and Destitute Poor on the making of affiliation orders and such matters, it is intended to introduce proposals for legislation in connection therewith. 
     
     
      
       An Illegitimate Children (Affiliation Orders) Bill has been drafted, and is at present receiving final consideration. I hope to be in a position to introduce it shortly. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - A Prisoner's Razor. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that a razor, the property of Cornelius Healy, Ballymorisheen, Grenagh, Co. Cork, which was retained by the authorities when he was sentenced to five years' penal servitude, was not returned to the prisoner's sister when she applied for it; if he will state the reason for the retention of the razor, and whether, in view of the fact that this razor is a souvenir, steps will be taken to have it given over to the prisoner's sister. 
     
     
      
       Instructions are being issued to have the razor referred to handed over to the prisoner's sister, if the prisoner agrees to this being done. 
     
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this application was handed to the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana at Blarney, and the reply received from the Superintendent was that as this razor was an exhibit it was forfeited by the Judge in the Central Criminal Court who tried the case, and will he tell us since when has a razor been considered an illegal weapon? 
     
     
      
       Is it a safety razor? 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly unaware of the matter which the Deputy alleges.  The Deputy might also inform us why this is a valuable souvenir. 
     
     
      
       Sharp practice. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Garda Searches at Glanworth. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that the Garda searched the house of Mr. Kelly, an ex-stationmaster, at Glanworth, Co. Cork, and also the store of Messrs. Suttons, Ltd., at Glanworth Railway Station (which is managed by the wife of Mr. Kelly and their son), on 1st November, 1928, in respect of meal stated to have been stolen from the station, and that no other house in the district was visited; that Mrs. Kelly suffered seriously from shock as a result of the search; whether in view of the satisfactory services rendered by Mr. and Mrs. Kelly during their long periods of service in their respective positions, and in view of the slur on their characters as a result of the searches, he will state the reasons or the grounds of suspicion for these searches. 
     
     
      
       Following the larceny of a quantity of meal from Glanworth Railway Station in October last, the Garda Siochana obtained search warrants authorising them to search the residence of Mr. Daniel Kelly, ex-stationmaster, and also the store of Messrs.  Suttons, Ltd., at Glanworth Railway Station. The searches were carried out without causing any avoidable inconvenience to those concerned.  The members of the Garda Siochana acted in the interests of justice, and   I am of opinion that they did not exceed their duties in any way.  It is not the practice to disclose the information upon which the police act in cases such as this. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the Guards of this district seem to have nothing whatsoever to do beyond trying to cause disturbance, will the Minister have the Guards removed from the village? 
     
     
      
       I daresay there are certain persons who would like the Garda removed; but the Deputy's own question shows there was a larceny committed that the Garda were investigating, and very properly investigating. 
     
     
      
       And their investigation was anything but just and it was not carried out in the interests of justice. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the putting down of the question on the Order Paper has caused a good deal of unnecessary pain to this respectable family? There is a great deal of respect, and deservedly so, for the family in that particular district, and I understand that they are considerably pained by having reference made to this matter in the House. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must not make a speech about it now. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - D.M.P. Transfers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will state (a) the numbers and ranks of members of the Garda Siochana who are transferred officers of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, having joined prior to 1921; (b) how many of these members of the Garda Siochana applied to be permitted to retire but whose resignations were not accepted, and (c) the total number of Garda Siochana of all ranks ordinarily stationed in the old Dublin Metropolitan Police area. 
     
     
      
       
       
     
     (a)  There are at present serving in the Garda Siochana 321   transferred members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police who joined that force prior to 1921, and who became members of the Garda Siochana by virtue of the Police Forces Amalgamation Act, 1925.  Their ranks are as follow&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1 
             Chief Superintendent. 
           
         
         
           
             5 
             Superintendents. 
           
           
             21 
             Inspectors. 
           
           
             40 
             Station-Sergeants. 
           
           
             111 
             Sergeants. 
           
           
             143 
             Guards. 
           
         
       
     
     (b)  Twenty-four of those members applied to retire with compensation under Article X. of the Treaty, but their applications were refused.  Their ranks are as follow:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1 
             Inspector. 
           
         
         
           
             5 
             Station-Sergeants. 
           
           
             6 
             Sergeants. 
           
           
             12 
             Guards. 
           
         
       
     
     (c)  There are at present in the Dublin Metropolitan Division:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             2 
             Chief Superintendents. 
           
         
         
           
             7 
             Superintendents. 
           
           
             23 
             Inspectors. 
           
           
             42 
             Station-Sergeants. 
           
           
             143 
             Sergeants. 
           
           
             989 
             Guards. 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       Is the Minister in a position to state if the members of the Garda who applied for permission to retire will be now permitted to retire? 
     
     
      
       That is a perfectly separate question from the question on the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state why these men were refused permission to retire? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy puts down a question relative to any particular case, I will have the greatest pleasure in answering him. 
     
     
      
       The Minister stated there were twenty-four men who applied for permission to retire and were refused.  Could the Minister not take all those cases and give the reason why they were refused? 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy should put down a separate question on the matter. 
     
     
      
       Absolutely. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Attestation of Garda. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether transferred officers of the Dublin Metropolitan Police who joined prior to 1921, and who on joining took the oath then prescribed, were required to take the oath prescribed in the Garda Siochana Act, 1924; and, if not, whether he will state their present position, and whether under such circumstances they are recognised as regular members of the Garda Siochana. 
     
     
      
       Members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police who became members of the Garda Siochana by virtue of the provisions of the Police Forces Amalgamation Act, 1925, were not required to reattest on amalgamation.  I would refer the Deputy to the provisions of the Act. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Game Protection. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he can give an approximate date for the introduction of the Game Protection Amending Bill. 
     
     
      
       A draft Game Preservation Bill has been prepared, but there are some points of detail yet to be settled, and I am in consultation with persons interested in the subject with a view to reaching a decision.  I hope to be soon in a position to bring the Bill in a finished State before the Executive Council for final consideration, and the Bill will then be introduced. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware there is an urgent necessity for this Bill in view of the fact that game is rapidly becoming extinct in the Free State? 
     
     
      
       I agree with the Deputy that a Bill of this nature is requisite, and I am almost certain that the Bill will be law before the next shooting season begins. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Grants for Continuation Classes. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he will state, for the school years 1925-26, 1926-27, 1927-28, what was the amount of the grants for Continuation Classes (night schools), how many such centres there were, what was the total annual attendance, and what subjects were taught. 
     
     
      
       The number of centres at which evening schools were held and the grants paid, for each of the years referred to, were as follows: 
       1925-26, 34 centres, £8,883 15s. 10d. grants. 
       1926-27, 37 centres, £8,780 12s. grants. 
       1927-28, 36 centres, £7,925 7s. 6d. grants. 
       The subjects of instruction included Shorthand, Typewriting, English, Arithmetic, Needlework, Irish, Bookkeeping, Geography, Cookery, History, Drill and Physical Culture, Mathematics, Hygiene, Singing, Health and Habits, Laundry, Drawing and Woodwork. 
       As the session of these evening schools is not an annual one, but varies in duration from six months to six weeks, it is not possible to state the total annual attendance thereat.  That is, the annual attendance. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he will state why the grants to continuation schools in the City of Dublin have been withdrawn; whether provision has been made, or will be made, for these pupils in these schools whose standard of primary education is low and who are anxious to improve it in order to better qualify for employment, and for others who are already in employment but are anxious to improve their education in order to qualify for employment of a more remunerative nature; further, if he will state the number of teachers who will be thrown out of employment by the withdrawal of these grants, and whether he can hold out any hope of employment for such of these as are fully qualified. 
     
     
     
      
       I assume the Deputy's question refers to the decision to discontinue the payments which have hitherto been made under sub-head C. 7 of the Vote for Primary Education to the conductors of evening schools in large urban centres.  Only a comparatively small proportion of these schools could be properly described as continuation schools or be regarded as serving the purpose indicated in the question. 
       Much of the time of the best attended of these schools was devoted not to general education, but to specialised instruction in such subjects as shorthand, book-keeping, typewriting, etc., and upwards of two-thirds of the expenditure was incurred in connection with these semi-commercial schools.  Having considered the purposes served by these evening schools, the standard of efficiency reached, and the provision elsewhere of educational facilities of a similar character, I felt that in existing circumstances the continued expenditure involved could not be justified.  Among the other facilities available for the normal student affected, I may mention the introductory and special courses at Technical Schools, and the tuition available at proprietary schools and colleges for students preparing for public examinations and business appointments. 
       I hope to be in a position to introduce in the Dail during the coming summer a Bill based on the recommendations of the Commission on Technical Education, as a result of which it will be possible to establish a proper system of continuation education such as the Deputy appears to contemplate. 
     
     My Department has no information as to how many of the teachers employed at these evening schools are solely dependent on this employment. The total number of teachers employed during the current year is 95; sixteen of these are also engaged as recognised teachers in National Schools.  I have no definite information as to the qualifications of the remaining teachers for other educational work.  Those of them, however, who possess the recognised teaching qualifications should have   little difficulty in procuring suitable employment; but as teachers are appointed by the managers in the case of primary and secondary schools, and by the local committees in the case of technical schools, I am not in a position to give any promise or undertaking to find employment for these or any other teachers. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Education Report Forms. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether the official forms on which the annual reports for Primary education are based have yet been sent out for the school year which began on July 1st, 1928, and, if not, whether he will state what is the cause of the delay, and when the necessary forms will be circulated. 
     
     
      
       Presumably the Deputy refers to the forms on which inspectors furnish their reports on the schools inspected by them.  New forms for this purpose were considered desirable in view of the recommendations of the Committee on Inspection.  These forms have now been issued to the inspectors. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Technical Instruction Grants (Wicklow). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he will state the grounds for his refusal to pay over to Co. Wicklow Joint Technical Instruction Committee grants earned by that body under an approved scheme during the scholastic year which ended in July, 1928. 
     
     
      
       The Committee referred to has refused to comply with its statutory obligations under sub-section (4) of Section 6 of the Local Authorities (Officers and Employees) Act, 1926.  Pending such compliance the Committee's scheme for the current year has not yet received official approval, and it is not possible to make any payment of State funds to a body not possessing the necessary authority for the legal expenditure of such funds. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the grants were earned   on a scheme which had been approved in 1927-28 and that the only letter the Committee received was one on the 29th January notifying that the scheme had not been approved? 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the latter part of the supplementary question.  I am not aware that the grants had been earned previously. If the Deputy means that the grants had been calculated on the attendance during the previous year that is another matter, but that they had been earned in the previous year is a different question, and I am not willing to fall in with the Deputy's views on the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Adrigole Schools (Cork). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether, in view of the urgency of the case, he will state when it is proposed to commence the reconstruction of the existing building, or the erection of new schools at Adrigole, Co Cork. 
     
     
      
       I am not yet in a position to state when it may be possible to commence the work of providing suitable accommodation for the children attending the Adrigole schools. 
       My Department is in communication with the managers with regard to proposals for a scheme of building and reconstruction, and, also with reference to the necessary extension of the existing lease of the school plot.  If the managers are agreeable to the proposals and the necessary extension of the lease can be secured the provision of suitable accommodation in this case will be expedited, so far as my Department is concerned. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Mining Leases. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he has power to grant leases of (a) land for the purposes of mining, and (b) mines that had once been worked, but which are now closed down; and, if not, whether   he will introduce proposals for legislation vesting him with the necessary powers to enable him to grant such leases. 
     
     
      
       I have no such power, pending legislation in pursuance of Article XI. of the Constitution, which is being prepared for introduction. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Slieve Ardagh Coal Mines. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state whether his Department have been in communication with Messrs. Smith and Co., London regarding the re-opening of the Slieve Ardagh coal mines, Co. Tipperary, and whether he can make any statement on the matter. 
     
     
      
       My Department has not had any recent correspondence on the subject of the re-opening of the Slieve Ardagh coal mines, Co. Tipperary, and no proposal for their re-opening is at present before it.  It is now some years since the last communication was received from a Mr. Smith, of London, who, with others, was in touch with my Department on the subject. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dismissed Employees of G.S. Railways Company. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that a considerable number of employees have recently been dismissed from the service of the Great Southern Railways Company; that such dismissals include a number of shopmen who have rendered good service at the Inchicore and other works; that many of these men will find it difficult to find other employment because of their ages; that many of them have not received any pension or compensation for the loss of their employment, and whether he will make representations to the railway company with a view to the granting of pensions, or the making of ex-gratia grants to these men. 
     
     
     
      
       I understand that the Great Southern Railways Company have found it necessary to terminate the employment of a number of shopmen because their services were not required.  There is no fund out of which pensions or grants are normally payable to shopmen, who are not usually parties to any railway superannuation scheme, but I am informed that in the present case the company intends to grant pensions to men who have had 25 or more years' service. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary ask the Deputy whether he is now prepared to repudiate the opinion which he expressed by his vote in this House on the 22nd October last? 
     
     
      
       And why he voted against the railway employees? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Waterford as Flying Base. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether any proposals are being considered by his Department with a view to the utilisation of Waterford Port and surrounding area as a seaplane or aeroplane base, and whether he has received any reports as to the suitability of the harbour and district for such a purpose. 
     
     
      
       No representations have been made to me on this matter, which there has so far been no occasion to consider. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Military Service Pensions. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether Denis Murphy, of Caherciveen, Co. Kerry, and Stephen P. O'Leary, Shandrum, Kilgarvan, Co. Kerry, are in receipt of pensions under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924; and if so, whether he will state the amount of the yearly pension of each. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. 
     
     
        The yearly pension which is being paid to Denis Murphy is £23 0s. 7d., and to Stephen P. O'Leary £23 9s. 4d. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether several applications have been received for pensions under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, and the Army Pensions Act, 1927, after the prescribed date for the final receipt of applications; whether consideration of same has been refused because they were received too late, and whether he will take steps to extend the period so as to allow of such applications being considered. 
     
     
      
       A number of applications under the Acts referred to were received after the statutory dates fixed for the receipt of such applications&mdash;31st December, 1925, in the case of the 1924 Act, i.e., 16 months after the passing of the Act; and 30th April, 1928, in the case of the 1927 Act, i.e., 12 months after the passing of the Act.  I regret I am not now able to take steps to have these applications considered. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Town Tenants Commission. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether it is intended to introduce during the present session proposals for legislation implementing the recommendations contained in the Interim Report of the Town Tenants Commission on the Working of the Small Dwellings Acquisition Act, 1899. 
     
     
      
       It is not anticipated that such legislation will be introduced during the present session. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the Town Tenants Commission looked upon this as a matter of such importance that they made an interim report before they proceeded to deal with the main question of the relations between landlord and tenant, and, in view of that fact, will the Minister take steps to bring in legislation to give effect to the report of the Commission? 
     
     
     
      
       A decision on the interim report must be come to in the light of a certain number of other matters in respect of which full and satisfactory information is not at the present moment available. The matters upon which a decision like this should be contingent are important, and I am not able to promise the Deputy that a decision is likely to be taken on the report during the present session. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Kinsale Workhouse. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he has received an application from the Cork County Council for sanction to the raising of a loan for the reconstruction of the old workhouse buildings at Kinsale into a suitable hospital, and whether in view of the urgency of the matter he will give the necessary sanction without further delay. 
     
     
      
       The proposed works have been approved, and there is no objection to the Board accepting tenders.  As regards the issue of a loan the matter is under consideration in conjunction with the Department of Finance with a view to an advance of the amount from the Local Loans Fund. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Housing Acts. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether all the moneys provided under the Housing Acts, 1925 and 1928, have been allocated, and, if so, whether any more moneys will be made available for grants to individuals who are now building houses and individuals who intend to build this year. 
     
     
      
       All the moneys have been allotted.  The cases of private individuals who may now be building houses of the type which would be entitled to get grants under the 1925-28 Acts but who have not started building in time to be allotted a grant under the 1928 Act will be considered when further housing proposals are being put before the Oireachtas. 
     
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say when the proposals will be laid before the Oireachtas? 
     
     
      
       I hope it will be possible soon to put them before the Oireachtas. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that as far back as the 5th July last the Minister for Finance said that he hoped the Housing Bill, which is now referred to, would be introduced last Autumn? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that building operations have been started in many cases on promises received from his Department that grants would be available and that these grants are now being with-held? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that there is anybody in the position with regard to the building of a particular house at present that he can feel that he has been misled in any way by any statement made with regard to the matter, either by any member of the Executive Council or by the Department. 
     
     
      
       If such evidence is produced, will the Minister reconsider the whole matter? 
     
     
      
       Any house that has been begun since, say, June last has been begun in the light of very definite statements that houses begun after a certain period would not be eligible for the grants that were made available under the 1926 Act.  In respect of the 1928 Act, before that Act was ever passed, and during the passing of it, there were very explicit statements made as to the amount of money that would be available under the Act, and as to the time inside which a house should be begun in order to be entitled to a grant under the Act. There are houses that perhaps can be regarded as having been begun before 1st April next, but the amount of money provided by the Oireachtas under the 1928 Act was provided on very definite statements and for a very definite amount. 
     
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister if he is now satisfied that the Executive Council did not provide a sufficient amount of money to make effective the Act of 1928? 
     
     
      
       I do not know what the Deputy means by &ldquo;making it effective.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Is it not stated in the 1928 Act that any person who may have begun to build a house before the 1st April next would be entitled to a grant, and that the Act from this onwards will be inoperative because the Executive Council did not provide enough money to give effect to it? 
     
     
      
       The Act was passed for the purpose of clearing up commitments arising out of the 1926 Act, and for no other purpose. 
     
     
      
       Why was it extended to a later date, then? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that quite a number of certificates were issued and lodged by the appointed officer in reference to housing schemes, and that owing to the shortage of funds it has been impossible for the Government to do their part and to issue the necessary grants in connection with those building schemes? 
     
     
      
       I am aware that probably there are cases in which provisional certificates were issued by the locally-appointed officers, but there is no case, and there can be no case, in which the Department accepted responsibility in connection with houses for which persons are now being refused grants. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister give an intimation as to when precisely he intends to introduce legislation making provision for the erection of agricultural workers' cottages in rural areas? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister answer the supplementary question I put, namely, if sufficient evidence   is produced to his Department that building operations were begun after notification of such building was supplied to his Department, and that the application for the necessary grant was refused, will he now bring in the necessary supplementary estimate to make such amounts available? 
     
     
      
       I have no power under the Act to do so. 
     
     
      
       What about the promises of Deputy Rice? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Feilm do Roinnt. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh ce an fath nar deineadh feilm Ath Tiomain i gCo.  na Gaillimhe, do roinnt&mdash;si sin an fheilm gur socruigheadh cuis dlige ina taoibh raithe o shoin&mdash;agus cathoin a roinnfar i. 
     
     
      
       Is tuigthe do Choimisiun n-a Talmhan go ndeanfar an gnathiarratas a heilitear fe Rialacha Choimisiun na Talmhan do loisteail a iarraidh ortha deighleail leis na tailte seo fe alt 42 den Acht Talmhan, 1927.  Is tuigthe dhoibh fos nach feidir an t-iarratas so do dheanamh go dti go ndeanfar Ordu o Bhreitheamh an tSeansaileara, a rinneadh Mi na Nodlag so caithte, do thabhairt amach agus do choliona. 
       Nuair a gheobhfar an t-iarratas deighlealfar leis cho tapaidh agus is feidir e.  Fe lathair nil aon leas in aon chor ag Coimisiun na Talmhan sna tailte agus nil aon udaras aca ina dtaobh. 
     
     
      
       Ag eirigh as an bhfreagra a fuaireas o'n Runaidhe Pairliminte, an ndearfaidh se a bhfuil aon bhunudhas leis an rafla ata ag dul thart i gContae na Gaillimhe nach roinnfear an fheilm seo go dti Mi na Samhna ata romhainn. 
     
     
      
       Ceist eile isea i sin. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tailte Chluain Churraigh. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh an bhfeadfadh se a radh an bhfuil tailte   uile Chluain Churraigh i gCondae Chill Dara roinnte; agus, ma ta, an ndearfadh se cia hiad na daoine a fuair gabhaltaisi agus cad e an meid acra a fuair gach duine acu. 
     
     
      
       Do thog Coimisiun na Talmhan 2,671 acra den Estat so agus taid tar eis 2,130 acra dhe sin do roinnt ar 34 dhuine.  Ina theanta san, tathar tar eis socruithe do dheanamh chun 221 acra do roinnt ar cheathrar. 
       Toise an meid oibre ata le deanamh ag an bhFuirinn i gCoimisiun na Talmhan cheana, nilim chun a iarraidh ortha an cuntas a theastuionn on Teachta do chur le cheile. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Distress in West Cork. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether, in view of the acute distress prevailing in the Adrigole district of West Cork, it is now proposed to proceed with the construction of the Kerry Pass Road passing through the Lansdowne and Leigh-White estates, thereby relieving the unemployment locally and materially assisting the development of tourist traffic on the Beara Peninsula. 
     
     
      
       I cannot add anything to the reply I gave the Deputy in this matter on 29th February last. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware of the grave distress prevailing in this area, and is he not aware that the construction of this road would be not alone an economic proposition, but would be far better than the small bog roads that he is doling out in some parts of this area at present.  In view of this, would he not reconsider the matter, and give instructions to the Land Commission to proceed with this road? 
     
     
      
       The works that the Land Commission have undertaken in the area are in connection with some estates acquired under the 1923 Acts.  They are necessary works.  This is not work which the Land Commission in any event could undertake.  Even assuming that this road were made, it has no agricultural   value whatever, although it may have certain advantages from the tourist development point of view; that is not a matter with which the Land Commission can deal. 
     
     
      
       Is the question of distress in that area where the Land Commission have acquired estates not a matter for consideration? 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission has already spent a substantial sum in carrying out estate works in that area. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that in the particular part of the parish where this road is proposed to be constructed there is very little work in operation, and that this work, if undertaken, would give a chance of employment to a large number of men, and would he therefore consider the advisability of getting this work done? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Mar gheall ar an bhfreagra a fuaireas togfaidh me an ceist seo ar an athlo. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Maxwell and Berry Estates (Co. Cavan). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state when the Farnham, Maxwell and Berry Estates, all of County Cavan, will be vested. 
     
     
      
       The position as regards the following estates in County Cavan for which proceedings are pending under the Land Act, 1923, is as follows:&mdash; 
       Estate of Lord Farnham (S.3286), comprising some 960 holdings.  The estate has been surveyed and the queries arising thereon, together with queries on other matters, are at present engaging the attention of the Commissioners, and when these have been cleared up the publication of the Provisional List will be proceeded with. 
     
     Estates of A. Symons and another, Reps. John Maxwell (S.2994), comprising   11 holdings, situate in the townlands of Drumcon and Corcraff (Cootehill); Captain R.S.S. Maxwell, comprising 131 holdings, situate in Ballyhanna and other townlands; James Berry and another, comprising 19 holdings, situate in townlands of Aughnakelly and Legavegra (Swanlinbar); Francis Finlay Berry, comprising 12 holdings, situate in townland of Mullaghmore (Belturbet).  These estates have not yet been reached in the order of priority under the Act, but when reached they will be dealt with as rapidly as possible. 
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary say when they will be reached? 
     
     
      
       I could not. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware of the slump in agriculture and the consequent inability of the tenants to pay their rents, and in view of that will he do what he can to expedite the matter? 
     
     
      
       We are expediting the work of vesting as far as possible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - The Lansdowne Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state if it is the intention of the Land Commission to vest the Lansdowne Estate in South Kerry in the near future, and, if possible, if he can give any definite time within which this estate will be vested. 
     
     
      
       The prescribed schedules, etc., for dealing with this Estate under the Land Act, 1923, have been lodged, but the Land Commission are not yet in a position to state when the Estate may be reached in its order of priority to be dealt with under the Act, but when reached it will be dealt with as expeditiously as possible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Co. Mayo Estates. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he can state when their holdings will be   vested in the tenants on the Palmer Estate, Co. Mayo, which estate was purchased by the Congested Districts Board as far back as 1910 or 1911. 
     
     
      
       This Estate which is situate in over 200 Townlands was vested in the (late) Congested Districts Board on 29th March, 1923, and the necessary steps towards the resale of the holdings could not be carried out before that date. 
       The resale of the holdings is being dealt with as expeditiously as possible. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he can state when the holdings on the Knox-Rappa Castle Estate, Co. Mayo, will be vested in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       It is presumed the Deputy refers to the untenanted lands of Rappacastle, and other lands on the estate of Violet Knox, County Mayo, which have been acquired by the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923, and allotted to persons under Lettings for Temporary Convenience. 
       I am not at present in a position to say when the holdings will be vested in purchasers. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he can state the date on which the holdings on the Arran Estate, Co. Mayo, will be vested in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       It is assumed that the Deputy is referring to the Earl of Arran Estate, which was purchased by the (late) Congested Districts Board.  The majority of the tenants on this estate have signed Purchase Agreements for their holdings, which with a few exceptions have been vested in them. 
       Arrangements will be made at an early date to have Purchase Agreements presented for signature by the remaining tenants to whom it is proposed to resell their holdings. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Co. Tipperary Estates. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for   Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that the Barrymore Estate, Cordangan, Co. Tipperary, and the Green Baker and Heuston ranches, Lattin, Co. Tipperary, are let on the eleven months system; and whether, in view of the large number of uneconomic holders and landless people in these districts, it is intended to sub-divide those lands amongst them, and, if so, whether he will state when such sub-division will take place. 
     
     
      
       Schemes for the division of the lands on the Barrymore Estate at Cordangan and of the lands of Ballinard, Ballinglanna and Illaunmeen, on the Estate of Allan Baker, and of the lands of Ballynadruckilly and Shronell, on the Estate of Nicholas Grene, are in course of preparation.  The necessary proceedings are being taken with a view to the acquisition of the lands of Ballynagleragh, on the Estate of Nicholas J. Grene, but it is not possible at present to say when they may be acquired.  As regards the Heuston Estate, the Commissioners are not yet in a position to say what action they will take in the matter. The lands are subject to Land Purchase Annuity. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Colfer v. Neatle Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is yet in a position to state when the Colfer v. Neatle (formerly Boyd) Estate will be dealt with. 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy has already been informed in a communication addressed to him on the 7th July last by the Land Commission, the prescribed schedule of particulars to enable the Land Commission to deal with the estate under the purchase provisions of the Land Act, 1923, were not lodged until 22nd October, 1926.  Estates pending for sale under the Act take their priority in accordance with the date of the lodgment of the schedules, and the Land Commission cannot see their way to take this case out of its turn to the detriment of other estates in which schedules were lodged at earlier dates.  When it is   reached it will be dealt with as quickly as possible. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this estate has been dealt with so far back as 1913 by the then Land Commission? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - County Galway Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether any steps have been taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the lands of Cordarragh, Headford, known as the estate of Miss Annie Lydon, and, if so. whether he will state what stage the negotiations have reached. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to appear to be 52 acres of the lands of Cordarragh (Poor Law valuation £18 12s. 0d.), occupied by Mrs. Maria Ward.  The Land Commission do not propose to take any action at present regarding the acquisition of these lands. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Irish Land Commission have acquired the lands of Ardfintan &mdash;estate of Mrs. Mary McDonagh, Co. Galway&mdash;and whether he will state when it is proposed to divide up these lands for distribution amongst the uneconomic holders and landless men. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have not yet acquired these lands, but they hope to be in a position to take possession of them at an early date. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Co. Cork Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that the Leigh-White Estate, Co. Cork, was acquired by the Congested Districts Board in 1911; that the holdings of the tenants on that estate have not yet been vested; that the tenants have been paying interest in lieu of rent for seventeen years; that the delay in vesting results in the tenants being obliged to pay rent for 85 years instead of 681⁄2, and whether in view of the fact that this   question affects the greater portion of the Castletownbere area, he will state the cause of the delay in dealing with it, and what steps, if any, he is taking to have the estate vested. 
     
     
      
       The Leigh-White Estate was purchased by the late Congested Districts Board under the provisions of the Irish Land Act, 1909, and was not vested in the Board until the 22nd March, 1923, and the arrangements necessary for carrying out the resale of the holdings could not be made till after that date.  The holdings of 276 tenants who signed purchase agreements have been vested in them, and the Land Commission were unable to obtain the signatures of the remaining tenants to their purchase agreements, which were prepared and ready for execution in the middle of last year.  Arrangements have been made to present these agreements for execution by tenants within the next few weeks. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Vesting Under Land Act, 1923. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he has decided to fix the &ldquo;appointed&rdquo; day for the vesting in the tenants of all judicial holdings purchased under the Land Act, 1923. 
     
     
      
       The question appears to be based on the misapprehension, which is rather general, that the vesting of lands in the tenants under the Land Acts, 1923-27, can be accomplished automatically by the mere fixing of the appointed day.  It should be understood that estates have to be individually dealt with by the Land Commission in their order of priority as determined by the dates on which the prescribed schedule of particulars is lodged and the appointed day is fixed in respect of each estate, according as the various matters arising on the sale of the estate are disposed of. Before any holdings can be vested in the tenants, the correct particulars thereof must be ascertained and the boundaries surveyed, and matters arising on surveyors' and inspectors' reports must be dealt   with and Commissioners' rulings discharged. This entails a considerable amount of expert clerical and technical work, and the vesting of the holdings is being proceeded with as expeditiously as the nature and complexity of the matters involved permit. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that in the great majority of judicial holdings which were purchased under the Act of 1923 tenants were already enjoying voluntary reductions of 35 per cent., and that this Compulsory Landlords' Bill has inflicted on these tenants an increase of ten per cent. on their land?  In view of these facts, will the Parliamentary Secretary take steps to have these lands immediately vested? 
     
     
      
       These tenants already got a reduction of 25 per cent.  Each estate is dealt with in the order in which the schedule of particulars is lodged, and everything possible is being done to expedite vesting. 
     
     
      
       The tenants received a voluntary reduction of 35 per cent., and the Bill of 1923 was introduced, under which they were compelled to purchase, and under which they received only a reduction of 25 per cent., which corresponds to an increase of ten per cent. In view of the unsatisfactory reply given by the Parliamentary Secretary, I desire to give notice that I will raise this matter on the Adjournment. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary consider the advisability of introducing amending legislation similar to the amending Act in Northern Ireland by which the tenants get the benefit of the total reduction immediately, pending vesting? 
     
     
      
       It is quite obvious that the Deputy has not read the Northern Ireland Land Act, or he would not make such a foolish statement. 
     
     
      
       It is quite obvious that he has. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Grants to Youghal Fishermen. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware of the action of certain people in Youghal, financially aided by grants from the Southern Loyalists Distress Fund, in formulating and putting into effect there a scheme for the purchase of boats and gear by fishermen; if he will state whether any application from the fishermen of that area for assistance in that direction has been received by him during the past two years, and with what result. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of a scheme for assisting certain fishermen in the East Cork district, under which it is stated that boats and nets for salmon fishing are being given on certain conditions.  My Department received one application for a loan from Youghal during the past two years, which loan was granted. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the fishermen of the Knockadoon district have made several applications to his Department within the last few years, and have, in the majority of cases, been refused grants, and is it the policy of his Department to allow a Southern Loyalist Organisation, under General Brooke Brazier, to secure a financial grip on the only Irish-speaking district in East Cork? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy's question only refers to Youghal.  When he puts one to me in regard to Knockadoon I shall answer it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Co. Mayo Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state when the Land Commission intend to distribute the lands known as the Colnaha Farm, Aughamore, Ballyhaunis, County Mayo, amongst the uneconomic landholders of the district; whether he will state when the vendor of these lands, Mrs. K. Waldron, will receive the money due to her as the purchase price of these lands. 
     
     
     
      
       These lands, consisting of 75a. 0r. 29p. of Colnaha North, were distributed in November last amongst 12 allottees&mdash;11 small-holders and the herd&mdash;who were placed in occupation under Temporary Convenience agreements.  The purchase money has been advanced and is to credit of the estate in the Court of the Irish Land Commission for payment to the parties who may be ascertained to be legally entitled thereto.  The title to the purchase money has been examined, and the Examiner's rulings on title have recently been issued to the owner's solicitors, and when such rulings have been complied with the matter will be listed before the Judicial Commissioner for distribution of the funds to credit. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Land Purchase in Co. Leitrim. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state (a) the number of estates in Co. Leitrim purchased under the Land Acts, 1903 and 1909; (b) the particulars of estates so purchased, i.e., name of estate, area and number of tenants thereon; (c) the date of purchase or taking over by the Land Commission of each estate and the date on which each estate was vested; (d) the purchase price fixed on each estate; (e) the proportion of the purchase price borne by the tenants on each estate; (f) what was the amount paid by way of interest in lieu of rent on each estate; (g) if all tenants who purchased under these Acts in Co. Leitrim have their lands now vested, and, if not, whether he will fix a date on which they will be vested, and whether, in cases where undue delay in vesting occurred, he will make any arrangements towards an equitable allowance to the tenants so affected. 
     
     
      
       I do not propose to ask the Land Commission to expend the time of their staff on the preparation of the return asked for but I may state for the Deputy's information that under the Irish Land Acts 1903-9 252 estates in County Leitrim prising 197,000 acres   and 8,860 tenants were sold through the Land Commission, the purchase money being £1,266,000.  15 estates comprising 14,400 acres and 460 tenants were purchased by the (late) Congested Districts Board, the purchase money being £63,000. 
       The holdings of these tenants have been vested with the exception of 366 holdings comprising 9,400 acres and this residue will be vested as rapidly as possible. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary be good enough to give an answer to the last part of my question as I do not think he has referred to it? 
     
     
      
       I have already answered it in the last paragraph which says:&mdash;&ldquo;The holdings of these tenants have been vested with the exception of 366 holdings comprising 9,400 acres and this residue will be vested as rapidly as possible.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary observe the following facts:&mdash;Later on there is a question whether, in the case of undue delay in vesting, he will make arrangements towards an equitable allowance to the tenants so affected. In giving a reply in the negative, has he borne in mind all the circumstances surrounding the negotiations which led to the signing of the purchase agreements?  The big factor was the question of price which was negotiated on a basis of so many years purchase of the rent being paid.  The average price in County Leitrim was about twenty years' purchase.  The tenants agreed on the price on the understanding that it was to be paid by means of a mortgage extending over 681⁄2 years to be redeemed by annuities payable half-yearly. 
     
     
      
       This is rather a long question. 
     
     
      
       Seeing that some of these estates have now been paying annuities for eighteen years, it means that the price represents thirty years' purchase rather than   the original agreement of twenty years.  If the tenants were aware that they would be called on to purchase at thirty years they would never have agreed.  In view of these facts does the Parliamentary Secretary persist in saying that he cannot give the matter further consideration? 
     
   
   
     Question on the Adjournment. 
     
      
       On the Adjournment Motion, Deputy Mullins has given notice that he will raise a matter in reference to Question 31. I cannot, therefore, accept Deputy Corry's motion in reference to Question 42. 
     
     
      
       The question I wish to raise on the Adjournment is of very great importance to the farming community.  Would I get an opportunity of raising it to-morrow evening? 
     
     
      
       We can consider that to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     Report of Committee of Selection. 
     
      
       reported from the Committee of Selection that, to fill the vacancies existing in the membership of the Joint Committee on the Betting Act and the Joint Restaurant Committee, due to the election of Mr. A. Byrne, who was a member of the Dail for the Borough Constituency of Dublin North to be a member of Seanad Eireann, the Committee had made the following appointments&mdash;Deputy J.X. Murphy to be a member of the Joint Committee on the Betting Act, 1926, 
       And Deputy Sir James Craig to be a member of the Joint Restaurant Committee. 
       Ordered: That the Report do lie on the Table. 
     
   
   
     Order of Business. 
     
      
       Public business will be taken as on the Order Paper.  Private Members' business will be taken at 9 o'clock. 
     
     
     
      
       May I ask what Private Members' business will be taken first, as there are two Bills? 
     
     
      
       In default of any agreement between the parties concerned, the Chair would consider that No. 14, the Legal Practitioners (Qualification) Bill would have precedence.  It was introduced before the other Bill, and it has gone through three stages and was postponed by order of the House on Friday last.  It will therefore be taken first unless some other agreement has been made. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - Superannuation and Pensions Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       &mdash;I move for leave to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to extend the class of persons to whom pensions, allowances, and gratuities may be granted under Section 5 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923, and to authorise the payment of pensions, allowances and gratuities to the widows of persons who at their deaths were in receipt of pensions under the said Section 5. This is the Section dealing with the pensions of the resigned and dismissed R.I.C. men. 
       Leave granted.  Second Stage to be taken on Wednesday, March 6th. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - In Committee on Finance. 
     The Dail went into Committee to consider Supplementary and Additional Estimates for public services. 
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. - Vote No. 40.&mdash;Local Government and Public Health. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1929, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte   Puibli, maraon le Deontaisi agus Costaisi eile a bhaineann le Togail Tithe, Deontaisi d'Udarais Aitiula agus Ildeontaisi i gCabhair, agus Costaisi Oifig Chigire na nGaeltlann. 
     That a sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1929, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, including Grants and other Expenses in connection with Housing, Grants to Local Authorities and Sundry Grants in Aid, and the Expenses of the Office of the Inspector of Lunatic Asylums. 
     
      
       The Dentists Act of 1928 made provision that a dental register be prepared not later than twelve months after the passing of the Act, and that certain expenses of the Board in connection with the preparation of the register, up to the end of the twelve months while the register was being prepared, would be borne out of funds provided by the Oireachtas.  The present Vote provides those funds, by means of a token Vote.  There will be savings on other branches of the Department. 
     
     
      
       Would I be in order in asking a question of the Minister with regard to the administration of this Dental Board?  According to the Act, after the expiry of a certain date, there will be no expense incurred by the State in connection with the Dental Board.  There is a matter that arises now in the administration of the Act on which I would like to ask a question. 
     
     
      
       What is the question? 
     
     
      
       When the Act came back to this House from the Seanad to be passed finally, there was a word in the Act which I thought might be interpreted differently by   different persons.  I asked the Minister who was putting the Bill through the House, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, if the clause of the Act which referred to ten years' livelihood would preclude an applicant from sitting for the examination in cases where part of the ten years was spent in apprenticeship. The reply of the Minister was &ldquo;Certainly not.&rdquo;  Since then I understand in the case of numerous applicants the Department has refused to interpret the word &ldquo;livelihood&rdquo; as covering the apprenticeship period. 
     
     
      
       I had no notice of this question, and I do not know if the Deputy has even raised the matter with the Department. 
     
     
      
       Yes, I have.  I have not raised it through correspondence, but I was on the 'phone, and I was told by the Department that they must administer the Act according to the letter of the Act, and that on the technical legal meaning the word &ldquo;livelihood&rdquo; means that a person must have been able to support himself during those ten years. What was intended here was that where a person was engaged in the practice of dentistry, including apprenticeship, he was to be allowed to sit for the examination.  I understand the difficulty the official had in interpreting this word.  He must give it its legal meaning. 
     
     
      
       The Department is not administering the Act.  This Act is being administered by the Dental Board, set up with the aid of the Department.  It is provided that whatever expenses are incurred by the Board in setting up the register shall be borne by the Department. In fact, it is an official of the Department who is doing the secretarial work for the Board, as a part-time officer.  As I say, I have no personal knowledge of the matter that the Deputy raises, and I rather question if I could answer in any way for the administration of this particular Act except in so far as, at the setting up of the Board, we pay the expenses in connection with the preparation of the register.  The fact that we have   made arrangements for lending an official of the Department to do the secretarial work of the Board hardly makes me responsible for answering for the administration of the Act, in a matter over which I have no control. As far as I understand it at the moment, the question is one that is within the sphere of the Board and not of the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I must disagree with that, because I happen to know.  I made inquiries into the matter.  The position is that the Department of the Minister examines the credentials of applicants who wish to sit for examination. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       They are submitted to the Department.  The Dental Board has nothing to do with the applicants until their fitness to sit has been definitely judged by the officials of the Department, and the Board cannot be held responsible for the refusal to allow these candidates to sit.  I do not say that this official is acting unjustly or unreasonably. I admit that he is interpreting the Act according to the wording, but, when the Bill was passed through this House, I raised this particular question, and I got an assurance from the Minister for Industry and Commerce that apprenticeship years would be included in the ten years during which the applicant was supposed to be earning his livelihood, and that you would not preclude an applicant from sitting for the examination because he had spent part of the ten years in apprenticeship. Applicants have since been refused permission to sit because they were serving their apprenticeship during part of that time. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can hardly get a satisfactory or detailed reply unless he gives notice or puts down a question. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I will get an assurance from the Minister now that he will give the matter consideration. Perhaps the Minister will say that my view of the matter is correct, or if he feels now that it is correct. 
     
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will put down a question I will answer it. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. - Vote 41&mdash;General Register Office. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £300 chun iochta an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith iniochta i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1929, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig ArdChlarathora na mBeireataisi, etc. (7 agus 8 Vict., c. 81, a. 54; 26 Vict., c. 11, a. 9; 26 agus 27 Vict., c. 52, a. 11, agus c. 90 a. 20; 42 agus 43 Vict., c. 70; agus 43 agus 44 Vict., c. 13). 
       That a sum not exceeding £300 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1929, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Registrar-General of Births, etc. (7 and 8 Vict., c. 81, s. 54; 26 Vict., c. 11, s. 9; 26 and 27 Vict., c. 52, s. 11, and c. 90, s. 20; 42 and 43 Vict., c. 70; and 43 and 44 Vict., c. 13). 
     
     
      
       The amount estimated in respect of appropriations-in-aid in the General Register Estimate for this year was in excess of what will actually be received.  Most of the appropriations-in-aid in the matter arise out of payments made in respect of birth certificates by intending emigrants to the United States.  The number of emigrants to the United States during the year 1928 was 2,109 less than for the previous year.  The deficiency arises in that way. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister state why it is that if an ordinary individual applies to the Register Office for birth certificates he will be charged 7/8 for two, but if he applies for the shipping companies he will get them for 6/2? 
     
     
      
       A number of difficulties arose with the United   States authorities in connection with birth certificates presented by intending emigrants.  The insistence by the United States on intending emigrants presenting birth certificates gave rise to the getting of an abnormal number of birth certificates throughout the country, and it was decided, firstly, in order to satisfy the more correct requirements of the United States authorities, and secondly, because there was a large amount of money involved in this matter, that intending emigrants looking for certificates should get them from the General Register Office in Dublin, and an arrangement was made by which emigrants would present certificates issued through the General Register Office alone. For that work it has been found necessary to charge a fee of 1/6 to cover the cost of postage, etc., and to cover the cost of the more satisfactory arrangements provided by the Register Office for the issue of these certificates. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. - Vote 43.&mdash;National Health Insurance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £10 chun iochta an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith iniochta i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1929, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi an Choimisiuin Arachais agus chun Ilsintiuisi agus Ildeontaisi mar gheall ar chostas Sochar agus Costaisi Riarachain fe sna hAchtanna um Arachas Slainte Naisiunta. 1911 go 1928 (maraon le Deontaisi airithe i gCabhair). 
       That a sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1929, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Insurance Commission and for sundry Contributions and Grants in respect of the cost of Benefits and Expenses of Administration under the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1928 (including certain Grants-in-Aid). 
     
     
     
      
       This Estimate was presented in the early part of this year, but the National Health Insurance Act, 1928, which was passed in December last, is the legal authority for the spending of the money.  This is a token Vote. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. - Local Elections (Dublin) Bill, 1929&mdash;Second Stage. 
     
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill.  Act No. 22 of 1926 arranged that the Commissioners should remain in charge of the city of Dublin and in charge of the Dublin Union until 31st March, 1929.  The Local Elections Act, 1927, which arranged for the local elections which were held in 1928, provided that such local bodies as existed in the county of Dublin would not have elections until 31st March, 1929, in order to bring all local bodies with any connection either with the city or county of Dublin into accord with one another. It will be remembered that in the passing of the Local Elections Act, 1927, exception was taken to the fact that the early re-establishment of the council in Dublin and the council in Cork was not being arranged for.  Deputies on the opposite benches have taken exception to the introduction of this Bill on the grounds that, as Deputy O'Kelly stated on the last day this matter was discussed here, a very definite promise was given by the Minister for Local Government that the Local Government Bill for Dublin would be introduced in time to enable elections to be held, and perhaps a municipal council for Dublin, or Greater Dublin, to be elected in the month of June of this year, and that that promise was being broken.  The suggestion made by Deputy O'Kelly is not correct.  I said when dealing with the Local Elections Act, 1927, that it was my hope that the proposals of the Executive Council with regard to Greater Dublin would be put forward before 31st March, 1929.  In response to Deputy Lemass,   who pressed for, I think, a rather early decision in the matter, I said that in expressing that hope I was stretching that hope.  I said that I thought the elected council ought not to be restored in Cork until our proposals for Greater Dublin had been tabled, and more or less until the council had been re-established in Dublin. 
       It will also, however, be recollected that I stated that if for any reason of local interest, or on account of local proposals in Cork, it was possible to deal with the Cork Bill earlier than I anticipated, I would allow nothing to stand in the way of proceeding more rapidly with the Cork proposal; in fact subsequent developments in connection with the Cork proposal were such that I had to decide to go ahead with the Cork Bill, and the Cork Bill has now been passed.  The changes in connection with our proposal to go ahead with Cork and, generally, the magnitude of the problem to be examined with Dublin, where a very large number of local bodies are concerned, and the disentangling of their finances, their administrative organisations and their general engineering schemes, require very careful investigation and require a certain amount of further consideration before definite proposals can be put together.  These matters result in my not being able to bring forward or to promise to bring forward at the present moment, proposals that would enable the Greater Dublin position to be dealt with before 31st March, 1929. 
     
     In fact I propose in this Bill that powers will be given to allow the present state of affairs to remain in Dublin city and county until a date not later than 30th September, 1930. My reason for this is that if we recollect the position with regard to the Cork Bill we will remember that the Cork Bill took eight months to be considered by the Oireachtas. The Dublin Bill may not take so long, but I would be again, I think, stretching my hope now&mdash;though I   will try to so arrange it&mdash;that I can ask the House for the First Reading of the Dublin Bill before the Summer Recess, so that the Bill will be in the hands of all interested in the matter during the summer.  My anticipation, then, is that the Bill will be dealt with during the Autumn Session by the Dail, and perhaps during the Spring Session by the Seanad.  But I cannot hope at all that the Dublin Bill will be considered in such time that there will be set up, at a much earlier date than 30th September, 1930, the new arrangements in the city and county. As I say, there are very involved financial matters to be taken into consideration, and it would not be giving the new bodies that are to be set up a proper chance if they were elected at any other time of the year than, say, the summer.  I therefore move the Second Reading of the Bill. 
     
      
       I was rather surprised to hear the Minister assert, as he has asserted, that a definite promise was not given by the Government that the term of office of the existing Commissioners in Dublin would not be extended beyond the 31st March next.  I must admit that I have not here with me any official record in which that promise is stated, because it did not enter my head that the Minister would deny that such a promise was given. Certainly, whether it was given in so many words or not, during the entire of last year the House was left under the impression that the Bill regulating the future of the city of Dublin would be introduced and be in the hands of Deputies before 31st March.  Now we are told that it may be introduced and pass the First Reading before the Summer Recess, and even in that connection the Minister has told us that in saying that he feels he may be stretching his hope to breakingpoint. Now we are opposed, and very strongly and vehemently opposed, to this Bill to extend the period of office of the Commissioners. We might perhaps be prepared to modify our opposition if there was   on the Order Paper, or in the hands of Deputies, the Management of Dublin Bill, which will possibly appear later on in the year.  There is no justification whatever, I think, for the very long delay which has taken place in its preparation and introduction.  The Government set up in 1925, I think, the Greater Dublin Commission, and its Report was submitted in 1926.  We have not yet had an assurance from any Minister that that Report has been even considered by the Executive Council. In fact, when the great Cork City Bill was under discussion we were definitely told by the President that the report had not been considered.  It seems an extraordinary thing that the Government would go to the expense of setting up a Commission to pursue a very detailed investigation and prepare a Report, which has been printed and circulated, merely for the purpose of having it pigeonholed. It is also much more extraordinary that the Government which set up that Commission, a Commission which reported on the general principles of city government, actually introduced and passed through this House a Bill dealing with the government of another city without having considered the first Report.  It is all the more extraordinary, in view of the fact that in every case in which the Commission expressed an opinion on the principles of city government the actual decision of the Government was contrary to it. 
     
     We do not deny that there is a case, which can be put forward, for the appointment of Commissioners in special circumstances.  It happens occasionally that when popularly-elected bodies have continued in operation for a long period, certain abuses arise, and grow in volume, with which these popularly-elected bodies are not capable of effectively dealing.  Commissioners, civil servants, having no direct responsibility to the people, appointed to remedy these abuses, should be appointed for a very limited and clearly-defined term, and, as soon as their special work is completed, they   should be removed, and the control of affairs given back, in all cases, into the hands of the people's representatives. Whether such abuses did or did not exist in Dublin or Cork in 1924 does not arise here.  But if they did exist, I maintain that that long since has been remedied, and we can quote the words of the Commissioners themselves in that connection. There was, perhaps&mdash;it was alleged anyway that there was an abundance of officials, that staffs had become top-heavy, that people whose period of utility had expired and who should have retired on pension were continued on full pay.  In that connection the Commissioners reported that they had reorganised the various departments of the Corporation, and that this reorganisation scheme had been completed.  As a result they claim there has been a considerable increase in efficiency and in economy effected.  In so far as that abuse existed in Dublin, by 31st March, 1927, that abuse had been eradicated. If that be the reason for the Commissioners' appointment, that reason had ceased to operate on that date.  It was also alleged that there were other abuses, that there was considerable laxity in the awarding of sick pay.  Again, I say, if that abuse existed, we have it on the words of the Commissioners that on 31st March, 1927, it no longer existed.  The same applies to many other matters mentioned&mdash; certain irregularities in the keeping of store accounts and other minor points.  There were, no doubt, also improvements capable of being effected in certain other departments of the Corporation.  They have undoubtedly increased the efficiency of the method by which refuse is disposed of, and by which certain other normal Corporation functions are carried out.  But these are matters which could have been done, and that I have no doubt whatever would have been done, by an elected council if that council were in operation. Any special reason which existed for the appointment of Commissioners, and for taking control of municipal affairs out of the hands   of the council, had ceased to operate two years or eighteen months ago, and if the Government were paying the attention to the matter which they should have been, they would then have set about preparing the Management of Dublin Bill, which could have been introduced last year, and which could have passed through this House, to enable the new council to take the place of the Commissioners on 31st March next, when the period of office of the Commissioners expires. 
     I admit that there may have been faults in connection with the administration of the old Corporation, and there possibly always will be.  Democracy has its faults.  No perfect system has yet been devised.  This House has its faults, but serious as these may be at times, they are not nearly as serious as the faults which attach themselves to a dictatorate, and that is what, in fact, exists in Dublin at the moment.  It becomes a matter of particular seriousness when we find these Commissioners, in the exercise of the normal functions of the Corporation, increasing the municipal debt by fresh borrowing. They in fact, I think, increased the municipal debt by over £1,000,000, and the ratepayers of the city will have to be paying the debt charges in connection with that sum over a very long period.  I do not say that money should not have been borrowed.  In fact, I say it should have been borrowed.  The greater part of it was expended in the financing of housing schemes, but the elected representatives of the people should have had the decision as to whether or not that liability should be placed upon the citizens of Dublin. 
     When there is an elected council and public representatives on it the business which it does and the work it proposes to do receive much greater publicity than attaches to the work done by the Commissioners and public interest is much more keenly aroused.  I do not allege that the Commissioners have in any way invited secrecy or attempted to preserve   secrecy in respect to their actions, but in fact it has worked out that way.  People all complain that they have had very little information given to them as to what the Commissioners were doing, and that consequently they are not informed as to the present financial position of the municipality.  The work of the Commissioners during the last two years and during the period for which it is now proposed to continue their term of office will be the normal work of the elected council.  It will not be work of any special nature whatever, but just the carrying on of the ordinary administration of the city which should be in the hands of the people's elected representatives. 
     This Bill proposes to extend the term of office for another eighteen months.  Even if some extension is justified, as it undoubtedly is under the circumstances, because even if the Bill were introduced to-morrow it could not be passed before the 31st March, nevertheless we think the period mentioned here is much too long.  If the Government have, in fact, made up their minds as to the principles which are to operate in the government of Dublin in the future, there is no reason why the Bill cannot be introduced in this session and passed through this House during the present year.  The general principles of city government have been discussed here already in relation to the Cork City Bill, and if the same principles are to apply in the case of Dublin, then there need not be the same prolonged discussion concerning them.  Of course there will have to be many other matters taken into consideration here, because it is proposed not merely to alter the system of government, but also to extend the area. 
     I am convinced that the Bill, if introduced now, could be in operation certainly by this time next year.  It seems, however, that the Government have been putting off this matter from day to day, and have not yet reached the stage of laying down the heads of the Bill which they will finally introduce.  It seems to me   that they have been lacking in their duty in this connection, and in consequence of that fact the House should, by the rejection of this Bill, demonstrate its resentment.  This Bill is one that cannot be justified on any ground whatever except the laziness of the Department of Local Government and their failure to deal with this matter of the Report of the Greater Dublin Commission and the introduction of a City Management Bill. 
     
      
       I should like to ask the Minister when the accounts of the Commissioners were last audited and if the accounts ever have been audited since the Commissioners were appointed. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of any arrears in the auditing of the accounts of the Commissioners.  In reply to Deputy Lemass, I have simply to reiterate that whereas in dealing with this particular matter in November, 1927, I anticipated we would deal with Dublin before Cork, circumstances, the possibility which I referred to, having arisen, we dealt with the Cork Bill before the Management of Dublin Bill.  Very many more principles are involved in the proposals that will be put before the Oireachtas in connection with Greater Dublin than are involved in those of Cork.  In Cork you were simply dealing with one local body over the whole area.  In Dublin you are dealing with a very large number of local bodies, and, as I say, their whole administrative machine and the whole of their financial past have to be dealt with, regularised, and harmonised in the proposals that will come before you. 
       In connection with the city of Dublin there is also the whole question of poor relief, which is only in a very small way dealt with by the Greater Dublin Commission.  It has been dealt with separately by the Commission on Poor Law.  The whole of that side of the administration in the city and county of Dublin has to be dealt with in connection with the Greater Dublin proposals. 
     
     If the Oireachtas spent eight months in dealing with the Cork Bill   it might take at least the same length of time to deal with the Dublin Bill.  It is very easy for Deputy Lemass to say that if we have decided what we are going to do with regard to Dublin, within the next couple of weeks legislation dealing with the matter could be put before you.  Legislation is not as simple as all that, particularly legislation dealing with local government.  In connection with the city of Dublin and the townships there is a very large number of local Acts, all of which will have to be carefully examined before the proposals can be put before the Oireachtas in final form. The Deputy admits that he cannot put his hand on where a definite promise was given that legislation would be in order before the 31st March, 1929, but the records of this House are perfectly kept at considerable expense, and before a Minister is charged with breaking an explicit promise the Deputy might go to the trouble of seeing that the statement he was making was quite correct.  The position, as far as my commitments in connection with that particular matter are concerned, will be found in the Debates that took place on the 11th and 17th November, 1927. 
     I do not know that it is necessary to repudiate laziness on the part of the Department of Local Government. If less time had been spent unnecessarily and obstructively by Deputy Lemass and his colleagues in the summer of last year on measures in connection with local government &mdash;the Seanad Electoral Act and some of the Constitution Acts&mdash;we might have had time in the Oireachtas to deal earlier with the Cork Bill and more time in the Department to deal with matters that arise in connection with Greater Dublin. 
     The Deputy has explained that matters dealing with the Commissioners' administration do not properly arise here, but he charges the Commissioners at the same time with putting a heavy load of debt upon the city of Dublin.  The weight of any load of debt that has been put by the Commissioners upon the city of Dublin is due to the fact that the   Commissioners have faced, in a practical and systematic way, the problem of dealing with the shortage of houses in the city, and they have made a substantial contribution to the solving of that particular problem. 
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if any of the work of examining the Acts under which these various local government bodies operate has yet been done, or is it the position that the whole matter was merely shelved for the last three years and is now being resurrected? 
     
     
      
       The whole matter has not been shelved.  I explained in 1927 that I had a special committee dealing with the financial, engineering and administrative side   of this matter, and thoroughly examining it in relation to the definite recommendations contained in the Commissioners' Report, and of the practical solution of the particular problem that lies in the city.  In so far as that particular work goes, the whole position has been fully surveyed and reported on.  When these matters have been put in proper array and instructions are issued to the draftsman for the preparation of Acts of legislation, there falls to the draftsman a very intricate problem.  It will fall to the lot of the staff in the draftsman's office to see that these rather important intricacies that may be involved in the local Acts are fully examined. 
     
     
      
       Have instructions been issued to the draftsman yet? 
     
     
      
       No. 
       Question put.  The Dail divided: Ta, 65; Nil, 57. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlan, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick.
 Carney, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clancy, Patrick. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Colohan, Hugh. Cooney, Eamon. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Doyle, Edward. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Holt, Samuel. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. 
             Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel.
 Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killane, James Joseph. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Ruttledge, Patrick J. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash; Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. 
     Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     Committee Stage ordered for Thursday, 28th February. 
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. - Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Bill, 1929&mdash;Second Stage. 
     
      
       I move the Second Reading of this Bill, on which I have not much to say.  It is a hardy annual. Speaking on the Estimates in October last, I intimated that it had not up to then been found practicable or advisable to introduce a permanent Army Act to replace the temporary measures which have governed Army administration since 1923, and I outlined certain reasons which had led to that position. The existing Act, the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1927, expires on the 31st March, 1929, and it is proposed to renew it for a further period. 
       Deputies know that army organisation has been the subject of the most detailed consideration in recent years&mdash;the type of army needed for the Saorstat in its different aspects &mdash;standing army, instruction of corps, reserve, territorial formations, the size of the army and its geographical distribution, etc.  The manner in which its regulation and administration should be provided for has come in for very considerable consideration.  During the 15 months since the Act which is now coming to an end was introduced, we have gone a certain distance, successfully, towards securing the building up of a defence establishment on the lines then indicated. The strength of the regular army, officers and men, has been reduced, a process which is still going on, and behind that smaller but more efficient force we are getting together a reserve of trained officers, of experienced soldiers discharged from the regular army, and of men. Class &ldquo;B&rdquo; reservists, 3,000 in number, who may be regarded as partly trained, but whose annual courses will in time make them, we believe, potentially efficient soldiers.  The Class &ldquo;A&rdquo; reserve of men was in being when the present Act was introduced here.  The Class &ldquo;B&rdquo; reserve of men and the reserve of officers have come into existence since January last. 
     
     It is recognised that a permanent Army Act is a necessity, and that such an Act must be passed here some time, but in the gradual process of discovering our military needs and working down to them   from the position which we occupied two or three years ago no insurmountable difficulty has been experienced in providing for administration under the temporary measures which have been in force so far.  We are, therefore, satisfied that nothing will be lost by holding over the presentation of a permanent Army Bill until we are able to see that whatever proposals we make will be able to stand for a period of years and are calculated to produce and maintain for this State the type of army organisation which the circumstances of the Saorstat call for.  I do not think I need go further into the matter. 
     
      
       As the Minister has stated, this Bill is a hardy annual. I notice that the Minister has doubts as to when we will get a permanent Army Act, the necessity of which he admits.  In 1923, the then Minister for Defence, Risteard Ua Maolchatha, in introducing a Temporary Provisions Bill similar to this, stated that it was a temporary measure.  In fact, he was at some pains to emphasise the temporary nature of it.  In 1924, President Cosgrave, then Minister for Defence, said: &ldquo;It does not follow that the Act of 1923 will continue in operation until March 31st, 1925.&rdquo;  It is now going on to 1930 It had, he stated, &ldquo;been intended to introduce early this year&rdquo;&mdash;that is, in 1924&mdash;&ldquo;a Bill dealing with the Defence Forces on a more permanent basis.&rdquo;  In 1925, Mr. Hughes, then Minister for Defence, stated that the schemes had not yet been perfected. He also referred to the contingency that the Principal Act might go through before the 31st March, 1926. 
     
     I notice, from reading up the debates on that occasion, that Deputy Esmonde was of opinion that &ldquo;the Dail has been very generous to the Minister during his period of office.&rdquo; The Deputy was worried, I think, as to the form which a standing army should take.  Since then, of course, the Government have lost the services of Mr. Hughes.  His great military knowledge and his great organising ability are no longer at their service, and perhaps that would account   for the fact that we are again asked to prolong this temporary measure for another twelve months. 
     In 1926 there was a one-clause Bill continuing the Act of 1925 for another year.  Mr. Hughes said they wanted some time and experience to enable them to frame a permanent measure.  In 1927, the Minister for Defence said: &ldquo;These provisions are not final in form.  Another Bill, constituted in the light of our experience in defence matters will be introduce, I hope and expect, within the next year.&rdquo;  Well, the hopes and expectations of the Minister have apparently been disappointed, for he now speaks of &ldquo;some time,&rdquo; whether the Greek Kalends or not, I do not know. 
     I would like to know whether the recent resignations and retirements in large numbers are part of the scheme which it is proposed to introduce into the permanent measure, or whether these have brought them, as the Minister says, along a certain distance.  There are some points that I would like to emphasise in connection with any permanent measure that may be introduced. The attitude of this party towards the army, the nature and formation of it, is well known, and there is no need for me to reiterate what has been stated here repeatedly. At present you have a standing army and an A and B reserve, both paid.  We think there should be a small standing army as to the recruitment of which, of course, we differ from the Government Party.  We think that the A and B reserve should be a territorial force, and not paid.  It is objectionable to have a large paid reserve. The country cannot afford it.  There should be, of course, a small reserve of officers. 
     Regarding retired and resigned officers, I notice that many of them, owing to pre-Truce service, are entitled to a pension under existing legislation.  In addition, they seem, if my reading is correct, to get two or three years' pay and allowances; some of them get an annual reserve grant of from £50 to £80, whether they are called up for training   or not, and, in comparison with the officers, the men are rather poorly treated, as if there was a caste system there.  Now, I would also like to know why it is necessary to have such an expensive staff, and whether a recent member of the Civil Service, whom I do not know, but whose reputation I know of, a man very efficient, who would have been very valuable to the Department in which he served on matters regarding harbours, coast erosion&mdash;his name is Mr. Deegan, and I suppose it is not out of order to mention it&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       It is not desirable, as a general rule. 
     
     
      
       I bow to your decision. I was not aware of the procedure in such cases.  He was a very able official, and he is now put into the Army Department, and his experience and services are lost to the Department in which he certainly was most useful.  I think the Minister might have had by now worked out the details of a permanent scheme.  The Minister has had experience enough, and certainly there are not too many demands on his time, energy and ability.  It is regrettable that we cannot do as they did in Spain.  I wonder if any effort could be made to do it?  They had to demobilise a large number on the settlement of the Moroccan question, and I suppose there would have been 100,000 men involved. Not a single one of the officers or men got a pension, but all were given employment.  That would be the better ideal to aim at. 
     
     
      
       When in November, 1927, there was a proposal similar to this, to continue the temporary measure, this Party supported the motion on a very definite and distinct promise from the Minister for Defence.  Support was given on that occasion only with considerable reluctance in view of the numerous postponements that had taken place before that time, and which have been recounted by Deputy Fahy.  Speaking a few moments   ago the Minister for Local Government suggested that before charging a Minister with having made a definite promise care should be taken to read up the reports of the debates. I have taken the trouble of reading over the debate which took place on that occasion, and I do not think that a promise could be more definite than that which was then made by the Minister for Defence, that within the next year, or at least before the expiration of the date to which it was proposed then to extend the Bill, this new Bill, which has been promised within the last four or five years, would be introduced. The Minister comes along here to-day and in quite a cavalier fashion, hardly offering an excuse or putting any reasons before the House as to why that promise has not been fulfilled, asks us again to continue this temporary measure. This time he is much less definite, as Deputy Fahy has pointed out, with regard to the future. 
     
     I pointed out in 1927, and I repeat it now, that it is a very remarkable state of affairs that we have this very comprehensive Act of over 200 sections, governing the whole position with regard to our Army, and not a single section of that Act was ever debated by this or any previous Dail.  We have not had the opportunity of discussing a single section of that Act, and that was due to the circumstances under which it was originally introduced.  I do not think that the Minister and the Government have treated the House fairly in this matter.  I think their action with regard to Army legislation and their general attitude, especially towards this measure year after year, have created a certain amount of uncertainty and have had a very unsteadying effect on the country as a whole, and perhaps on the Army in particular.  It is not good for the Army or the country that a policy of that kind should be continued.  Under the circumstances I felt that there was nothing else that could be done but support the measure in 1927, in view of the reasons advanced by the Minister to the effect that in the year 1927   there were two elections, and there were other developments and happenings that might be reasonably taken as a cause for delay on the part of the Minister. 
     There was a change in the Ministry, with possibly new ideas as to the shape the Army would eventually take.  These, to my mind, were sufficient reasons why we should support the Ministry when they asked for another year or fifteen months in which to introduce a new Bill; but there is no such justification to-day. None whatever.  The Minister has not even pretended to justify to the House his attitude in not introducing the measure, and, as I and Deputy Fahy have said, he is much more indefinite on this occasion than he was in 1927.  I remember asking him then could he offer any grounds as to whether we were nearer to his promise being carried out then than we were a year before, and his reply was in the nature of a challenge to me to point out any occasion on which he had made a definite promise that he did not fulfil.  I would like to remind him of that on this occasion. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether this is a suitable opportunity to discuss Army policy as a whole. I do not think that it is; but I want to protest very strenuously and very definitely against the action of the Government in regard to this whole matter of Army legislation.  The only way I can signify that protest is to vote against this measure.  I know the argument may be advanced that some Act is necessary if the Army is to be continued after March 31st. The responsibility in this matter is with the Government, and they have offered no justification or excuse here to-day for their delay in introducing a measure which would be of a permanent nature.  The argument which the Minister has advanced, if it could be called an argument is that it is necessary to wait before introducing a measure that might be three or four years in existence;   but here we have this measure that we are carrying on year after year, without any consideration being given to it at all for the past four or five years.  The Minister might say that nothing very wonderful has happened as a result of that; but I do not think he has any reason to say that anything wonderful would happen if we were to introduce a permanent Act into this House and put it into operation, and we and the people would be in a position to say that the legislation under which the Army is operating is legislation which was discussed in the Dail and legislation that had the approval of the Deputies in this House.  That is not the position at the present time, and the Ministers and the Deputies know it.  I say that it has a bad and unsteadying effect with regard to the whole position of the Army. 
     
     
      
       I am not going to say very much.  It is not necessary. But I would like to emphasise the absolute contempt that certain Ministers of the Executive Council of the Free State have for this House. The contumely that the so-called Minister for Defence&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, what does the Deputy mean by saying the &ldquo;so-called Minister for Defence?&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I mean what I say. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that it is out of order. 
     
     
      
       That is not an expression that should be used.  The Minister for Defence was appointed by this House. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for the time being, then.  If you say that is out of order, then all right. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy used the words &ldquo;the so-called Minister for Defence.&rdquo;  I do not think the Deputy said &ldquo;the Minister for the time being.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I say the Minister for the time being.  If you say that is not to be used, I will not use it. Well, the Minister for Defence for the time being&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       Even that is in bad taste. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Defence!  Well, defence of what, I would like to know?  However, he is called the Minister for Defence. He shows the greatest possible contempt for this Assembly.  No contempt that either I or any other Republican ever uttered about this Assembly could compare with the contempt shown it by the Minister for Defence and by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.  Both of them here to-day showed the greatest contempt and the greatest amount of disrespect that could be shown to this Assembly. They did that both by their speeches and by the nature of the Bills that they introduced.  They have shown that they do not care a snap of their fingers for this Assembly, for what it is or for what it does.  They have done that in their personal capacity and in their capacity as Ministers, acting for certain Departments.  They have done it on several occasions.  The present Minister for Defence in 1927 and the present Minister for Local Government promised that certain legislation would be introduced.  The Minister for Local Government and Public Health promised legislation to regulate the affairs of the Municipality of Dublin and Local Government direction in general in Dublin city and county.  These Ministers promised that legislation would be introduced with regard to the regulation of the Free State Army.  They have repeatedly come to this House and asked the House for time to prepare that legislation.  That time has been granted.  Deputy Fahy mentioned that Deputy Esmonde, a couple of years ago, came to this House and said that the House had treated the Minister generously in giving time for the introduction of this legislation.  Two years have elapsed since then.  Still they are hatching their Defence Bill. 
     
     There is one thing that is satisfactory to me.  I read in the papers that their Army is fast disappearing. I hope it will disappear at a faster   rate, and that very shortly there will be no necessity for this long-promised Army Bill or for a Minister for Defence, or for the Free State as established either.  That is my hope. But I would like to emphasise&mdash;it is the only thing that I got up with the desire of saying&mdash;the contempt that these Ministers have for this Assembly.  I do not, in some respects, object to that.  I need not emphasise my point of view; you know it quite well.  You know the point of view of those who speak or sit on this side of the House with regard to that.  But I have heard here, and I have sometimes read in the newspapers, the speeches made on the Minister's side of the House with regard to the wonderful respect they have for this House, and the great joy the people of Ireland should have in their hearts at having here this representative Assembly, this sovereign Assembly, as one Deputy called it.  Now I have heard, and so have other Deputies, how the Ministers and members of the Government Party speak disrespectfully sometimes even of this Assembly and of its capacity in certain directions.  I certainly have not yet come across any declaration anywhere that shows and emphasises such a want of respect for this institution or for its powers, and such a want of respect for members of the House as has been evidenced here to-day by the two Ministers who have just spoken. 
     
      
       As Deputies Fahy and O'Kelly have mentioned my name, I would like to say that on two previous occasions I voted against a similar temporary Bill. Since then I have changed my mind. As we grow older, the more we learn.  I think it would be very undesirable to bring in a permanent Army Bill until our higher officers in the Army have, by training and experience, got fully acquainted with the strategic requirements of this country, and until a full realisation has been arrived at by our Army authorities of the general geographical conditions of the country. Furthermore, I think it would be   very undesirable to discuss a permanent Army Bill or to introduce a permanent Army Bill into the Dail at the present time in view of the lack of interest in the strategic position of the country, as is evidenced by Deputies on the other side of the House.  Now, last week we had here statements of their warlike intentions.  To-day we have statements of their desire that the Army should disappear, and, not only the Army, but Deputy O'Kelly has become an Eleventh Day Adventist, and has prophesied the disappearance of the whole of the Twenty-Six Counties.  Deputy O'Kelly has emphasised&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What about the navy? 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if he can state what stage the reduction of the Army has reached, whether the reduction is completed and, if not, if he can tell us when he expects to have it definitely completed.  I ask that because there is naturally very considerable dissatisfaction in the ranks of the Army because of the uncertainty of the position to-day.  A number of men who want to take up a military career do not know if they will be kept on.  They have been kept in a very unsatisfactory position for years.  These men are now approaching the final term.  I think the Minister ought to say when he expects that the reduction in the Army will be definitely completed.  It is only fair to these men who wish to take up a military career to know if they are to be kept on or if they are to be sent out of the Army because of reduction in the personnel of the Army. 
     
     
      
       It is suggested that I did not give sufficient notice, did not stress sufficiently, or did not explain sufficiently, the lack of a permanent Act at this moment.  I did not even wait until this occasion to do so.  On 25th October last I adverted quite clearly to Deputy O'Connell's remarks on a previous occasion when such a Bill was before   the House.  I intimated I was not prepared to bring in a permanent Act during this period and I set out as clearly as I could the reasons for that.  The fact that I did not give any further explanation to-day is just because I gave the necessary explanation and notice then.  I do not see any need for saying again what has been said before.  I have not given any indication here of the time when I could bring in a permanent Act merely for the reason that I prefer to promise after the event rather than before it. 
       Deputy Fahy says he does not see that there is much demand on my ability, my energy or my time.  Possibly he overestimates my ability and my energy and has a wrong conception of time; but I can assure him that the last twelve months have been a period of very strenuous work on my part and on the part of those associated with me.  During that period we have practically changed the whole form of the Army, though not to the same degree as the last Deputy but one has stated.  He said the Army was fast disappearing.  I do not wish to deal with any remarks made by that Deputy, because I consider his remarks indicate an attitude towards this House and towards this State, of which he has the privilege of being a citizen, that is unworthy of any notice from me or anybody like me.  The Army is being changed solely for the purpose of adding to its efficiency.  In actual numbers, counting in the various reserves, we have more now than twelve months ago.  Deputy Fahy objects to the A and B reserves being paid.  As I said on the occasion of my Estimates last October, this Government had certain experience of the unpaid heroes in 1922, and we do not think that this country can afford them. 
     
     Deputy Fahy also asked if the resignations and retirements were part of the scheme.  Necessarily so. I indicated previously that I anticipated a standing Army of 5,000 men. The Army was once 50,000 men.  We do not require as many officers for 5,000 as for 50,000 men, and we do not require for 5,000 men as many   officers as we would require for 10,000 men.  As the Army reduces, the number of officers required will be reduced also.  Officers given commissions had a certain justification in expecting permanency.  Therefore, when it is necessary in the ordinary interests of the Army, and for the requirements of the Army, to reduce the number of officers, we give them pay and allowances in lieu of service.  There is not, up to the moment, a pension scheme in the Army.  The pay and allowances are calculated roughly on a basis which would be equivalent to the proportion of pension due to them had a pension scheme been operative.  I hope when I do bring in a permanent Act, or when the permanent Act is brought in, that it will include a pension scheme for officers. 
     Deputy Fahy said that the men were treated as if there was a class system.  I do not wish to go into any class system.  Men attest for a short period and their period of service exists only for the period of attestation.  At the end of that time they are free to go or, if circumstances justify it, they may be reattested. Their contract is for a definite period only.  At the end of that time they are, in the normal course of events, due to go.  On the other hand, officers were granted commissions, and they had definitely laid themselves out for an Army career&mdash;to make military life a career.  The changes that have taken place made that impossible for all of them, and in the case of those who decided to go, they were given certain conditions on retirement or resignation.  The Deputy referred to an ordinary matter of a civil servant transferred from one section to another.  That happens, naturally, as vacancies occur in different Departments, and as men are due for promotion.  The appointment of Mr. Deegan to my Department was in itself a recognition of his efficiency and good service. 
     
      
       Was this civil servant replacing somebody who had been transferred from the Department of   Defence, or was he an addition to the official staff of the Minister for Defence? 
     
     
      
       He is not an addition. The personnel, both military and civil, in my Department has been reduced.  Deputy O'Connell is quite right in saying that I made an unwise promise last November twelve months.  I think Deputy O'Connell should recognise that, when I found that promise was&mdash;I will not say impossible of fulfilment, because the welfare of the State was met by not fulfilling rather than fulfilling that promise&mdash; I had it conveyed to him at the earliest opportunity that it was undesirable that the promise should be fulfilled.  On that occasion he did not demur.  I will not go into details now as I did then, because I have already stated the case. 
       Deputy Esmonde asks how far the reductions have reached.  As I have said before, the standing Army should be about 5,000.  I could not give exact figures now, because I think the reduction in men must continue for a further period.  That is achieved by merely not recruiting to fill up the vacancies brought about by the period of attestation ending. With regard to officers, we have now reached our minimum of officers, or shall do so within the next few days. As far as the officers who remain are concerned, they may, subject to satisfactory conditions, regard themselves as permanent. 
       Deputy O'Kelly referred to &ldquo;their Army&rdquo; disappearing, and he also referred to the State disappearing. When a Deputy refers to &ldquo;their Army,&rdquo; and when he means the Army controlled by this House, I do not wish to discuss the matter with him. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided: Ta, 65; Nil, 59. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlan, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clancy, Patrick. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Colohan, Hugh. Cooney, Eamon. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Doyle, Edward. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. 
             Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Holt, Samuel. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killane, James Joseph. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. Mullins, Thomas. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Ruttledge, Patrick J. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash; Ta: Deputies P.S. Doyle and Duggan.  Nil: Deputies Allen and G. Boland. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Bill read a Second Time; Committee Stage to be taken to-morrow. 
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. - Censorship of Publications Bill, 1928&mdash;Committee (Resumed). 
     
        The Dail went into Committee. 
     Debate resumed on amendment 24:&mdash; 
     To insert before Section 7 the following new section:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(1)  Whenever a complaint is made to the Minister to the effect that a book or a particular edition of a book is wholly or in general character indecent or obscene, or advocates the unnatural prevention of conception or the procurement of abortion or miscarriage or any method, treatment or appliance to be used for the purpose of such prevention or such procurement the Minister may refer such complaint to the Board. 
     &ldquo;(2)  The Board shall consider every complaint referred to them by the Minister under this section and for the purpose of such consideration shall examine the book or the particular edition of a book which is the subject of such complaint and on completion of such consideration the Board shall make to the Minister their report on such complaint. 
     &ldquo;(3)  Whenever the Board under this section makes in reference to a complaint a report, assented to and signed by at least four members of the Board, stating that in the opinion of the Board the book or the particular edition of a book which is the subject of such complaint is wholly or in general character indecent or obscene or advocates the unnatural prevention of conception or the procurement of abortion or miscarriage or any method, treatment or appliance to be used for the purpose of such prevention or such procurement the Minister may by order (in this Act referred to as a prohibition order) prohibit the sale and distribution in Saorstat Eireann of such book or of such edition of a book. 
     &ldquo;(4)  A prohibition order made under this section in relation to a book shall, unless it is expressly limited to one or more particular editions of such book, apply to   every edition of such book whether published before or after the date of such order save such (if any) editions thereof as may be excluded by an amending order from the application of such prohibition order.&rdquo;&mdash;(Deputies Law and Tierney). 
     
      
       When the debate was adjourned on the last day, I had almost concluded the remarks which I wished to make on this amendment.  I explained to the House that I was willing to have Section 7 amended so that the words at the end of amendment 24, &ldquo;or advocates the unnatural prevention of conception&rdquo; down to the end, should be added to the section. Section 7 would then read: 
       Whenever a complaint is duly made under this Act by a recognised association to the Minister to the effect that a book or a particular edition of a book is indecent or obscene or advocates the unnatural prevention of conception or the procurement of abortion or miscarriage or any method, treatment or appliance to be used for the purpose of such prevention or such procurement the Minister may refer such complaint to the Board. 
     
     I said on the Second Reading that I was willing to have omitted the other words which that section contains, though I thought they were fairly clearly confined to morality, in the narrow sense, by which the word &ldquo;morality&rdquo; is confined to sexual vice and not to all forms of crime. If this amendment be carried the section will read as I have read it. I also made it clear on the last occasion that Section 17 would stand, and I think that the effect of this amendment is rather to tighten up than to loosen the safeguards against the spread of this anti-conceptive literature, because there will now be a double instead of a single method of dealing with it.  If the books or periodicals dealing with that particular matter are put upon the prohibited list there will be one   penalty for that, if they are sold or dealt with.  On the other hand, Section 17, with its proceedings in court for the sale of that class of book, whether it is on the register or not, will still remain in force.  It is a strengthening up, not a weakening of the safeguards against that particular type of book or periodical. In these circumstances I am willing to accept what is the substance of amendment 24 read into the first part of Section 7. 
     
      
       Deputy Tierney and myself are greatly obliged to the Minister for having accepted these words.  If I might be allowed to say so, I entirely concur in thinking that they do in fact not weaken, but strengthen the proposed law regarding contraceptive propaganda.  Before I say anything further about that, I should like to ask the Minister what his opinion is regarding certain words which are to be found in our amendment before we come to these words&mdash;I mean the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character.&rdquo; The Minister has not indicated what is his view on that matter.  In putting down the amendment, we drafted it in a form which was, perhaps, more formidable than was necessary, because we thought it better on the whole to re-draft the whole section rather than to put in words here and there in the section as it stands.  We had two quite distinct objects, with only one of which the Minister has dealt.  Our first object was to secure in relation to books, which might be judged to be generally of an indecent character, that the whole character of the book, and not merely isolated passages, should be taken into account. In suggesting these words, &ldquo;wholly or in general character,&rdquo; we were endeavouring to express a distinction which the Minister himself has very frequently made in this House between that which is immoral, ex professo, and immoral obiter.  On the last occasion, when we were discussing on another section a kindred matter.  I think the Minister himself   made use of the words in that connection, &ldquo;systematically and in substance.&rdquo; 
       If the Minister prefers these words to the words we have on the paper, I see no objection.  But we attach some importance to its being made clear, in one way or another, that the whole character of a book will have to be taken into consideration by the Board of Censors, in the first instance, and by the Minister in his final discretion.  There is another amendment which I might refer to; that is amendment 36 which, in a rather more detailed manner, attempts to carry out the same idea.  If the Minister thinks that the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; are unnecessary in this place, and if he is prepared to accept amendment 36, I do not see any objection to withdrawing the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character,&rdquo; but I should like to have the Minister's judgment on the whole matter. 
     
     Now with regard to the words which the Minister has been good enough to accept, as he has accepted them, there is no need for me to argue the case, but I should like to take this opportunity of pointing out how completely the purpose of Deputy Tierney and myself has been misrepresented in this matter. It has been assumed, in a certain quarter, that our object was to protect the purveyor of contraceptive literature, and to spread as widely as possible knowledge of contraceptive practices.  Nothing could possibly be further from our thoughts, and, as the Minister has very frankly and generously said, nothing could be further from the effect of the amendment.  We had, in fact, two objects in view.  We wanted, for one thing, to protect the author, the publisher and the bookseller, having possibly frivolous and vexatious charges made against him in court.  And in order to do that, we think it desirable that we should have somebody other than the public courts that would be charged, primarily, with the question of deciding whether or not a particular passage of any particular   book did or did not contravene the prohibition against advocacy of contraception.  That seems to be a perfectly rational and necessary thing to do.  Somebody clearly had to do it, and it appears to us that if the Board of Censors could be trusted to decide whether or not a book was indecent or obsceue, it could equally well be trusted with the cognate matter of deciding whether or not a particular book was, in fact, advocating the practice of contraception.  That is so much for the author, the publisher and the bookseller, but we had another object in view with which I think the House will sympathise and which I should expect some of our critics to sympathise with, too.  So far from desiring to spread knowledge of these practices our object was exactly the reverse. When you bring a case into court, you cannot avoid a greater or lesser degree of publicity.  It is true that you have Part III. of this Bill; Reports of Judicial Proceedings which I suppose will be operative in such a case, but to a greater or lesser extent, the moment you bring a case into court you cannot avoid some publicity; you cannot prevent the public knowing, at any rate, what the case is about.  In a matter of this sort, you would certainly spread the knowledge that there is such a thing. 
     I believe there must be thousands of people who, until these debates began, were perfectly ignorant of the existence of contraception.  I am afraid that from asking what it is to asking how it is practised is a very short step.  I agree with the Minister that you must have power of prosecution in the last resort.  I think it should only be in the last resort, as the longer you can avoid it the better.  In providing, as we have done here, a first line against contraception and in seeing that the prosecutions shall be conducted in private, we are doing something which is in the interests of authors and others as well as in those of public decency.  The Minister has done a great deal to modify my view of what it would have been   necessary to insert later in the Bill. I do not object to clause 17, especially if the Minister is able to accept amendment 36. 
     
      
       Do I take it that this will come up on the Report Stage as an amendment?  It is very different to the amendment on the paper.  We have not the written words of this suggested amendment before us. 
     
     
      
       The words are in amendment 24.  That is the amendment we are debating. If you begin at the word &ldquo;obscene&rdquo; and continue on you will have the words which will go in, subject to any slight alteration which the parliamentary draftsman may consider necessary. 
     
     
      
       In amendment 24 you have sub-section (1).  Do you strike anything out of that? 
     
     
      
       I do not take the amendment but Section 7. It will read: &ldquo;Whenever a complaint is duly made under this Act to the Minister to the effect that a book or a particular edition of a book is indecent or obscene.&rdquo;  In the amendment you take up after the word &ldquo;obscene&rdquo; and say &ldquo;or advocates the unnatural prevention of conception,&rdquo; and so on, down to the end. 
     
     
      
       In any event, the words must appear on the paper for the next stage. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is also accepting amendment 28? 
     
     
      
       I am leaving out these words altogether, as I indicated on Second Reading, namely, &ldquo;or tends to inculcate principles contrary to public morality.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Is there any reason why the Minister should not accept the amendment?  I see no difference. 
     
     
      
       That is so. It would be the same thing, if you left out the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; and substituted the suggested sub-section for the   existing sub-section.  My reason for mentioning it is that the amendment of Deputy Law and Deputy Tierney is that you put in an entirely new sub-section, namely, &ldquo;to insert before sub-section (7).&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I suppose we will be agreed to let this appear as an amendment at a later stage.  If you do that you will have a list of this kind of books.  The Bill provides that their names shall be published in  Iris Oifigiuil.   There is nothing to prevent the Press publishing them. I think we should have a section preventing the publication of the names of these books in the daily Press, thus preventing that advertising and publicity we do not want.  I hope that the Minister will consider such an amendment favourably. 
     
     
      
       That question will arise on another amendment that is to be proposed here to the effect that a list of such books will be published in the daily papers. What the Deputy has said will be more appropriately debated on that amendment. 
     
     
      
       The reason I mention it is that the acceptance of the principle of this amendment adds force to the argument that this list should not be allowed in the daily Press. 
     
     
      
       I suppose one must wait until we come to Section 17 to discuss the question whether it is to remain in its present form, although the Minister has made his position clear to a certain extent as to what was involved in accepting the amendment of Deputy Tierney and Deputy Law.  I will not say any more about it now than that in Section 17 the Minister is going very much beyond the Report of the Committee on the subject, because throughout that Report the Committee were careful to refer to the indiscriminate circulation of this literature.  That was my object in moving an amendment, which is down later on, to secure reference to the Board of Censors of this particular kind of literature.  I am glad   that the Minister has accepted this amendment of Deputy Tierney and Deputy Law, and hope that he will go with them to the full extent of accepting reference in the case of a book which&mdash;either in the words adopted by Deputy Tierney and Deputy Law, or in the words which the Minister himself used either on Second Reading or now&mdash;in its general tendency is calculated to do certain things with reference to immoral matters.  I think, if the Minister is prepared to go to that extent, he will go a long way to remove the objectionable features in the Bill as presented to us.  He has gone a long way explicitly in virtually accepting amendment 38.  The Minister, in accepting that amendment, has carried out an undertaking he gave on Second Reading not to do anything likely to weaken the Bill, but to do something which was likely to make the scope of the Bill very much plainer to the ordinary citizen. 
       I think it is very desirable that some words should be included involving the implication carried by the words in the suggested amendment, &ldquo;wholly or in its general character,&rdquo; particularly in reference to books which, if Section 17 is retained, a book-seller may be brought to court for selling.  That is to say, if a book is found to have a single reference of the character which the Minister indicates, under Section 17, that bookseller could be brought before a court and committed for an offence against the law for having that book for sale on his premises. It would be utterly impossible and unworkable in practice for that to be carried out, I believe.  This is a section which has the great advantage of bringing in this kind of books and making them subject to the Board of Censors if they are wholly or in their general tendency of an objectionable kind.  If these words are inserted the object which the Minister desires to secure will be secured and the evils which he does not want to introduce will be avoided. 
     
     
      
       On the question of the particular words, &ldquo;a   book wholly or in general character,&rdquo; I do not think this is the proper place to insert these words. As Deputy Law himself pointed out, he has introduced a proposed new sub-section with Deputy Tierney, into which he goes into the matter. There is a similar sub-section proposed by Deputy Alton.  As to whether these words should stand part of the Bill or not, or as to the general view which I expressed on Second Reading, and to which I still adhere, that a book should not be generally condemned unless it was ex professo immoral, and whether that should be explicitly stated in the Bill&mdash;as I think it is implicit in it, because it must be taken for granted that a Board of Censors will be a Board of sensible men&mdash;that can be debated on amendment 36.  Since the matter has been specifically mentioned, I do not think that those words should ex professo apply to those books which deal with this particular class of literature we are now discussing.  Our view is that this particular class of literature, which is calculated to do a great deal of moral harm to this country, and that probably is doing a great deal of moral harm in this country, ought for that reason to be singled out by us for special treatment.  It is a special evil to be encountered.  It is the most important evil in current literature to be encountered and crushed, this particular propaganda. For that reason I would ask the House not to insert the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; as applying to that particular class of literature. 
     
     
      
       In order that there should be no misconception, the Minister will see by reading my amendments that the words were never intended to apply to contraceptive literature.  If the Minister will look at the amendment he will see that it does not qualify that special clause. 
     
     
      
       That is quite correct, but I was answering what I understood to be the case made by Deputy Thrift.  I understood him to say that he wished these   words should qualify books of this particular character. 
     
     
      
       My second point is that it is impossible to make a bookseller liable to prosecution if he happens to sell a book which may have a paragraph in it referring to this particular matter.  It might be better to leave these words out, in that connection, because in their particular consideration, the Board shall take into account the general character and tendency of the book. 
     
     
      
       I regret that the Minister has gone so far to meet the high-brow intellectuals in this section of the Bill.  This section has been weakened to such an extent that I am very doubtful if it will achieve the object for which it was originally intended.  In the section of the Bill which the Minister has now accepted, very important words are about to be omitted&mdash;&ldquo;or tend to inculcate principles contrary to public morality.&rdquo;  These words are now definitely eliminated according to the statement of the Minister.  Nobody can disguise the fact that by the elimination of these words this section has been reduced very considerably in its scope and in its operation. Deputy Law, not content with whittling down this important measure to the extent to which it has now been whittled down, wishes the Minister to go on further and to have incorporated the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; in connection with this section of the Bill.  I suggest to the House that the best thing is to eliminate the section altogether.  I think the Minister should stand firm and give way no further.  The Minister has gone to a much greater extent to meet the wishes of a small section than, in my opinion, public feeling would wish him to go.  If the words which Deputy Law and other people are now fighting for&mdash;and they have been fighting a winning battle all along the line&mdash;are incorporated in the Bill, the section in its scope and operation will be practically worthless. What does it mean?  It means that on behalf of these high-brow intellectuals   the wishes of 99 per cent. of the people are being practically overridden by the amendments now introduced to the Bill.  We appear to be exceedingly nervous in dealing with the question of books in this Bill. 
     
     From the very moment the Bill was introduced I could perceive a strong undercurrent among members either to tear up or so alter this section as to render it nugatory or to reduce it to such terms as to make it practically useless.  I regret to see that they have achieved to a very considerable extent the work which they set out to perform.  We have been told from time to time that this literature was not to be found in Dublin.  On the last occasion when the section was before the House, I referred to certain works that have since become famous.  I referred to one work in particular, &ldquo;The Well of Loneliness,&rdquo; which was considered to be so bad by a certain section of the Press that they refused to advertise it, though in the proceedings that have since taken place it received quite a lot of publicity from the Press.  That book can be bought on the quays now.  I hold in my hand another book.  I will not mention the title, but I will mention the name of the author&mdash;Joan Conquest. Anybody can get that book on the quays.  And here we are whittling down this section and reducing it to such dimensions that when it is passed it will be practically entirely useless.  Let us consider at present what is happening and what is the condition of affairs in the City of Dublin.  Here we have a proposed new section, introduced by my colleagues on the left, dealing with certain works, dealing with, for instance, contraceptives and things of that kind, and I find a case in the West London Police Court, a case where a book, the name of which I need not mention&mdash;the author is Margaret Sanger&mdash;was ordered to be destroyed, and in the City of Dublin at present that book is being openly   sold, and there is not a word about it.  And yet, in the face of this condition of things actually existing in Dublin at present, we have one of the most important sections of the Bill being whittled down and reduced to such dimensions that it will be practically of no value whatever. I certainly think we are not doing our duty as representatives of the people on this section, and I do regret that the Minister has permitted these important words &ldquo;tends to inculcate principles contrary to public morality&rdquo; to be eliminated from Section 7. 
     If we are to go on in this mealymouthed fashion, if we are of opinion that this work to which I have referred is suitable for the youth of this country, I say that we should never have introduced this Bill at all.  The subject of birth control in this country is a subject of outstanding importance.  It has been said that the public was not in favour of this section dealing with the control of books, but anybody who has read anything in connection with this matter can see for himself that practically every section of the public stands wholeheartedly behind it.  I might refer to one very important portion of the community which, as long ago as April, 1926, passed a resolution dealing with this important section that is now being whittled down&mdash;I refer to the Irish Commercial Travellers' Federation. I presume that the Deputies who stand behind these amendments would consider that the ordinary commercial traveller could not possibly have any taste in literature or in art; they would consider that the ordinary type of these gentlemen find that the sixpenny editions, the cheap novels that may be got in Woolworths, are sufficient to satisfy their intellectual wants.  In my opinion, the taste for literature and the taste for art exists just as much among the common people as it does amongst this high-brow section who have been carrying their amendments without stint, and now they are trying to have this thing brought in&mdash;&ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; &mdash;with regard to contraceptives. I am glad that the Minister did not go that far. 
     
      
       We did not ask him to do so.  I am sure my friend is speaking in good faith, but his understanding is not very powerful, perhaps. If he would read the amendment he will see that the words, &ldquo;wholly or in general character,&rdquo; do not qualify the words &ldquo;advocates the unnatural prevention.&rdquo; They are in a different part of the clause altogether, and they do not qualify these other words.  They have nothing to do with them. 
     
     
      
       The amendment says: &ldquo;Whenever a complaint is duly made under this Act to the Minister to the effect that a book or a particular edition of a book is wholly or in general character indecent or obscene&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Or.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Now, what does that mean?  We have a comma there, but we cannot stop there.  It means that before you can condemn a book the book must be practically immoral from cover to cover. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       What does the word &ldquo;wholly&rdquo; mean&mdash;&ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo;?  However, it is not worth while taking up the time of the House over that, because the Minister has declined to accept it. It is nearly time to stop somewhere. I suggest that the proper thing would be to eliminate the whole section dealing with books.  I saw from the very moment that this Bill was introduced that a determined attempt would be made to eliminate this section, and, as I said, I do regret to say that that attempt has been wonderfully successful.  When one considers that in 1924 we had books, periodicals, etc., coming into the country to the value of £469,000 and that in 1925 we had £512,000 worth coming in, one can easily see the tremendous field that has got to be dealt with under this Section, which is now being narrowed and narrowed, and   if the narrowing process goes on, there will be nothing left. 
       In my opinion, books are almost as injurious as the Press.  There appears to be a tendency here not to condemn immoral or obscene books. Why?  We can condemn anything we like as far as the State is concerned&mdash;the sale of bad meat, the sale of drink, the sale of improper food&mdash;but we cannot condemn the sale of improper or immoral literature. And now this section will be further reduced before we stop, until it might as well not be in the Bill at all.  I wonder what all these wonderful intellectuals have to say to a statement of Dean Inge's&mdash;well, I am open to correction; there are many ways of pronouncing a man's name.  I will spell the name&mdash;Inge. In dealing with the present state of literature he said that French, Russian, and English literature &ldquo;has introduced both vulgarity and indecency under the names of realism and problem psychology, threatening an outbreak of licentiousness like that which followed the Civil War in the seventeenth century and the Napoleonic Wars of a hundred years ago.&rdquo;  I say that that is not exaggerating the picture of what exists in this city to-day.  And yet we are frightened to pass a reasonable section of a Bill, and are allowing four or five Deputies to reduce it to such dimensions that, in my opinion, will make it entirely worthless.  I hope that the concessions that the Minister is prepared to give to those four or five high-brow Deputies have reached an end and that we will hear no more of concessions, because it would be better and more decent to eliminate the entire section and have done with it. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether Deputy Byrne expects to be canonised as a result of the outburst to which he has just treated the House. 
     
     
      
       We will make a martyr of him. 
     
     
      
       I have a personal suspicion that one of the principal   reasons for this outburst is that Deputy Byrne hopes to appear in the next issue of the &ldquo;Catholic Pictorial&rdquo; with a halo around his head.  The ancient Greeks had a theory that virtue and knowledge were identical.  I am sure that nobody in the House, especially after hearing Deputy Byrne's speech, has any suspicion whatever or any doubts whatever about Deputy Byrne's virtue, but from what he have heard from him on this Bill the House and people in general have legitimate grounds for suspecting his knowledge. 
       He has shown in this remarkable piece of moral felon-setting, which he has carried on against Deputy Law and myself, a rather lamentable want of acquaintance, not only with the ordinary meaning of sentences but with the ordinary rules of English grammar.  The whole gist of his attack on what he is pleased to term &ldquo;high-brow intellectuals&rdquo; simply resolves itself into a denunciation of Deputy Law and myself, because we wish to delete from this section one clause, which it was the common opinion of all sides of the House on the Second Reading of the Bill should be deleted.  That was the clause that extended the operation of this section in the original Bill to &ldquo;principles contrary to public morality.&rdquo; The only serious way in which this section has been whittled down, as Deputy Byrne pleases to term the operation, is by the exclusion of these words.  As the whole House has agreed with the Minister that these words should be deleted, I am afraid Deputy Law and I are not the only people who are under the charge of being &ldquo;high-brow intellectuals.&rdquo; 
     
     I am in agreement with what the Minister said as to the undesirability of making these words &ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; apply to the type of literature referred to in the latter part of the sub-section, and as Deputy Law pointed out, neither he nor I had ever the intention that these words   should apply to that type of literature, nor would the words as we have included them in the sub-section have that effect.  There is, however, I think, a distinction which it might be possible to make&mdash;a different distinction&mdash;as regards books of the second type.  This may not be the best place to deal with that; it might come in more suitably under Section 17.  But, I think, when discussing the advocacy of these unnatural practices we should draw a distinction between certain types of advocacy. There is one type of advocacy which is very direct, clear, and certain, about whose immediate condemnation there would be no doubt whatever, but there is another type of advocacy which simply consists, in some cases, of advocacy of what might be called Malthusian political economy in a very broad way, the inclusion of which in this Bill might, I think, give rise to a certain amount of difficulty, and which in itself, at any rate, is not calculated to do exactly the same amount of harm as the other sort of advocacy is. 
     I have often said, and it seems necessary to repeat it over and over again, that I am as anxious that this type of propaganda should be dealt with strictly and severely as anybody in this House.  As I said in moving the amendment the other day, it is our duty in dealing with this problem to try to obviate not only injury to the community, but injustice to individuals.  Even yet, even though the Minister has accepted our amendment to this section, I feel that in Section 17, as it stands, there is a certain amount of danger of injustice to individuals. There is a further danger, to my mind, and, perhaps, I may again be accused of being a high-brow intellectual for saying so&mdash;there is a danger that this country may, by rashly, hastily, and without full consideration, taking action in certain cases of this kind, against certain authors, for example, who do not actually and directly advocate birth-control, but who, by the terms of this Bill, may be reasonably supposed   to be, in certain circumstances, advocating birth control, leave itself open to certain anti-Irish propaganda, which may do greater harm to this country, in the long run, than the harm the Bill tries to obviate.  I say this, not with any intention of defending these authors; I have no wish whatever to defend people who directly or indirectly inculcate these practices. 
     Personally I would be very little concerned if everything they write could be kept out of the country, but what I want to raise is, first, the danger that you may commit an injustice, that you may leave yourself open to do an injustice to innocent individuals&mdash;booksellers and newsagents&mdash;and in the second place, that you may leave your country open to an accusation&mdash;an undeserved accusation if you like&mdash; which might very easily be made, of obscurantism, and a desire to keep out certain books, which are supposed to be&mdash;although they really are not&mdash;books that have to do with modern culture.  I am making these observations, purely with a desire to see that this Bill shall be as good as it possibly can be, with a desire to see that it shall be, not only effective in countering a grave moral evil, which I believe exists, but also that it will counter that evil in such a way as neither to do harm to the individual member of the community, nor the good name and reputation of the community as a whole.  I hope to discuss this question more at length in Section 17, because I think that, even yet, the matter requires to be gone into more fully. 
     
      
       On a point of information, I would be glad if Deputy Tierney could give an instance of the bad grammer to which he referred. 
     
     
      
       He would keep us too long. 
     
     
      
       I wish to support Deputy Byrne's remarks in this matter not so much that there is anything in the amendment moved by   Deputy Tierney, and by Deputy Law; it does not affect the Bill very much, and I think the Minister might very well accept it.  There is really nothing in the amendment one way or another.  But having regard to the attitude adopted, I am protesting against the introduction of 92 amendments to a Bill which has been universally recognised as one that is acceptable to the public in general, and that is a good Bill.  A number of amendments were introduced, and it was agreed when the Bill was introduced, and previously, that all facilities and every assistance would be given to the Minister to carry the Bill as it was put forward. Since then those amendments have come in, and instead of receiving assistance from the Farmers' Party, it has not, as two divisions that have been taken prove, got the consideration it should have got. That is the reason that I protest against the manner in which these amendments are received and conceded. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can only protest against them, one at a time. 
     
     
      
       As to amendment 24 there is really nothing in it, but I protest in general against the introduction of so many amendments. When the amendments are considered by the House they are left to a free vote, and that free vote discloses, not free voting but practically Party voting and, on occasion, Deputies who have not been here, or who have not listened to the arguments in favour of the Bill, have voted without giving sufficient consideration to the Bill.  Having regard to the fact that the Bill as it stands is a fit and proper Bill, one that satisfies the public universally, one that was introduced after reasonable and deliberate consultation; I trust that it will receive reasonable and deliberate consideration. 
     
     
      
       Is not Deputy Connolly out of order?  Are we not in Committee now? 
     
     
     
      
       We should see that particular attention is given to this Bill, and that amendments are discussed in a manner that will reveal to the House the exact frame of mind of the people who are going to vote for them.  I think Deputy Tierney demonstrated the point further, proving to Deputy Byrne that they were the only party that had given consideration to it, and that no one else in the House was fit to give consideration to the amendment or to the Bill, and that Deputy Byrne or no other Deputy was in a position to judge for himself what was right or wrong.  I hope when these amendments come forward that we will have a definite understanding as to where we are and that we will not place the responsibility on those people to try to show to the public that they are in support of, and that they mean to get a good Censorship Bill into operation.  This is not the way we should have it.  We should have the Bill as nearly as possible in the shape it was presented.  The Bill then was a good one, but now we have ninety-two amendments to it. Any considerable number of those amendments would leave the Bill practically useless. 
     
     
      
       May I point out to the Deputy that 23 of those amendments have been put down by the Deputy who sits beside him? 
     
     
      
       I admit that I do not think Section 7 is likely to be as successful in operation as I hoped, when it was first introduced, that it would be.  That is not because any alteration has been made in Section 7, but because the machinery I thought was necessary for putting Section 7 into completely successful operation has been destroyed by the House.  That is the associations, and also, as I expressed it strongly, my view is that a Board of nine is too large and that this section will not work as well as I hoped it would work.  I am satisfied about that, but that the section is, in itself, completely worthless I cannot agree, or that it should be eliminated I cannot,   in the slightest, agree with the Deputy.  When the Deputy says that I have weakened in my attitude towards this section, then the Deputy certainly did not read or listen to my Second Reading speech.  I expressed a view in my Second Reading speech as to what that section meant, and I have not deviated from that by one hair's-breadth.  I said precisely what I thought was the true meaning of the section at the time it was introduced, but because it was pointed out to me that a lay board of this nature might misconceive what was intended to be the true meaning of this section I said these particular words might be left out. That did not come from high-brows, but it came before there was any discussion in the House at all.  It was in my Second Reading speech, in which I introduced this Bill, that I drew the old catholic distinction between ex professo and obiter.  It was in that Second Reading speech of mine that I also said if those words were liable to be misconstrued I would take them out. 
     
     
      
       What does the Minister wish us to do? 
     
     
      
       As far as those words are concerned, I can leave them there. 
     
     
      
       What I was wondering is, were there not two alternatives, one to accept, broadly speaking, the amendment on the paper, the other to take the clause on the paper and amend it. 
     
     
      
       I will bring in a new clause. 
     
     
      
       But for the moment. 
     
     
      
       For the moment&mdash;in the Report Stage I will have a new clause in the words I have spoken of. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister wishes we will withdraw the amendment. 
     
     
      
       On the understanding that the amendment will come up on Report. 
     
     
     
      
       On the understanding that amendments will be moved to give effect to those words on the Report Stage, I beg leave to withdraw the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Before the amendment passes.  I presume the words &ldquo;wholly or in general character&rdquo; will not be incorporated in the amendment the Minister will move. 
     
     
      
       That will come in on the discussion later as to whether they should be there or not. The matter will come in on the discussion of amendments 36 and 37. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1) to delete all words after the word &ldquo;Minister,&rdquo; line 48, to the end of the sub-section and substitute therefor the following words: &ldquo;shall cause such complaint to be examined by an officer to be appointed by him for the purpose and on the receipt of the report of that officer the Minister may in his discretion refer such complaint to the Board.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to try and avoid the consideration by the Minister of frivolous or, as has been referred to here, vexatious complaints, and to have them dealt with by an official of the Minister's Department.  If people can get very easily to the Minister and the Board, I suggest it is an encouragement for vexatious and frivolous complaints to be brought forward.  If such an officer, as is suggested here, were appointed, the Minister could refer to him complaints that come to his notice.  This Censorship Board will have a good deal of other work to do besides that.  It is a serious matter. It will enable, I am sure, a good deal of these vexatious or frivolous complaints to be dealt with by an official or officer under the charge of the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy has not made himself quite cognisant with what must be   the practice in Government Departments. Of course, if a complaint is made to the Minister for Justice it is absolutely essential that this complaint should be investigated by the officials of the Department.  It would be impossible that every letter which comes into a Department should be seen, opened and replied to personally by the Minister.  In the same way, if books of this nature come in the responsibility is the Minister's.  But the Minister, if it is a perfectly clear case, will be able to see that a minute will be put up by whatever official of his Department he leaves the matter to.  That is the ordinary procedure that will have to be gone through.  I may put one, two or three particular officials, according as they are required, on the work, but this is entirely a departmental matter.  The way the Minister handles the details of his own Department should not be controlled by a special section in any Act of Parliament.  It would be completely new in departmental work and, I think, a very unhappy innovation. 
     
     
      
       The object of the amendment is not what the Minister states.  I understand that Ministers have matters that they cannot attend to personally; they refer them to officials.  But starting off before you come to that amendment, the Minister said in a permissive way, &ldquo;That the Minister may refer to the Board.&rdquo;  In the amendment I have put in the Minister &ldquo;shall&rdquo; refer those complaints to an officer appointed specially for that purpose. In other words, the object of this is that a special officer be set up in the position of a censor who will be able to deal with all these complaints when they come in. 
     
     
      
       What it really means is that the Minister shall only have one person in his office who can be put on this work and that he may never use his own intelligence.  Take a case in which the Minister says: &ldquo;I want to read this book.&rdquo;  He cannot do this himself, but must refer it to an officer.   The Minister may, on occasions, wish to do that himself without reference to any officer.  I may have heard outside that a particular book is being denounced.  I may say it is obviously a book that I should read myself, to see whether it is popular clamour or whether there is a real foundation for it.  I might read that book and never send it to an official at all.  The real thing is, the Minister is in control of his Department, and he should be given control of his Department. 
     
     
      
       I think if the Minister reads further on in the amendment he will see &ldquo;the Minister may, in his discretion&rdquo;&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I see that. 
     
     
      
       He will get that opportunity at that stage.  At the earlier stage this will be, I might say, a labour-saving device. 
     
     
      
       He can save it without this. 
     
     
      
       He can take up a book and deal with it. 
     
     
      
       It would not save the Minister any labour.  It is not giving the Minister any power he does not already possess, and it may hinder him.  It will be an embarrassment and not an assistance. 
     
     
      
       An officer of this kind would be a chief officer, I suppose, in his Department.  He would supply the Department dealing with the Board of Censorship and would shorten the work not merely for the Minister but also for the Board, because his reports would direct the attention of the Board to the nature of the book and to the exact passages objected to.  In general that kind of machinery would make the measure a very effective one. 
     
     The Minister has complained that the amendments which were carried, in spite of him, have injured the Bill. Of course, one never likes to see one's own scheme or project cut across by other views.  Allowing for that feeling of disappointment for   the moment, I think he must also allow our complaints that in the Press it has appeared as a prejudice against us that we have been out against these associations and that we have spoiled the machinery of the Bill as it originally stood. 
     
      
       That is not for the decision of the House. 
     
     
      
       That is so.  I only mentioned it because our view is that it is, first of all, in principle better to use official machinery than semi-official machinery.  I think that is a rule in legislation.  The associations were going to be semi-official.  Here you are going to have a machine that is purely official.  This particular officer is going to play an important part in carrying through, in an effective and speedy manner, the work of censorship. 
     
     
      
       I would suggest to Deputy Ruttledge not to press this amendment, not for any particular value it may have in itself in this particular instance, but because, to my mind, it introduces a new departure altogether so far as our legislation is concerned.  We take it for granted here that the Minister does this, that and the other thing. We put the responsibility on him, through our legislation here&mdash;that is the theory&mdash;but we know, in practice, he may not do a whole lot; he may get other people to do it for him.  I think this is a new departure and that it ought not to be inserted in a measure of this kind, as a matter of fact not inserted at all, but certainly not here, without very grave consideration as to the precedent that is being created by its insertion.  I say that, apart altogether from amendments or the manner in which this particular provision may be worked.  I think we should not, without very great consideration, depart from what has been the practice and precedent, the putting on the Minister the onus of doing certain things.  Let it be done in the usual departmental way, with the whole responsibility for the manner in which it is done upon the Minister. 
     
     
     
      
       I looked into this amendment with some care.  I do not see that it will do any harm, and I do not see that it will do very much good.  As the Minister has pointed out, the practice is that one, two or three officers are delegated to do work which the Minister cannot be expected to do.  I think it is just as well that it should be anonymous, that the Department should do it. To expressly appoint an officer who would, I suppose, be a whole time officer to do this work, would, to my mind, amount to acquiescing in duplication of functions.  This officer will be a kind of pre-censor board in himself.  If he is a man of very strong will and definite judgment it is very likely that he will determine the issue for or against any particular book.  The Deputy explained, of course, that it is the Minister who will decide, but I think it is not unknown that permanent officials have decided things for their Ministers.  It is an allegation.  I do not suppose it is always true, but I can imagine that a particular official of this sort, with determination, might arrogate to himself a ministerial responsibility, and, I think, it is desirable that the Minister should have all the responsibility in this matter.  As a matter of practice, of course, it is only an attempt to save the Minister from trivial complaints, from the applications of every busybody or any person who is prepared to write a letter  pro bono publico.   There will be an official or officials, as the Minister pointed out, and I really do not think that this amendment will add a piece of useful machinery to the Bill.  I do not see any harm in it; I do not see any good. 
     
     
      
       I think this amendment really originated by anticipation of the objections which we presumed the Minister would offer to the deletion of Section 6.  He suggested that if the provisions regarding the recognised associations were deleted from the Bill there would be no machinery whereby the complaint of an ordinary citizen in regard to a book would be properly considered and dealt with.  We wished to ensure   that every complaint made by citizens would receive attention.  At the same time we were aware that a considerable number, possibly, of frivolous and unsustainable objections would be lodged to books and, so as not to encumber the work of the Censorship Board with these frivolous objections, we thought that this proposal would meet the case.  I understand from the Minister that every objection will be considered in his Department.  Consequently the necessity for the recognised associations is no longer insisted upon, as far as I can see.  In view of that, my attitude to this amendment has certainly been considerably modified. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 31:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 48, to delete the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;shall.&rdquo; 
       The object of the amendment is to make it imperative on the Minister to refer complaints to the Board.  By the deletion of Section 6, the words &ldquo;recognised associations&rdquo; were struck out of the Bill.  I realise, because of that, that increased responsibility will be thrown on the Minister, and I will be glad to hear what his views on this amendment are. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Deputy sees that he is weakening the Bill very considerably by his proposed amendment.  If the Minister is bound to refer every complaint to the Board, then a lot of complaints that the Minister could deal with himself will have to be referred to it. The Minister, for instance, has power to deal at once with obviously obscene literature.  If he has to refer cases of that kind to the Board he will simply be delaying action. In other cases, where frivolous complaints are sent to the Minister, if he is obliged to send those complaints to the Board he will simply be wasting the time of the Board. 
     
     
      
       Under the scheme of the Bill, the Minister does not condemn any book offhand   except on the recommendation of the Board, and why that is &ldquo;may&rdquo; and not &ldquo;must&rdquo; is to avoid sending on obviously frivolous complaints.  Deputy Cooper mentioned the other day that somebody might send in the &ldquo;Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.&rdquo;  If Deputy Doyle's amendment was carried, that book would have to be sent on to the Censorship Board.  I do not think it is at all likely that book is ever going to be sent in.  If Deputy Cooper knows of anyone who is going to send it in, I would ask him to tell that person to send in an edition that it will not be necessary to return.  I am not accepting the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 32: In sub-section (2) line 52, to insert before the word &ldquo;examine&rdquo; the words &ldquo;read and.&rdquo; 
       On the Second Reading of this Bill the Minister said, I think, in reply to Deputy Sir James Craig, that it was not absolutely essential that the members of the Board should actually read a book.  The section says that the Board &ldquo;shall examine.&rdquo;  I think, before a book is condemned, we should need to know whether the members of the Board had taken the trouble to read it.  Deputy Cooper showed me a book.  I did not read it.  I read the cover of it, and that was quite enough to condemn the book. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy, I think, has answered his own case.  If he is going to condemn a book by the cover, why should he condemn the members of the Board to read every book from the first page to the last?  There must be some books that it will be necessary to read through.  There will be some books that will have to be studied line by line before coming to a conclusion as to whether they should be condemned or not.  It may, perhaps, be going a little too far to say that.  On the other hand, there are books which   are so blatantly indecent and known to be indecent, that it would be unnecessary for the members of the Board to read every line of them.  Should the members of the Board, for instance, be compelled to read through every line of &ldquo;Ulysses,&rdquo; a book that has been universally condemned? 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 33: In sub-section (2), line 53, to insert after the word &ldquo;complaint&rdquo; the words &ldquo;and shall, if requested by the proprietor, editor, or publisher of the book, hear him or them in person or represented by counsel or solicitor in defence of the book or particular edition of the book before making the report.&rdquo; 
       I do not press for the acceptance of the first part of the amendment.  I suppose it is well known that certain authors might be criticised and, so to speak, ear-marked, no matter how good their work might be, on account of some work that they had previously written.  Because of that they might be censored without their case being given due consideration. Since Deputy Alton's amendment was turned down, it might happen that some crank would send in a request to the Board making an attack upon a certain book.  That complaint might be considered very serious when coming from certain individuals and, on the other hand, it might not be considered serious when coming from others.  No matter how keen the Board might be to do justice in regard to the book, on account of the person who sent in the complaint that fact might have a certain amount of weight with them.  We all know that it frequently happens that authors have spent not only their fortune, but practically their last penny, in trying to get a certain book published. I think it is not asking too much that professional service might be engaged to argue before the Board on behalf of a certain book. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if the Minister is going to accept the principle of the amendment, but if   he does I hope he will, at any rate, see that it is re-drafted.  The person vitally concerned, the author, is not the proprietor of the book.  He parts with his property in the book when he signs an agreement with the publishers.  Yet, if anyone is to be heard in support of the book it should not be the publisher or the editor, but the person who wrote the book.  I do say that there is a good deal to be said for the principle of the amendment, but in its present wording it would leave out the person who has the most right to be considered.  I think that the principle of allowing a man to be heard in his own defence is a sound one, and in this instance, to omit the person who could make the best defence is, I think, an error. 
     
     
      
       I disagree with Deputy Cooper on the matter. Although the principle is usually, in fact almost universally, good, that a person should be heard in his own defence, I think there is no case in which the evidence will be so clear as in this particular case.  The Board will not be condemning what the author has in his mind or what his purpose was in writing the book, but rather the effect of the book on the people likely to read it.  That is what the Board of Censors will have to take into account.  No matter how genuine the purpose of the author may have been, no matter what ideas he may have had in his mind when writing the book, and no matter how good they may have been, he may not have succeeded in interpreting these ideas in his book. It is not what was in the author's mind that ought to be considered by the Board so much as what is actually written in the book and what will come to the notice of people reading it.  There is no question but that the Board of Censors will be composed of a sensible body of people who will not condemn a book on mere frivolous complaints. Being a sensible body of people, they will give such judgments as they will be able to stand over. 
     
     I cannot conceive that this amendment will help things in any way.   It would, I think, lead to all kinds of abuses if it were adopted.  The author might think it would be a good opportunity to advertise himself by going before the Board and explaining his particular mission or message.  I do not know whether Deputy Cole presses for the employment of solicitors and counsel.  I can see a great opening for the legal profession if that were carried.  I do not know whether the Minister for Justice and Deputy Ruttledge and Deputy Little will have to keep a special eye on things to see that that part of it is not omitted.  Surely a book is something that on the face of it bears evidence which should either justify or condemn it in the eyes of the Board of Censors? 
     
      
       I agree with what Deputy O'Connell has said, and for the reason he has stated, that the book must stand or fall by itself.  I also agree that it would turn the Board into a court, and if an author or somebody can go before the Board of Censors and argue for three or four days as to whether or not a book should be condemned, that would upset the whole working machinery of the Bill.  I cannot accept the amendment.  There is a great deal more to be said, however, for Deputy Alton's subsequent amendment, but it is not ruled by this. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister concede the right of an author to appear in person without being represented? 
     
     
      
       No.  We will come to that on Deputy Alton's amendment.  If the Board thinks the author could be of assistance it might ask him to attend. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), lines 53-54, to delete the words &ldquo;on the completion of such consideration&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;within one month from the date of such reference.&rdquo; 
     
     
        The sub-section as it stands gives the Board of Censors an indefinite time to consider a book which might be in circulation in the country. That book might be an objectionable one, and I think a time limit ought to be inserted, but I am not pressing for the one month, and if the Minister prefers to substitute another period I will accept it. 
     
      
       I hope that except in very doubtful cases the Board will be able to deal with the matter very much under a month.  It will be able to deal with the more objectionable books after the first reading.  Other books might take a little more time, but I cannot agree to the Board being tied down to any particular time.  We must assume the Board will do its work properly.  If it does not we must form another Board.  If the Board were not able to deal with a book within a month the whole complaint would die and vanish away at the end of the month.  That would be the result of the amendment.  Supposing the Board took more than a month, then its decision would be invalid and it would have to deal with the whole thing over again. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Amendment 35 not moved. 
     
     
      
       Might I suggest that amendment 36, by Deputy Law and Deputy Tierney, and amendment 37 by Deputy Alton, be considered together, as they are almost the same? 
     
     
      
       I would agree to the two being put together. 
     
     
      
       I do not object. 
       Amendment 36.  Before sub-section (3) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     (3)  In their consideration of a complaint, the Board shall take into account the general tenor and character of the book or the particular edition of a book, its literary, artistic, scientific or historic   merit or importance, the language in which it is printed or produced, the nature and extent of the circulation which it appears to the Board it is intended to have, the class of reader which in the opinion of the Board may reasonably be expected to read it in Saorstat Eireann, and all other matters which appear to the Board to be relevant. &mdash; (Hugh A. Law, Michael Tierney.) 
     Amendment 37.  Before sub-section (3) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     In making their report, the Board shall take into consideration the main purpose of the author, the type of reader to which the book or the particular edition of the book which is the subject of the complaint is addressed or is likely to appeal, the value and interest of the book or the particular edition in question of the book from a literary or scientific standpoint: and they shall be empowered to communicate with the author or editor or publisher of the book or of the particular edition in question of the book and to take into account any representations made on behalf of the book or the particular edition in question of the book by the aforesaid author or editor or publisher.&mdash; (Ernest H. Alton.) 
     
      
       The purpose of my amendment, as well as the first part of amendment 37, is, I think, obvious on the face of it, and will commend itself to the House.  It is quite obvious that the same subject matter may be treated by one author so as to be entirely offensive and by another so as to be entirely innocuous. There are people who are likely to read a bad book in the French, German, Italian and possibly, the Latin or Greek languages, but that book is not likely to have a large popular circulation.  It is also relevant to consider the class of people.  It is quite obvious that a book from reading which a child might receive great harm might be read without much danger by a   grown-up person.  I shall probably be accused of class prejudice when I say that what can be read without qualm by people of a certain mental training may very easily do considerable harm to people without training. All these circumstances I can see to be relevant to a proper consideration of the book by a Board of Censors, and for that reason I move the amendment.  Of course, Deputy Alton will deal with his own alternative, but the words in amendment 36 are, perhaps, more precise. 
     
     
      
       I move my amendment.  I have very little to add to what Deputy Law has said. He has put the case.  I think his words are, to some extent, better than my own, except he talks of a class of reader.  I was thinking not merely of readers as distinguished by their education and their position in life, but I was thinking also of trying to bring in by &ldquo;type of reader&rdquo; a reference to age.  There are books you can put into the hands of adults that you certainly cannot put into the hands of schoolboys and schoolgirls. 
     
     
      
       I think the word &ldquo;class&rdquo; was intended to cover what Deputy Alton has in mind.  It was not intended in the sense of a social class, but of classification. 
     
     
      
       I would like to make that explicit.  I have in my amendment the words &ldquo;the value and interest of the book or the particular edition in question of the book from a literary or scientific standpoint.&rdquo; That is a general statement to allow the Board to consider one of those rare books, like the book that is prohibited in England and published in Paris and written by an Irishman. That possibly might be allowed to circulate amongst students of economic science or students of literature under certain conditions, and it would do very little harm.  It is not likely to have a large circulation. Perhaps Deputy Law's restriction of circulation, taking into account the kind of circulation, would cover that point. 
     
     There is in the second half of my   amendment a point that Deputy Cole already raised.  I think that the Board themselves would like to have the power, that it would be optional with them, to consult or communicate with the author, publisher or editor or any person directly or indirectly interested in the book.  I think only good can come out of such communications. Possibly the book might have, say, one feature that would be objectionable in the eyes of the Board of Censors&mdash;a feature which would not be essential to the book.  In a case of that kind negotiations with the author or publisher might result in the deletion of the objectionable feature. That is a suggestion that I wish to submit.  On the grounds of general equity, and when you are dealing with property, I think before you resort to measures that mean almost confiscation, you should consult the author unless, of course, he has put himself completely out of court at once by producing a book which is prima facie obscene.  That is manifestly a case in the defence of which, from first to last, I have nothing to say. 
     
      
       I do not want to prevent the Censorship Board from exercising all its discretionary powers in the matter.  At the same time, I do not see why there should be a very strong consideration claimed for a type of book that is extremely literary and at the same time extremely obscene, even if it also happens to be extremely expensive and rare.  I do not see that because a book is expensive and very literary, it, therefore, should be allowed to pass if it is also obscene.  That is the only loophole one sees in this particular amendment&mdash;that books should get through on the plea of being precious books.  That would be very undesirable.  I do not see why that should be allowed for one class rather than for another class. 
     
     
      
       With a good deal of this amendment I am in agreement because I think it only puts explicitly what is implicit in   the Bill.  It is the method by which a sensible Board of Censors would have to administer this Bill.  As a matter of fact, a list of suggested amendments was sent to me by a Vigilance Society in which they expressed themselves rather well as to the class of books that ought to be condemned.  These were books that were likely &ldquo;to corrupt minds open to vicious influence.&rdquo;  Well, &ldquo;minds open to vicious influence&rdquo; are, of course, unformed minds. 
       When a person gets to a certain age, his mind is formed, and if he chooses to read immoral literature it might not do him much harm because he is either too good or too bad as the case may be.  What you really want is a Censorship Board which will prevent persons who may be really morally injured by books having such books not merely placed at their disposal but more or less flung at them.  While largely accepting the principle of both these amendments, I could not accept the amendments exactly with the words &ldquo;the Board shall&rdquo; and so on, but I think if they were made to read &ldquo;the Board may&rdquo; and so on the amendments might be accepted.  For instance, &ldquo;the language in which it is written,&rdquo; etc., or its &ldquo;literary, artistic or scientific merit,&rdquo; should not be the final consideration and I know it is not Deputy Tierney's or Deputy Law's intention that it should be the final consideration.  It may be said: &ldquo;this is a great literary book, no matter how indecent it is,&rdquo; but that is not their intention.  I think the section would be more happily expressed if &ldquo;may&rdquo; were substituted for &ldquo;shall.&rdquo;  It is only a small matter. 
     
     With regard to Deputy Alton's suggestion that they shall be empowered to communicate with the author or editor or publisher of the book, I may say that that is a matter to which I have no objection.  If the Board of Censors think that it would be of help to them in coming to a decision to communicate with the editor or publisher, they might do so. But, as a matter of fact, all that is already inherent in the Bill.  I think   the occasions on which that would arise would be very few.  I agree with Deputy O'Connell, it is not what the author thinks that the Board of Censors will be concerned with.  It is not his actual thought but his expressed thought which is under consideration.  I will take these amendments and get the happiest form in which the ideas outlined in them can be expressed in a new amendment which will be brought up on Report.  With the spirit of these amendments, the whole House is, I think, very much in agreement and I would like to get the views expressed now brought into a new amendment.  I will endeavour to have that amendment following as closely on the ideas expressed in the House as the Parliamentary draftsman can make it. 
     
      
       I am very glad that the Minister has agreed to accept the principle of these amendments. To my mind, these amendments will go very far towards removing the fear that certain people have legitimately felt as to the possible danger of a Bill like this.  On the Second Reading, I said that the whole question of the censorship of books is a very dangerous and difficult question and a question that stands on an altogether different footing from the question of the censorship of periodicals.  That is still my opinion.  In that opinion, I am glad to see that I am supported by the Minister's own Committee on Evil Literature, which says in its Report: 
       The question regarding books is of a more difficult character than that relating to fugitive publications, though perhaps not so important in this inquiry, owing to their more limited sale.  Literature has established for itself a wide range in the choice of subject matter and the form of treatment. 
     
     The Report goes on to say, at greater length, that the whole question of censoring literature, in general, bristles with difficulties and should   be approached with the utmost caution. 
     Everybody knows that there is a large class of cheap literature which may be very well called obscene and is exemplified by the book which Deputy Byrne, after the manner of Cato, almost threw on the floor of the House a few minutes ago, are books exactly of the type about which there would be very little, if any, disagreement.  In actual fact, it is quite probable the works of the eminent lady of whom the Deputy has such horror are much more harmful on their covers than they are inside.  But the mere fact that they are produced with such covers and with a desire to appeal to such people as they actually do appeal to, is sufficient, to my mind, to cause them to be condemned without being read.  Then you come to a far wider class of books which may, in certain circumstances and for certain classes of people, be legitimately termed obscene, but which, for general purposes, have a value that cannot be altogether set aside.  There you have a very different problem indeed.  To my mind, the less the Board of Censorship interferes with that wider class of general literature, the better. 
     Deputy Byrne quoted Dean Inge as to the terrible importation of foul works into England and the necessity for dealing with them.  I hope I will not take up the time of the House too much if I quote some of the words of Monsignor, then Canon, W. Barry on the question of the censorship of fiction in 1909.  Writing in the &ldquo;Dublin Review&rdquo; of January, 1909, in a paragraph in an article there he completely rules out of court the whole question of the censorship of fiction for England. He says:&mdash; 
     What could a censor hope to do, if he took in hand the thousand and one English Nights' Entertainments now crowding to publication?  On what principles would he discriminate between the lawful and the lawless novel?   He might be illiterate and illiberal, pedantic or headstrong, and would an aggrieved writer be allowed to appeal from his verdict? What would the firm of Tauchnitz say to this embargo on their merchandise?  Should we not hear of editions published at Leipzig, smuggled across the Straits of Dover, and recommended as forbidden fruit to a greedy market?  Or suppose the offending author boldly printed and sold his romance in Paternoster Row, would he not become a champion of liberty, backed by all the anarchic and many of the intelligent who will never admit that any Government is infallible? Can we imagine the censorship not breaking down under its enormous task?  or journalism meekly submissive to its dictates? or the fate of Ministers hanging on the life or death of a disputed story-book?  In that way, I think, whatever has to be done will not be attempted.  The censor of fiction in England is never likely to flourish any more.  He was argued out of court by Milton, and nailed to the pillory with Daniel Defoe. 
     While the conditions that prevailed in England when that article was written are not by any means the same as the conditions which prevail in Ireland now, and while we have arguments which justify us in making some attempt to deal with this question, still I do believe and hold most sincerely that the arguments put forward by a writer of the standing and authority of Monsignor Barry in a periodical of this kind are well worthy of attention.  They are more worthy of the close attention and careful consideration of men situated as we are than the arguments, probably written in another context altogether, of a writer like Dean Inge. I hope when the Censorship Board is established and comes to work smoothly that its members will bear in mind the very important distinction that must be observed, if its work is to succeed, between books which are for general purposes   obscene in their intention and books which, whatever may be their character in other respects, have a definite value from the educational, literary and artistic point of view. 
     It is because I believe this section will lay down a headline which the Censorship Board may follow in that respect, that I am very pleased the Minister has seen fit to accept the principle contained in these amendments. 
     
      
       I also am very glad that the Minister has accepted the principles contained in these amendments.  I think that their inclusion in the Bill will lead to a distinct improvement.  I confess I am a little uneasy about one point.  I had not an opportunity of discussing it with Deputy Alton.  I would have thought the introduction of the words in the latter half of his amendment rather tended to hamper the Board than otherwise.  If they are put into the Bill it may really lead to the powers of the Censorship Board, with regard to satisfying themselves about books, being hampered in other directions.  I doubt very much if there is any advantage in including any such provision in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       They have this advantage, that it will make explicit what Deputy Thrift says is implicit already in the Bill.  The very fact that it is implicit has not, apparently, been recognised by the public at large.  There is a lot of suspicion, naturally, that the Board is going to act in some obscure and in some autocratic way, and without observing the ordinary rules of equity and good judgment. 
     
     
      
       I understand the Minister is prepared to bring forward another amendment on the Report Stage in substitution for these amendments, and that he will carry out the intentions of amendments 36 and 37.  In that case, I am prepared to withdraw my amendment. 
     
     
      
       I hope when the amendment is being drafted that it will be drafted with the greatest   possible care.  I observe that the whittling process still goes on, despite the protests of, at any rate, one single individual on these Benches.  Nevertheless, the objection still remains. Anybody who looks into this question of a censorship can see for himself that not alone in this country, but in other countries, active steps have been taken to deal with the evil that we are attempting to deal with, up to the present, in my opinion most unsuccessfully, in this Bill.  In America there is a Clean Books Act and, under its provisions, the publisher who issues any printed matter that is found to be lewd, lascivious, or obscene can be sent to jail for a period from ten days to one year and, in addition, may be fined from 50 to 100 dollars. 
       When I spoke on the last section I made a statement that might have appeared to some Deputies rather far-fetched.  I said the effect of an amendment, if it was carried in the way it was worded by Deputy Tierney and Deputy Law, would mean that a book would have to be offensive and obscene from cover to cover.  The speech by Deputy Alton now bears out that contention to the full. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy now arguing on the amendment that has already been disposed of by the House? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is making a Second Reading speech. 
     
     
      
       I want to hear the Deputy on amendments 36 and 37. 
     
     
      
       You are hearing me on those particular amendments and I am referring to the speech made by Deputy Alton.  Deputy Alton pleaded here in regard to the circulation of a book.  I took his own words&mdash;&ldquo;a book prohibited in England.&rdquo;  He pleaded that book should be permitted to circulate here because, for certain scientific and other reasons, it would be valuable. I stood for the whole section of the Bill as originally drafted and I pointed out that this very thing would arise&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy must not go back on amendments already disposed of.  He must speak to amendments 36 and 37. 
     
     
      
       Does the Leas-Cheann Comhairle understand that I am speaking with reference to Deputy Alton's speech? 
     
     
      
       I do not.  The Deputy is not speaking to the amendments before the House. 
     
     
      
       I am referring to Deputy Alton's speech on the amendment that he has moved. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot continue if he does not speak to the amendments that are now before us. 
     
     
      
       Very well.  I will turn back to the literary, the artistic and the scientific character of certain books that we are told should be allowed to circulate here. I say that everyone of those words contains a thousand pitfalls and they make the difficulties of the Censorship Board infinitely greater in satisfactorily censoring books in this country.  It is very easy to conceive what arguments can arise under the heading of books of literary value.  I presume the highbrow intellectuals of this House to whom I have already referred would, no doubt, contend that Shakespeare's &ldquo;Venus and Adonis&rdquo; was a work of exceedingly high literary merit.  I wonder would the high-brow intellectuals contend that it was not a work which was also highly obscene?  I am glad that Deputy Little on the opposite benches agreed with me partly in my contention.  Deputy Little said a book might be literary and artistic and yet might be obscene. That is my objection as far as the words of this new amendment are concerned.  They are all small holes in the mesh by which a small fish might get through.  Undoubtedly, these fish are going to get through and this House is making their passage easy.  &ldquo;Artistic merit&rdquo; is another pitfall that will lead to a   thousand modes of entry for improper literature.  In the art of sculpture you can see a great many things in the nude or in the seminude that are highly artistic, but if they went through a board of censors they would have no hesitation in saying that they were highly obscene. 
       I come to another point&mdash;the nature of the circulation of the book. I presume that if a book has a small circulation, and if it has some of those literary fads to which my colleagues are so prone it should be immune and we should allow that book to circulate here.  I fear that when this amendment is brought in by the Minister it is going to excite a great deal of controversy, and I for one, when the amendment is produced, will examine it line for line, notwithstanding the fact that perhaps I may be in a hopeless minority.  I believe it is our duty to endeavour to fashion out of this a reasonable measure, and I certainly say, as far as the section dealing with books is concerned, that I do not see that anything reasonable is going to emerge from it. 
       Deputy Alton went on to say that the author should be considered and that unless a book is prima facie obscene it should be allowed to pass. If all these stipulations are going to be incorporated in this particular section by the Minister, then it would be much better, much more decent, and much more in the interests of the public, that the whole section dealing with books should be withdrawn. 
       Amendments 36 and 37 withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 38 on behalf of Deputy Ruttledge: 
       In sub-section (3) to delete the word &ldquo;four,&rdquo; line 57, and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;six.&rdquo; 
       This is consequential upon the amendment changing the number of the Board from five to nine.  If the section stood as it is, the figure would remain at four, which would be a minority, and that, of course, would be absurd. 
     
     
     
      
       I desire to support the amendment.  As the constitution of the Board has been affected by the decision on amendment 11, altering the number from five to nine, I think any objections which the Minister may have had to the alteration are now removed. 
     
     
      
       I cannot very well argue in favour of four-fifths of nine, but I should like to argue in favour of a number as near to it as I can get.  I suggest to Deputy Little that he should insert seven instead of six.  The Minister, very wisely I think, wanted to secure practically an agreed verdict from the Board of Censors for putting a book upon the list.  I think six out of nine is probably too close to the line of a mere minority, whereas seven out of nine would express a definite and emphatic opinion on the part of the Board that a book should be put on the list. 
     
     
      
       Personally, I think that very much the same proportion as appeared in the original draft should be maintained, that is four-fifths.  We cannot work that out exactly, but I would very much prefer seven to six in this particular context. 
     
     
      
       I think seven is rather a large number to ask for. 
     
     
      
       It might help the Deputy if I reminded him that Deputy de Valera, unless my memory is totally at fault, said seven in his Second Reading speech. 
     
     
      
       We have considered the question very carefully, and I do not like to take the responsibility of going back upon what has been considered in all its aspects by a group of people&mdash;I do not say the Party&mdash; who have been considering the matter. It seems to me that seven is a very large number to have to get, whereas six out of nine is reasonable. The Minister is now going in the direction which he was arguing against before&mdash;that the larger number is going to render the Bill inoperative.   If you have to have seven you go further towards making it difficult to condemn a book than if you had only to have six.  I do not want to take up a definite attitude on the question, but I think the number six should be considered.  I think that when six people consider that a book is not a good one, that should be as good as if you had got seven. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that Deputy Little ought to accept the number seven. 
     
     
      
       I think I ought to read this extract from Deputy de Valera's speech to show that the Party was not quite unanimous:&mdash; 
       Our Party has debated it and has come to the conclusion that six out of nine ought to be sufficient. I myself might be disposed to go so far as saying that seven should be necessary, because, just as I anticipated fairly well the views that would be taken here on this matter, and as everything connected with it depends on the Board, my belief is that if you get a reasonable Board of men you will get them by a majority of six to three to exclude anything that ought to be excluded.  I cannot imagine a body of nine men considering a book, and by a majority of two to one agreeing to exclude a book that should possibly not be excluded. 
       The Deputy possibly did not express himself very clearly, but it appears to me that he did not consider there was the slightest difficulty between six and seven. 
     
     
      
       My argument is that there is very little difference between six and seven, and for that reason the Minister might as well accept the number six. 
     
     
      
       I was reading from Deputy de Valera's speech and not expressing my own view. 
     
     
     
      
       I do not think it is worth while wasting time over, and I accept the number seven. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the amendment be amended by substituting the word &lsquo;seven&rsquo; for the word &lsquo;six&rsquo;&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Amendment, as amended, put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 39: 
       In sub-section (3), page 3, line 60, to insert before the word &ldquo;indecent&rdquo; the words &ldquo;in its general tendency.&rdquo; 
       I think this is consequential to what the Minister said in his Second Reading speech and to the principle involved in amendments 36 and 37. 
     
     
      
       I agree. 
     
     
      
       The Minister accepts the principle? 
     
     
      
       I have accepted the principle in amendment 36. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 40: 
       In sub-section (3), line 60, to insert the words &ldquo;and should be prohibited&rdquo; after the word &ldquo;indecent.&rdquo; 
       I do not think this carries anything more in it than getting an expression of opinion from the Board of Censors that they are against a book; that therefore it ought to go on the list to be prohibited.  It is certainly not meant to limit the application of the section, but is rather intended to get clearness of expression. 
     
     
      
       There is no harm in inserting these words.  I do not think the amendment alters the sense. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 41: 
     
     In sub-section (3) to delete from the words &ldquo;or obscene,&rdquo;  page 3, line 60, to and including the word &ldquo;morality,&rdquo; page 4, line 3. 
     This also, I think, is consequential on what has happened before.  It is bringing in in another place what was really the principle of amendment 28 which the Minister accepted by striking out the words in sub-section (1). 
     
      
       Yes, that is &ldquo;public morality.  I think all the amendments consequential on the taking out of these words &ldquo;tends to inculcate principles contrary to public morality or otherwise of such character,&rdquo; etc., must, of course, be made in other parts of the Bill. This amendment is only consequential. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move amendment 42:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3) to delete the word &ldquo;may,&rdquo; line 3, page 4, and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;shall forthwith.&rdquo; 
       We think it becomes at this stage a matter of duty for the Minister to carry out the directions of the Board, and therefore the words &ldquo;shall forthwith&rdquo; should be inserted instead of the word &ldquo;may.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       This is an amendment which I, personally, consider to be very important. There is a great deal underlying this amendment.  Our system here is a system of Parliamentary control.  We have an executive appointed, and executive work should be carried out by Ministers and Ministers should be responsible to the Dail.  This amendment provides that this Board of Censors should be set up, that they should be final, that they should do administrative acts in condemning books, and that they should be subject to no control at all.  That is an amount of bureaucracy that I am opposed to.  In my opinion the final judgment in condemning a book should be the judgment of the Minister responsible to this House. Control should not be lost by this   House.  In certain cases it is absolutely impossible for the House to keep control or for the Minister to keep control.  For instance, if you take the Censorship of Films Board; there it is impossible.  A film cannot be exhibited and consequently control cannot be exercised, but here where control can be exercised and where a book is condemned, it is not right that Parliamentary control should be taken away.  I would like to point out that in the Report of the Committee on Evil Literature that principle was made very clear.  It was strongly embodied in that report. On page 11 the report says:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Moreover, as even a State authority could not effectively prevent the circulation of an ephemeral publication in the time between its arrival at the ports of the Saorstat and its distribution to the public, power should be taken to prohibit generally the circulation of future issues of any newspaper, magazine or other publication where it is found to be usually of a debasing or demoralising kind.  The Committee thinks that the Minister for Justice should be entrusted with this power.  To assist him in its exercise a permanent committee should be established of nine to twelve persons representative of the religious, educational and literary or artistic opinion of the Irish public.&rdquo; 
     
     There the Committee have in plain language devised words in harmony with the whole principles of our Constitution that the Act should be an act of the Minister, and that he could act himself or should have the advantage of this advisory board of censors.  I daresay the number of cases in which the Board of Censors would recommend to the Minister that a certain book was immoral and should be prohibited, and in which the Minister would refuse to act, would be infinitesimal.  It may not be in practice a very important departure, but in constitutional and democratic theory it is a very big departure   and I would ask the House not to accept it. 
     
      
       In view of the fact that it gives a fuller opportunity of getting after the Minister for Justice I think I had better withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 7, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 8. 
       (1)  Whenever a complaint is duly made under this Act by a recognised association to the Minister to the effect that the several issues of a periodical publication recently theretofore published have usually or frequently been indecent or obscene or have generally tended to inculcate principles contrary to public morality or have usually or frequently or generally been otherwise of such character that the sale or distribution thereof is or tends to be injurious or detrimental to or subversive of public morality the Minister may refer such complaint to the Board. 
       (2)  The Board shall consider every complaint referred to them by the Minister under this section and for the purpose of such consideration shall examine the issues theretofore recently published of the periodical publication which is the subject of such complaint and on the completion of such consideration the Board shall make to the Minister their report on such complaint. 
     
     (3)  Whenever the Board under this section makes in reference to a complaint a report, assented to and signed by at least four members of the Board, stating that in the opinion of the Board the issues recently theretofore published of the periodical publication which is the subject of such complaint have usually or frequently been indecent or obscene or that in the opinion of the Board such issues have generally tended to inculcate principles contrary to public morality or that in the opinion of the Board such issues have   usually or frequently or generally been otherwise of such character that the sale or distribution thereof is or tends to be injurious to or detrimental to or subversive of public morality the Minister may by order (in this Act referred to as a prohibition order) prohibit the sale and the distribution in Saorstat Eireann of any issue of such periodical publication published after the day on which such order comes into operation. 
     Amendments 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48 not moved. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 21, and in sub-section (3), line 39, to insert in each line, before the words &ldquo;the Minister,&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or have devoted an unduly large proportion of space to the publication of sensational matter relating to crime.&rdquo; 
     
     In the view of a good many of us the harm done by the gutter Press in all countries is by no means confined to the publication of sexual matters.  Some of us think that quite as much harm is done by concentrating the attention of people, especially young people, upon violent, brutalising crime.  In point of fact very much the same kind of papers which are guilty of one kind of offence against public decency are guilty of the other.  I think, when we are dealing with this matter at all, it would be worth our while to make an effort to purify the Press in both directions, and I think it would be a great thing if we could strengthen the hands of the Minister in dealing with this matter by inserting some such words as suggested in my amendment.  Where you are dealing with a particular type of objectionable newspaper it might be more difficult sometimes perhaps to show that passages were indecent even under the larger extension of &ldquo;indecency&rdquo; which we have in this Bill. When the general character of certain newspapers is rather objectionable from the sex point of view, and, added to that fact, they feature&mdash; an ugly word, which I do not like&mdash;  crime and scour the police courts for all the most objectionable, sordid, and revolting details they can possibly discover and pour them out through the Press, I think there is a strong case made for prohibiting their circulation. I do not know how far it is true that people are disposed towards crime themselves by reading of crime, but I am perfectly certain that nobody can be better by reading the sort of matter found in the lower-class English Sunday papers which circulate in this country.  If we could cleanse them of that I think we ought to do it, and I think that in that respect the amendment would be a powerful instrument in the hands of the Minister. 
     
      
       I think that amendments 49 and 50 might be discussed together. 
     
     
      
       I was going to suggest that.  My amendment is substantially the same in purpose as that of Deputy Law and Deputy Tierney.  It is:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (1), line 21, and in sub-section (3), line 39, to insert in each line before the words &lsquo;the Minister&rsquo; the words &lsquo;or have specialised in news and articles of a criminal or vicious import.&rdquo;&rsquo; 
     
     I have little to add to the argument which Deputy Law has eloquently expressed.  I am hoping that I will be helped out in this by Athanasius, I mean Deputy Byrne, who will perhaps come in in time and help us to find a proper expression. The only difference between the amendments is a difference of expression.  It is difficult to express in words the motives that guide the action of Deputy Law and myself. I do not know that the phrase &ldquo;an unduly large proportion of space to the publication of sensational matter relating to crime&rdquo; would altogether cover my point as I want to include matter that could not strictly be called criminal&mdash;matter of a rather brutalising and grossly vulgar type. Perhaps the Minister could find the proper words for such amendment. The newspaper that does damage is not the newspaper that caters for   divorce court reports, but rather the newspaper that will describe, say, a post mortem in all its gross details. I am sure that Deputy Sir James Craig would object to that as much as I do.  I have seen such reports given in explicit and horrid details, and I am sure it has a very bad effect, especially upon young and, perhaps, weaker-minded members of our community.  &ldquo;Brutalising&rdquo; might do.  I found great difficulty in wording my amendment and when I used the word &ldquo;vicious&rdquo; I knew it was too generous.  If the amendment commends itself to the Minister perhaps he would think over the matter. 
     
      
       The amendment to a certain extent goes outside the scope of the original Bill because in the original Bill it was made to deal with matters that excited sensual passions.  This amendment to a certain extent goes outside the scope of the Bill and, to a certain extent, catches up the class of periodical which, though it may coincide with the class of periodical originally aimed at, might not necessarily be co-terminal with it.  However, though it is to a certain extent outside the scope of the Bill, I am willing, after due consideration, to accept the spirit of these two amendments. In accepting that, I cannot confine it quite as much as Deputy Alton, because he says &ldquo;specialises.&rdquo;&ldquo;Specialises&rdquo; would cut it down to a very narrow limit. 
     
     
      
       I dislike &ldquo;specialises&rdquo; myself. 
     
     
      
       I prefer the other phrase, &ldquo;unduly large proportion of space.&rdquo;  A newspaper must of necessity give some space to sensational crime and, in fact, newspapers always give some space to it, but if you get page after page of murder and other form of crime, such as reports of blackmail cases, I quite recognise that that may demoralise the people in another direction than sexually.  Though possibly it is going outside the scope of the Bill, I recognise that there are more serious things than sexual immorality   in the moral order of the country.  I will accept the amendment, but I will make it more closely to the wording of Deputy Law than to that of Deputy Alton.  I have not quite caught Deputy Alton's meaning. He said that he wished to deal with something more than crime.  I have not been able, exactly, to follow that. 
     
     
      
       There are reports which are not exactly criminal.  You cannot say that a post mortem is a crime, yet its details may be disgusting and may have a very undesirable effect on a young reader. 
     
     
      
       I think that such a report would hardly appear except in relation to a crime. I do not think that any newspaper would publish that kind of post mortem except it was on a victim of a crime.  Then it would be sensational matter relating to a crime. 
     
     
      
       The Minister himself used a word which I think might go in after the word &ldquo;sensational&rdquo; in Deputy Law's amendment. It might read &ldquo;sensational or demoralising.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I am glad the Minister has accepted the amendment, but I think it is permissible to point out that, in doing so, he has done no more than follow the recommendations in the Report of the Committee on Evil Literature.  In page 10 of the Report there is a reference to the Act recently passed by the British Parliament which prohibits the printing or publishing of reports in relation to any judicial proceedings, the publication of which would be calculated to injure public morals.  The Report goes on to state: 
     
     But it has been pointed out that there is nothing in the Act that would check the misdirected enterprise of the newspapers themselves in supplementing the reports by details obtained to their own inquiries.  Even now some of these papers endeavour to maintain the unhealthy sensationalism   produced by legal reports of crime and social scandal by means of interviews with notorious criminals and sometimes with their victims, by biographies and autobiographies of these &ldquo;celebrities,&rdquo; by pictures and photographs of the scenes and actors of sordid tragedies.  There is nothing in the measure referred to that can restrain these activities. The committee is unanimously of opinion that there is need in the Saorstat of some means other than criminal prosecutions which, in the case of practically all the publications of which complaint is made, could not reach the publishers, who are beyond the reach of the laws of the Saorstat. 
     It seems clear that the framers of the report were anxious that the control of such publications, as we have referred to in our amendments, should, as far as possible, be included in the scope of the Bill.  We framed our amendments as carefully as we could in order to provide that a certain amount of balance would be preserved, because, of course, if you try to administer a clause of this kind too strictly you may always do harm that would be greater than the good you might do.  I think the wording we have adopted would probably be found not only to cover the subject we wish to cover, but also to give the Censorship Board a certain amount of scope as to the length they should go to deal with this matter.  It would really be a question of accommodation to some extent.  The position would often be rather a subtle position, and all that is wanted is a general direction to the Censorship Board rather than any attempt to lay down any strict rules in dealing with this matter. I am very glad the Minister has been able to accept the amendments, because it has been always my own opinion, even long before the Bill was introduced, that this particular sort of journalism has been, and to a great extent is, almost more demoralising than the kind of journalism with which this Bill was originally intended to deal.  I have   always considered it a terrible fact in modern society that the greatest use that has been made of universal education has been to enable a very large class in the community to find their way to that sort of broadcasting criminal news and nothing else; that no other type of learning, literature or reading matter of any kind has been made available for that class in the community. That is true, not so much perhaps of this country as of England; but in all modern communities, no other kind of reading matter has been put so much at the popular disposal as the vicious and criminal matter with which we propose to deal by this amendment.  If by the most careful operation, by the most cautious handling, the Censorship Board even begins to deal with this terrible question, I think we will have done a good day's work by including this amendment in the Bill. 
     
      
       The Minister has promised to adopt amendment No. 49.  I, therefore, ask the permission of the House to withdraw amendment No. 50. 
     
     
      
       I will adopt it subject to certain verbal alterations.  I would suggest the words &ldquo;or have devoted an unduly large proportion of space to the publication of sensational or demoralising matter relating to crime.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I would suggest &ldquo;and demoralising&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;or demoralising.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I can bring in that amendment. 
     
     
      
       I take it then that amendment 49 is withdrawn? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that a certain amount of demoralising and sensational matter will be allowed? 
     
     
      
       There will be a certain amount of sensational matter allowed.  Certainly there must be. 
     
     
     
      
       And demoralising matter? 
     
     
      
       There must be a certain amount of demoralising matter allowed too. 
     
     
      
       Are you going to allow a certain amount of demoralising matter too? 
     
     
      
       For instance, a report of a sensational murder may demoralise somebody. How will the Deputy prevent that? 
     
     
      
       The object of the Bill is not to allow demoralising matter to go before the public. 
     
     
      
       You cannot do that. 
     
     
      
       We have left over a great many matters for Report, and as there is nothing to be gained by postponing the matter, might it not be just as well if the Minister moved to insert those words in the amendment now and have it accepted?  He can add to it if he wishes on Report. 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly ready. 
     
     
      
       I think it would save time. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy would tell me some method by which all demoralising papers were to be destroyed I would welcome his suggestion. 
     
     
      
       I can quite see what Deputy Colohan has in mind. I think what he has pointed out is that the introduction of the word &ldquo;demoralising&rdquo; rather spoils the meaning of the word &ldquo;sensational&rdquo; because while there might, quite legitimately, be a certain amount of space given to sensational matter, it is a different question when you come to deal with matter that is &ldquo;demoralising.&rdquo;  If you introduce the word &ldquo;demoralising&rdquo; you appear to allow a certain amount of latitude in regard to demoralising matter.  It raises the whole question of whether it is worth while introducing   the word &ldquo;demoralising&rdquo; in that place. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister would accept the amendment as it appears and give it further consideration he can if necessary add to the wording on Report. 
     
     
      
       I think you would require to have some words stronger than &ldquo;sensational matter.&rdquo;  I think Deputy Colohan has made a slight mistake.  In all sexual matters the papers will be dealt with.  Apart from this, if there was a certain amount of matter relating to crime which is likely to be demoralising it must go&mdash;if a substantial amount of the paper relates to sensational matter which is likely to demoralise minds that are capable of being demoralised by reading criminal reports; it is not every man who would be demoralised by reading criminal reports.  Some men might be; some might be incited to crime. 
     
     
      
       Are we inserting amendment 49 now or leaving it over to the Report Stage? 
     
     
      
       I am willing to insert it now. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister accepting amendment 55? 
       In sub-section (3), line 33, to insert the words &ldquo;and should be prohibited&rdquo; after the word &ldquo;indecent.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3) to delete in line 41 the words &ldquo;any issue of.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is to make the matter more definite.  I think it is obvious that you get the position clearer if you delete the words &ldquo;any issue of.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I do not think it would have the effect Deputy Ruttledge anticipates, if the words were left out.  The words are  &ldquo;The Minister may by order.... prohibit the sale and the distribution in Saorstat Eireann of any issue of such periodical publication published after the day on which such order comes into operation.&rdquo;  That means all issues, present or future, are banned.  But I think if you leave out the words &ldquo;such periodical publication published after the day on which such order comes into operation&rdquo; you rather confuse the issue than make it clear.  I think it is clearer to say &ldquo;any issue of&rdquo; the paper.  I think that is perfectly clear and definite, and that there can be no mistake.  It takes in the current and all future issues.  You say, not an issue of the paper but the paper itself.  A periodical publication consists of so many issues, and possibly if you leave out these words&mdash;I grant it would be rather straining the construction&mdash;possibly it might be construed to cut out future editions of the same paper, editions other than the one which has been condemned. I think the words, as they are, are clearer.  There is not a great deal in it. 
     
     
      
       What I had in mind was, that they might be construed, as the section stands, to refer to issues in which, perhaps, there was no objectionable matter. 
     
     
      
       So it will. The section would, possibly, refer to issues containing no objectionable matter.  For instance, if a newspaper has been examined&mdash;ten or eleven or four or five numbers&mdash;by the Censorship Board, and condemned, every future issue of that paper is condemned. It may be that there is one issue in which there is nothing indecent. Nevertheless it is prohibited from coming in, for the very reason read out by Deputy Tierney, that every issue cannot be examined.  If the paper has habitually fallen away it must suffer, even though it has one good issue. 
     
     
      
       I ask leave to withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3), line 41, after the word &ldquo;issue,&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or issues.&rdquo; 
       This is not a very important amendment, but I think the explanation given on the previous amendment makes it clearer that &ldquo;any issue&rdquo; provides that all issues will be covered. 
     
     
      
       I think clearly so. 
     
     
      
       I ask leave to withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of sub-section (3) the following proviso:&mdash; 
       Provided that such prohibition made for the first time against a periodical publication shall have force for a period of three months only. 
       This amendment is put down because I think that action should not be taken definitely on the first occasion. I think it is reasonable to make a prohibition order to come into force for a limited period, in the first place, in order to give a particular periodical a chance of conforming to proper and reasonable requirements, whereas, if the offence is repeated, I do not think it would deserve the same kind of merciful treatment.  The proposition is that on the first occasion the prohibition order shall be made for a period of three months. 
     
     
      
       I agree with a great deal of what Deputy Thrift has said, that if a paper wishes to reform, so to speak, or even to reform issues which are circulated in this country, it might be given a locus penitentiae.  Of course, it is always the intention of the Act that it should, because there is always power to revoke the order.  Sometimes I fancy it might be revoked earlier than three months, but, on the whole, probably, it would not, because copies would have to be forwarded, and some proof given that it had actually   changed.  If the Deputy is strong on it I do not mind accepting the amendment, but I do not know that administratively the object would not be really effected without it.  I do not mind accepting it. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 8, as amended, stand part of the Bill,&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 9. 
       (1) The Minister may at any time after consultation with the Board by order revoke any prohibition order theretofore made by him under this Act. 
       (2) Where a prohibition order has been made by the Minister under this Act in relation to a book, the Minister may at any time, after consultation with the Board, by order amend such prohibition order by excluding from the application thereof any particular edition of such book whether published before or after the date of such prohibition order. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-sections (1) and (2), lines 43 and 48, to delete the words &ldquo;after consultation with&rdquo; and substitute in each line the words &ldquo;with the consent of the majority of.&rdquo; 
       The Censorship Board has a good many duties and has responsibility imposed on it, and I think it is only reasonable that if the Board is in that position, it should have something to say in these matters, rather than mere consultation.  I do not think it could be suggested that it takes matters entirely out of the Minister's hands; but, at any rate, it gives members of the Board power to act, to some extent, in the matter, and it is on the members of the Board the main responsibility is placed.  The Minister refers complaints to the Board, they are to investigate and report.  I submit the amendment I desire to have inserted is a reasonable one. 
     
     
     
      
       We are getting on so amicably that I regret here again I cannot accept the Deputy's amendment.  In practice it will work out the same thing, but here again I am working for my theory of control.  In any case, the Minister has not got any added power to interfere by prohibiting a book which is not otherwise prohibited. It is the general principle of the Report of the Committee that the really active person should always be the Minister, but that he should have these rights&mdash;and that is constitutional&mdash;and that he should have the advice of the Board, and I am sure that that was entirely in the minds of the Committee which gave that recommendation that I have already read.  It seems to me that it comes within the principle of that that the Minister should be entrusted with this power.  This is really the same principle as was at stake in the Deputy's earlier amendment.  I am sorry that I cannot accept it. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say whether he would act against the wishes of the Board if they reported in a certain way?  That is the point I am trying to protect. 
     
     
      
       You must not talk about any particular Minister. 
     
     
      
       No, I am not doing so. 
     
     
      
       This Bill will last for all time, I suppose.  I could hardly imagine a case in which the Minister, if he consulted with the Board, or if a majority&mdash;7 to 9&mdash; of the Board reported to him in a certain way, would do so, though he might&mdash;I would like to have the theoretical power.  But in practice what would happen?  An appeal is made to the Minister to revoke an order.  The Minister sends a minute to the Board, saying: &ldquo;You have been reading this paper.  Do you think there is anything in what they say?&rdquo;  They would then make up their minds as to whether it would be let in again or not.  It would   always be certain, unless they were obviously wrong, unless an act of palpable injustice was being done, that the Minister would act on their advice.  But we want to have this principle kept intact. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       SECTION 10. 
       Every prohibition order and every order made by the Minister under this Act revoking or amending any such prohibition order shall be published in the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; as soon as may be after it is made and shall come into operation and have effect as on and from the day on which it is so published. 
       Amendment 65. &mdash;To add at the end of the section, line 56, the words &ldquo;to prohibit the sale and distribution of the publication or publications which it prohibits as well as the importation thereof or to revoke or amend (as the case may be) an existing order.&rdquo;&mdash; (Peadar Ua Dubhghaill.) 
     
     
      
       I would like to be satisfied that the points referred to in this amendment are covered in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       They are. These would be merely superfluous words.  As soon as the order comes in force all the consequences which the Deputy sets out here would naturally flow from its coming into force. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 10 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 11. 
       (1) It shall not be lawful for any person, otherwise than under and in accordance with a permit in writing granted to him under this section&mdash; 
       (a) to import into Saorstat Eireann for sale or distribution, or 
       (b) to sell, or expose, offer or keep for sale, or 
       (c) to distribute or offer or keep for distribution 
     
     
        any book or any particular edition of a book or any issue of a periodical publication the sale and distribution of which in Saorstat Eireann is for the time being prohibited by a prohibition order. 
     (2) Every person who acts in contravention of the foregoing sub-section shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds or, at the discretion of the court, to imprisonment with or without hard labour, for any term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment and, in any case, to forfeiture of the book, edition, or issue in respect of which such offence was committed. 
     (3) The Minister may if he thinks fit for reasons which appear to him sufficient grant to any person a permit in writing to sell and keep for sale or to distribute and keep for distribution and (where appropriate) to import into Saorstat Eireann any specified book or any specified edition of a book or all or any particular issues of a specified periodical publication the sale and distribution of which in Saorstat Eireann is for the time being prohibited by a prohibition order, and the Minister may grant any such permit subject to such (if any) conditions and limitations as he may think fit to impose and shall specify in such permit. 
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (1) to insert after paragraph (c) a new paragraph as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;(d) to advertise in print or otherwise.&rdquo; 
       The Minister will understand that the object of the amendment is to prevent any possible loophole. 
     
     
      
       This is a very difficult sub-section as it stands now.  It says: 
       It shall not be lawful for any person, otherwise than under and in accordance with a permit in writing granted to him under this section&mdash; 
     
     
        (a) to import into Saorstat Eireann for sale or distribution, or 
     (b) to sell, or expose, offer or keep for sale, or 
     (c) to distribute or offer or keep for distribution, 
     any book or any particular edition of a book or any issue of a periodical publication the sale and distribution of which in Saorstat Eireann is for the time being prohibited by a prohibition order. 
     The Deputy says &ldquo;to advertise in print or otherwise.&rdquo;  I do not exactly follow what the Deputy means.  Does he mean, for instance, that if a book is prohibited in this country and there is a simple advertisement in a newspaper saying that such-and-such a book is for sale? 
     
      
       To advertise a book that is prohibited in a paper here, or any other form of advertisement that may be put up by a publisher or anybody else. 
     
     
      
       Of course that would be an advertisement published by somebody in this country? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not mean, for instance, that if a paper were imported from England which had a simple advertisement of this book and no more, it would come under his amendment? It would simply be that somebody would advertise a prohibited book for sale in this country? 
     
     
      
       That is so. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy would not mind, I would like to consider that, because I did not quite follow what his intention was on reading it.  I would like him to pass it over for the present. 
     
     
      
       The Minister will understand that this is in order to guard against a certain loophole that occurred to me. 
     
     
     
      
       There might be the loophole that somebody here, who was not selling or was not distributing the book, might yet advertise it. 
     
     
      
       In relation to that, would the Minister consider the difficulty of, say, a publishing house in another country whose catalogues might be advertised in this country?  The possibility of a catalogue being prohibited might be read into this suggested clause. 
     
     
      
       That is what I rather thought, to begin with, but Deputy Ruttledge disowns that as being his meaning. 
     
     
      
       That is the difficulty, because books of this character presumably appeal to the prurient mind, and then the mere insertion of a prohibition order in &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; would naturally be an advertisement of this character, and the Minister himself might come under this amendment. 
     
     
      
       Exactly.  That's right. 
     
     
      
       However, I will consider if there is any loophole that needs to be filled. 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       Amendments 67 and 68 deal with the same question, and amendment 71, to a certain extent, deals with the same point, but adds the point of the sales register.  I think we can have a discussion on amendment 67, the question of importation for home use, so to speak. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of sub-section (1), line 3, page 5, the following proviso:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to prohibit any person from importing or causing to be imported without licence any book or particular edition of a book or any issue of   a periodical publication required by him solely for his own use.&rdquo; 
     I put this amendment down mainly in order to get an explanation from the Minister in this matter and to draw attention to an obscurity that appears to exist in the Bill as drafted.  In Section 11 it will be observed that the words are: &ldquo;It shall not be lawful for any person otherwise than under and in accordance with a permit in writing granted to him under this section to import into Saorstat Eireann for sale or distribution.&rdquo; 
     Therefore, if this section stood alone I think the natural inference would be that if a person imported, whether by the post or in his luggage, a prohibited publication for his own use and not for sale or distribution he would be free to do so.  But when we come to Section 14 we get a different form of words: &ldquo;Where a prohibition order has been made in relation to a book, or a particular edition of a book or a periodical publication, then so long as such order is in operation the importation (otherwise than under and in accordance with a permit in writing granted under this Act),&rdquo; and so forth, &ldquo;is prohibited.&rdquo;  There appears, therefore, to that extent, to be a certain contradiction between the two clauses.  I was anxious to clear that matter up. 
     I was not at all sure whether it was the intention of the Government to prohibit importation otherwise than for sale or distribution, because throughout the Bill emphasis is on sale and distribution, and I think there is a clear distinction to be drawn between the importation of books for general circulation and the importation of books for private use.  We give in certain clauses a power of search where there is reason to suppose books are kept for sale or distribution.  We do not give any such power to search where books are in private hands.  Therefore, it does not seem unreasonable that we should carry out the same distinction in this place.  I do not attach enormous importance to the proposal.  I recognise it may conceivably   be abused, though I do not think that the abuse would go very far or would be very serious.  If the Minister feels that it will open a large loophole for abuse, I certainly would not be disposed to insist on it.  He has met us already very fairly in a number of amendments earlier in the Bill, and a great many of my original fears have been removed by the fact that clear directions are now to be given to the Board of Censors as to the manner in which they are to proceed with the consideration of the books.  Therefore, I moved this in order to get an explanation and discussion on the matter, but I am not disposed to press it if the Minister is opposed to it. 
     
      
       The general scope of the Bill is that it is, of course, mainly, as Deputy Law has just pointed out, aimed at the prohibition of the importation for sale or distribution in this country of immoral literature, because sale and distribution are the main things which are to be aimed at.  But I cannot agree that any person, who likes for his own use, should be able to write to an English bookseller and get over by post any single book he liked.  The Booksellers' Association, some time ago, were kind enough to give me some documents, one of which is in itself extremely interesting. It is &ldquo;A Manual of Birth Control,&rdquo; with a preface by Mr. H. G. Wells.  It says: &ldquo;For the last six months over 500 of the public per week have been sending to the publishers the full published price with postage in addition for this book.  In the same six months customers have bought from the booksellers of the world under 100 copies a week, though they surely prefer not to write and stamp a letter and add the return postage to the price of the book.  Why is this?&rdquo;  It comes from the Labour Publishing Company, Limited.  It is perfectly obvious the answer they wish to imply.  I myself draw a different conclusion that there are a great many people ashamed to walk into a bookseller's shop to buy these things, yet who   buy them through the post.  If they could be imported for their private use the Bill would be of very little good.  Books of that kind should be stopped in the post, or even if they came over by rail in single numbers. 
     
     
      
       I accept what the Minister has said.  It is not books of the character he indicated that I have in my mind.  I am anxious to prevent, if possible, an addition to the troubles of searches. 
     
     
      
       I completely understand Deputy Law's attitude.  Naturally, in proving my case I took, as I suppose is excusable, the strongest example I could to show that this which might be subject to grave abuse would, in fact, be subject to grave abuse. 
     
     
      
       I am not completely satisfied with what the Minister said, though I recognise his difficulty. I thought he might have met that by the present postal regulations. I want to put to him that in the Bill as it stands there are very serious difficulties in practice.  In the Bill as it stands, the only notice of a book being on the prohibited list is when it appears in the Irish official organ.  That does not mean, and I think wisely does not mean, that many people will be aware of what particular book is prohibited. Certainly it does not mean that any visitor to this country would be aware of whether a book is prohibited or not.  There are a great many people who might have in their possession books of a kind which might appear on the prohibited list for special reasons, who would be very loth indeed to make themselves liable to an offence against the law involving them in a penalty of £50 or imprisonment if they knew they disobeyed the law. 
     
     
      
       On a question of fact, I would like to put the Deputy right.  A private person who imported not for sale or distribution by post, steamer or otherwise would not be liable to a penalty of £50 or any penalty, but only to the confiscation of the book. 
     
     
     
      
       Though I accept the Minister's correction with pleasure&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       It would be only under Section 14. 
     
     
      
       There are many people who would take it as a very great disgrace if their baggage was examined on coming in here, and it was found, contrary to their knowledge, that they had a book in their possession which was on the prohibited list, and if that book were confiscated by the authorities because it was an indecent book.  I think the Minister is in a real difficulty in this case.  Furthermore, I think in the Bill as it stands there is quite a reasonable doubt as to whether the section gives the Minister power to issue a permit to a person to import a book for his own use.  It quite naturally gives him power to issue a permit to import for sale or distribution or other reasons.  But the whole of the sub-section seems to me only to deal with permission in writing to keep for sale or distribution.  The matter really comes into doubt when you come to the point, &ldquo;and (where appropriate) to import into Saorstat Eireann any specified book.&rdquo;  I do not know what that means.  That may mean &ldquo;to sell and keep for sale or to distribute.&rdquo;  I am not sure whether the section gives him power to issue a permit to, we will say, a scientific person, a medical person, a student of political economy or sociology who wishes to examine the book for a particular definite, legitimate reason. 
     
     I think ther is a great difficulty on both sides.  I can see that a general permit might be abused.  But I think the Minister might control that through postal regulations.  That does not apply with equal force to a person merely travelling who happens to have a book in his possession which turns out to be, against his knowledge, on the prohibited list.  I think there are a great many people who would feel themselves injured persons if it was found accidentally that in their baggage there was a   book which they were quite unaware was on the prohibited list.  I put down certain amendments later on to enable people to find out what books are on the prohibited list.  I hope the Minister will consider the difficulty under this section.  I have put down certain words that, I grant you, may not be satisfactory, but I hope the Minister will consider the difficulties I have been raising and which may be met with in practice. 
     
      
       As I read sub-section (3) it gives power to the Minister to allow the importation of a book though it is on the prohibited list.  &ldquo;The Minister may, if he thinks fit for reasons which appear to him sufficient, grant to any person a permit in writing to sell and keep for sale, or to distribute and keep for distribution, and (where appropriate) to import into Saorstat Eireann any specified book or any specified edition of a book&rdquo; and so forth &ldquo;the sale and distribution of which in Saorstat Eireann is for the time being prohibited.&rdquo;  I take it the plain meaning of that must be that if the Minister thinks fit he will give a permit in writing to somebody to sell a book.  A permit in writing to sell a book would be given to somebody who shows to the Minister that for legitimate reasons he requires a certain book.  He may be a student of a certain science, he may be a highly literary man who is writing a particular article, he may be a person who might like to collect a whole library of these books on birth control because he is writing a thesis denouncing birth control, and must be able to deal with these books. Somebody of that kind would apply and he may apply either for leave to import or what would be more likely go to his bookseller and the bookseller would then apply to the Minister and get leave.  I take it, of course, that no Minister would give a bookseller indiscriminate leave to import and sell.  The bookseller would first have to establish that he had customers who actually required the book at the time, and that those customers were persons who legitimately   required the book for something more than prurient reasons. 
       Of course it will be very unpleasant. There may be somebody with a borderline book coming in and he may lose that book.  I do not see any way of preventing that.  In the case of English persons, French persons or persons of any other nationality coming into this country, we really in a way should not be interested in their morality.  After all what is of importance to us is that our own people should not be able to bring in those books and that they should not be distributed here.  I do not see how there can be any exception made.  It really works down to Professor Thrift's last suggestion that tourists coming in here&mdash;casual visitors&mdash; should not be subject to this section. I do not see how that can possibly be provided in practice. 
     
     
      
       May I say something about my suggestion?  In amendment 71 I am trying to meet the point that Deputy Thrift has put so clearly.  The machinery that the Minister has devised seems to me a little cumbersome and exceedingly vexatious.  If I am right the person to whom the Minister would give permission to get one of these borderline books would first have, through his bookseller, to apply for special permission to the Minister and get it in writing and present it to the bookseller, and that then the book would be ordered.  I have to buy a lot of books.  There are not many, I assure the Minister, of a borderline kind.  But I want books sometimes in a hurry, and any restriction of that sort would be exceedingly vexatious to a research student, and an annoyance to the Minister.  I have made a suggestion here that books of that sort might be regarded as, say, dangerous drugs which the ordinary person could not buy in a chemist's shop without a doctor's order and a special entry being made of the sale.  I suggest that books that might come into this category of borderline might be so marked in the register of prohibited books, and the conditions under   which they might be purchased could be defined by the Minister or by the Board of Censors.  A student then to whom such a book was necessary might go directly to his bookseller and order the book.  The bookseller would have to know something about his customer.  He would take a certain amount of responsibility.  He would have to enter his name and the purpose. That sales book should be open to inspection by somebody from the Department of Justice on request, and if the Minister saw that this conditional permission was being abused, that books were getting into the wrong hands, he has easy redress.  He can strike the unconscientious bookseller off the list or he can put the book in the class of the absolutely prohibited books. There may be a flaw in my suggestion, but I think I have suggested here a better piece of machinery for getting over what has been described by Deputy Thrift and others. 
     
     
      
       I do not see how it would be possible to grade persons and grade books.  I think it would be absolutely impossible.  You have your book which is condemned. The nature of that book and the kind of person who applied for it are things for which special permits come in.  Special permits should not be given as a matter of course. Special permits should only be given to somebody requiring a book for some really legitimate purpose. Deputy Alton says that a thing of this kind may be very vexatious.  I am sure that on certain occasions it would be very vexatious, but restraint is extremely objectionable on occasions.  Though it may annoy certain persons that they have to wait a few days for a book which they otherwise would get, it can be no serious inconvenience.  I think the occasions on which a person suddenly wants a book and gets it a week or a fortnight after he looks for it, do not, as a rule, make a terrible amount of difference.  I can understand that it would be very   annoying if I wanted a particular book to-night and discovered that Deputy Alton had borrowed it, but as to whether I could replace it in a week or a fortnight probably would not matter in the slightest bit.  Sometimes, of course, you want a book on the spur of the moment; to refer to something, to verify some historical fact, some literary allusion, or something of that kind, but when it comes to waiting a week or a fortnight for a book I really do not think it would become a matter of substantial grievance.  Therefore on this whole general principle, the principle that private persons should be entitled to import without let or hindrance, I cannot agree. 
     
     
      
       Might I say, for the Minister's information, that I wish to withdraw amendment 67.  The further discussion, therefore, might proceed on the separate question raised by Deputy Alton in his amendment as to the desirability of an additional register. 
     
     
      
       That is amendment 71, which we have not reached yet. 
       Amendment 67, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I wish formally to move my amendment, No. 68:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3), line 15, after the words &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or import for his own use.&rdquo; 
       Amendment 68 put and declared lost. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 69:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3), line 21, before the word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;after consultation with the Board.&rdquo; 
       This amendment provides for consultation with the Board before a permit is issued by the Minister.  I think that as the Minister has accepted something similar in a previous amendment in regard to consultation with the Board, that he should accept this amendment. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy's amendment is to the effect that before a licence is given to import one particular additional copy of a book or a licence given to a particular individual, that a consultation should be held with the Board. I do not think that would be practicable, nor do I think that it is in the least bit necessary.  The Minister for the time being would always require the assistance of the Board in deciding what book should be kept out, but knowing generally what kind the book is and, still more important, knowing the class of person who is asking for the book, I think he would not be helped by consultation with the Board in making up his mind as to whether the person asking for the book was suitable or not.  I do not think this would be an advisable amendment, and I do not accept it. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 70:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of the section four new sub-sections as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(4)  It shall be the duty of every person to whom a permit is granted under the foregoing sub-section to keep or cause to be kept a register of all purchases, sales, and other transactions of or in relation to any publication to which a permit applies and within 24 hours after every such transaction to enter or cause to be entered in such register the name, address and occupation of the person with whom such transaction is made. 
       (5)  Every register kept in pursuance of the foregoing sub-section may be inspected at all reasonable times by the Garda Siochana and all documents reasonably required for the purpose of verifying any entry in or explaining any omission from such register. 
       (6)  If any person to whom a permit has been granted in pursuance of this section&mdash; 
     
     (a)  fails to keep or cause to   be kept such register as is required by this section, or 
     (b)  fails to make or cause to be made in such register within the time prescribed by this section any entry required by this section to be made therein, or 
     (c)  makes or permits to be made in such register any entry which is to his knowledge false or misleading in any material respect, 
     he shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds or, at the discretion of the court, to imprisonment with or without hard labour for any term not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and such imprisonment, and in any case to forfeiture of the publication in respect of which the offence was committed. 
     (7)  The Minister may at any time by order revoke any permit granted under this section.&rdquo; 
     The reason for the amendment is to provide for a register of persons. The register that the Minister provides relates to books.  I suggest in this amendment that there should be a register of persons to whom licences have been issued.  It is only reasonable, I think, that there should be some control over those licences and over the people to whom the publications are issued or sold.  I think, therefore, this is a necessary amendment to the Bill.  If the Bill is going to be made watertight, to guard against all possible loopholes and possible ways of breaking through it, it is necessary, I think, to insert an amendment such as I have proposed. 
     
      
       This is an elaborate provision which Deputy Ruttledge suggests.  I am in complete agreement with the Deputy that if orders were to be given wholesale to booksellers the provision he suggests would be absolutely necessary. For instance, suppose you could envisage a state of affairs in   which a bookseller were to import twenty or thirty copies of an objectionable book, a book which was on the list of censored books, then a register of this kind would be absolutely necessary.  If a bookseller were allowed to bring in a substantial number of books and allowed to sell them to whom he liked, then it would be very necessary that a list of the persons to whom he sold them should be kept, and the nature and character of the persons to whom he was selling them should be known, but I do not contemplate, nor do I think it could be reasonably contemplated, that anybody in the administration of this Act would give a free choice to any bookseller, or to any library for distributing purposes, to bring in a number of these books. Books might possibly be allowed in for distribution by, say, a scientific library.  Books on the list of censored publications might be allowed in for circulation amongst members of that library.  That would be for distribution, but I cannot imagine a case in which thirty or forty books would be allowed in for circulation in an ordinary circulating library.  In fact I cannot imagine a case in which a book on this list would be allowed in for circulation in an ordinary, lending, public library.  It would have to be allowed in under such strict terms that it would be hardly workable. 
     
     I am entirely in agreement with the Deputy that if permission of this kind were to be given on a large scale it would be absolutely necessary there should be such a register. Supposing that a member of a religious order is writing a book on birth control, and applies for ten or fifteen books, it would be unworkable to send him down a register and say &ldquo;You have to keep a register of the books you have got.&rdquo;  If this were done on a big scale I quite agree with the Deputy, as I have already said, that it would be absolutely necessary to have a register, but in the case of booksellers selling only one copy of a book at a time, I do not think it would be necessary to go to the expense of having these   registers printed and putting the booksellers to the trouble of filling them up.  The only way in which I differ from the Deputy is that, considering how any sane person would administer the Act, a register of this kind would be unnecessarily cumbersome. 
     
      
       There is no limit in the Bill itself, so that scope for abuse is possible.  This suggestion is not a new one.  In certain libraries it is the practice to keep a register of certain types of books, and the people who want those particular types of books have to enter their names in the register.  The effect of that is that only people who are seriously interested in the books will get them, and people who are interested in them for undesirable reasons will not face the necessity of putting their names on such a register.  It would apply even in the case the Minister mentions of a library, so that where, say, fifteen copies of a book have been got it would not be unreasonable to ask the people who got the fifteen copies, or who had them in a library, to keep a register in which the names of the people would be entered; so, too, if a publisher in the city of Dublin was known to keep certain types of books for scientific or medical reasons people might go in and buy those books without anybody inquiring for what they were wanted, whereas if on entering the shop it was found necessary for them to enter their full names and addresses it would stop almost entirely the sale of those books except to people who wanted to make legitimate use of them. 
     
     
      
       Scientific or medical books would not come under the ban of censorship. 
     
     
      
       I would like to point out to the Minister that there is no limit in the Bill as to the number of books that would be distributed. I am sure the Minister has no idea, and no one else has, of the number of books that may be in circulation or of the various quarters in which they may be in circulation.   It is only to provide against possibilities of abuse and of those books getting into the hands of people who should not get them that I moved the amendment. 
     
     
      
       As I pointed out to the Deputy, there is no difference between us in principle. If there is a loophole we will have to close it up.  The only question is, is there a loophole which makes it worth having this somewhat elaborate and not easy to work machine? To begin with, scientific or literary works will not be banned, but only books that are ex professo immoral, dealing with sexual matters, etc., or else books dealing with this question of birth control.  There may be a number of books which you might say were ex professo immoral, but which a person would require for scientific or social purposes, or something of that kind.  The number of these must of necessity be very small.  The number of instances in which a winning case, so to speak, could be put up to the Minister asking for these particular books would be very few indeed; they must in the nature of the case be very few. 
       Therefore it really comes down to the number of cases in which you would permit these books on birth control to come in.  There might be one person or two persons in the whole country anxious to deal with that matter scientifically, in order to write a treatise on it, attacking it. That would be the only reason.  You can leave those books out of the discussion altogether, and then you will come back to the one class of book which is ex professo indecent but yet is required by some particular person for some real, solid reason.  It seems to me it is written in the statute itself that if there are 50 or 60 cases a year of permits being given, that would be really the outside.  It does seem to me to be rather difficult to work out if there is, in fact, a very small number like that.  I will now move the adjournment of the debate, and the Deputy and I will have ample opportunity of further considering the matter in the meantime. 
     
     
        The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Progress reported on amendment 70. 
   
   
     Private Deputies Business. - Legal Practitioners (Qualification) Bill, 1928&mdash;Report Stage. 
     
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       In page 3, Section 4 (3) to delete lines 5, 6 and 7, and substitute therefor the words: 
       &ldquo;(8)  Where a person is exempted by or under the Solicitors (Ireland) Act, 1898, or by or under that Act as amended by the Solicitors (Ireland) Act, 1898 (Amendment) Act, 1923, from any of the examinations referred to in the foregoing sub-sections of this section, such person shall be required notwithstanding.&rdquo; 
       The amendment really does not make any change in the text of the Bill, and it is mainly to rectify an error which occurred in the section dealing with exemptions from examinations.  The exemptions are made by the Act rather than by examinations. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Bill, as amended, be received for Final Consideration.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       On the Second Reading Deputy Conlon said that he wished to inflict as little hardship as possible on anybody.  I recognise that by accepting amendments in Committee he has materially lessened the hardships on individuals both as regards the lowering of the age and the extension of the period in which persons may become qualified in the Irish language. The Deputy has undoubtedly lessened the hardships, but he has not, however, met my objections to the Bill.  I think it would be more in order and more in accordance with the practice of the House if I stated my objections on the final stage.  Accordingly, I do not propose   to put the Dail either to the trouble of listening to a speech now or to a division at this particular stage. 
     
     
      
       In connection with this Bill, perhaps I will be permitted to read a resolution passed by the Incorporated Law Society.  There were 118 members present at the meeting, and all but eight of the 118 members were agreed &ldquo;That this special general meeting of the Incorporated Law Society of Ireland, summoned by the Council to consider the proposals contained in the Legal Practitioners (Qualification) Bill, 1928 (as amended in Special Committee), desires to place on record that the Society is opposed to the Bill so far as it affects the solicitors' profession, and instructs the Council to use every possible effort to secure its rejection.&rdquo;  These are the views of the legal profession. When this State was being established we heard something about vocational government and the right of certain bodies, such as Universities and the Incorporated Law Society, to be autonomous and to prescribe their own procedure.  Even the minority of the Incorporated Law Society, who gave qualified support to the Bill, included the following in their amendment: &ldquo;...that they deprecate the tendency in a degree to take the training of aspirants of our profession out of our own hands and demand that such amendments as shall be in accordance with the dignity of the profession may be made in the Bill.&rdquo; I think that is a sufficient commentary on the Bill.  I do not propose at the moment to say anything beyond giving the views of the profession regarding the Bill.  I look upon this Bill as merely an effort to show that people, whatever their standing in the State, must be ready to bend the knee and bow the head to the powers that be. 
     
     
      
       Is docha liom gur fior e go bhfuil Cumann na nDligheadoiri i n-aghaidh an Bhille   seo ach is iongnadh liom na raibh siad in ann abhcoide no aturnac d'fhail chun an ruin do chur os coir na Dala. 
     
     
      
       There is not much necessity to debate the Bill now. Every phase of it was fully discussed on the Second Reading. Deputy Hennessy has mentioned that the Incorporated Law Society has passed a certain resolution.  He said there were 118 members present.  I do not know whether the 118 members can be regarded as representative of the Incorporated Law Society of Ireland.  I would be surprised if 118 was representative of that body at a general meeting.  As was pointed out over and over again, the Society had sufficient time to take up this question voluntarily if they wished to do so; but since they did not think fit to do so, it then became necessary to introduce this Bill.  I submit the only compulsion in the Bill is to make parents see that children of 15 years of age and under are fully equipped for any profession that they may take up in later years.  I commend the Bill to the House, and I ask Deputies to agree to my motion. 
       Question put and agreed to.  Fifth Stage fixed for Wednesday, 6th March. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies Business. - Oireachtas (Payment of Members) (No. 2) Bill, 1928&mdash;Second Stage. 
     Debate resumed on the following motion: &ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time.&rdquo; 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       At the moment I do not want to express any opinion as to the utility or otherwise of a Seanad or a Second Chamber in this or, indeed, in any country.  That, I submit, would be importing into this discussion a question which will have to be faced up to at another time in this country and, perhaps, in other countries too.  My chief reason for rising this evening is to   refer to some of the suggestions thrown out by some members of the Fianna Fail Party.  In speaking to this motion, Deputy Thrift stated that as a matter of fact the course that Deputy Tierney was adopting was a much more desirable way of proceeding; in other words, that he was prepared to accept Deputy Tierney's amendment in substitution for his proposal.  So far as the attitude of Deputy Thrift is concerned, it is to me very understandable. But I would also suggest that before either Deputy Thrift withdrew his motion, or Deputy Tierney proceeded to deal with his amendment, that Deputy Tierney should at least have made a case for his amendment. 
     
     I feel myself in sympathy to a certain extent with many of the expressions that fell both from Deputy Tierney and from Deputy Thrift, as well as those that fell from Deputy Lemass.  But what I am mainly concerned with is the contradictions that appear in the printed statements on our Agenda, in the Official Reports, and the public utterances of the members of that Party at cross-roads and at public platforms throughout the country.  From time to time we hear great solicitude professed by Deputy Lemass and those associated with him, for the working-class people of this country, frequently referred to as the plain, common people.  The plain, common people with a capital P, a capital C, and at the end a capital P.  We have in the Official Reports the speeches of Deputy Lemass in which he states that he and his Party have decided to support the Bill, whilst in the next breath he tells the House that the working-man who becomes a member of the Dail or Seanad is practically compelled to devote all his time to it and is not in a position to find any source of income to augment the allowance he receives here.  I cannot square those two statements. Either the plain, common people of this country are worthy of support, or they are not.  If the plain, common people of this country are to be appealed to at election times, surely   any of the common or plain people are entitled to occupy any position of honour in this State, without a certain amount of financial loss, at any rate. 
     We have also a statement made, according to the Official Reports, by Deputy Flinn, who said: &ldquo;According to Deputy O'Connell&rdquo; (who is referred to by Deputy Flinn as &ldquo;this man&rdquo;) &ldquo;who does not belong to the leisured classes, who does not belong to the wealthy classes, but who does belong to a class of which there is a very small proportion in this country&mdash;those who have the wealth of the world. ....&rdquo;  Am I to take it from that that this is a cheap, a very cheap, sneer at the national teachers of this country?  The &ldquo;leisured and wealthy classes&rdquo;!  The national teachers of this country are to be sneered at because they have but recently emerged from a form of slavery and because they are now paid a living wage, and nothing more than a living wage.  For that they are to be sneered at as the leisured or wealthy classes of this country.  I am wondering whether these statements would be made on a public platform at any time, now or in the future.  We were also told that in the Seanad to-day there were no Labour men, in the real sense of the term.  We were told that they were of the leisured classes, and that no genuine Labour man would seek election to the Seanad or desire representation there.  Let me say in answer to that second cheap sneer that of the six Labour members in the Seanad, two only are persons who have other means of livelihood or have any emoluments.  Four of those Labour Senators are men who had to resign their positions of emolument when they entered the Seanad.  The same is true of every Labour Deputy here, with possibly one or two exceptions.  The same is true of every Labour man in the Oireachtas, with those one or two exceptions.  I want to know if that is the official attitude of Fianna Fail towards the plain, common people, and the sons of the plain, common   people of this country?  Personally I expected better than that; I expected to find better appreciation of the plain, common people of this country than to find Deputies indulging in cheap sneers at the workers of this country, the national teachers and others, who are told now that they are no longer workers, but members of the &ldquo;leisured and wealthy classes.&rdquo; 
     I am opposing this amendment for the reasons indicated by Deputy O'Connell.  No case has been made for the amendment, any more than a case has been made for the original proposal made by Deputy Thrift. As I have already said, the time may come in the near future when we may have to consider the whole position in relation to a Second Chamber&mdash;whether it is desirable to continue a Second Chamber in existence or not.  Then perhaps we may approach the question from a different angle.  But, so long as the Second Chamber is embodied in our Constitution, we shall, as Labour representatives, as the direct representatives of the plain, common people, as representatives, perhaps, of that leisured and wealthy class of national teachers, continue to seek and demand representation both in the Dail and Seanad, and I hope with a measure of success. 
     I am also anxious to know will the Fianna Fail Party, or Deputy Thrift's Party, or Deputy Tierney's Party, or any other party, proclaim their open hostility to the ambitions of the working classes in this country at their public meetings, and not seek, by the subtleties of reasoning which they have used, to involve many of their issues before the common plain people of the country, but come out in plain and understandable language and tell the people without any reservation what they stand for.  It is only in keeping with the psychology represented in the official Opposition that they should now declare their hostility to the ambitions of the working classes. When possibly there is agreement, or a rapprochement, between certain   elements in Fianna Fail and certain elements in Cumann na nGaedheal&mdash; elements which I believe are present in both Parties&mdash; 
     
      
       I think the Deputy ought not to pursue that any further, and ought to keep to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I am endeavouring to do so.  When these elements have been brought together, perhaps through incidents such as this&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy ought to keep to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;we of the Labour Party will know whom we are up against.  There is, undoubtedly, an understanding between many Deputies in the Cumann na nGaedheal Party and the Fianna Fail Party, and I am firmly convinced that the attitude taken up by Deputy Lemass and Deputy Flinn is one which, perhaps, will make an appeal to certain members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party.  (Deputies: &ldquo;No, no.&rdquo;)  I am glad to hear &ldquo;No, no,&rdquo; from some Deputies.  So far as Deputy Thrift's Bill is concerned, and so far as the amendment of Deputy Tierney is concerned, neither one Deputy nor the other has made any case either for the proposal or for the amendment.  For the reasons, therefore, that I have indicated, I intend to oppose the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I wish to ask Deputy Anthony if he will be good enough to inform the House what proportion of Labour representatives, either in the Seanad or Dail, were at the time of their election to either House placed in official positions in the Labour movement? What proportion came from the workshop or the factory? 
     
     
      
       Or the publichouse? 
     
     
      
       Or the publichouse? What proportion came from the rank and file of the common people, which Deputy Anthony gets up to talk about? 
     
     
     
      
       Ninety-seven per cent., to be accurate. 
     
     
      
       This has nothing to do with the amendment. 
     
     
      
       It has to do with the statement which Deputy Anthony has made.  I challenge him to deny that 97 per cent. of the Labour representatives, both in this House and in the Seanad, were, prior to their election, placed in sheltered positions? 
     
     
      
       Who placed them there? 
     
     
      
       The machinery which they themselves built up. 
     
     
      
       Order, order! 
     
     
      
       The workers put them there. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps it would be no harm if I pointed out that there is nothing, either in the Bill or in the amendment, about Labour representatives, and I am not going to listen to one word more about them. 
     
     
      
       I submit that there has been an unfair attack, or rather a misrepresentation, by Deputy Anthony with regard to our attitude on this question, and I think that it is only fair that I should be allowed to express my views. 
     
     
      
       Both sides have been allowed to express their view on the matter and I will not hear any more about it. 
     
     
      
       I have made the point which I wanted to make and the House can investigate the truth of the two statements.  So far as Deputy Anthony's comment on the elements within this Party is concerned, I should like to remind him that the Seanad elections proved that there are also elements within the Labour Party, and that the best element was defeated in that election. 
     
     
     
      
       The Parliamentary Secretary to Deputy Flinn has made a fairly decent attempt to follow the very undesirable line laid down by Deputy Flinn when he spoke last Friday.  Deputy Flinn, in my opinion, very unnecessarily dragged my name into the discussion on this particular motion and amendment, and in such a way as to prove quite conclusively to me, at any rate, that he misunderstands, deliberately or otherwise, the position which I occupy as a Labour representative in this House.  Deputy Flinn, in speaking about leisured positions which members of this Party occupy, asked the question: &ldquo;Would Deputy O'Connell be prevented from going into the Seanad? Would he have to leave his job? Would Deputy Davin?  Mind, I am not attacking any of them in this manner, but they have other means of livelihood.&rdquo;  I think I am entitled to explain the position which I occupy in this House.  I would not dream of doing so were it not for the reflection which I think Deputy Flinn has endeavoured to cast upon me, and the misrepresentation which he has attempted to apply to me and to the position which I occupy.  Before I ever came into the House I was the Irish representative of the Railway Clerks' Association of Great Britain and Ireland on the Executive Committee of that Association. 
     
     
      
       Is this by way of personal explanation? 
     
     
      
       It is.  I think I am entitled to remove the misapprehension which has been created by the insinuation which Deputy Flinn has made in that question. 
     
     
      
       You are helping to keep English Unions operating in this country. 
     
     
      
       I am proud to admit that I am still a member of that same organisation, and that I occupied every position of honour which could be given to me by the members of that Association before I came in here.  At any rate, Deputy Cooney   knows well that at a particular period I had to make application for permission to attend the executive meetings of that organisation.  When I applied for leave with loss of pay it was refused, and I fought and won the right from the company with which I am employed to attend executive meetings on leave with loss of pay.  I attend this House to-night by sacrificing a day's pay.  I wonder how many Deputies in the Fianna Fail Party who are solicitors, barristers, etc, suffer the loss which I suffer in order to attend properly to my duties here? 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy ought to leave it at that. 
     
     
      
       You have your job if you lose your seat. 
     
     
      
       In other words, I am nominally in the employment of the railway company.  I suppose Deputy Cooney is not employed by the same publican by whom he was employed before he came into the House. 
     
     
      
       That is worthy of Deputy Davin. 
     
     
      
       The speech of Deputy Anthony was the most amusing production I have listened to since I came into the House.  Whatever bee he has in his bonnet he seems to be called upon to give an elaborate defence of the Irish Labour Party in the Dail against the attack of the Fianna Fail Party.  He states inter alia that the plain people of the country are entitled to occupy any position of honour in this State without financial loss.  Nobody has ever disputed that.  Nobody in this Party has ever disputed the right of the humblest citizen or individual to attain to the premier position of honour or importance in the State. Deputy Anthony, by using phrases of that nature, which will probably appear in the papers to-morrow, seeks, whether deliberately or not, to misrepresent the attitude of this Party to what he describes as the plain people of the country.  In our experience of public boards recently we have often found the much discussed and much-abused plain man's   son, the poor man's child, and the long-suffering plain people, used for propaganda purposes.  I think that the long-suffering, plain people have been crucified in a manner in which they were never crucified before in Deputy Anthony's speech to-night. 
     
     
      
       The plain people will not suffer very much if Deputies keep to this amendment. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony referred to Deputy Lemass's speech at the introduction of this Bill and said he was surprised that Deputy Lemass should have taken up the attitude he did.  I am not going to defend Deputy Lemass from the attacks of Deputy Anthony; Deputy Lemass is far better able to do that himself.  There was one paragraph in the speech of Deputy Lemass that Deputy Anthony forgot to quote, which he would have found on the same page: &ldquo;We think that if the Seanad could possibly at any time serve a useful function in the government of this State then its members could be provided with an allowance which would make it possible for the poorest member of this community to fulfil all the functions of membership.&rdquo;  That expresses, I think, the attitude of the Fianna Fail Party towards the statement of hostility and all that sort of thing by Deputy Anthony. He wants us to tell the people off public platforms what we stand for. Deputy Anthony is well aware from the speeches of this Party in the House and outside, what this Party stands for in relation to the working classes. 
     
     
      
       Your votes in the county councils prove that. 
     
     
      
       You will see my vote in the county council given yesterday. Deputy Anthony is familiar with the declarations of the leaders of this Party as to the duty of the State to provide work for the people of the working classes, while Deputy Anthony and his Party are supporting a Government that denies that duty and always opposes it. 
     
     
     
      
       What exactly does Deputy Mullins mean by that? 
     
     
      
       What I mean by that statement is that&mdash;since Deputy O'Connell seems to be so obtuse as not to understand&mdash;this Party of which I am a member has definitely declared time after time that it is the duty of the modern State to provide work for the people.  The Government in power here does not accept that view of the position, and they have declared it time after time.  Yet Deputy Anthony's Party has consistently supported that Government. 
     
     
      
       That is absolutely untrue. 
     
     
      
       It is absolutely true. 
     
     
      
       It is absolutely untrue, and Deputy Mullins ought not to say it.  He knows it is untrue. 
     
     
      
       He is muddle-headed. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony's Party have consistently supported the Government Party. 
     
     
      
       That is absolutely untrue. 
     
     
      
       He is suffering from loss of memory.  Let him look at the division lists to-night. 
     
     
      
       This Bill is very desirable at the present moment when the Minister for Finance is looking all round for economies.  It might be much better if he made these economies at the expense of a useless Second Chamber rather than at the expense, if the Press is to be believed, of the night schools in the various cities.  I hope Deputy Tierney's amendment will not be carried, and that the House will give its support to the Bill as it stands. 
     
     
      
       What Party is supporting the Government now? 
     
     
      
       We do not know what side the Government is going to take. 
     
     
     
      
       Who started it?  Send for the man who refused to resume the debate. 
     
     
      
       I think the mistake is that we are taking a motion made by a certain Deputy much too seriously. This debate began by a series of championships of one Deputy by another which developed ultimately, as practically every debate does develop ultimately, to the point at which Deputy Anthony stands up to chide the Fianna Fail Party for their lack of devotion to the plain common people of Ireland.  I do not think that the speech of Deputy Anthony is at all going to make the plain common people suffer in the terrible manner suggested by Deputy Mullins, because, fortunately, the plain common people of Ireland have not had to listen to that speech and to endure it as we have had.  But we who know Deputy Anthony, and know his little weakness, remember how a former Anthony sacrificed the world and a throne for the sake of his devotion to not the most beautiful cause in the world, and we know that very often Deputy Anthony feels the same sort of devotion to a worthy gentleman who sometimes sits opposite that his illustrious predecessor did to the president of that particular Egyptian State.  Therefore, we do not worry very much about what he says. 
     
     But to get back, we are opposed, as Deputy Lemass laid down, to the Seanad as a whole because we do not believe that the Seanad discharges any useful functions in this State.  As we do not think it serves any useful purpose we do not feel that we should be called upon or that the people should be called upon to support it. For that reason and because it goes a certain way with us even if it does not go the whole way we are compelled by virtue of our previous declarations of antagonism to the Seanad as at present constituted, and because of the purposes for which we believe it was founded, to vote for Deputy Thrift's Bill and to support it&mdash;but only to that extent.  We   realise in doing that, that our position may be somewhat ambiguous. We realise that we may lay ourselves open to the charge laid against us by Deputy O'Connell that we are trying to restrict the membership of this assembly to a certain class in this country who have the leisure and the wealth that will enable them to attend it.  I think that is very unfair.  That is not our attitude at all.  If we believed there was any place in the constitution of this State for a Seanad, that it had any proper functions or that it was possible for it to do any proper work, then we would adopt the principle which Deputy Lemass also mentioned in his speech: we would say that every class and section of this community should be represented there, and represented in such a way as would enable them to perform their functions as members of that assembly in a proper manner.  But we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that the present Seanad has not, under the present Constitution, any real, essential function in this State. We cannot shut our eyes to that fact and, therefore, we do not feel we would be justified in allowing an opportunity for reducing that wasteful expenditure which the maintenance of it entails to pass and for that reason we support, much against our will, Deputy Thrift's Bill. 
     
      
       I am not prepared to support Deputy Thrift's proposal, because I think the time is not opportune for the final consideration of salaries of the members of the Seanad.  I believe that the method of election of candidates for the Seanad adopted at the last election cannot continue, and I believe that ultimately the provisions for their election will have to be so amended that they will go back to a reconstructed constituency.  I believe also that party polities and party organisation will not exist to the same extent for election of members of the Seanad as it does for election of members to this House.  I believe that candidates for the Seanad will have to bear their own expenses,   which will be very considerable.  The bearing of those expenses must be remembered when considering the salary to be attached to membership of the Seanad.  For that reason and for other reasons, I prefer Deputy Tierney's amendment, and I hope it will pass.  I do not like to interpret people's motives, but somehow I think the Fianna Fail Party know and hope that Deputy Thrift's proposal will be defeated, and this, on their part, is a cheap exhibition of economy. 
     
     
      
       Like some previous speakers, I think a great mistake has been made in the discussion of this Bill.  I think we should get far more profit by discussing the subject rather than by discussing persons. From all sides of the House there is an admission that there was very good reason for introducing this Bill in order to have the question discussed. I do not think that Deputy Thrift meant more than that the matter should be thoroughly discussed in all its bearings, and a wise conclusion come to.  He is not, I think, wedded to any particular sum. His is a proposal which was pressed into prominence by the long drawn out debates which we had on the constitution of the Seanad in the year which has passed.  I think Deputy Lemass, when speaking, was, to use Deputy MacEntee's phrase, in a &ldquo;very ambiguous position.&rdquo;  I thought there was, to say the least, a great lack of courtesy in that he suggested it was a sort of presumption on the part of Deputy Thrift to propose any matter for discussion in this House.  He said a great many things which Deputy Thrift, if he were in any way thin-skinned, might take exception to.  Then he said: &ldquo;I agree with the Bill.&rdquo;  I do not think that the proposer or the supporter of a measure should be the actual test of the measure.  Subjects are proposed for discussion in this House, and I hope we have not lost sight of the duty we owe to those who sent us here to come to a sensible conclusion on these subjects. 
     
     As regards Deputy Tierney's   amendment, I never saw it or heard about it until it reached me by post, nor do I think there is any collusion in the matter at all.  Seeing that this was a matter which affected the Seanad, it was only reasonable, when this proposal was brought forward, that somebody should move that a Committee consider the whole matter and come to the best conclusion.  The question does not rest there.  When the Report of the Committee comes before this House, we shall be free to criticise it and to put forward arguments for and against the provisions of the Bill.  There is no reason why we should have introduced heat into the matter or referred to where we are working or anything like that.  I think it is laid down as a recognised principle that there should be a fair day's pay for a fair day's work.  On that, there is surely room for discussion in this Bill. Therefore, I support the amendment. 
     
      
       Since it is seldom that Deputy Thrift allows his better instincts and judgment to overcome him so as to do something that is really in the interests of the country, I think we should take full advantage of it when it does occur. One thing to me is very peculiar, and that is the action of the Labour Party&mdash;not so much their action in voting against the Bill as the reasons they gave for voting both against the Bill and the amendment. It is quite easy for them to say that we, on this side, are supporting the Bill because we are against the poor man's son.  But that is not correct.  Nobody knows that better than the Labour Party. We shall be always glad to defend the poor man's son, just as we would be glad to defend Deputy O'Connell and Deputy Anthony, because we know they might be described as horny-handed sons of toil.  We would be always glad to defend them because they can boast of being hard-working, labouring men, representing the hard-working, labouring men of the country.  But perhaps they would look at the   matter this way: if ten per cent. of the horny-handed, labouring men's sons in the country could get £200 a year in salary for work of some kind, they would be very glad to take advantage of it. 
     
     
      
       Now we know where we are. 
     
     
      
       It would be better than the dole.  Their attitude in electing Senators and others makes me very doubtful.  I am of opinion that the Labour Party, being committed to a certain policy heretofore, are opposing this Bill and amendment against their will.  I believe they are not at all in earnest in opposing this, but they are more or less compromised in supporting the policy of the Government in certain other matters. 
     
     
      
       What has the Government to do with this Bill? 
     
     
      
       For instance, without being disrespectful in any way, I might mention the Vice-Chair of this House.  It is quite reasonable that if the Labour Party support a Bill brought forward here to reduce the salaries of Senators, it would be expected that they would be prepared to support a measure which would reduce the salary of the Vice-Chairman of this House from £1,000 to £600 or £700.  Because they have acquiesced in a policy of that kind and because their hands are tied in a certain matter, they go on to oppose this measure&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I repudiate that completely.  That insinuation is beneath any decent man. 
     
     
      
       I meant no disrespect to the Vice-Chair in mentioning this matter, but I say that the hands of the Labour Party are tied.  Surely it is easy enough to see that it is not in the interests of the poor man's son that the Labour Party declined to support the Bill or the amendment. If Deputy Anthony at the next election loses his seat in Cork &mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       I have a better job to go back to, thank God. 
     
     
      
       It would be much better to come back to the Seanad, if the salary is left as it is, than to come back if the salary were reduced to £200.  If the same thing happened Deputy O'Connell, it would be nicer to come back to the Seanad at £360 than to come back at £200.  I think if the Labour Party were in earnest they would set a headline for the proper quarters and start from the top where a start should have been made long ago; they would support this measure and, in doing that, they would be doing a very good thing for the Labour men of the country whom they are very glad to talk about when they say they are upholding their rights.  That should be the case particularly at the present moment when the Minister for Finance is in such difficulties.  We are really very anxious to help him out of those difficulties. 
     
     
      
       Who is supporting the Government now? 
     
     
      
       When we see the Minister for Finance cutting such a sorry figure in trying to balance his Budget, I think we should take a charitable view and help him out even by passing this Bill.  The manner in which the Minister for Finance is trying to practise economy reminds me of a miserly housewife in Dublin who would go out to search the dustbins before the poor people could come along. 
     
     
      
       Or the banks. 
     
     
      
       You could not imagine the Minister for Finance doing that. He might go with his hat in his hand.  When the Minister for Finance is cutting such a sorry figure, it is up to the Labour Party to help him by reducing the salaries of the Senators, who are certainly a very great encumbrance on the country as it is at present. 
     
     
      
       How many &ldquo;encumbrances&rdquo; did you put in? 
     
     
     
      
       The Labour Party are always very anxious to do something original.  They would like to do something original at all times if they could.  When a Bill is brought forward by Deputy Thrift, on the one side, and an amendment is brought forward by Deputy Tierney, on the other, the Labour Party is anxious to wait to see how it will be taken.  They say: &ldquo;We could not support that Bill, and we could not support the amendment.&rdquo;  It is a nice thing to come in between, as it is a nice thing to vote for the Government one moment and to vote against it the next moment.  But it would be better to have a clear-cut policy on the question of expenditure and salaries, and if the Labour Party were in earnest in their purpose, they would certainly support the Bill and have it passed. 
     
     
      
       As far as the policy of the Government on this matter is concerned, the question is being left to an open vote of the House.  There are no Whips on, and Deputies are quite free to vote in whatever way appears to them best.  I do not know whether or not the same thing applies to those who profess such a remarkable spirit of independence&mdash; whether or not they are free to vote as they consider best. 
     
     
      
       They always do. 
     
     
      
       I have had evidence of that already.  The question amounts to this: There are two important institutions in the Oireachtas. I am supporting the amendment because I consider that, as a matter of courtesy to, and due consideration for, the other institution, its members should be consulted in a matter of this sort before a decision is taken.  The Oireachtas (Payment of Members) Act was passed five or six years ago.  They were consulted upon that occasion, and I consider that it would be not alone courteous but wise that they should be consulted on this occasion.  I differ very much from some of the speakers who have addressed themselves to this subject and who would suggest that   the saving which it is proposed to effect by this measure, if passed, would be immediately available for another purpose.  It is only the very innocent who make those pronouncements. I have been hearing them all my life.  I think that the merits of this question, and of many other questions, ought to be considered and not the motives which are attributed to others.  I do not think the matter should be discussed as if nobody was entitled to express an opinion except those who have their eye upon some popular move elsewhere.  We are not going to make for confidence in public life if matters are to be discussed in that way.  The sum of money involved is not very considerable.  The saving which it is proposed to effect is not going materially to affect any other sphere of activity in the State. If it is said that the cost is prohibitive, I can say with truth that the majority of the members of the Seanad have as keen a conception of public duty, and as keen an appreciation of the necessity for economy, as most of those who have been anxious to make profession in that respect in this House. 
     
     
      
       Our attitude on this matter is clear and definite. We do not desire the existence any longer than we can help of the Chamber known as the Seanad, as at present constituted.  We do not think that that institution has, so far, justified itself.  We do not attempt to say that some institution of the kind might not be advantageous to the country.  It might happen that a second Chamber of some kind might be necessary and helpful, and if it were really helpful we would be satisfied to pay the cost, whatever it would be.  We should like anybody with doubts in their mind to know that we believe in paying every man a fair day's wages for any duties he performs for the State or otherwise.  We do not believe in cheese-paring economies at the expense of efficiency.  It is not with motives of that kind that we shall vote as we propose to vote on this Bill and amendment.  We definitely   stand for the abolition of that body as at present constituted.  It may be that we have not the power now, and may not have the power, to abolish it.  But if an opportunity does present itself to decrease the power or the cost of that institution, we are going to make use of it.  We are now offered an opportunity of reducing the cost to the country of an institution which we claim has not fulfilled any useful purpose.  The cost may not be very great in proportion to the whole expenditure of the country, but the expense, such as it is, has not been warranted, in our opinion.  An opportunity is given us to reduce the expense.  The President says that the sum is immaterial. It may be, but on principle we will vote for the reduction of the expense. We do not desire to enter more than is necessary into motives; certainly we do not desire to enter into personalities in this matter. Although we know we will be misrepresented, we cannot help it.  We know that our attitude will be misrepresented on all sides.  That is bound to happen; it is the ordinary routine of public life.  But we do say, whether a Senator belongs to the Labour Party or to any other Party, we believe that when a fair amount of work is done for the country, he should be paid, and paid a proper salary or a wage, whatever you like to call it, for whatever work he does for the community. 
     
     An opportunity is given us now to express our opinion on the Seanad by our votes.  We have said that the Seanad has not fulfilled its functions. We intend to vote for the Bill and against the amendment in order to show that we are not satisfied with that institution.  I was sorry that personalities in any sense were introduced into the discussion of a measure of this kind.  It does not help matters, although probably I have been guilty of it myself.  Nevertheless, I agree that it does not help to have an orderly discussion on a matter of this kind, that has certainly serious and vital effects on the nation, but I suppose it is bound to happen that personalities will be introduced?   Pious talk by me will not stop it.  But we desire to discuss this thing on its merits, and we want to vote for it on its merits.  We know that whatever we say our motives, and probably the motives of the proposer of the Bill, and maybe the motives of the mover of the amendment, will be misrepresented.  They will certainly be discussed, and in that connection it has been several times remarked in my hearing, and not alone by members of our own Party, that it was strange that this Bill, or some Bill like it, was not introduced by any Party until the recent election to the Seanad had taken place.  The Seanad had been in existence for close on six years, and until certain people were reelected, people mostly of one point of view, a Bill of this kind was not introduced.  Deputy Thrift is probably aware that remarks of that kind have been made, and probably he will answer them when he is given an opportunity to reply.  But these things are said and will continue to be said, and whoever might introduce a Bill of this kind, people will naturally look for motives.  Without imputing motives to anybody, it is only nataural that these things should arise.  They have got to be met and discussed, and it is just as well to have any discussion that may take place on them carried on in the open and let men know what exactly is being said and to let them hear the answers. 
     Our Party as a Party will vote on this occasion.  Among ourselves we have discussed it, and I think we are all of one mind with regard to the position of the Second Chamber. The opportunity thus afforded to demonstrate by our votes that we have no use for that institution as at present constituted is given us and we will vote in that spirit for the reduction of the expense&mdash;not that it means such a great deal, perhaps, to the Minister for Finance, but whether it does or not, we regard it as a matter of principle.  It does not matter who is involved.  On the question of principle, that that institution has not served its purpose,   has not been worth the expense to which it has put the nation, we will vote against the amendment and for the Bill. 
     
      
       I want to introduce a few personalities into this debate. 
     
     
      
       That is no trouble to you.  Nobody can do it better. 
     
     
      
       I have taken a good many Bills to the Seanad, and I know the Seanad as an institution fairly well.  It is rather amusing to sit here and listen to certain Deputies patronising Senators, pointing out that they have not earned their money, and so on.  They more or less suggest that Senators are incapable of the sort of efficiency that one would expect from legislators. That sort of patronage from, say, Deputy Clery, is most amusing to me.  I have been in the Seanad very often.  I have seen the Seanad operating on the mistakes made in the Dail and putting them right, and I want to say this, that if Deputy Clery&mdash;I pick him out as a Deputy who has made a contribution to this debate this evening&mdash;is worth £400 a year&mdash;or whatever it is&mdash;£360&mdash;I do not know; it is a sum in proportion, so that it does not matter&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What are you worth? 
     
     
      
       If he is worth £360 as a Deputy, members of the Seanad are worth it, because there is no comparison from any point of view &mdash;from the point of view of education, efficiency or the contribution that may be made to any subject. Deputies ought really to develop a sense of humour and to give up this matter of patronage. 
     
     
      
       Ministers' humour. 
     
     
      
       There are people in the Seanad, people who have made a success in this country of their own particular businesses, people who have made contributions to the business life, to labour, to the arts, to everything which makes a country distinguished.  And when I find unknown Deputies, Deputies who have   done nothing but shout on platforms, getting up and patronising the Senators, pointing out that they are not worth this and discussing whether they are worth £200 or £300&mdash;well, the merits of the case are arguable, but the Deputies who think in these terms, who make these comparisons, should begin to think of themselves and of the reactions of the arguments they use in their own case. Deputy O'Kelly is very much afraid that their attitude will be misrepresented. This is a piece of window-dressing. All this debate on the Fianna Fail side is a piece of window-dressing, as Deputy Hennessy stated.  They have used the Seanad to put some of their undesirables into it. 
     
     
      
       I think that is out of order. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw that. 
     
     
      
       Oh, let him off.  Let him go ahead. 
     
     
      
       There were people to whom they were under certain obligations. They had to find places for them, and these people who talk so much about the Seanad, just come along in the most cynical fashion and place them in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       What about Alice in Blunderland? 
     
     
      
       They used the votes they had in the Dail to place them in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order.  The Minister prefaced his statement by saying that he wanted to go into personalities.  Would he be so kind as to tell the House who are the Senators we gave jobs to? That will be personalities.  Name them. 
     
     
      
       Yes, I will name them.  Look up the lists and you will see.  I have not got them at my finger-ends, but I think they put in six or seven Senators.  They put them in by the votes that they command in this House. 
     
     
     
      
       Names. 
     
     
      
       You did not know how to do it. 
     
     
      
       These were the people that they were under certain obligations to, and all those Deputies across the way who object to the Seanad, who think that that body is not fulfilling its proper functions, come along in the most cynical fashion and use the votes that they have in this House to put certain persons to whom they are under obligations into the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       What did the Government do? 
     
     
      
       You can tell me that. I am telling you what you did.  Now they come along with a white sheet and with a catch in their voices, and Deputy O'Kelly is afraid that their attitude on the Seanad will be misrepresented. Cheap humbug. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister tell us why the editor and the office boy of the Minister's newspaper were put into the Seanad after that newspaper failed? 
     
     
      
       You can make your speech afterwards. 
     
     
      
       Will he tell us that? 
     
     
      
       I do not make Deputy Lemass's speeches for him.  He ought to be capable of making them himself. Let me make my own points. 
     
     
      
       Are they your own points? 
     
     
      
       Everyone of them&mdash; copyright.  There is no fear that the attitude of Deputies on the opposite benches will be misrepresented. Everybody knows what their attitude really is.  Deputy Hennessy expressed it.  It is the old attitude. They would rather see the present salary left as it is.  I am perfectly satisfied that 75 per cent. of the Deputies on the opposite benches would like to see the present salary left as it is, but they must keep up this humbug.  They would very much rather vote for Deputy Tierney's   amendment than for Deputy Thrift's proposal, but they still must keep up the humbug, and they will all walk into the Lobby and vote for Deputy Thrift's proposal, hoping sincerely that Deputy Tierney's amendment will be carried, and regretting if the salary is not left as it is.  That is their attitude. 
     
     
      
       Well, follow us and make sure that the motion is carried.  Come in with us. 
     
     
      
       I think I will vote for Deputy Tierney's amendment.  I have to listen to Deputy Thrift yet, but I think I will vote for the amendment. I am not speaking at the moment of my own attitude.  That is known.  I am speaking of the attitude of Deputies opposite.  So that Deputy O'Kelly need not worry and need not be too much afraid of misrepresentation.  I think it was St. Augustine who said: &ldquo;Suffering is the true purpose of life,&rdquo; and Deputies there went through an amount of real suffering to show the purity of their motives&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You did not suffer. 
     
     
      
       Not a bit&mdash;to make clear to the country their position in regard to the Seanad, to make clear that they are still consistent. I want the Dail to mark this, that I did notice that there is a slight change of attitude in regard to the Seanad&mdash;the cow is again for sale in a certain way.  There is a slight change of attitude in regard to the Seanad.  Deputy O'Kelly said that he objected to the Seanad in its present form.  I remember about a year ago that there was to be no Seanad at all under any circumstances; that in this really democratic country, where we have such a reverence for democratic forms a Seanad was out of date.  But now the Seanad, as at present constituted, is wrong.  That is a little bit of an advance, and I wonder if that advance has anything to do with the fact that certain members of the Fianna Fail Party are enjoying the emoluments that are attached to the office of Senator at present. 
     
     
     
      
       We are suffering misrepresentation now, in silence, strange to say. 
     
     
      
       Whatever the reasons may be, it is an advance, and I want to congratulate Deputy O'Kelly&mdash;I presume he is speaking for his Party&mdash;that the attitude of his Party now is that the Seanad, as at present constituted, is not exactly just what they want.  We will find, I think, when they come to constitute a Seanad, that there will not be very radical changes and that possibly there might be good reasons for increasing the salary. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that there will be a majority for Deputy Thrift's Bill? 
     
     
      
       I do not think that the Minister for Agriculture has added very much to this debate. Possibly the Minister for Agriculture is suffering a little more than his rather painful speech would give one to understand, because for a long number of years the Minister for Agriculture was in the proud position of a dictator, when it was not even necessary, on far more drastic measures than the reduction of Senators' salaries from £360 to £200, to suggest that the easy way out of appointing a Committee would be necessary, because they were in strength then, there was no real opposition against them, the fait accompli could always be called into play&mdash;the accomplished fact. But now circumstances have changed, and we who have been speeching on platforms and who have been telling the plain people that economies were necessary, are here in strength, and we are prepared to debate questions of economy and efficiency.  But I hope in the future, when the question of economy does come up on the various Estimates that we shall be discussing, that we shall have rather better contributions to the debates than those from our most efficient Minister for Agriculture. 
     
     This country is threatened with further taxation; this country is not   able to balance its Budget; this country, we are told, has no money for reproductive work; it has no money to deal with the unemployed; it has no money to help to save the Gaeltacht.  We remember when the Gaeltacht and other questions were being discussed that the Minister for Agriculture took up the flippant attitude which he again brings into this debate to-night.  No suggestion of any kind that could come from this side of the House was worthy of the slightest consideration.  I, at least, as one member of this Party, believe that that is not the attitude of the Party opposite, that the Party opposite realise&mdash;if they are true to the interests of their constituents they must realise&mdash;that the situation in the country is too serious to be passed off in the rather flippant and personal way in which the Minister for Agriculture tried to pass it off to-night. 
     Deputy Clery, it is true, may not have as much education as the type of individual whom the Minister for Agriculture forced upon the Seanad panel of his own Party, against the wishes of the rank and file of that Party.  Neither can he claim to represent the big interests in the Free State.  He represents a poor constituency in the West of Ireland, and in that constituency people are starving at the present time.  It is not alone in Erris that they are starving, but in every constituency along the western seaboard.  Ask any member of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party how we stand in regard to home assistance, how the people are living in these distant parts of the country while we are passing votes here, and being actually criticised in the Press for passing, with very little discussion, sums of money running into hundreds of thousands of pounds.  It is time that a start was made somewhere. It is time that some light was thrown upon the governmental machinery, and we believe, as Deputy O'Kelly has already emphasised, that this is an opportunity for showing that we are in earnest.  I hope that the start that we have   made here to-night, and on the last occasion on which this Bill was under consideration, will be persisted in, that we will show the farmers, who are grousing about extra rates, who are grousing about the maintenance of the roads for the benefit of tourists, who are grousing about the maintenance of paupers who have to be kept up by enormously increasing grants for home assistance, who are grousing even about the upkeep of lunatics, who are, unfortunately, increasing also, that as well as carrying out economies on the local boards, economies can be carried out here, that this Party at any rate will endeavour, as far as ever it can, to adhere to the promises it has made. 
     Now there was a suggestion that because this Party put these members into the Seanad they have modified their policy since, and the Minister for Agriculture professes to find a  volte face  in Deputy O'Kelly's representation of the Fianna Fail attitude as being antagonistic to the Seanad as at present constituted.  We have always believed, and still believe, that the Seanad is not representative of the common people of Ireland. If it will become more representative then it will deserve better of this House.  But in the past, no matter what the case made was, no matter how legislation was improved on, how defects met in this House were remedied, when vital issues involving the liberty of the citizen and measures like the Public Safety Act were passed through this House, we know the improvement and the opposition which they met with in the Seanad.  I therefore ask those members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party to take a more serious view of the situation and not to be driven into the position that, because the Minister for Agriculture can make a few sarcastic remarks and create a very nice atmosphere, not quite so optimistic as it used to be, that because he can create a certain atmosphere of badinage, therefore they think all questions, with a high and mighty wave of his hand, can be dismissed.   That is not so.  The country expects better from the Dail, and I think the Dail should give them better. 
     
      
       Deputy Derrig is always fond of facts.  When he talked of the accomplished fact I could not help thinking that he was surely describing Deputy Derrig himself.  No one can expect Deputy Derrig to follow the flights of fancy of the Minister for Agriculture.  I want to give Deputy Derrig a few facts.  What would this result in?  A saving of £160 on each of 60 Senators would result in a saving per year of £9,600.  Is that of much use? 
     
     
      
       It is equivalent to the grant for the night schools in Dublin. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Derrig did not talk of the night schools, but of the starving people on the western seaboard.  £9,600 and people not getting home assistance.  I suppose you could not save a person from starving at much less than £1 per week in home assistance.  Deputy Derrig, by passing this Bill, would save about 180 people spread over the counties in the western seaboard. That is less than 30 in each county. 
     
     
      
       May I point out to Deputy Cooper that as a matter of fact six shillings represents the average allowance for the maintenance of a family on the western seaboard? So you will have a very much larger number saved. 
     
     
      
       I do not know how you can save a family from starving at 6/-.  I am inclined to be more generous than Deputy Derrig. 
     
     
      
       Ask the Minister for Local Government about it. 
     
     
      
       He is not here, but anyway I think £9,600 would not make a serious contribution to any scheme of economy. 
     
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy rather not give them anything? 
     
     
      
       Not in the least, but I do not think £9,600 is going to do any serious good.  Imagine what Deputy Derrig and all the other Deputies would say if the Government brought in a relief scheme only of £9,600.  Even when it runs into five figures they say it is inadequate. When it is ten times as much they say it is inadequate. 
     
     
      
       Would Deputy Cooper not think it proper to save 180 lives? 
     
     
      
       I did not catch the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       The amount involved, taking your figures, would mean a saving of 180 lives from death by starvation.  Would the Deputy think the money badly spent in saving those? 
     
     
      
       I would not if you prove that there are 180 people who absolutely need this money, but I am inclined to think that we would save more by passing Deputy Tierney's motion.  Deputy Lemass, last week, stated that a person engaged in business underwent very little loss owing to his attendance at the Seanad or Dail.  That is so with regard to those living in the neighbourhood of Dublin.  I would be quite prepared to ask a Senator living in the neighbourhood of Dublin to do his duty for nothing at all, but Deputy Lemass will agree that Deputies or Senators coming from such a distance as Donegal or Kerry injures his business and is put to substantially more expense by coming here than a Senator living in Dublin.  A Senator or a Deputy living in Dublin is able to attend to his business in the morning and come here afterwards. A Deputy or a Senator coming up from the country has to forego his business for three or four days, and also has to incur the expense of staying in a hotel.  The solution I put forward comes under the terms of Deputy Tierney's amendment. It is that Senators should be treated like civil servants.  In the   Civil Service there is a scale for travelling expenses.  Senators should get a subsistence allowance at the rates given to the highest grades of civil servants.  I believe that would be a fair manner of dealing with the question, and certainly would come within the terms of Deputy Tierney's amendment.  For that reason I support the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that I should be asked to close to-night. Therefore I move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate adjourned. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies Business. - Adjournment Debate&mdash;Distress in West Cork. 
     
      
       A Leas-Chinn Comhairle, I take advantage of the motion for the adjournment to call attention to the position which exists in regard to distress and unemployment in a considerable portion of the constituency which I represent. Last night there was a meeting in the Mansion House in Dublin to call attention to the position of the Gaeltacht, and the need for immediate action if the Irish language and the Irish-speaking people who are still left in Ireland are to be saved for the future welfare of the nation. One of the speakers at that meeting said a thing which applies with equal force to the Gaeltacht of which I am telling you in this debate. Father Malachy Brennan, speaking to a resolution, declared that the Galway Gaeltacht was as nature left it despite six years of native government. Nothing whatever had been done for the people by the native government, and anything that had been done was done by the old Congested Districts Board under the British regime.  That applies with equal force to the people of the Bere peninsula, which is practically 85 to 90 per cent. an Irish-speaking area. This question which I asked the Minister for Fisheries to-day was asked by me on 29th February, 1928, and the answer I received at that time was as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;The Land Commission do not   propose undertaking the construction of the road.  The cost of construction is considered too great as compared with any benefits that might be provided for the agricultural community of the district.&rdquo; 
     The answer I received to-day was: 
     &ldquo;I cannot add anything to the reply given the Deputy last year.&rdquo; 
     Mark one phrase in the answer to the question of last year.  &ldquo;The cost of construction is considered too great as compared with any benefits that might be provided for the agricultural community.&rdquo;  Evidently the Minister for Fisheries has the same mentality as Deputy Cooper exhibited in the cross questioning a few moments ago.  The benefits that would accrue and that certainly are very desirable if this road was taken into consideration by the Land Commission or whatever authority is directly responsible are the benefits of saving the lives of native Irish speakers and of giving them an opportunity to work instead of doles, giving them an opportunity of looking forward to some possibility of a livelihood in the future.  This road is in a portion of the parish of Adrigole where there is acute distress and poverty. 
     The meeting last night demanded that the Government take action in regard to the position of the Gaeltacht. I am very much afraid that if their attitude towards this part of the Gaeltacht is in keeping with their attitude towards the Gaeltacht in general it will be, in a short time, only another link in our chain of historic memories of past glories. This road was commenced about 1846 as relief work during the famine of that year.  Over 80 years have elapsed, and during the last five years petition after petition has been sent to the Local Government Department and the Land Commission appealing on behalf of the people in that district for a grant to enable the completion of the road to be undertaken.  It is completed up to portion of the Kerry-Pass on the Cork side and from Lauragh to Kerry up another portion of the   mountains on the other side.  The heavy work of laying out was undertaken and completed a good many years ago, including a bridge over the river which is still in good condition, and which would not involve any tremendous extra expense. 
     The ex-Governor-General, Mr. Healy, secured a grant about 30 years ago from the British Parliament to complete the work.  Unfortunately, through influences directed against it, it was diverted to other purposes.  About three weeks ago the Adrigole Distress Committee sent a memorandum to the Land Commission and the Department of Local Government pointing out the advantage it would be to the people of that district if the road were completed, and that the work was urgently required in that area.  Surely, the local Distress Committee ought to know something about the conditions prevailing there.  After the unfortunate occurrence that took place there in 1927 the same appeal was made to the Department to proceed with the construction of this road.  Evidently the Minister at that time was of the same mind as he is to-day, that the benefits, which include the saving of human life, would not compensate him for the cost that might be incurred in constructing the road.  If the construction of this road were undertaken it would mean that work which is very badly needed would be given in the western end of the parish of Adrigole, where the O'Sullivan tragedy occurred in 1927, and where a recent death occurred from causes which are only too well known to the Deputies in this House.  The work on the other main road from Glengarriff to Adrigole and Adrigole to Glengarriff would provide work for the people at the other end of the parish.  The employment that would be given is badly needed. 
     The Minister may try to disillusion the Dail as to the want, distress and unemployment that exist in that   area.  I have here before me a resolution from no less an authority than a branch of the Minister's own political organisation.  Speaking in the names of responsible public men and under the title of Cumann na nGaedheal, the Bantry (West Cork) Executive, two weeks ago, sent forward to the Department concerned the following resolution:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;That this Cumann is deeply concerned regarding the destitution now prevalent in the Adrigole district where dozens of families are in the most extreme poverty bordering on starvation.  We earnestly appeal to the Ministry of Local Government to come to the relief of these unfortunate people at once by having a grant made towards the steam-rolling of the road between Glengarriff and Adrigole. This is a district that must always appeal to the Government for help in the way of employment.  The completing of the road between Adrigole and Lauragh which has been referred to in every appeal to the Minister for some years past is also a work that should appeal to him at the present time.  Home assistance can only reach very few of the families who want work not relief.  The making of a grant towards the purchasing of seed for spring sowing would be also very much needed and appreciated.&rdquo; 
     A resolution passed by the Bantry Branch of the Cumann na nGaedheal certainly cannot be ignored by the Government on the ground that it is Opposition propaganda. 
     To come back to the general question, in the course of the debate on the Gaeltacht here last year, the Minister for Local Government, referring to paragraphs 185 and 186 of the Gaeltacht Commission Report, regarding the setting up of a special department to look after the Gaeltacht said: &ldquo;The Ministry of Fisheries would be re-organised, made a Department of Lands and Fisheries and given control of the Land Commission and fishery work and of all the additional things that might in any way be required to be   carried out specially in the Irish-speaking districts.&rdquo; 
     Speaking further, he stated: &ldquo;The new Ministry will have much more to do than the other two Ministries separately&mdash;and the new Ministry will be provided with the necessary staff and there will be additional funds in its hands to carry out the additional work necessary in the Gaeltacht.&rdquo; 
     We were led to expect that under the Ministers and Secretaries Bill&mdash; during the Second Stage debate&mdash; the problem of the economic position of the Gaeltacht would be tackled in a courageous and adequate manner by the new Ministry, which had been more or less established to look after the Gaeltacht.  The Minister for Agriculture, speaking on the Ministers and Secretaries Bill, stated: 
     &ldquo;This motion does not re-establish the Congested Districts Board, but it gives a body which is more effective for its purposes than the old C.D.B. was.&rdquo; 
     He stated, further, that the advantage of that would be that you would have in the House a Minister that could be challenged on every aspect of these things.  What has been done since the Ministers and Secretaries Bill was passed to alleviate or improve, in any way, the position of the people in the Gaeltacht?  Take that one area alone&mdash;West Cork.  Absolutely nothing has been done.  It seems that it requires something in the nature of a tragedy to call the attention of the Government to the position that exists in these Irish-speaking areas before any action will be taken.  It will be remembered that two years ago, when the unfortunate event occurred to which so much publicity was directed, the Land Commission indulged in a great flourish of trumpets.  They undertook a series of small works&mdash;the making of bog roads and that sort of thing in that district.  The employment given was not very lengthy, and when these works were finished nothing at all was done for practically two years.  It was only when another sad event occurred that the   Land Commission announced that a grant of about £1,000 had been given in the district in which distress is most acute, but for a great portion of the south-western seaboard it seems to me that it requires a tragedy to draw the attention of the Department to the necessity to take some action to provide work for the people in those areas.  There is no doubt about it that Adrigole, which was classed by the Gaeltacht Commission as one of the most Gaelicspeaking areas is in a dire position of want, and the people there have been so sceptical as a result of promises broken and hopes shattered that it is no wonder they despair of anything ever coming to alleviate their sufferings. 
     There is one other point, in connection with that, that I should like to bring to the notice of the Parliamentary Secretary, and that is that the Minister for Local Government further in his speech on the Gaeltacht debate stated:&mdash; 
     If additional services are to be provided or additional facilities given for the improvement of houses in the Irish-speaking districts, services which are not provided throughout the country as a whole&mdash;these additional services and moneys will be available through the new Ministry. 
     I presume since the Ministers and Secretaries Act was passed and the Gaeltacht was given more or less in charge of the Department of Fisheries, that the additional services and the additional moneys required therefor are at the disposal of the Department of Lands and Fisheries. 
     I wonder what, if anything, has been done to put the powers given under that Act into practical operation? Many promises were made during the Gaeltacht debate and the debate when the Ministers and Secretaries Act was going through this House as to the glorious future before the Gaeltacht when all the Government services dealing with it had been co-ordinated under one Ministry as a result of the passing of that Act.  What has been done?   Anybody who knows the Gaeltacht and the position there will realise that nothing has been done to alleviate the want. 
     
      
       I think the Deputy ought to confine himself to the particular matter raised in his question rather than to the general question of the Gaeltacht. 
     
     
      
       I submit that this question bears extensively on the Gaeltacht which is the portion of the country referred to in my question to-day, and that I am at liberty to question the Minister with reference to it. 
     
     
      
       I have already given the Deputy very great liberty, and I now wish to point out to him that he can only deal with the matter which arises out of the question that he had down on to-day's Order Paper.  I did not wish to confine him too much when dealing with that matter, but the position is that we cannot have a general debate. 
     
     
      
       Since the Minister for Lands and Fisheries is responsible for this portion of the country, I thought it would be quite in order for me to refer, in general terms, to the position in the Gaeltacht.  The Kerry-Pass road, which I have asked the Minister to take steps to construct, is a work that is badly wanted.  I am sure there are other Deputies here who will bear me out in that.  If the Land Commission, or the Department concerned, believe that by dishing out doles like soup, as they have been doing in that district by means of small road grants and that sort of thing, that they are going, temporarily, to shelve this problem, I tell them that they are mistaken.  The distress that prevails in that area is acute.  The conditions there are typical of the whole of the Berehaven peninsula.  What I am asking now is, that some definite action be taken to carry out the promises made in the various debates to which I have referred, and that   some hope be given to the people down there.  I said yesterday in another place that the best and most fruitful way for sowing the seeds of social revolution was by allowing bad economic conditions to prevail. You have such conditions in the district to which I am referring.  If the Government, or the Department concerned, do not take some action in the interests of the people down there, then, in my opinion, they will be guilty of manslaughter if any further tragedies occur in that area through want of work or lack of nourishment. 
     
     
      
       I desire to say a word on this.  I am sure that the House has a good deal of sympathy with the matter raised by Deputy Mullins, and that it would like to see something done for the poor congested areas.  With regard to the question of this road, I have been one of the representatives of West Cork in this House during the past six years.  I have visited the area frequently and have been in touch with most of the people there. During all that time I only met one man who put up this hare-brained scheme with regard to this road.  If Deputy Mullins had suggested some other schemes, such as afforestation, poultry rearing, or something that would be reproductive, I would have more sympathy with him and would certainly back him up in seeing that the Department responsible would be urged to carry them out.  During the past six years I and a number of Deputies associated with me have approached the Land Commission frequently when work was required not only in that particular area but over the whole congested area of West Cork.  I must say that I think the Land Commission met the people fairly and squarely.  The Land Commission has endeavoured to do its part in relieving the distress that prevails in that area. 
     
     If a large sum of money were to be expended on this Kerry-Pass road only a small area in one parish would be likely to benefit.  Instead of spending a large sum of money on   that particular work I would prefer to see smaller sums expended all over the Berehaven peninsula.  If Deputy Mullins were to put up a scheme of that description I would support him.  I hold that the Land Commission has done and is doing its bit to relieve the want and the distress that prevails in that portion of the constituency. 
     
      
       I wish to state, in justice to the Government, that before the Christmas adjournment four Deputies from West Cork &mdash;Deputies Jasper Wolfe, Murphy, Donovan and myself&mdash;waited on the Minister for Finance.  He received us in a most sympathetic manner. Subsequent to the interview a grant of £1,000 odd was made for necessitous areas in which it was necessary to provide assistance for poor people. I want to say that we drew his attention to other deserving cases that unfortunately were left out of the list which the grant covered.  Speaking for myself and those associated with me on that occasion, I wish to acknowledge that we were well received, and that as a result of our visit some good was accomplished.  I have listened carefully to Deputy Mullins to-night.  His denunciation of the Land Commission, the Government and everything associated with it was most dispiriting. 
     
     To my mind the Government and the Land Commission, and every other department of the State would be in a far better position to give help to the poor areas along our seaboard but for the ridiculous and nonsensical policy preached by Deputy Mullins all over the country. He is distracting the people by his shouts for a Republic, and is doing everything to embarrass the efforts of the Government to provide assistance for our people by his agitation and his propaganda in the country. As far as one West Cork Deputy is concerned, I wish to say now that I am not going to enlist under the banner of Deputy Mullins, because I know that he is not sincere in this attack, in his propaganda or anxiety about this road, but that what he is anxious about is to thwart the Government   and, if possible, to run it out of office.  As far as his policy is concerned, it will not cut much for the poor people of West Cork.  I, for one, have faith in the Government and in the Land Commission.  I realise fully what they have done, and what they are endeavouring to do.  I know the difficulties under which they are labouring.  I know that there is an array of talent at the other side of the House bent on what?  Coming to the rescue of our poor people?  Not at all, but trying to destroy the power and the policy of the Government that is endeavouring to keep the people in their homes. 
     
      
       Deputy Mullins, realising apparently the weakness of the case he had to make for the proposal referred to in his question, tried to shift the discussion on to another plane until he was called to order by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle. He is obviously alone in his advocacy of that particular work. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, will the Parliamentary Secretary state whether I am alone when responsible public individuals in that area, including the Distress Committee of Adrigole, recommended it? 
     
     
      
       They have not recommended it, as far as I am aware.  I said the Deputy was alone in his advocacy of this particular work. He is.  I have noticed that other Deputies present this evening have remained silent on this issue.  As a matter of fact, I know from investigations we have made locally that there are only two people in that area who have so far advocated the construction of this road.  One is a publican, who, I am sure, is not altogether disinterested, and the other is a local school teacher who has given the proposal only half-hearted support.  It should be perfectly apparent to Deputy Mullins that this is not work for the Land Commission to undertake. 
     
     
      
       Why is it not? 
     
     
      
       It has been reported on by our inspectors on at least   three different occasions, and on each occasion the Commissioners felt that it was not their business to undertake work of this kind.  The engineer in his last report states:&mdash; 
       The entire length of the new road to be constructed is approximately four and a half miles.  The engineering difficulties are very great, as the proposed and only site is of a difficult nature, being steep, rugged mountain, with deep ravines and precipitous rock, which will entail trunking, retaining walls, and blasting of solid rock for a distance of one and a half miles. 
       Work of this kind would require the most skilled engineering to be carried out successfully, and would require the supervision of engineers that we have not got in the Land Commission.  The engineer in his report further stated that the cost of the road would amount to £10,000, and that it is quite possible it would cost something between £15,000 and £20,000.  The expenditure of that money would be purely speculative. It would be of no agricultural advantage. The proposed road would pass through a country that is sparsely populated.  It is doubtful if when completed the road would be of any advantage in attracting tourists to the area.  This is work that should be undertaken either by the county council or the Department of Local Government.  It is not work the Land Commission should undertake.  We are undoubtedly voting monies every year for expenditure on improvement works, but such money must be spent for the benefit and development of estates. At the present time we are spending a very substantial sum of money in this area for the purpose of relieving the distress that exists.  According to our inspector's report, Deputy Mullins has considerably exaggerated the extent of the distress in that district. In January one of our inspectors visited the area, and he knows the district even better than Deputy Mullins.  He states that:&mdash; 
     
     
       &ldquo;With the exception of a few small fishing communities the district of West Cork extending from Clonakilty to Bantry is, from an agricultural point of view, fairly economic.&rdquo; 
     We are spending substantial sums of money on estates work. 
     
      
       If that inspector is typical of others it is no wonder that things are in a mess. 
     
     
      
       It is admitted by people from the area whom I have met during the past couple of months that the economic position is no worse this year than last year, in most areas.  The economic position is somewhat better.  As Deputy Mullins knows, the economic condition in these particular areas was never very high.  I do not see what the Land Commission can do to improve the economic standard in these areas. 
       In the very bad areas we are spending substantial sums of money for the purpose of relieving distress. Our inspectors and influential local people are satisfied that the money we are spending is sufficient to meet the distress.  Last year when the economic position was much worse we spent about £1,200 on various estate works. That money was considered adequate to meet the needs of the case at that time.  We are spending practically the same amount of money at present.  I am quite satisfied that that money is sufficient to deal with any distress that exists in that area.  This particular estate, the Leigh-White, I think, is the second largest estate the Land Commission has dealt with, and more money has been spent on improvement works on that estate than on any other estate the Land Commission has dealt with so far.  During the last four or five years something like £25,000 has been spent on improvement works on that estate, and a good portion of that money has been spent on poor areas like Castletown Berehaven, where for the past two years a sum of £2,000 odd has been spent on improving the houses there. 
     
     
     
      
       The houses do not show much sign of improvement. 
     
     
      
       In other areas substantial sums have been spent from time to time.  The Land Commission cannot possibly undertake this work.  It is for the county council or the Department of Local Government to undertake it, but not the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       The Parliamentary Secretary says that the Land Commission cannot undertake the work because it is work for other Departments. If that is so, what is all   this stuff about the Ministers and Secretaries Act and setting up a Department for the Gaeltacht? What about the money for special economic work mentioned by the Minister for Local Government?  Is not the Land Commission in charge of the Gaeltacht? 
     
     
      
       I hope when relief schemes are undertaken they will be of a constructive character, and not wild cat schemes such as that suggested by the Deputy. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.55 p.m. until Thursday, at 3 p.m. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Refund of Subscriptions to Dail Loan. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if application has been received from Patrick Whelan, Vinegar Hill Hotel, Enniscorthy, for repayment of subscription to the Dail Loan, and when it is proposed to deal with same. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my reply to his question of the 14th November last regarding Mr. Whelan's application.  There has been no material alteration in the position of this application since that date. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state when it is proposed to issue Savings Certificates to the following subscribers of Dail Loan, 1919-20:&mdash; Mr. Eugene M. O'Sullivan, Banemore, Ardfert, Tralee, £10; Mr. William C. Shine, Kilbahaha, Newtownsandes, Kerry; Mr. Cornelius O'Connor, Feans, Causeway, £2; Mr. Thomas Carroll, Cloonamon, Astee, Ballylongford, Kerry, £3; John Carroll, Cloonamon, Astee, Ballylongford, Kerry, £3; Mr. John O'Hallorin (James), Pallas, Listowel, £3; Mr. John Byrne, Coolanelig, Duagh, Co. Kerry, £3; John O'Hallorin, Pallas, Listowel, £2; Mr. John Keane, Rylane, Abbeyfeale, Co. Limerick, £1; Margaret Keane, Rylane, Abbeyfeale, Limerick, £1; and Miss Hannah Carmody, Ennismore, Listowel, £1. 
     
     
      
       If the persons specified in the Deputy's question have made individual application in writing for repayment in respect of subscriptions to the Dail Eireann Internal   Loan, 1919-20, their applications will be duly considered in the light of such evidence as may have been submitted by them. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Kerry Old Age Pension Claims. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the reasons why Mr. Michael Flahive, Beencuneen, Clashmelchon, Causeway, Kerry, has been refused the old age pension, and whether he is aware that the applicant is practically destitute. 
     
     
      
       An appeal was decided in this case on the 26th March, 1926, when it was determined that the claimant was not entitled to any pension.  It was not clear that he fulfilled the statutory qualification as to residence laid down in Section 3 (2) of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1911, as amended by Section 2 (3) of the Act of 1919.  The case has not since come in for adjudication. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state why Mr. Michael Connor, Drinagh, Ballyheigue, Co. Kerry, an old age pensioner, has been deprived of three months' pension by the Old Age Pensions Authority, Tralee district, and why he is in receipt of 9/- per week only, instead of 10/-, and whether he is aware that this pensioner is extremely poor. 
     
     
      
       So far as can be ascertained from the particulars furnished, this case has not come up on appeal.  I have therefore no information concerning it. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Division of an Irishtown (Mayo) Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware that acute congestion exists on the Eileen Dillon Estate, Irishtown, Co. Mayo; that lands were acquired on the Churcher and Bourke Estates for the relief of congestion on Dillon's Estate, over five years ago, and are still let in grazing by the Irish Land   Commission; if he will state when those lands will be divided, and when the Eileen Dillon Estate tenants will be vested. 
     
     
      
       I would be obliged if the Deputy would repeat his question on the 13th prox., when I expect to have the information to enable me to reply. 
     
   
 