 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - An Ghaedhilg i nOllscoileanna an tSaorstait. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Uachtaran an bhfuair an Ard-Chomhairle run o Chonnradh na Gaedhilge ag iarraidh ar an Rialtas Coiste Fiosruchain a chur ar bun fa staid na Gaedhilge i nOllscoileanna an tSaorstait, agus, ma fuair, an neosadh an tUachtaran don Dail cad is mian leis an Rialtas a dheunamh sa sceul. 
     
     
      
       A copy of the resolution referred to was received in my Department, and was referred to the Minister for Education, to whom any question on the subject should be addressed. 
       I would point out to the Deputy that under the Ministers and Secretaries Acts, 1924 and 1928, the administration and business of the public services of the State are distributed amongst the eleven Departments of State established by those Acts, and that the powers, duties and functions thereof have been assigned to the respective Ministers in charge of those Departments. 
       It is not the function of the Executive Council to receive or deal with communications in regard to public services assigned to a particular Minister; nor is it my function or the function of my Department to receive or deal with communications relating to services assigned to another Minister.  Such communications should be addressed to the Minister concerned or to the Secretary of his Department. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Meals for Gaeltacht Necessitous Children. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can see his way to sanction the immediate provision of free meals for necessitous children attending National Schools, as recommended by the Report of the Gaeltacht Commission, at least in so far as concerns the poorer areas included in the Gaeltacht. 
     
     
      
       It is proposed to introduce legislation enabling provision to be made for the supply of free meals for necessitous children attending National Schools in certain of the poorer areas of the Gaeltacht. The details of the scheme are at present being worked out and legislative proposals will be framed and submitted as early as possible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Cost of De-Rating Saorstat Farmers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can give an estimate of the total cost of derating the farmers of the Saorstat to the same extent as the farmers in Northern Ireland. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my Budget statement on the 24th April last in the course of which I gave an estimate of the cost of de-rating agricultural land and farm buildings in the Saorstat to the same extent as has been done in Northern Ireland. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - West Cork Income Tax Appeals. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that a number of taxpayers in West Cork who had appealed from assessments of income tax received notices from the Inspector of Taxes that their appeals would be heard at Skibbereen on 7th November, 1929, and if on attendance in obedience to these notices they found that their appeals were not listed for hearing before the Special Commissioner for hearing Income Tax Appeals; if as the result they were put to much inconvenience and expense, and what steps it is proposed to take to compensate them for the inconvenience   and expense to which they have been put. 
     
     
      
       The Notices of Assessment hitherto in use contained particulars of the time and place at which appeals would be heard by the Special Commissioners.  This was in the nature of a general intimation. This general intimation was, however, followed by these words: &ldquo;The Inspector of Taxes will notify you of the time at which your case is likely to be called.&rdquo;  In the case of every taxpayer whose appeal was ripe for hearing by the date of the appeal meeting mentioned in the Notice of Assessment, a notification as to the time at which the case would be likely to be called was issued to the appellant. 
       I am informed that every case in which such a notification was issued in connection with the appeal meeting at Skibbereen on the 7th instant, was duly listed for hearing by the Special Commissioners on that date. It appears, however, that in one case in which a special notification was not issued, the appellant attended at Skibbereen under the impression that his case would be listed for hearing.  It is regretted that the appellant in question was put to any inconvenience or expense as the result of a misunderstanding.  There is no provision, however, for payment of expenses in such circumstances. 
       In the new form of Notice of Assessment which will be provided for 1930-31 and future years consequent upon alterations in the law made in the Finance Act of 1929 there will be no room for any misapprehension on the part of appellants. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Minister's answer, I wish to ask if he is aware that the notices served on these people contained these words:&mdash;&ldquo;Appeals will be heard at Skibbereen on the 7th November, 1929, at 10 o'clock&rdquo;; is not that a notification to the appellants that their appeals would be heard and that they were required to attend at that time? 
     
     
     
      
       I am afraid that it is, but of course there were these qualifying words that I have read, following. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Super-Tax Assessments. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state the number of persons assessed for super-tax in the financial year ending March 31st, 1929, under the following headings:&mdash; (a) Incomes of less than £3,000 per annum; (b) incomes exceeding £3,000 and less than £5,000 per annum; (c) incomes exceeding £5,000 and less than £10,000 per annum; and (d) incomes over £10,000 per annum. 
     
     
      
       The number of persons assessed to super-tax in the financial year ended 31st March, 1929, was:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Incomes not exceeding £3,000 per annum 
             707 
           
         
         
           
             Incomes exceeding £3,000 and not exceeding £5,000 
             449 
           
           
             Incomes exceeding £5,000 and not exceeding £10,000 
             266 
           
           
             Incomes over £10,000 
             85 
           
           
             Total 
             1,507 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Civil Service Representative Council. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he received a deputation from the staff side of the Civil Service Representative Council on the 6th June, 1929; whether the staff side representatives put forward certain requests as to the amendment of the constitution of the Council with a view to securing its better functioning; whether a decision has yet been given on the points put forward by the staff side, and, if not, whether the Minister can indicate when he will be in a position to promulgate his decision. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my reply on this subject to a question by Deputy Anthony on the 30th October.  The matter is still under consideration, but I hope to be in a position soon to make a statement in regard to it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Remuneration for Extra Work. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the   Revenue Commissioners refused to discuss with the representatives of Comhaltas Cana the question of remuneration for extra work falling to be performed under the Old Age Pensions Act, 1928, although under the terms of the conciliation machinery the matter was one proper for discussion with the staff concerned; whether the Minister received a communication dated the 8th October, 1928, from the Comhaltas Cana requesting him to arrange for the discussion of the matters with the staff, and if he is aware that no action has been taken up to the present; and whether the Minister will give an assurance that this matter will now be dealt with without delay. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the circumstances referred to in the Deputy's question. 
       Under the arrangements for enabling the staff to represent their view on matters of a Departmental nature where reasonable cause is shown for oral discussion, the decision whether such discussion should take place necessarily rests with the heads of the office concerned.  In the present case the requests by the staff for an interview with the Revenue Commissioners have not so far indicated the precise considerations in view of which discussion is desired and, in the absence of this information, the Commissioners have been unable to agree that any useful purpose would be served by an interview.  If the request by the staff is put forward afresh with the additional information, I have no doubt that the Commissioners will be prepared to reconsider the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Customs and Excise Officials. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that on the 23rd March, 1928, an agreed report of a discussion between representatives of Comhaltas Cana and the Revenue Commissioners regarding 1921 Entrants into the grade of Officer of Customs and Excise was forwarded to his Department for decision; whether he is aware that in October, 1928, a further agreed   report, concerning removal expenses of certain Officers of Customs and Excise on voluntary transfer from Great Britain and Northern Ireland, was transmitted to his Department, and whether he is further aware that no decision has been given in either case, notwithstanding the lapse of eighteen and twelve months respectively since the agreed reports were submitted, and whether his decision on these matters will now be given. 
     
     
      
       The matters to which the Deputy's question relates were, in both cases, incidental to the transfer of officers referred to from the British to the Saorstat service at the change of Government. 
       The first agreed report concerns an application for improved salary and seniority conditions submitted on behalf of two transferred officers of Customs and Excise, which was the subject of prolonged discussion about three years ago with the Revenue Commissioners.  After careful consideration of the case I intimated to the Commissioners in December, 1926, that I could not accede to the application.  The matter to which the other agreed report relates was considered as far back as October, 1924, when for reasons set out in a statement which I made in reply to a question by Deputy Peadar S. O Dubhghaill on 11th November, 1925, I decided that the payment of removal expenses in the cases in question would not be justified. 
       I have now been able to review both of the matters in the light of the agreed reports since submitted, and I find that these reports disclose no new facts which would warrant me in varying the decisions already given.  I have so informed the Revenue Commissioners. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that neither of the two communications referred to in this particular question was acknowledged by his Department and will he arrange in the case of future negotiations of the same kind conducted through the proper civil service channels to have the communications duly acknowledged and properly dealt with? 
     
     
     
      
       I do not know the facts about that aspect of the matter. I will look into the question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Payment of Death Duties. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance (a) whether Death Duties of Landowners may, with the consent of the Revenue Commissioners, be paid in land; (b) whether Irish Free State National Loan Bonds are permitted to be accepted by the Revenue Commissioners in payment of Death Duties, and (c) whether any other form of payment of taxes exists by payment in kind. 
     
     
      
       The required information is as follows: (a) Under Section 56 (1) of the Finance (1909-10) Act, 1910, the Revenue Commissioners may, if they think fit, on the application of any person liable to pay Estate Duty or Succession Duty in respect of any real or leasehold property, accept part of the property in satisfaction of the whole or part of the duty. 
       (b) There is no provision for the acceptance of Saorstat Eireann National Loan in payment of Revenue Duties. 
       (c) Securities issued under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, are accepted in discharge of Death Duties upon the conditions prescribed in Section 13 (9) of the Act.  Under Section 13 (3) Compensation Stock may also be issued direct to the Revenue Commissioners in settlement of arrears of Income Tax or other duties due by claimants for compensation.  Land Bonds are accepted in payment of Death Duties and Income Tax when transferred by the Land Commission under Section 3 of the Land Act, 1923, in discharge of duties payable out of the purchase money of lands sold. 
     
     Certain War Stocks and Bonds prescribed in accordance with powers conferred by the Finance Acts of 1917 and 1918 are accepted under certain conditions in payment of Death Duties and Excess Profits Duty.  The Finance Act of 1923 provided that, as regards Death Duties, British securities should not be   accepted in the case of any claim for Death Duties arising in Saorstat Eireann on a death occurring on or after 1st April, 1924. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Duty on Fur Trimming. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state if fur trimming by yardage so declared on the Customs entry declaration form is subject to duty in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The answer is in the affirmative. 
     
     
      
       I want to ask the Minister if the officers dealing with this duty have got definite instructions not to levy the duty on fur trimmings by the yard? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       They have got instructions to that effect? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that they have because to my knowledge fur trimming by the yard has been imported into the Free State and duty has not been levied on it. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy would give me any information, I would examine the matter.  I have no information in respect of anything of the kind. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Retired Teachers on Pension. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the number of retired teachers who are drawing old age pensions. 
     
     
      
       Old age pensions statistics are not compiled in such a way as to give the information required. It could be obtained only by the compilation of special returns involving considerable expense, which would not be justifiable. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dail Loan, 1919-20. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if the collectors for the Dail Eireann Loan, 1919-20, in the townlands of Cortonmore. 
     
     
        Aughrim and Aughalustia, Loughglynn, Co. Roscommon, have yet furnished his Department with a full list of subscribers in these townlands and whether his Department is in communication with Rev. Fr. Roddy, C.C., to whom the money for this area was handed, and if the Minister can state when he proposes to repay people in these areas. 
     
      
       Lists, purporting to contain particulars of subscriptions to the Dail Eireann Loan by persons resident in the townlands of Cortonmore, Augherine (not Aughrim, as stated in the question) and Aughalustia, were received in my Department on the 8th and 9th May, 1928.  In a letter which accompanied the list for Augherine, the Rev. Father Roddy, C.C., stated that a receipt which he issued in respect of the total amount received by him from that townland was still in the possession of the local collectors. Requests for the receipt were made by my Department to the collectors concerned on the 8th May, 1928, and the 21st October, 1929, but no reply has been received.  Similar requests were made in respect of the sums collected in the townlands of Cortonmore and Aughalustia, but no reply was received to these either. 
       As the sums received in the Dail Department of Finance for the Parliamentary Constituency of North Roscommon were not accompanied by any particulars of the amounts subscribed in the three townlands referred to and as it has not yet been possible to identify those amounts, I am not at present in a position to authorise repayment to the individual subscribers concerned. Further inquiries are, however, being made. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say that subscribers who did not make formal application themselves but about whom Deputies made representations to his Department during the past couple of years, will be paid; will the Minister see that they are paid? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
     
      
       Might I indicate to the Minister that I was in his Department about&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is about to make a speech on a different subject to that in the question. 
     
     
      
       I was about to say that the subscribers&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must not make a speech on the matter.  This is a very limited question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Drainage in Co. Roscommon. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Roscommon County Council in September, 1925, petitioned the Board of Works for a Drainage Scheme for the Hind River and its tributaries under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925; if he will state the reason why this petition was not acceded to&mdash;the work having been done under the Drainage Maintenance Act, 1924; further, if the Minister is aware that if the steps provided for in the 1925 Act to consult the rated occupiers affected had been taken the project would have been turned down, whether in view of this and the hardship inflicted on the people the Minister will reconsider the decision to contribute only 25 per cent. of the cost from State Funds and allow the 75 per cent.; also, if he will take the necessary steps to have the period of repayment extended from ten to 35 years. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  As to the second part the Commissioners of Public Works decided against the petition for the reason that the area affected was practically the same as that included in the existing Hind River Drainage District and the works of restoration being carried out under the Drainage Maintenance Act. 1924, eliminated the necessity for the formation of a new drainage district.  The third part of the   question is hypothetical, but no hardship has been inflicted on the occupiers of land; as to the remainder of the question nothing can now be done as the Charging Order has been enrolled in the Central Office of the High Court of Justice, and cannot be altered. 
     
     
      
       This is a matter of considerable importance, and I beg to give notice that I will raise it on the adjournment this evening.  There would be little use in asking supplementary questions now. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that in similar cases in Roscommon where restoration orders were issued with regard to other districts, there is one district in particular in which the period for repayment was set down at ten years, and afterwards increased to fifteen years&mdash;is the Parliamentary Secretary aware of that? 
     
     
      
       That is another question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Children In Picture Houses. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that children under the age of fourteen are permitted to enter Cinema Theatres in Dublin unaccompanied as late as 9 p.m.; that adults are allowed to associate with these children, and that there is no proper supervision; if he will state the number of charges which have been brought against persons for indecent criminal assaults on boys and girls in picture houses in the region of O'Connell Street, Dublin, and the number of convictions obtained during the period of two years ended 31st October, 1929. 
     
     
      
       Licences for cinematograph theatres are granted by county councils and county borough councils under the Cinematograph Act, 1909.  The councils have power to attach to the licences such terms and conditions as they may think necessary.  The licences issued by the Dublin Corporation contain the   following conditions relating to the admission of children:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;No child of school-going age shall be admitted to the entertainments during school hours (viz., 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.) unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. 
       &ldquo;No child under 14 years of age shall be admitted into, or permitted to remain on, the licensed premises after 9.30 p.m. unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. 
       &ldquo;A separate portion of each part of the auditorium shall be exclusively reserved for children under 14 years of age who attend entertainments unaccompanied by parents or guardians.&rdquo; 
       The Corporation appoint officers to see that the provisions of the Act of 1909 and the regulations thereunder are observed. 
       In addition to their own officers the Corporation also authorise members of the Garda Siochana to act as Inspectors of Cinematograph Theatres. In the last two years 540 visits have been made by members of the Garda Siochana to theatres in O'Connell Street and the vicinity. Any breaches of the regulations were reported to the Corporation. 
       During the past two years one complaint was made to the police regarding an indecent assault on a girl in a picture theatre, an arrest was made and a conviction secured.  The theatre in this particular case, however, could scarcely be said to be in the region of O'Connell Street. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Fires in Cinemas. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether in view of the fact (1) that the existing law dealing with precaution against the outbreak of fires in cinemas and the egress of patrons, operators and other employees of cinemas is inadequate, and (2) that on September 16th, 1929, a fire took place in the Grand Central Cinema, Dublin, in which the film in the projection machine was totally destroyed, he will introduce proposals for legislation   dealing with these matters and empowering the Garda authorities to inspect cinemas to insure that the provisions of such legislation and any regulations made thereunder are complied with. 
     
     
      
       I am unable to accept the Deputy's statement that it is a fact that the existing law dealing with precaution against the outbreak of fires in cinemas is inadequate.  The Cinematograph Act, 1909, and the regulations made thereunder have worked satisfactorily.  The fire mentioned by the Deputy as having taken place in the Grand Central Cinema, Dublin, on the 16th September, 1929, cannot have been of a serious nature, as the outbreak was not brought to the notice of the Garda Siochana.  I have no evidence that there is any necessity for further legislation regarding this matter. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that it was only because of the fact that the fire was not of a serious nature that it was not reported to the Garda Siochana?  I have reliable information to the effect that the fire was of a very serious nature and that certain influences were used to prevent a prosecution, and the consequent publicity. 
     
     
      
       No notice of that fire ever reached the Garda Siochana, and the Garda Siochana are not influenced by any external considerations, such as the Deputy suggests, in the discharge of their duties. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Release of Cavan Prisoner. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice to state under what circumstances and on what grounds was the release from prison ordered of Patrick Clerkin, O'Rahilly Street, Cavan, who was convicted and sentenced to three years' penal servitude in March, 1928, for conspiracy and possession of arms and whether the Minister proposes taking any action as to releasing the other three prisoners, viz., Michael Reilly, Patrick Corr and Bernard McPhillips   convicted and sentenced for the same offence. 
     
     
      
       Patrick Clerkin was convicted on the 17th February, 1928, of aiding and abetting persons to have possession of firearms and of conspiracy and was sentenced to three years' penal servitude. He was released on licence on the 7th August, 1929, under the prerogative of mercy in response to a petition.  It is not usual to state the reasons for which the prerogative of mercy is exercised and I think it would be undesirable to depart from that practice, but in this particular case to avoid misunderstanding I may say that the following were the considerations which moved me to advise that mercy should be shown to Patrick Clerkin: I was amply satisfied that Clerkin had no personal interest in the enterprise and that he was not aware that firearms were to be used.  He lent his car to the other conspirators.  I have no reason to believe that he knew anything about the firearms and he was not in the car with the others when the firearms were found by the police.  He had served 18 months in prison and having regard to all the circumstances of the case I came to the conclusion that he had been sufficiently punished.  In the case of the other 3 prisoners mentioned in whose possession or under whose control the firearms were found I do not propose to take any action. 
     
     
      
       I wish to be given an opportunity to raise the matter on the adjournment. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Persons Detained by Garda. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether it is the practice to keep records and details in Garda Siochana barracks of persons detained, particularly in connection with persons detained and not charged with any offence and further, if he will state how many times in the month of November, 1929, and for what duration on each occasion was George Gilmore detained, and also if he will state on   how many occasions George Gilmore became an hospital case as a result of detention. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  The answer to the second part is twice, the durations being from 9 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. on the first occasion, and from 8.30 p.m. until 12.50 a.m. on the second occasion; and as regards the third part of the question the answer is that on the first occasion on which Gilmore was arrested he developed what appeared to be an epileptic fit and was removed to hospital for treatment. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister not know that on the second occasion George Gilmore was detained in hospital the whole night for the treatment of wounds received at the hands of the C.I.D.? 
     
     
      
       I do not know anything of the kind. 
     
     
      
       I have handed into you, sir, notice under Standing Order 27, asking you to permit me to raise this matter at the conclusion of questions, in view of the serious nature and urgent importance of it. 
     
     
      
       We shall take that at the end of questions. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister hear any rumours that George Gilmore was severely beaten and that that was the cause of his being sent to hospital? 
     
     
      
       I saw a statement made that the man went to hospital after arrest&mdash;I certainly saw that&mdash;but I do not pay much credence to these sort of statements &mdash;I have investigated too many of them. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister take any steps whatever to investigate the rumour or the statement that was made that George Gilmore was beaten unconscious on two occasions by the Garda Siochana?  Did the Minister take any steps to find out   whether there was any truth in it or not? 
     
     
      
       I have already informed Deputy Briscoe that this occasion when he was brought to hospital has been fully gone into, and he was not beaten on the occasion, but was suffering from a fit. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Alleged Assault by Garda. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Justice if allegations of an assault by members of the Detective Division of the Garda Siochana on Matthew Mescall, Jr., Derrynalicka, Kilmurry McMahon, Co. Clare, on the 13th November, have reached his Department, if a copy of an affidavit made by Mr. Mescall, together with a copy of a medical certificate has been forwarded to him, and if he proposes to make any investigation on the matter. 
     
     
      
       I have received from Deputy de Valera's secretary what purports to be a copy of an affidavit made by Matthew Mescall, Junior, of Crossmore, Kilmihill, County Clare, who presumably is identical with the man alluded to in the question.  I have received no copy of any medical certificate. Matthew Mescall, Junior, of Crossmore, Kilmihill, was asked by the local superintendent to make a statement of the complaint he wished to make against the Garda Siochana and he refused to do so.  I do not propose to take any further steps in the matter. 
     
     
      
       In view of the affidavit and the medical certificate, which are available, will the Minister, in the interests of the person who was alleged to be beaten, and also in the interests of the Garda Siochana, not investigate the matter? 
     
     
      
       I have already informed the Deputy that I have seen no medical certificate. Apart from that, here is a man who makes charges; the Garda ask him what charges he is making, and he declines to give an answer.  That person is thoroughly unreliable. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state why he did not send somebody not connected with this&mdash;why he did not send somebody from headquarters, or will he be prepared to examine the certificate which I have? 
     
     
      
       The investigation was carried out by the proper Superintendent of the Garda Siochana, who went to ask what statement this man wished to make, and the man declined to make any. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Naturalisation of Aliens. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice to state what progress has been made in providing the machinery for the purpose of the naturalisation of aliens. 
     
     
      
       Legislation for the naturalisation of aliens is in contemplation, but I am not in a position to state when a Bill for the purpose can be introduced in the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister elaborate how far he has got when he comes to deal with the Expiring Laws (Continuance) Bill? 
     
     
      
       This is not an expiring law, I might inform the Deputy.  It is contemplated legislation&mdash;not an existing or expiring law. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether the Minister has read the memorandum handed round with the Bill.  It is referred to in that as being promised legislation, and we are anxious to know how far it has progressed. 
     
     
      
       There is no expiring law. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Allenwood (Kildare) School. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he is aware that the new school recently erected at Allenwood, Co. Kildare, under the auspices of the Department is being continually flooded by water and whether he will inquire into the matter. 
     
     
     
      
       I am advised that the Allenwood School is not being continually flooded by water, but that on wet days water is blown into the cloakroom under the entrance doors of the school building.  To prevent this recurring, weather boards for the doors are being provided. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Training Colleges Students. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state the number of students in each of the training colleges who presented themselves for second year examination and the number in each who passed at the last examination. 
     
     
      
       The answer is in tabular form and will be circulated with the Official Report. 
       The following is the information which the Deputy desires:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             SUMMER EXAMINATION, 1929. 
           
         
         
           
             Number of final year students at each of the Training Colleges who presented themselves for second year examination, and the number who passed, at the last examination:&mdash; 
           
           
             
             
             Number who presented themselves for examination. 
             Number who passed. 
           
           
             St. Patrick's Training College 
             89 
             82 
           
           
             De La Salle Training College 
             103 
             86 
           
           
             Our Lady of Mercy Training College 
             107 
             97 
           
           
             Mary Immaculate Training College 
             60 
             55 
           
           
             Kildare Street Training College 
             9 (Men) 
             8 (Men) 
           
           
             Kildare Street Training College 
             34 (Women) 
             27 (Women) 
           
           
             
             
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             TOTAL 
             402 
             355 
           
         
       
     
     In addition, the following number of students presented themselves for re-examination at the second year   examination with the results as indicated:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Number who presented themselves for re- examination. 
             Number who passed. 
           
         
         
           
             St. Patrick's Training College 
             8 
             5 
           
           
             De La Salle Training College 
             8 
             Nil. 
           
           
             Our Lady of Mercy Training College 
             5 
             2 
           
           
             Mary Immaculate Training College 
             1 
             Nil. 
           
           
             Kildare Street Training College 
             3 (Men) 
             2 (Men) 
           
           
             Kildare Street Training College 
             11 (Women) 
             5 (Women) 
           
           
             
             
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             TOTAL 
             36 
             14 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Junior Assistant Mistresses. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state the total number of Junior Assistant Mistresses at present serving in the National Schools of the Irish Free State and the estimated annual expense which would be involved by the concession of pensions on the same conditions as pensions are granted to the certified teachers. 
     
     
      
       The number of Junior Assistant Mistresses serving in National Schools on the 30th June, 1929, was 1,844.  It is not possible in the absence of an actuarial investigation&mdash;which would require some time to complete&mdash;to give an indication of the necessary expenditure. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Scruduchan i gCoir Colaisti Ullmhuchain. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais cathaoin a foillseofar toradh iomlan an scruduchain is deunaighe da raibh ann i gcoir na gColaisti Ullmhuchain. 
     
     
      
       The complete results of the 1929 examination   for entrance to the preparatory colleges have been published, and can be obtained from Messrs.  Eason and Son, Ltd., O'Connell Street, Dublin. Price ninepence (9d.) per copy. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Killaloe Grinding Mill 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that the grinding mill at Killaloe is closed because of the refusal of the lessee to take Shannon electric power instead of water power, and if in view of the unemployment thus caused and the disorganisation resulting in grain and grain products distribution for the farming community in a large area surrounding Killaloe he will endeavour to secure the continued operation of the mill. 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to say why these mills are closed, but a supply of electricity from the Shannon works has been offered to the occupier in place of his water power.  That offer has not been accepted up to the present. There do not appear to be any further representations which I can effectively make to the occupier, who will, no doubt, have fully considered such consequences of closing the mills as are stated in the question. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the owner of the building has stated that he is prepared to let it to any firm which is prepared to carry on that business or any similar business and would it not be in the interests of the farmers and the workers in that district that the Department of Industry and Commerce should make such representations to some other firm who will carry it on, if the owner is willing to let the building? 
     
     
      
       Surely the Department of Industry and Commerce are not preventing him from setting the mill.  What can they do? Does the Deputy want them to let it for the owner? 
     
     
     
      
       Surely the Department of Industry and Commerce ought to be in a position to get in touch with some firm who would carry it on? 
     
     
      
       Has the owner no duties in the matter at all? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Fishermen and the Shannon Scheme. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is now in a position to state what compensation it is proposed to award the fishermen at Killaloe, who are now deprived of their livelihood because of the operation of the Shannon scheme. 
     
     
      
       These fishermen have no rights which would entitle them to compensation under any of the provisions of the Shannon Electricity Act, 1925.  Their position has to be considered together with that of the numerous other persons having interests of different kinds in fisheries along the Shannon.  This general question is a difficult one, but it is expected that a statement on it can be made early in the new year. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state if anybody has any rights under the Shannon Electricity Act? 
     
     
      
       I think so. 
     
     
      
       The Minister would not be sure? 
     
     
      
       Not absolutely. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Rates on Electricity Supply Board Property. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state when payment of the rates, now overdue, on the property of the Electricity Supply Board, transferred from the Dublin Corporation, will be made to the Dublin Corporation. 
     
     
      
       The position of a body such as the Electricity Supply Board under the Rating Laws has proved to be a matter of very considerable legal uncertainty.  Legislation intended to clarify the position   is being prepared for early introduction, but it is not expected that the Electricity Supply Board will anticipate the provisions of the Bill by any payments in the nature of rates. 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that these rates will be paid? 
     
     
      
       It means that the Deputy will have to wait for the provisions in the Bill and then the question can be discussed on the Bill. There is clearly one thing certain, and that is that no payment will be made until the situation is cleared up by the Bill which will be introduced here. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is aware that these rates are legally due to the Corporation and the Commissioners and that they have not been paid and that now they are overdue.  Surely with the amount of retrospective legislation we have had, if this House exempts this Board from all rates then the Board can recover the amount.  But meantime when a rate is struck it is struck on the basis of expectancy that all the rates due will be paid. The Minister, by his answer, is putting the Dublin Corporation in the position of anticipating £30,000 which it is now not going to get. Surely that is not equitable in the smallest sense? 
     
     
      
       I did not say they were not going to get them. 
     
     
      
       Are they going to get them now? 
     
     
      
       That is the point in dispute.  The Department are not advised that the Board are legally liable for those rates and it will be for the Department to consider what proposals they have to make to clarify the position.  To establish the various liabilities a Bill will be introduced here. 
     
     
      
       I asked a question some time ago, and the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Industry and Commerce said definitely that under a section of the Act which I quoted here, which was the only section dealing with the   rates, the Shannon Board were not exempt, and from that it was concluded that they would pay. Now I am told that they are not sure whether they are liable or not. 
     
     
      
       May I ask whether the Department has been legally advised as to whether the Shannon Board is or is not liable under the law as it now stands? 
     
     
      
       For rates in general? 
     
     
      
       No, for this specific rate. 
     
     
      
       Obviously from the answer I gave it is clear that &ldquo;the position of a body such as the Electricity Supply Board under the rating laws has proved to be a matter of very considerable legal uncertainty.&rdquo;  It is obvious from that that lawyers have been consulted and that a definite opinion cannot be obtained.  It seems clear there is some doubt as to the law on the question.  As to whether they are liable for these rates or not seems to be doubtful.  They may be liable for a certain sum and not liable for another sum. 
     
     
      
       May I ask if it is the Minister's intention to introduce legislation making them liable or freeing them from liability? 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister if he is not of opinion that if the Electricity Supply Board paid these rates under protest if necessary that would not prejudice their case when raised later as a result of legislation? 
     
     
      
       I am sure that point has been considered, but apparently the Department proposes to take different steps.  They propose to clarify the position by a Bill here.  I cannot say what the Bill will be.  All I can say is that a Bill to clarify the position and to make the liability certain will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       From the answer of the Minister, and arising out of the withholding of the payment of these rates, it is evident that the purpose of the Bill will be to free the Board from any rate whatever. 
     
     
     
      
       That is not a question. 
     
     
      
       Possession is nine points of the law, at any rate. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Trade and Shipping Statistics. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he can state the quantities and values of men's and boys' overcoats included in the figure of 301,570 and amount of £380,898 as shown under imports into the Irish Free State in Trade and Shipping Statistics for 1928, and further, if he can give the required information for the periods January to September (inclusive), 1928, and January to September (inclusive), 1929. 
     
     
      
       Information as to the number and value of men's and boys' overcoats imported is not available. The particulars from which the statistics are compiled are those declared by the importers in accordance with the Official Import List, which does not require separate description of men's and boys' overcoats. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that there is now a tariff operating on clothing, and further, in view of the fact that the Department of Statistics is desirous of finding out what effect on the manufacture in the Saorstat this tariff is having, would the Minister not consider the advisability of segregating men's and boys' clothing from other wearing apparel? 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy put down another question on that subject? 
     
     
      
       It would save time if the Minister would answer now. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Unemployment in Longford and Westmeath. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce to state (a) the number of unemployed persons registered at the unemployment exchanges on the 31st of October, 1929, for the counties of Longford   and Westmeath respectively, and (b) the total number receiving unemployment benefit on that date. 
     
     
      
       The numbers of persons registered as unemployed on the 28th October, 1929 (being the nearest date to the 31st October for which statistics are available) in the Employment Exchanges and Branch Employment Offices situate in Counties Westmeath and Longford were respectively 616 and 76 and the numbers who received unemployment benefit on the 1st November (being the nearest date to the 31st October for which statistics are available) were respectively 252 and 60. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Classification of Dublin Residents. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce to state the number, based on the 1926 Census, of persons of 20 years and upwards resident in Dublin and the four adjoining urban districts who were born in the Saorstat elsewhere than in the county of residence, in each of the following occupational classes or sub-classes, viz.:&mdash;(1) Producers, i.e., all industrial occupations except agriculture, fishing and Mining; (2) Transport: water transport workers, including dock labourers; (3) Shopkeepers and managers of wholesale and retail businesses; (7) Public administration and defence; (5) Professional occupations (excluding clerical staff); (6) Clerks and draughtsmen and all typists, and (7) General and undefined labourers. 
     
     
      
       Statistics of persons classified by both occupations and places of birth have not been compiled except for the Saorstat as a whole. 
       The manner in which the Census was compiled enabled statistics to be obtained at small expense for many combinations taking the country as a whole, which could only have been obtained for smaller areas at excessive cost. 
     
     
      
       How did the Minister for Local Government get the figures   that he quoted on the Poor Relief Bill? 
     
     
      
       Would it not be possible for the Minister to get these figures for Blackrock, Dun Laoghaire, Pembroke, Rathmines and other areas, out of the Census returns in his Department. 
     
     
      
       The same necessity would arise in connection with other small areas, and if statistics were to be compiled for small areas all over the country the cost would be excessive. 
     
     
      
       I submit that this is an exceptional case, and inasmuch as it has a direct bearing on the Bill before the House, the figures should be given. 
     
     
      
       Every case is exceptional. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister leave out Blackrock and Dun Laoghaire, as they are not included in the Bill? 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that this information is already available, and only requires to be taken out of the documents already compiled? 
     
     
      
       Where did the City Commissioners get their information on which to base an estimate of £250,000 per annum? 
     
     
      
       I cannot answer for the City Commissioners. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Pension Claim by Soldier's Dependant. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether the application for pension or gratuity, as provided for in the Army Pensions Act, 1927, of Mrs. Anastacia Ryan, 28 Hospital Street, Kildare, in respect of her son, Volunteer Thomas Ryan, Army No. 41316.  A Company, 7th Battalion, who died on the 26th November, 1924, in Cork Street Hospital, Dublin, from meningitis, caused by the falling of a sand-bag on his head whilst on duty at Baldonnell Camp, has yet been considered by the Army Pensions Board, as promised on the   25th March and the 3rd November, 1925, and, if not, will the Minister expedite consideration of the claim? 
     
     
      
       Mrs. Ryan's application has not been considered by the Army Pensions Board for the reason that the Army Pensions Act, 1927, makes no provision for the dependants, other than widows or children, of members of the forces whose death whilst serving in the forces occurs subsequent to the 30th September, 1924. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Proposed New Bridge in Co. Kerry. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will state the cause of the delay in erecting a new bridge at Caherciveen, Co. Kerry, to supersede the old one; and whether considering that the present bridge is extremely dangerous to the public he will take steps to expedite the execution of this proposed work. 
     
     
      
       The delay in this case was due largely to the difficulty of obtaining suitable tenders.  Amended plans were received in the Department on the 4th November, 1929, and were approved on the 13th November and the county council notified accordingly on the 18th November. As far as the Department is concerned tenders may now be invited in connection with the work. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Milk Supply Legislation. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether the drafting of amending legislation dealing with the milk supply on the lines of the Inter-Departmental Report of last year has been completed and whether there is any immediate prospect of the introduction of the promised Bill. 
     
     
      
       I thought it would have been possible to introduce this measure before Christmas. It has, however, been delayed unavoidably   by other legislation, but I hope to introduce it early next year. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Fish Purchases by Local Authorities. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether fish is one of the commodities for which contracts are arranged under the Local Authorities (Combined Purchasing) Act, 1925; and, if so, whether he has any information as to the total quantity purchased by local authorities during the year 1928, and as to the total quantity of fish landed in the Saorstat which was so purchased. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister state why fish has been excluded from the operations of the Act? 
     
     
      
       The matter was gone into pretty fully in May, 1928, and the difficulties of supply as well as those of demand were of such a nature that it was considered inadvisable to bring it under the operations of the Combined Purchasing Act.  The same applies to butter and other articles of that kind. Perishable goods are not dealt with generally under the combined purchasing system. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Redundant Creamery Manager. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether he will state if the name of Michael Hayes, Ballyneety, Limerick, who was a creamery manager at Ballyneety until the creamery was closed down has been on the list of redundant creamery managers for a considerable time and if he will state the reason why employment has not been offered to him. 
     
     
      
       The name of Mr. Michael Hayes has been included in the list of redundant creamery managers. It is regretted, however, that it has not been found possible to obtain employment for him.  Mr. Hayes is believed to be about sixty-six years of   age, and this no doubt militates against him in securing fresh employment. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Departmental Veterinary Officers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether he is yet in a position to amend the regulations with regard to conditions of employment, salary and pension rights of veterinary officers under his Department. 
     
     
      
       All that I am at present in a position to state in regard to this matter is that it is receiving my careful consideration.  Any change in the existing conditions would, of course, require the sanction of the Minister for Finance. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Registered Bulls in Co. Leitrim. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will state (1) the number of bulls registered in Co. Leitrim in each of the years 1925 to 1929 inclusive under the following headings, viz.: (a) premium bulls, (b) special term bulls, and (c) private owned bulls; (2) total cost of registration and subsidy made by the Department to Co. Leitrim for each of the above years; (3) how many bulls of each breed were subsequently reported unsatisfactory by veterinary inspectors; (4) how many were removed by Department as unsuitable; (5) how many applications were received from holders of such bulls for liberty to dispose of same, giving reasons and also stating each breed; (6) how many such applications were granted, stating reasons; (7) whether bulls have been replaced by one of same breed, in every case where bulls have been reported as unsatisfactory or disposed of; (8) how many applications have been made for bulls (stating breed), and how many have been supplied of breed required; (9) how many bulls supplied by the Department have died in possession of holders during prescribed period, stating the cause; and (10) how many bulls privately owned have been submitted to inspection for registration in each of the years 1925 to 1929 inclusive. 
     
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy repeat the question next week as there is a lot of detailed information connected with it? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Co. Clare Lands. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state at what stage the proceedings are in respect of the division of the Loughville and Clareen estate in Co. Clare, and if in view of the number who are seeking divisions therein he will consider the advisability of acquiring other land in the district for distribution. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to which comprise two holdings containing 131a. 2r. 15p. and 140a 2r. 30p. respectively, held as tenants by seven persons as trustees for the Drumcliffe Farmers' and Workers' Association, and are situate on the estate of T. Crowe and Another, County Clare, were vested in the Land Commission on the 1st March, 1929, as retained holdings, and proceedings are at present in progress for the resumption of the holdings by the Land Commission.  The question of the acquisition of other lands for distribution will be considered. 
     
     
      
       (An Clar): Could the Minister give any indication as to when the matter will be disposed of? I think he will agree that it has been a long time under consideration, and that some decision should have been arrived at before now. 
     
     
      
       I could not say. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Construction of New Road in Co. Longford. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether his Department has received applications from the tenants of the townlands of Meentashesk, Loughnalocraman, Largynacarra, and Meenabul, in the Ardara district, County Donegal, to have a new road made to give them access to the public road at Leckconnell from their mountain holdings, and what steps the Minister proposes to take to have such a road constructed. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission had under consideration, as a result of representations made to them on behalf of certain residents in the townlands mentioned, the construction of a road between Leckconnell and Meentashesk, and have decided that the project is not one which would justify the heavy expenditure which would be involved in the undertaking owing to the hilly nature of the locality.  Even if the Land Commission was prepared to construct the road, some of the persons over whose land it would run are not willing to give the necessary land for the site. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Co. Kildare Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission propose to acquire for the relief of congestion any of the following lands (total acreage 1,068 acres, 1 rood, 30 perches) on the estate of the representatives of Frances Archbold, in the electoral division of Carrigeen, Co. Kildare:&mdash; Townland of Hughestown, 456 acres, 1 rood, 33 perches; Ballynascarrick Lower, 165 acres, 2 roods, 20 perches, and Davidstown, 348 acres, 2 roods, 27 perches, and, if so, whether he can state when the lands will be available for division amongst the congests in the neighbourhood. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission propose to acquire untenanted lands on the Archbold estate for the relief of congestion, and with that object have made an offer to the owner under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for part of the lands of Hughestown, Ballynacarrick Upper and Ballynacarrick Lower. Negotiations are now in progress in connection with the matter, and in the meantime I am not in a position to state when the lands will be available for distribution. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Division of Co. Wicklow Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission has resumed possession of the lands known as the Estate of the Knockarrig Land Committee situated at Grange Con.   Co. Wicklow; whether any arrangements have been made for a division of the lands amongst smallholders in the district; and if so, whether the Minister will state the names of the proposed allottees. 
     
     
      
       The question refers to an area of 24a. 3r. 20p. in the townland of Knockarigg which was let by the Land Commission to trustees for use as a cow park. Possession of this area was taken up from the trustees on 1st November, 1929, but a scheme for the division of the lands has not yet been approved by the Land Commission and the names of the proposed allottees cannot, therefore, be stated. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Condition of Co. Leitrim Road. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware (a) that in 1925 a road was commenced at Derryhallow, Drumshambo, extending to Gortnawana (a distance of two miles), and that it has been left in an impassable condition&mdash;even for pedestrians; (b) whether any steps are being taken for the completion of same; (c) if he will state what amount has been allocated, and what amount has been expended; and (d) what amount has been allocated and expended on officials and labourers respectively. 
     
     
      
       The construction of the road referred to, which is about 23⁄4 miles long, was commenced by the Land Commission in 1925 out of money provided for the relief of unemployment, and was continued in subsequent years out of subsequent grants so far as the money available permitted.  The information of the Land Commission is that this road is not in an impassable condition, that it has been fenced on both sides and that an excellent foundation of broken stones has been laid. It would appear that it only requires binding with fine material, but there are no funds available for this work. In the course of construction it was necessary to build three concrete bridges with abutments about 12 feet high and about 100 gullets.  The   amount allocated for the work was £2,600 and £2,589 was, expended. All this amount was expended in labour except about £100, the cost of the materials for the bridges. 
     
     
      
       In view of the need in the district for employment, and also in view of the fact, despite the opinion of the Department, that the road is in an impassable condition, would the Minister not consider the advisability of seeking to extend the grant so that the road could be completed? 
     
     
      
       So far as the state of the road is concerned, we have to rely on the report of the inspector as to its impassability or otherwise. The other question is one that cannot be dealt with by the Land Commission, as it is a question concerning the relief of unemployment. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say when he got the report from the inspector and when the inspector visited the place? 
     
     
      
       The inspector visited the place on the 16th instant, and the report came in a few days ago. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. 
     
      
       I rise to ask leave to discuss a matter of urgent public importance arising out of Question 17.  The urgency of the matter is this, namely, there is not only danger to a man's life, but to the lives of other civilians being involved as the result of it.  The Minister, in answer to Question 17, certainly made it clear that he had not got accurate information in connection with the matter of George Gilmore.  He stated that on one occasion when he was arrested he was sent to hospital owing to an epileptic fit.  I state that that is not true.  I was present in the police station, and it was due to my personal intervention that the ambulance was sent for to take him to hospital in an unconscious condition. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is now going into the matter itself. 
     
     
      
       The urgency is this. I contend that the Minister has not received accurate information in regard to George Gilmore.  He did not take the trouble in the matter which I took, and he did not send someone to hospital to inquire, as I did, about the wounds and their dangerous nature.  If he followed up the situation he would know that the C.I.D. detain him whenever they see him, and, if he refuses to go with them, knock him on the head, threaten to shoot him, and to shoot anyone in the crowd that gathers. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is again going into the matter itself. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to prophesy that someone is going to be   killed, but I believe, if the matter is allowed to go on as it is going, not only will Gilmore die from his treatment, but that there is a danger of the public getting mixed up in this matter by the C.I.D. firing on them. The Minister wrote me a letter&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy had better keep to the point as to why he should get leave to raise this matter rather than now go into the merits of the case. 
     
     
      
       I know the position in Dublin, as I witnessed it myself, and I have taken every precaution to get satisfactory proof of what I have stated, namely, that the C.I.D. are definitely out to provoke a breach of the peace in which one of themselves may be killed, and if they do not succeed in that, they will bring about the death of a number of individuals, one of them being Gilmore. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy give a list of the people who are likely to be killed? 
     
     
      
       I will give you the name of one individual whom it is desired to kill. 
     
     
      
       Standing Order 27 contemplates that a motion for the adjournment of the Dail to call attention to a definite matter of urgent public importance may be made when certain conditions have been complied with.  Deputy Briscoe desires to raise the subject matter of Question 17 on the ground, I gather, that the situation is one that would lead to a breach of the peace.  The Chair is unable to hold that the matter is one of sufficient urgency to bring it within the terms of the Standing Order.  I am refusing to accept the notice. 
     
     
      
       I cannot go against the ruling of the Chair, but in view of that ruling I ask permission to raise the matter on the motion for the adjournment this evening. 
     
     
      
       I would like to put one matter before the Chair.  This House, after all, has to stand between the   Executive Council, their officials, and the people as a whole.  Deputy Briscoe has got up here and stated that he saw this man being beaten into a state of unconsciousness by the C.I.D.  The Minister denies the matter in his usual flippant way, passing it off as a light affair. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, what is the relevancy of the Deputy's speech? 
     
     
      
       I thought Deputy Aiken was putting me a point of order, but what he has said is not in any way relevant to a point of order. 
     
     
      
       As regards the question of urgency? 
     
     
      
       That is a point of order of course. 
     
     
      
       I am saying that this matter seems to me to be a matter of great urgency and of the utmost public importance. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, is it in order after you have ruled on this question of urgency for a Deputy to make a speech on that point? 
     
     
      
       It is not.  I have heard Deputy Briscoe on this question at some length and I do not think that Deputy Aiken can have anything further to say on the question of urgency.  I have not accepted the notice that the matter should be raised as one of urgent public importance, and Deputy Briscoe now desires to know whether he can raise it on the adjournment.  Three Deputies have given notice that they desire to raise matters on the adjournment. Deputy Boland desires to raise the subject matter of Question No. 13 and Deputy Smith the subject matter of Question No. 16. Now Deputy Briscoe desires to raise the subject matter of Question No. 17. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to stand down in favour of Deputy Briscoe. 
     
     
      
       There is no provision in the Standing Orders to say how a decision is to be arrived   at, when more than one notice is given to raise a question on the adjournment. An arrangement has been arrived at, heretofore, by accepting a suggestion of the Chair on the question of precedence. Deputy Boland foregoes his right. 
     
     
      
       For this evening. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Smith's notice would then seem to be the more urgent. 
     
     
      
       I am also willing to leave over the matter I wish to raise, for this evening. 
     
     
      
       Then Deputy Briscoe will be in a position to raise the question he desires on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       Could we get an undertaking that no further assault will be committed on George Gilmore before this evening? 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister say &ldquo;yes&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       Deputies cannot ask questions which in fact contain accusations. 
     
     
      
       The Minister said &ldquo;yes.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Could it be arranged, in view of the importance of this matter that the Dail would adjourn at 9 o'clock and give us an hour and a half to discuss this question? 
     
     
      
       That is not a matter for the Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       I submit that there is a precedent in the matter, that we did that when the Government desired to discuss a paving contract. 
     
     
      
       It is a matter for the Government, not for the Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       Private members' time commences at 9 o'clock, and we would be willing to give private members' time to the discussion of this matter. 
     
     
      
       May I say that other Deputies have claims on   private members' time?  If Deputy Dr. Ryan's motion is not proceeded with, I have a right to go on with mine. 
     
     
      
       You are always the man in the gap. 
     
     
      
       The subject matter of Question No. 17 will be raised on the adjournment.  If Deputies desire to make any arrangements in regard to the time to be given to the discussion of the matter, they can presumably move through the usual channel to make that arrangement, as it cannot be made now. 
     
   
   
     Order of Business. 
     
      
       We propose to take business as on the Order Paper, with the exception of Item No. 7, Supplementary and Additional Estimates, which will not be taken this evening. 
     
     
      
       I would ask that the Government would consider the possibility of giving Government time for the discussion of the motion concerning the report of the Tariff Commission regarding a duty on fish barrels which stands in my name for Friday.  If Government time is not made available the discussion on the motion can hardly take place until the Dail reassembles after the Christmas Recess.  I think the Minister for Finance was willing to make some Government time available for that matter. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of the attitude of the Minister for Finance, but the matter can be referred to when the Minister is here. 
     
     
      
       When will the Estimates referred to in Item No. 7 be circulated? 
     
     
      
       I take it they are ready for circulation.  This is a question which should be put to the Minister for Finance, when he is here. 
     
     
      
       Do I take it that they will not be discussed until they are circulated? 
     
     
      
       Yes, the Deputy may take that. 
     
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - Message from the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       The following Message has been received from the Seanad: 
       Seanad Eireann has passed the following Resolution:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That it is expedient that a Joint Committee of the Dail and the Seanad be set up to consider and report what amendments, if any, are required in the Courts of Justice Act, 1924, the Acts amending same and any other Statutes affecting the civil jurisdiction of the Courts of Saorstat Eireann. 
       &ldquo;That seven Senators represent the Seanad on the said Joint Committee. 
       &ldquo;That the Committee have power to send for persons, papers and records.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       That a Joint Committee of the Dail and Seanad be set up to consider and report what amendments, if any, are required in the Courts of Justice Act, 1924, the Acts amending same and any other Statutes affecting the civil jurisdiction of the Courts of Saorstat Eireann. 
       That seven Deputies represent the Dail on the said Joint Committee. 
       That the Committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
       That a Message be sent to the Seanad acquainting them accordingly. 
       That the Committee of Selection nominate seven Deputies to serve on the Joint Committee. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - Electricity (Agreements) Bill&mdash;Report from Special Committee. 
     
      
       As Chairman of the Special Committee to whom the Electricity (Agreements) Bill was referred, I have to report that the Special Committee went through the Bill and agreed to report it without amendment. 
       Ordered: That the Report and Proceedings of the Committee be printed. 
     
     
        Fourth Stage ordered to be taken on Friday next. 
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - University Education (Agriculture and Dairy Science) Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce the Bill. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 4th December. 
     
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - Finance (New Customs Duties) Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce the Bill. 
     
     
      
       Can we have any information as to what this Bill refers to? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so, at this particular stage. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 4th December. 
     
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - Old Age Pensions Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce the Bill. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 11th December. 
     
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - Tribunal on Maizemeal and Maize Products. 
     
      
       I move: 
       &ldquo;That it is expedient that a Tribunal be established for inquiring into a definite matter of urgent public importance, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (1)  to ascertain and report whether, having due regard to the interests of&mdash; 
       (a)  Producers of cereals in Saorstat Eireann; and 
       (b)  Consumers of maizemeal and maize products in Saorstat Eireann, 
     
     it would be in the national interest to enact that all maizemeal and maize products before being offered for sale in Saorstat Eireann shall be mixed with some one or   more of the following home-grown cereals, namely, wheat, barley, oats, or rye, so that the resultant mixture shall contain a definite percentage of such cereals; and, if so, what that percentage should be; 
     (2)  to consider and report upon the effect, if any, which such enactment would be likely to have upon tillage and the production of cereals in Saorstat Eireann; 
     (3)  to consider and report upon the administrative machinery necessary to make such enactment operative.&rdquo; 
     Deputies will remember that when this matter was before the House on a former occasion it was generally suggested from all parts of the House that it would be well that a Commission of Inquiry should have the right to compel the attendance of witnesses and to take evidence on oath.  Personally, I did not concur in that opinion.  I thought it made no difference.  Since then there has been a preliminary meeting of the Commission of Inquiry and, in addition, a first meeting, and the Commission itself thinks it would be well if they had such powers.  They made that suggestion to me and I therefore agree.  This Resolution has not held up the proceedings of the Committee in any way.  They have held their meetings in accordance with the programme up to the present. 
     
      
       There is one thing that I would like to bring under the notice of the Minister.  That is the question of the date on which they might be asked to bring in a report. I know that the graingrowers' association who are responsible for putting forward this proposal asked the Minister to try and prevail on the individuals who undertook this task to bring in their report early in December.  I think the 15th December was mentioned.  I fully realise that that is quite impossible.  I also realise that the individuals who have been called upon to undertake this task&mdash;a very difficult one&mdash;have a great deal of other work of the same kind to do.  But I would like to remind the Minister that as early a report as possible on this matter is   desirable, so that the farmers who may be disposed to consider what they are going to do in the next tillage season will have the Report of the Commission in sufficient time to enable them to make up their minds as to whether it would be better for them to increase the acreage under tillage for the purpose of growing more grain. 
     
     
      
       It is my personal opinion that if the Commission reported in favour of this proposal and if the Government announced at once that they proposed to take whatever steps were necessary to give effect to the report, it would not make a difference of one acre of tillage.  I believe myself that the farmers are not depending so much on an increase of tillage as on getting better prices for what they are growing. However, that does not arise.  This Commission have met twice and they have agreed that so far as possible they will meet three times a week for the future.  It would be quite impossible for them to meet oftener.  There must be intervals between the meetings.  Work is done at the actual meetings and evidence is taken there but more work is done between the meetings. Evidence has to be sifted, inquiries made and statistics obtained.  The real work of the Commission will be done outside the actual sittings of the Commission at which evidence will be taken.  I do not want to discount for a moment the necessity for sitting and hearing evidence but a lot of solid, essential and detailed work will have to be done outside. 
     
     As far as I know, the proposals of the Committee are to sit three times per week.  Even with these proposals there is no chance whatever of a report by the end of December.  I doubt if there is a chance of a report by the end of January.  This is a big question. While I am anxious for a quick report, I am more anxious for a full inquiry.  Deputies will have to remember that there are two sides to the question.  There is a big body of farmers, perhaps not quite so well-organised or vocal, who are against this proposal and they must get   every facility for preparing their case and putting it before the Commission. I stated when putting this before the Dail, for the first time, that I was genuinely anxious for a really exhaustive report on this matter.  I think it is far more important, both from the point of view of the Dail and of the country, to get that than to get a quick report, which will be superficial and scamped. 
     I cannot see how it is possible for them to sit oftener than they propose to sit.  Their proposals may be modified.  They may find at some meeting that it would be idle to sit the day next appointed because witnesses may not be available, or that certain matters arose which it was agreed ought to be further examined and which would take a longer time to examine.  In any event, the present position is that they propose, as far as possible, to sit three days a week, after next week, and leave it open for evidence to come in until 31st December.  I do not think you could cut it any finer than that for evidence purposes.  That precludes me from saying when they will have the report.  They cannot have it in December.  It is very much more important to have a full and exhaustive inquiry.  As Deputies said, if they are to sit three days a week on this matter certain other work will have to be neglected.  Everything cannot be done together. 
     
      
       Would the Minister inform us if the Tariff Commission, the members of which are also members of this Tribunal, have reported yet on the application from the coach-building trades and paper manufacturers with which they are dealing, or is their work to be suspended entirely? 
     
     
      
       I am not saying that their work is to be suspended entirely. We have set up a competent body for the purpose of inquiring into applications for a tariffs.  Although it was not specifically included in the beginning in their Terms of Reference to make inquiries like this, this is really an application for a tariff.  That is their special function. 
     
     
        They are in our opinion&mdash;and in my opinion, they have justified that opinion&mdash;absolutely competent to inquire into these matters.  We must give them their own time to examine every application for tariffs and in such applications as this we consider it more important to get a full examination than to get superficial reports in a short time.  Of course, it stands to reason that if the number of applications before them becomes greater it will take them a longer time to report.  That is inevitable in the circumstances of the case.  There is no way out of it.  The point of view that everything in regard to tariffs and inquiries must be done within three months or a year is a totally wrong point of view. 
     
      
       I am not talking about three months; I am talking about three years. 
     
     
      
       If we were to go back three years, in that three years practically £15,000,000 of our imports have been tariffed.  That means a big fiscal change in the economic policy of this country.  I cannot see how any such body could have taken a shorter time to make the examination which, in my opinion, is necessary. I certainly would not stand for hurrying deliberations of that kind, which might mean undoing the work again. 
     
     
      
       Is it the position that we have only three competent officials to deal with these matters? 
     
     
      
       I have not said that. What I have said is that we have set up one Tariff Commission.  I consider that that is sufficient for this country or for any other country. 
     
     
      
       The fact is that this body, in connection with the application for a tariff for the coach-building industry, has concluded its evidence and should be by this time preparing its report.  Is its work to be suspended? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has me at a disadvantage there.  I do not know.  I did know some time ago that the particular application he mentioned was very far advanced. I do not like to venture my opinion at the moment.  I have no definite   information as to what stage that particular application is at. 
     
     
      
       Apparently there are only three competent officials. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Courts of Justice Act, 1924. - Housing (Gaeltacht) Bill, 1929.&mdash;Second Stage. 
     
      
       In presenting a Bill to extend to one part of the community, benefits not to be enjoyed by the remainder one may be expected to show adequate grounds for the differentiation in treatment.  In the case of the present Bill that task is an easy one.  This is a Bill to remedy conditions which have long been a reproach to the nation. 
       Everyone familiar with the Gaeltacht knows very well its vast stretches of barren land divided into tiny uneconomic holdings, its squalid cottages, ill-lighted, ill-ventilated, hopelessly inadequate for the decent accommodation of their occupants. We are sadly conscious that these conditions are most prevalent in Connemara, Erris, the Rosses of Donegal, and in those parts of Cork and Kerry which constitute the Fior-Ghaeltacht.  Abandoned and forgotten in the past, the people of these districts have, in generation after generation, trodden the hard road of penury and privation.  They have appeared to be nobody's children, as it were.  Remedies which brought relief elsewhere have passed them by.  So bad has been their state that it has seemed beyond the power of human agency to cure. That is the problem with the solution of which we find ourselves confronted. 
       The task has already been in the settlement of the people in their holdings, in their own right: in the removal of groups to other land so that the holdings of those left behind may, as far as possible, be enlarged to economic proportions, and this policy is being steadily continued. 
     
     In the carrying out of that policy considerable improvements have been made as far as the houses of   those left behind are concerned. During the years from 1924 to 1928 certain Acts were passed by the Oireachtas dealing generally with housing as far as the country as a whole was concerned.  These have been available for the people of the Gaeltacht as well as for everybody else, but, in fact, they have been of no assistance to the persons for who this Bill is intended.  Some advantage has been taken of these Acts as far as the Gaeltacht is concerned. Under those Acts 1,414 houses have been built there, but these were built by persons who had some substantial capital of their own to help in carrying out the work.  This Bill is for the assistance of the most necessitous classes of those who were unable to take advantage of the former Acts, those Acts which had general application through the country.  It is designed for those persons who, unless they had these exceptional facilities, would be entirely unable to provide themselves with better houses.  The problem is to an extent simplified by the fact that in the Gaeltacht you have a certain capacity for self-help. There is a considerable degree of skill amongst the people in the Gaeltacht from the point of view of building.  A great part of the materials are easily available there, and they will be able to carry out a large portion of the work themselves. It is only when the roofing, doors, window-frames and similar materials and fittings are required and have to be put into place that assistance is necessary.  The cost of these materials and of the skilled labour which, by the way, is given by a class of handyman peculiar to the Gaeltacht, have been carefully considered in the framing of the Bill. But as to the standard house at which we aim in those cases in which the circumstances of the small holder will admit of his undertaking the responsibilities entailed, the cost is estimated at £180.  That involves a free grant of £80 and a loan not exceeding the same sum, a loan to be spread over a period of thirty-five years.  The loan is to be given, only if it is found indispensable, towards   enabling a man to build this particular type of house. 
     I would like to emphasise the fact that loans will be regarded as an emergency rather than a normal measure of the proposed assistance, not because of any unreadiness on our part to give the further help, but because we feel that a loan will entail the repaying.  It will entail an additional financial burden on the borrower extending over a number of years.  Later on, I will say how we propose, as far as we can, to grapple with this question of the repayment of loans, by putting them in a better financial position to meet such obligation where they take it on their shoulders.  The question of the need for a loan and the capacity to repay is the governing consideration in determining the character of the house which can be provided and the amount of the grant which can be given.  The grants in respect of houses falling short of that particular standard will be correspondingly reduced.  This is to a great extent where this Bill differs from former housing legislation.  There is more elasticity.  It is felt that there may be many necessitous cases in which a small holder cannot afford to put up a house of the type to which I have referred and which is perhaps the type that in other respects we would like to see.  But the householder under this Bill can provide something less satisfactory, but at the same time something which is a very great improvement on his existing housing conditions. We are desirous not to rule out such cases.  In this matter discretion will be exercised in the framing of the regulations. 
     We are also making provisions in this Bill for improvements.  Grants and loans will be available for the improvement of existing houses where it is clear that the houses will lend themselves to improvement. The maximum grant for improvement will be £40 with an equivalent loan where, again, it is necessary. It is appreciated that we are cut off ing here with people who are cut off   from the facilities for the purchase of materials which exist elsewhere and who have little opportunity of obtaining advice and assistance in the resolving of problems which may arise in connection with their title, that is, the legal title to their holdings. Very often indeed if that advice were readily available, they could badly afford to pay for it.  We have inserted provisions in the Bill to meet or remove these disabilities, and to make the path more easy. 
     Under Section 12 of the Bill&mdash; there is a marginal note as to arrangements for general purchasing&mdash;there will be power, where a small holder so desires, for the Department to act for him as his agent in the making of contracts for the purchase of materials.  We believe that where arrangements of this sort are made in any general kind of way for the district that the small holders there will be considerably benefited through the fact that by buying in bulk the materials can be bought more cheaply and at the same time materials can be made to conform to a more reliable standard of quality.  Under Section 12 (2) power is taken to deal with difficulties which may arise in remote areas in providing scaffolding, and things of that kind, as well as lime, sand, and so on. 
     On the question of title rather exceptional powers have been taken in Section 9 (4).  This is to overcome the anticipated difficulty owing to the notorious failure of persons to take any steps to register their title. Anyone who knows the conditions in the Gaeltacht will be aware of the failure in that respect.  In cases of that kind, where the worldly goods are so small, the devolution of title has been done rather generally in a haphazard way.  It is very rare that letters of administration or the probate of a will have been taken out. In the absence of these special provisions to deal with this matter, considerable expense might be involved in making title if some provision to deal with that was not made in the Bill.  The Department will have to satisfy itself that the person in possession   of the land who was looking for a grant or loan has a reasonable show of title. 
     It will be obvious that the occupier who is to receive the grant or loan must have security of tenure. In framing the Bill considerable difficulties arose in making a provision of this sort, owing to the variety of tenures which are prevalent in the Gaeltacht.  For instance, it is not proposed that the grant will be available in the case of persons with weekly or monthly tenures&mdash; either to themselves or their landlords. The occupier or the landlord can utilise the existing Acts for any assistance he requires. 
     Section 13, that is the rating section, provides that any improvements or buildings made under the provisions of this Act will not be subject to any increase of rates for a period of twenty years.  I might say here that the schedule defining the Gaeltacht for the purpose of the Bill includes all district electoral divisions which were returned in the Census of 1926 as a place in which 25 per cent. or upwards of the population are Irish speakers. There are a few districts deliberately left out, and one left out by mistake.  That will be inserted subsequently. The City of Galway was omitted by mistake.  The area around Maynooth College and the area around Rockwell College have been omitted.  The figures of Irish speakers in both these areas have been increased by the students in those two colleges. 
     
      
       That was a wonder. 
     
     
      
       It is a sign of what is coming. 
     
     
      
       The problem is a big one, and one must begin somewhere. We have resolved to take the line which is certainly the most difficult but which is also the most urgent. That is, that the overriding preference will be the Irish-speaking household.  Of those households those in which the sanitary conditions are worst and where the valuations are lowest will have prior claim   on the total of the funds available. Now, of the total of the funds available, at least three-fifths will be ear-marked to the extent to which they are sought for those very destitute areas to which I have referred and which are to a great extent coextensive with the Fior Ghaeltacht. Section 11 (4) of the Bill makes that provision.  I do not know whether Deputies have read that section.  I must confess that I had to have it translated into English when it was first brought to me.  It is a most difficult section to understand.  The effect of that section is this, that if you take a certain electoral area and add up all the valuations, leaving out any individual valuation of £20 and upwards in that area, and divide the sum of these valuations by the total population, and if you get 21/- or under, then that area will be within this Bill and three-fifths of the £250,000 provided for under the Bill will be applied to those divisions by way of loans and grants. 
     
     It may be a ground for criticism that attention is being first devoted to the most submerged population of the Gaeltacht, but we feel, even if it were only from the humanitarian point of view, that that is the one section chiefly clamouring for attention. The scale of assistance and the discretion for which we are asking have been framed to facilitate the solution of the problem involved in those areas.  Deputies will bear in mind, of course, that the existing facilities under the other Acts are available for other portions of the Gaeltacht.  I have said that the standard of housing which we hope to achieve under this Bill must be governed by the capacity of the people to repay any loans which may be necessary.  I might say frankly that in the cases which we hope to assist under this Bill the capacity to repay loans would, in a vast number of cases, be practically negligible, if the people are not placed in a somewhat better economic position than they are in at the moment. We feel that without some simultaneous effort to improve the economic conditions in these areas&mdash;unless   that result can be achieved&mdash;the Bill would be dead at its birth. 
     Better housing is only one part of the problem and no part can be looked at or dealt with independent of the other parts.  For that reason we have examined fairly closely all possible methods of improving the economic position in these areas and you will see there are certain provisions in the Bill which indicate the fact that we have taken certain of these things into consideration. Poultry-keeping, for instance, is an industry which requires normally a small capital.  It is well adapted to the capabilities of the people we are most desirous to help and, if it is conducted in an approved manner, it is capable of yielding a steady income which, even though not much, would at any rate be sufficient to turn the scale in the success or failure of this particular measure. For success in poultry-keeping it is imperative that the poultry should be properly housed.  In this respect the conditions in the Gaeltacht are very sadly deficient.  Of 80,180 holdings in the Gaeltacht only 11,789 have satisfactory accommodation for poultry; 45,810 have accommodation which is unsatisfactory; and 22,581 have no accommodation at all.  That is one thing that we hope under the Bill to be able to deal with. 
     It is important also from the point of view of making poultry pay in these areas that better paying breeds should be kept.  Steps are being taken by the Minister for Agriculture to afford facilities for the introduction of better breeds of poultry into the Gaeltacht on advantageous terms.  In addition, he is strengthening his staff of agricultural overseers and of those whose duty it is to look after poultry-keeping, and he is appointing an expert to advise in the systematic development of the industry on approved lines in the Gaeltacht.  He is also making certain arrangements to help in regard to the marketing of eggs.  These are things which we hope will have certain beneficial results. These statements are made   with the view, also, of explaining Section 7 (2) of the Bill.  Under this section it is compulsory upon the person applying for the grant to have suitable provision for poultry. The actual wording of the Bill is: &ldquo;No building grant or improving grant shall be made under this Act towards the erection or the improvement or the extension (as the case may be) of a dwelling-house unless either&mdash;(a) there is in existence or will be provided with the aid of a grant under this Act or otherwise accommodation for domestic poultry ancillary to and suitable and sufficient, in the opinion of the Minister, for such dwelling-house...&rdquo; No grant, therefore, will be given for a new house unless there will be provided or there is already satisfactory accommodation for poultry. That is a guarantee of co-operation which we feel we are entitled to ask from the persons being benefited. Assistance will be given for the erection of a poultry house.  The maximum grant is £5 with&mdash;again if it is necessary&mdash;a loan of a similar amount, £5. 
     Pig-keeping is considered another suitable industry with a steady market, and it is desired that it should be more generally spread through the Gaeltacht.  Practically everything I have said with regard to poultry-keeping applies to pig-keeping, including the compulsory portion of Section 7, which makes it obligatory to have certain accommodation in order to get a grant for a new house.  There is a proviso that if the Minister for Agriculture is satisfied that for one reason or another a small holder cannot reasonably be expected to keep either poultry, pigs, or both, that provision will be waived.  Those are two industries which we hope will help very considerably in making the Bill effective as far as utilising the loan is concerned.  Other industries we feel must be established or developed. 
     I need not refer to what is proposed in connection with the fishing industry in so far as it affects the part-time fisherman farmer.  These proposals will come very shortly   before the House, I hope, in legislative form. 
     We have taken steps this year which I have reason to hope will meet with very considerable success in the direction of the development of kelp.  We hope that in the coming season the amount of kelp burned in the Saorstat will be double what it was last year.  We hope also that the kelp will be dealt with in a more satisfactory manner, and that consequently better prices will prevail for the kelp gatherers' products. We estimate that the income along the Western seaboard as a result of the kelp industry will be something between £15,000 and £20,000.  It is not a very huge amount, and we do not want to pretend that this is of first rank importance; at the same time £15,000 or £20,000 additional, widely distributed over the Western seaboard, would enable persons to repay loans within ten years that might be given under this Act.  It might be no harm to say that the response we met with in dealing with this kelp business in the last four or five weeks has been extremely encouraging, and we have found the greatest desire to co-operate with us. We also propose to extend the hand-weaving of tweeds, in regard to which a very large amount of preparatory work has already been done.  We hope to extend it more widely.  I have a certain amount of reasonable ground for belief that the industry, which will be on a new and much broader basis than in the past, will prove to be of considerable value in solving the Gaeltacht problem. The same thing would apply to the knitting business.  The reorganisation of the existing knitting industries for girls has already been undertaken.  These have hitherto been conducted in a manner which is rather&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       In what way do knitting and kelp come into a Housing Bill? 
     
     
      
       It is absolutely relevant in the sense that in order that the persons will be in a position to repay the loans that might come under the Bill some provision must be made for putting them in a position   to repay these loans and, therefore, to be able to build the houses. 
     
     
      
       I do not know from what point of view Deputy Tubridy raises the question. 
     
     
      
       From the point of view that the introduction of the Bill should not give an opportunity to the Minister to continue his system of promises that he has been giving us for the last two years. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is not making any promises&mdash;he is merely stating facts. 
     
     
      
       As soon as the Minister has introduced all these things, will he tell us when the measures dealing with kelp and knitting, which he has mentioned, are going to be introduced? 
     
     
      
       There is no necessity for any measure with regard to kelp &mdash;it is being done. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the point of order raised by Deputy Tubridy, I should say that the Chair has this fear: that the discussion of this Bill will develop into a discussion on the Gaeltacht problem generally, instead of housing merely.  We have mention in the Bill of pigs and poultry, and so far as these are concerned they are relevant, but I would not like to see the House engage in the discussion of the kelp industry and its possibilities&mdash;that is a pretty wide subject. This applies similarly to some of the other matters mentioned by the Minister.  I think, therefore, it would be better to confine the discussion of the Bill to housing, and not to go into a general discussion upon the economic position of the people of the Gaeltacht which would take us very far away from the Bill. The Chair would prefer, therefore, that the Minister would confine himself to what is in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       Very good.  I merely made reference to that to explain that a Bill of this kind, which involves not only free grants, but loans as well, cannot be effective unless the persons are in a position to avail of these grants.  That is obvious to anybody.  For the standard type of houses which we hope   may be erected there is to be a grant of £80 and a possible loan of £80. The repayment of the loan of £80 over a period of thirty-five years would mean, at least, something like £4 5s. or £4 10s. per annum as a liability in the repayment of interest and sinking fund over that number of years.  That would be a considerable burden upon the people of the Gaeltacht.  I only referred to these other matters to show how we were trying to provide that these people be put in a position to repay such loans and the interest upon them. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Is fearr go mall na go brath.&rdquo;  Mas maith an Bille seo is mithid e do thabhairt isteach. &ldquo;Mair a chapaill agus gheobhaidh tu fear&rdquo; ach ta an Ghealtacht ag fail bhais fearracht leis an gcapall. Dubhairt an tAire go leor faoi'n obair ata idir lamhaibh aige, ach is beag ata le teasbaint aige no ag an Rialtas tar eis na blianta a ghabh tharainn.  Nil san mBille seo ach tosnu ach mas tosnu maith e taimid sasta. Mar a dubhairt an tAire fein, ta a lan rudai eile le deananh cho maith le tithe do thogail.  Ise an cheist a chuireann na daoine bochta san nGaeltacht ar dhuine&mdash;&ldquo;Ce'n mhaith teach do thogail muna bhfuil sli bheatha againn le maireachtail san tigh?  Cathfimid dul go hAmerica agus thar lear mar a chuaidh na daoine san am ata thart.&rdquo;  Is mar sin ata an sceal san nGaeltacht. Deir an Rialtas go bhfuil rompa Stat Gaedhalach do chur ar bun anso agus ise tuairim an Aire go leathnuigh an Ghaedhilg o'n Oirthear go dti an Iarthar.  Ni he sin mo thuairim-se agus ta a lan Gaedhilgeoiri ar an dtuairim ceana liom. Ceapann siad go mbeidh an teanga marbh ma cailltear i san nGaedhaeltacht. Ta a lan figiuiri agus cuntaisi ar fail mar gheall ar stad na Gaedhilge san nGaeltacht ach is docha go bhfuil a lan daoine curtha sios mar chainnteoiri Gaedhilge nach labhrann Gaedhilg in aon chor.  Mar a dubhairt an tAire, ba choir oifigigh ag a bhfuil Gaedhilg do chur go dti an Gaeltacht idtreo go dtuigfeadh na daoine go bhfuil meas ag an Rialtas   ar an nGaedhilg agus muinighin acu as na daoine a labhrann an Ghaedhilg. 
       Ta a lan rudai eile le deanamh. Sna seacht mbliana ata thart, ni raibh an Rialtas ach ag utamail; ni raibh siad i ndairiribh.  Chionn siad an meid daoine as an nGaeltacht ata ag imeacht as an tir; an meid daoine as Oilean Arainn agus aiteacha mar sin, daoine nach bhfuil focal Bearla acu, ata ag dul go hAimerica agus tiortha eile.  Chionn siad an meid diomhalta ata a dheanamh do chuis na Gaedhilg mar sin.  Caithfimid na daoine seo do choimead san tir agus obair do thabhairt doibh.  Caitheadh £2,000,000 ar na boithre mora agus is beag de'n mheid sin a chuaidh isteach san nGaeltacht.  Agus taimid ag suil le cuairteoiri don Ghaeltacht san samhra; taimid ag suil go mbeidh na ti osta reidh n-a gcoir ach nilimid ag smaoineamh ar na daoine bochta imease na sleibhte. Caithfimid rud eigin do dheanamh ar an bpoinnte boise le h-aghaidh na ndaoine seo ma taimid i ndairiribh. Ma ta an tAire i ndairiribh, gheobha se congnamh agus co-oibreachas on taoibh seo den Dail. 
     
     Ta a lan Teachtai ar an taobh eile ag a bhfuil baint acu leis an obair seo agus deir siad gur truagh e go bhfuil an meid sin &ldquo;red tape&rdquo; ann agusata.  Dubhairt an tAire nach leagfear sios moran coiniollacha i dtaobh an Bhille seo agus go mbeidh se furus dul ar aghaidh leis an obair. Mas fior e sin, is maith e, ach ise mo thuairim fein go mbeidh an t-Aire Airgid ar chul na hoibre.  Beidh se annsin gan amhras agus ar an chaoi ceana ar ar leag se a lamh ar chiste Bhuird na gCeanntar gCumhang cuirfe se a lamh isteach sna sceimcanna seo i dtreo go gcolilionfar na coiniollacha.  Se an chaoi is fearr an obair do dheanamh na comhacht do thabhairt do na h-oifigigh a bheas ag obair san Ghaeltacht mar a bhi ag oifigigh Bhuird na gCeanntar gCumang; ni raibh aon chur isteach ortha san ag an gCaislean na ag an Aireacht Airgid.  Ach ta coiniollacha san mBille seo agus is feidir a lan red tape do thabhairt isteach mar gheall ortha.  Ba mhaith liom geall d'fhail o'n Aire go mbeidh   lan-chomhact ag na hoifigigh faoi'n Aireacht a ndicheall do dheanamh gan cur isteach ortha. 
     Ba mhaith liom geall d'fhail chomaith go mbeidh comhairle ag na hoifigigh seo ni h-amhain le muinntir na hAireachta Talmhaiochta acht le daoine san nGaeltacht&mdash;sagairt agus fir puibli agus a leitheidi. Beidh eolas ag na daoine seo ar an obair; bhi baint acu leis le 20 or 30 blian.  Ba choir comhairle a bheith ag na hoifigigh leis na daoine seo i dtreo go gcuirfear an obair ar aghaidh ar an doigh is fearr. B'fheidir nach mbeadh an plean oibre a bheadh oiriunach i gContae Tir Chonaill oiriunach i gContae Mhuigheo agus go mbeadh an sceal mar an gceanna idir Contae Chiarraighe agus Contae na Gaillimhe.  Ta deifriocht idir na ceanntair seo agus ta sceim airithe ag teastail i gcoir gach ceanntair fa leith.  Ba mhaith liom fios d'fhail on Aire cad a rinne se leis an £1,000,000 a bhi i gciste Bhuird na gCeanntar gCumhang nuair a cuireadh deire leis an mBord san.  Nil ach ceathru milliuin leagtha amach fa'n mBille seo. Bhinios mo na milliun punt fagtha ag Bord na gCeanntar gCumhang agus do chuir an tAire Airgid a lamh ar an meid sin.  Cuireadh isteach sa Central Fund e.  Ni coir sin.  Ba cheart an tairgead sin do chur ar leathtaoibh agus do chur in usaid fa iascaireacht agus togailt tithe agus eile. 
     Nuair a bheas an Bille seo curtha trid an Dail is docha go gceapfaidh an t-Aire go bhfuil a chuid oibre deanta agus gur feidir leis sos oibre a bheith aige.  Ba cheart do agus ba cheart do gach Teachta ar an taoibh eile iarracht do dheanamh chun a thuille airgid d'fhail i gcoir na hoibre seo.  Cad is feidir leis an Aire do dheanamh&mdash;ma ta se i ndairiribh &mdash;muna bhfuil an tairgead aige? Beidh Teachtai Chumann na nGaedheal ag deanamh obair mhaith ma chuireann siad in a luighe ar an Aire Airgid an ga ata le tuille airgid i gcoir na hAireachta seo.  Do reir an Bhille fein&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Is mithid don Teachta teacht chuige. 
     
     
      
       Ta deontas £80 le fail chun tigh nua do thogail ach nil ach £40 le fail chun tigh d'athdheanamh.   Se an obair is mo ata ag teastail na ballai nua agus fuinneoga nua agus urlair nua do chur sna tithe ata sa Ghaeltacht.  Ar an abhar san, d'iarfainn ar an Aire an meid sin d'ardu agus £60 do thabhairt in ionad £40.  Do reir roinn (a), deontais i gcoir tithe nua, ni togfar moran tithe nua.  Mar gheall ar sin, is ceart an deontas chun tithe d'athdheanamh do mheadu. 
       Do reir an Bhille, caithfidh 25 per cent. de na daoine i gceanntar airithe a bheith in a gcainnteoiri Gaedhilge chun na deontais seo d'fhail.  Ach ar an am gceana, deir an tAire go bhfuil an uimhir cainnteoiri Gaedhilge meaduithe i gceanntair airithe mar gheall ar na Colaisti ata ann&mdash; Magh Nuadhad agus aiteacha eile. Nilim ro-shasta go bhfuil nios mo Gaedhilge a labhairt sna h-aiteacha so agus ba mhaith liom fios a fhail o'n Aire an bhfuil.  Ma ta an meid Gaedhilge agus ba choir in aiteacha mar seo agus ma ta na daoine ionta cho bocht leis na daoine san Ghaeltacht, ba choir congnamh do thabhairt doibh ach ni ceart a ra gur cuid de'n Ghaeltacht iad.  Da gcuirfea na paisti a d'fhag an scoil le seacht mbliana anuas le cheile is docha go mbeadh an uimhir nios mo na an ceathru cuid de na daoine i gceanntar airithe agus bheadh Gaedhilg ag na paisti seo.  Is do liom go mba cheart line do tharraingt idir ceanntair na Gaeltachta agus na ceanntair eile ar a bhfuilim ag tracht.  Ni do liom go bhfuil aon deifriocht deanta eatorra san mBille seo. 
       Deir an tAire go mbeidh tri chuigiu den airgead ag dul don fhior-Ghaeltacht agus dha chuigiu do na h-aiteacha eile.  Ni thuigim conus a deanfar deifriocht eatorra do reir an Bhille.  Faoi Bhord na gCeanntar gCumhang, claroiodh aiteacha in a raibh an mean-luachail fa 30/- mar &ldquo;cheanntair chumhanga&rdquo; ach ta ceanntair mar seo nach bhfuil aon Ghaedhilg a labhairt ionnta. 
       Ni do liom gur leor £5 chun cearclann do thogail.  Ta a fhios agam gur caitheadh £40 ar chearclainn do thogail san Ghaeltacht. Beidh cigiri an Aire ag suil le cearclanna maithe agus ni do liom gur feidir an obair do dheanamh ar £5. 
     
     
     
      
       Nilim in aghaidh an Aire cainnt do dheanamh ar an gceilp agus rudai eile mar sin ach o bheith ag eisteacht leis an Aire shaoilfea gur duine simpli e. Ach ni he sin an baruil ata agam-sa faoi.  On scathamh aimsire do chaith me annseo, ise no thuairim go bhfuil se an-ghlic.  Nuair ata sceal le hinnsint aige, ta go leor le ra aige.  Do labhair se iniu ar cheilp agus a lan rudai eile nach bhfuil tracht ortha san mBille.  Se sin an fath go ndubhairt me go mba cheart deis a bheith agam an tAire a fhreagairt fhaid agus bhi deis aige tagairt do dheanamh do na rudai seo.  Do labhair se ar cheilp agus deantuisi agus na rudai eile go ndearna se failli ionta le blianta agus ni bhionn seans againn an obair seo do chaine ach uair sa bhlian.  Anois, nuair nach bhfuil deis againn e do fhreagairt labhrann an tAire ar na rudai seo; is ar na rudai seo is mo do labhair se.  Ta fios againn nach bhfuil moran maitheas ann tithe do thogail fhaid agus nach bhfuil daoine ann le cur isteach ionnta.  B'fheidir gurb e sin an fath gur labhair an tAire ar na rudai nach bhfuil sa mBille. 
     
     I notice that the Minister has at last, after six or seven years, taken our advice.  I must say that neither people in the Gaeltacht nor Deputies on those benches should be at all thankful to the Minister for this Bill, because it took a considerable amount of pressure from members of this side of the House and from members from the Gaeltacht to make the Minister alive to the necessity of dealing with the Gaeltacht. We have been speaking here for two or three years on the question of housing in the Gaeltacht. When the other housing grants were before the House, we pointed out that they were useless in the Gaeltacht and along the western seaboard. At that time different excuses were made and it was even contended that a number of houses were built there and that the other grants were of use to the western fishermen and to small farmers.  We always contended that they were   not, and I am glad to see that as a result of the pressure brought to bear on the Minister he has decided to bring in this Bill. 
     He has done exactly what he undid seven years ago.  We are back again to the Congested Districts Board, to the same system of building houses, improving houses, and the building of stabling and piggeries.  All this work was done by the Congested Districts Board for years in the Gaeltacht.  Money was spent year after year on this system of housing and the improvement of out-offices and stabling.  After seven years the Minister has at last been convinced that it is necessary to look after these matters.  I am glad that he is becoming educated.  I notice one difference in the scheme proposed by the Minister in the Bill, and that carried out by the Congested Districts Board.  Under the old system carried out by the Congested Districts Board a local committee was set up.  Four or five people were selected from a parish to give advice as to those who were in need of relief in the matter of housing.  A secretary, whose salary was dependent on the amount spent in the year, was also appointed.  He was given five per cent. on expenditure to investigate cases, and a supervisor was appointed for three or four parishes. I think that that system of the Congested Districts Board worked out very well, and it would be a better plan to revert to that than to have too much officialism, as Deputy Derrig pointed out, in the spending of the money.  The Minister has stated that simultaneous efforts are being made to improve the economic situation.  He forestalled criticism by making that statement.  He talked of kelp, knitting and rural industries in the Gaeltacht.  I am sure the Minister knew perfectly well that the question of kelp, rural industries and the development of fisheries, things which he usually covers, do not come into the Bill, and the simultaneous efforts to improve the economic situation of which he speaks are not being undertaken. 
     
      
       On a point of order, the Deputy objects to my dealing   with these questions, but in his speech he is going to criticise the activities of the Department in that respect, although he objects to my discussing them. 
     
     
      
       As I pointed out, my objection was not to the discussion of these matters but to the possibility that I would not be allowed to answer them and to go into the whole question of the Gaeltacht. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy wants to speak of these matters but he objects to my doing so. 
     
     
      
       The Minister made use of all the propaganda he could. 
     
     
      
       You are a good propagandist. 
     
     
      
       The Minister had practically finished dealing with the lace schools and fisheries when I intervened to know if I would be allowed to speak on them.  However, I have no great ambition to speak on them except to point out that this is a subterfuge of the Minister's to get away from the fact that it is no use building houses when you have no people to put into them.  I had a discussion with some people down in the Gaeltacht about the housing question, although at the time I did not know what the Bill would be. 
     
     
      
       Do you object to the Minister bringing in a Housing Bill? 
     
     
      
       Oh, no.  I have no objection to the Housing Bill, and the Deputy who put that question knows that quite well, because he knows that on several occasions for the last two years I have asked that a Bill should be brought in.  Propaganda of that sort may be all right, and may go down at a chapel gate, but it does not do here when we are discussing the Second Reading of the Housing Bill.  People have spoken to me about this Bill, and one man made a rather wise remark, though it may not be considered wise by the Minister.  He said: &ldquo;I see they are going to give us big windows and good doors to our houses, to the hovels.  I suppose the   big windows are to give the wolf a better view in.&rdquo;  That will be the position in the Gaeltacht.  The Minister, before drawing attention to the question of rural industries, said the migration policy was to be continued.  If, in conjunction with the Housing Bill, we had a migration policy, and that houses were built on some of the ranches to which the Minister referred, it would be a decided improvement, but there is no migration in the Gaeltacht.  Four or five houses have been built.  Can you call that a migration policy? Nothing has been done in any sense to relieve congestion in the Gaeltacht. I hold that the statement of the Minister that migration is to be continued would lead any member of the House who was not aware of the conditions to think that migration was being carried out.  That is not so. 
       There is another point regarding which I would like some information from the Minister.  It is in connection with the older housing schemes. I see that there were 1,414 houses built in the last few years.  The Minister knows that these houses, or most of them, were built by people who could well afford to build under the conditions of the other Housing Acts.  I had not much time to go over this Bill, but I think it contains a clause restricting grants for piggeries, henhouses and stables and provides that grants for such stabling accommodation will not be allowed to people who availed themselves of former housing grants. Under Section 7 it appears that people who availed of the other Housing Acts will not now be able to add to the new houses or to erect stabling or piggeries as they would under former Bills.  Is that so? 
     
     
      
       This Bill only deals with this particular problem.  Section 7 states: &ldquo;No grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling house or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling house in respect of which a grant out of public moneys is being or has at any time within seven years before the passing of   this Act been made under any other Act of the Oireachtas or any British statute.&rdquo;  That precludes a person from getting a double grant, a Government grant under this Bill and a grant under the other Housing facilities under the former Acts, for getting grants or loans for building, stabling or piggeries.  That does not stop them as far as this Act is concerned. 
     
     
      
       I take it that people who built houses under the other Act will be allowed to apply and be granted facilities for the building of piggeries and outoffices for poultry? 
     
     
      
       Yes, if such facilities existed under the former Acts.  This Bill does not deprive them of any rights they had under existing Acts. 
     
     
      
       I take it that those who built houses within the last six months and who got a grant of £45 will not be debarred from getting a grant for the building of piggeries? 
     
     
      
       Yes, under the Act. 
     
     
      
       That is the point. 
     
     
      
       This is a Committee point and it should be raised in Committee. 
     
     
      
       I thought I had made myself quite clear.  Section 7, sub-section (1) says: &ldquo;No grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling house or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling house in respect of which a grant out of public moneys is being or has at any time within seven years before the passing of this Act been made under any other Act of the Oireachtas or any British statute.&rdquo;  That is, persons cannot get loans under this Act if they have already got loans under existing Housing Acts for any other purpose. 
     
     
      
       In other words, a man can get up to £80 under this Bill but a man who availed of the existing Acts and got £45 six months ago, to build a house cannot now build piggeries and ancillary buildings and get the grant to which he   would be entitled if he waited for this Bill.  The Bill is a Bill that is badly needed.  I think the Bill is due to the pressure brought to bear on the Minister from the Gaeltacht and from Deputies from the Gaeltacht. It is a Bill that will improve the living conditions in the Gaeltacht. We expect and hope that in conjunction with the Bill the Minister will proceed with the development of rural industries and other matters to which he referred in his speech. Housing should not be looked upon as the final step.  When we see the Fishing Bill which he has promised and that attention is paid to the kelp industry and the other rural industries, we will then agree that it will be possible to avail of this Housing Bill because until these matters are attended to it will not. 
     
     
      
       I would like to express my appreciation of the terms of the Bill and to say that I think if it is broadly and generously administered it will do a great deal of good.  The Minister was right when he said that it catered for a section of our population who, all of us who come from areas such as are covered by this Bill know, are from time to time almost entirely forgotten.  The housing legislation we have had here from time to time has not touched the people of these areas at all and I feel that the powers taken under this Bill represent an honest attempt to get down to this question.  I am glad to know that there is going to be a good deal of elasticity in the manner in which sections of the Bill are to be interpreted.  That is absolutely necessary because in dealing with this question and in dealing with the people who will mainly be affected by this Bill, you cannot hope to get anywhere if you have rigid regulations under which you propose to carry out the provisions of the Bill. 
     
     Now, there are certain blots in this Bill, and it is just as well that criticisms which are intended to be useful should be expressed at this stage.  I know the Minister's statement was that it is intended to confine the operations of this Bill to   small holders entirely.  I realise the small holders in the areas to be covered by this Bill of the type it is intended to deal with are in a particularly bad condition, but I regret that there is no provision whatever for extending the scope of this Bill to people, such as fishermen and rural labourers, who have not been able to avail of other housing legislation that has been passed.  The Labourers Acts are suspended at the moment, and there is not a great opportunity, as members of local authorities will know, of pushing ahead schemes of labourers' cottages that will meet the position of people like fishermen and rural labourers. If there had been any desire to extend the operation of the local loans to schemes of that kind, then something might be done, but unquestionably recent legislation or want of facilities under the Labourers Acts to deal with cases of people of that kind, coupled with the Minister's statement that they are not to be included under the terms of this Bill, is very discouraging. 
     Recent housing legislation has been a very considerable boon, and it has been on the whole well and broadly administered, but it had this effect, and I mention this fact in connection with the point I am making about certain people who are left out: it gave opportunities to certain people in this country who had plenty of capital to put up cheap houses and get any rent for them, and the rent extorted in cases of this kind in many of the rural areas was nothing short of a public robbery.  If any encouragement was given under the terms of this Bill to thrifty fishermen and labourers to get facilities to provide themselves with decent houses the Bill would be a great deal more valuable.  I do not know with what prospect of success I may suggest that the matter be reconsidered between this time and the Committee Stage of the Bill. 
     I was sorry to hear the Minister lay down as a principle of the administration of this Bill that only in rare cases would applications for loans be considered.  If this Bill is   going to achieve the object which the Minister detailed in his opening statement loans must be considered in the majority of the cases to be dealt with under this Bill I hope that the Minister will have the necessary investigations made that will enable him to confirm that view because unquestionably there is no doubt whatever about that fact.  The provision made in the Bill for reconstruction or improvement is a really good one.  Those of us who have watched the progress of housing legislation in this House for a number of years have always felt that that was a great want in housing legislation, and time and again the Ministry have been urged to extend provisions of that kind to their general housing legislation.  In so far as they have endeavoured to meet that want in the sections of this Bill they have done something that is going to be good in the effect that it is going to have in rural areas. 
     There are just a few other points. I am glad to know that the Minister has given consideration to another argument that has been very often advanced here in connection with housing legislation, and that is that some sort of scheme, a minor one perhaps, of central purchase of material should be set up.  If there be one danger to be feared in the operation of this Bill it is that the people who are anxious to get a wholly unjustifiable profit out of building material&mdash;and that is no unusual state of affairs in this country at the moment&mdash;would be the gainers rather than the unfortunate people in whose interests this Bill has been drafted.  I hope that the powers taken in a section of this Bill will be given effect to because we had some such provision of that kind in previous housing legislation that remained absolutely a dead letter.  I would like the Minister to give an assurance that that provision will be given effect to and that every attempt will be made to ensure the maximum benefit in the Bill for those for whom it is intended. 
     Two considerations are stated in the Bill that will govern the giving   of grants, one the consideration that preference will be given to people in whose homes the Irish language is habitually spoken and secondly to people living in the most insanitary dwellings.  I hope that there will not be any rigid decisions on cases that will come under the preferences stated in the first example I have given and that the Minister will endeavour to weigh up the preferences in respect of people in whose homes the language is habitually spoken equally with the cases of people who live in insanitary dwellings.  If you are going to carry a preference of the first kind too far in the administration of this Bill you are going to leave a great many cases that are very deserving entirely untouched. I say that with no spirit of hostility or criticism whatever towards any action the Minister or his colleagues have taken in this connection because I view their action with entire sympathy.  The operations of this Bill will not be confined strictly, so far as I can ascertain from the Schedule attached to the Bill, to the Gaeltacht areas.  It has a wider interpretation, but I would like to see the Schedule attached to this Bill widened very considerably. I take the instance of the constituency that I represent myself and I have no doubt whatever about the fact that the Deputies who represent that constituency will bear me out in the view I have.  The whole of the six western rural districts in the constituency of West Cork&mdash;I mention this not as a particular case but as a general instance of what I think may be done in the matter of extending the scope of the Bill&mdash;the six areas that are really congested areas, the areas of Clonakilty, Skibbereen, Dunmanway, Schull, Castletownbere, Bantry and so on, should be given the full effect of a Bill of this kind. 
     The Minister has given us, and it is the first time I have heard it, the reasons why the scope of this Bill have been extended to certain areas and restricted in other cases.  He says it is based on information, on the census of returns as to the percentage of Irish speakers.  I do not   know whether the Minister is aware of the manner in which that information is obtained, but I have very strong suspicions that the information is unreliable in many respects. It may be unreliable in over-stating the percentage of Irish speakers and in under-estimating it in some districts. I think it may be unreliable in both cases, but it certainly was obtained in some instances in a very haphazard way.  I doubt if it is any real indication of the position. In any case I would urge that there should be an extension of the Bill in such areas as I have mentioned. I think also it would be desirable, if possible, if the section referred to by the Minister. Section 11, sub-section (4), were made more simple.  I can see there would be a difficulty in giving effect to a section of that kind.  I would agree also that there should be some local machinery whereby the best that is in this Act would be given to the most deserving cases. 
     I disagree entirely with certain criticisms offered by Deputy Dr. Tubridy.  I think it is regrettable that some of the small points that were made by him in the course of his contribution to this debate were made.  I do not think they affect the issue, and it does not show a spirit which I would like to see in approaching this matter.  I say that, with all due respect to his views, and to the many other points he made which are valuable.  On the whole, I think it is going to do a considerable amount of good, and I hope that certain points which were made by me and others will be given consideration between now and the Committee Stage of the Bill.  I think the Bill will be valuable in the country where it is wanted most. 
     
      
       I agree with Deputy Murphy in saying that a very valuable feature of this Bill is the provision for an improvement grant. It will be within the recollection of a great many Deputies that about twenty years ago the late Congested Districts Board made a similar provision for improvement grants administered by Parish Committees.   I was a member of one of these Parish Committees for three or four years and I think we did a certain amount of good.  I am not going to urge the Minister to revive these Parish Committees, because, looking back and examining my conscience, I am inclined to think that we were perhaps a little too kind-hearted to our neighbours, but I do urge on him the desirability of having some local knowledge and some local opinion. This Act cannot be administered entirely from a centralised office in Dublin.  If it is to do the work that is required the Minister will have to consult some opinion locally.  I hope he will indicate the type of opinion that he will consult.  It is very hard, of course, for anybody when asked if they would recommend a neighbour for a grant to say &ldquo;No.&rdquo;  At the same time, there are in every county and in every barony people who could be consulted and who ought to be consulted. 
     
     The second point on which I wish to touch is the definition of the Gaeltacht which Deputy Murphy has also referred to.  It is a very large and rather simple definition which is to be used for the purposes of this Act, but no further or otherwise. We then have a large number of electoral divisions some of which are not even so Gaelic that they have Irish names.  In the County of Clare we have the electoral Division of Smithstown.  I think that ought to be Baile na Gabhann.  Smithstown does not seem to be predominantly Gaelic.  In County Cork, we have Mountrivers and Williamstown.  We then have Kilbrittain which probably translated means the Church of England.  In County Donegal, which is Gaeltacht we have Templedouglas an entirely English name and Rutland which is not only the name of an English county but the most insignificant of English counties.  Then we have Churchhill.  I do not know whether it is proper to call a townland in the Gaeltacht after a British politician.  In the County Galway, we have Hillsbrook, in the County Kerry Headfort, in County Mayo Louisburgh, Portroyal and Houndswood. These are not Gaelic names.   In the County Waterford there are something like sixty electoral divisions. I know that there is a Gaeltacht in the County of Waterford, but does it extend over sixty electoral divisions?  I have my doubts. There we have Mountkennedy, Mountstewart, Whitechurch and Fox's Castle, none of them very Gaelic names. 
     I would like to remark that the need for housing in County Leitrim is second, I think, to that of County Mayo.  I think it is a blot on the Bill that there are only two electoral divisions in the County of Leitrim that will benefit.  Leitrim is almost the poorest, if not the poorest, of Irish counties.  I have said it before. If we are going to help poor districts we ought to extend that help in Leitrim.  Limerick, Louth and Roscommon also evade my question. I will refer to Sligo in a moment, and now comes Tipperary.  Here we have two electoral divisions, one is half Irish&mdash;Ballybacon.  That sounds to me like the kind of a name that an English low comedian would invent when trying to refer to an Irish town.  I assume it is part of the Gaeltacht.  The other is Newcastle, which is certainly not a Gaelic name.  Then I come to County Sligo, of which I have more knowledge. 
     
      
       May I point out that many of those names are practically literal translations of the Irish names.  Newcastle is a case in point&mdash;Caislean Nuadh. 
     
     
      
       Translated by Deputy Cooper's predecessors. 
     
     
      
       They may have changed the names.  In County Sligo we have Riverstown.  Riverstown is not, to my knowledge, and I know it fairly well, part of the Gaeltacht. I have never heard any Irish spoken there at all, and I am largely responsible for its housing.  While something might be said ten or twelve years ago for the need of housing in Riverstown, I think it is fairly good now.  In Sligo you have   one district which economically is exactly the same as districts in Donegal or the neighbouring districts in Mayo.  I am glad to see the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister in his place.  He will know Tireragh.  It is a fishing district in which the people eke out a comparatively poor existence.  It is not very well housed.  It is a blot on the Bill that such places in that barony as Easkey and Dromore West are not included.  The need there is as great as it is elsewhere.  I do not know whether it can be strictly defined as belonging to the Gaeltacht, but I am quite certain it is as much Gaeltacht as some of the electoral divisions in the Schedule. 
       I hope the Minister will look into that.  The real test, as Deputy Murphy suggested, is the test of the economic means of the people, and not the qualification only to speak Irish.  Give your preference, if you like, to speakers of the Irish language. I do not quarrel with that at all, but I ask you not to leave out areas of the country simply because, under a rule of thumb, these areas are not definitely included in the Gaeltacht.  I am sure the need is greater all along the Western seaboard than, say, in Waterford, with all respect to Deputy Goulding.  I know there is a Gaeltacht in Waterford, but I know that that area is much more prosperous than those districts along the West of Ireland which by an arbitrary rule are not included in the provisions of this Bill.  I would add mine to the appeal made by Deputy Murphy to the Minister, and ask him to make his definition more wide and not limit the Bill to the townlands named in the Schedule. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill, because it is a Bill that is long overdue. I think it will be admitted by Deputies from all parts of the House that the conditions existing in the Gaeltacht are absolutely deplorable. I believe I would not be far wrong in describing the conditions there as the worst housing   conditions in the whole of Europe.  While I welcome this Bill, I want to say that it is a Bill that does not come up to my expectations. I believe that drastic needs require drastic remedies.  As the need for proper housing in the Gaeltacht is most pressing, I think that need can certainly be described as drastic, and to meet that condition of things I was expecting something better than this Bill.  I believe this Bill will go a little way to remedy the existing conditions, but at the same time I believe that it will not go far enough. 
       Under this Bill, we find that in the case of a building grant the maximum grant which can be obtained is only £80 per house.  Now, when we come to compare that building grant with the building grants that were given under the 1925 Act, we find the position to be this, that a person who was in fairly wealthy circumstances and who was in a position to spend £500 or £600 on a house was enabled by that Act to get a free grant of £75.  If a wealthy person made an application through a public utility society for a free grant, he was entitled to a free grant from the Department of £100.  In addition to that free grant of £100, the local authority was empowered to give him another free grant of £100. 
     
     Now I am amazed that this Bill has been put forward as a final solution of the housing problem in the Gaeltacht. As I have pointed out, the advantages which are being extended under this Bill to poor people in the Gaeltacht are not as good as the conditions which were extended to the wealthy class of persons under the 1925 Act.  I believe that as far as housing is concerned, this Act only proves that the policy of the Government seems to be that there is to be one law for the rich and a different law for the poor.  As far as this Bill which is going to apply to the poorer people is concerned, the same facilities are not being extended as were extended to wealthy persons under the 1925 Act.  Can it be gainsaid that under the 1925 Act there have been thousands of houses   erected by public utility societies and private persons, even comparatively wealthy private persons, who have got grants from £75 to £100 from the Government and a similar grant from the local authorities? These grants were extended to wealthy classes of people, and many of them have taken advantages of these grants.  Amongst those persons who have taken advantage of it are many persons who have been able to erect motor garages by the sides of their houses. 
     When a Bill like this is introduced to remedy housing conditions in the Gaeltacht one would expect that a genuine attempt would be made to solve this problem and that better facilities would be offered to those people than were offered to the wealthy classes.  In the Gaeltacht, many people are living in hovels almost unfit for cattle, and their needs are admitted by all Parties in this House.  Now as for affording better facilities, unfortunately we find that these better facilities are not forthcoming. Deputy Tubridy said that there was a possibility of this Bill bringing us back to the Congested Districts Board principle.  I only wish it would.  Unfortunately, the Bill does not do so. 
     Deputies will recollect that special preferential treatment was given by the old Congested Districts Board to people in the congested areas which, as I might say, is the Gaeltacht area.  Well, the Congested Districts Board gave preferential treatment to the people in these areas, but we find that, as far as this Housing Bill is concerned, it does not give as good facilities to the poor people in the Gaeltacht as was given under the Act of 1925.  It might be said by the Minister, in reply, that the Act of 1925 applied to the whole Saorstat. That might be so, but the Minister will not deny the fact that the poverty-stricken condition of the people in the Gaeltacht debarred them from taking advantage of the Act of 1925 to any extent.  The people in the cities and in some of the urban areas outside the Gaeltacht were in many cases able to take advantage of that Act, but unfortunately   the fact remains that the people in the Gaeltacht areas were unable to take advantage of it. 
     We find in this Bill, as far as improvement is concerned, only a sum of £40 is allowed per house, whereas under the Act of 1925 the improvement grant up to £50 was allowed, and advantage of that provision was taken by many comparatively wealthy people.  In addition to the grant of £50 under the 1925 Act, which is not given under this Bill, the local authority was, in addition, entitled to give a certain amount.  It may be said that £80 will go a long way towards building a house in the Gaeltacht.  Personally, I do not believe that it will.  It will go some of the way I admit, but if advantage is to be taken of this Act it will mean that the people will necessarily have to make application for a loan. According to what the Minister told us, the question of loans must be governed by the capacity of the people to repay these loans.  It will be recognised by anyone who knows the Gaeltacht that the necessity is greatest amongst the poorest of the people.  Well, now, the poorest of the people will not be in a position to do what the Minister would require. Consequently I dare say that these loans will not be granted.  I believe that if that stipulation is adhered to it will strangle the Bill in its cradle and it will not do the good that we would like to see it do.  The Minister would require to outline that section dealing with the loans more clearly.  Under this Bill the repayment of the interest plus the sinking fund and the repayment of capital would mean that practically £4 10s. a year would have to be paid for every £80 loan borrowed. 
     
      
       I just assumed that that would be about the figure.  But I have no figures to guide me at all. 
     
     
      
       I am only taking that figure as an assumption.  Let us assume that a person gets a grant of £80 and a loan of £160.  Approximately he will have to pay £9 per annum in order to pay the sinking fund interest, etc. 
     
     
     
      
       He cannot get a loan of £160 under this Bill.  It is a loan and grant.  He could not get more than £80 of a grant and £80 of a loan, and the interest and sinking fund would only be on the loan. 
     
     
      
       I see the Minister's point, but every person getting a grant of £80 would have to repay that by £4 10s. per year.  Now, what sort of a house does the Minister imagine could be put up for £160? The Minister will admit that a house put up for £160 will not be as good as the agricultural labourers cottages that were put up for the labourers under the Labourers Act. 
     
     
      
       Better.  As the figures work out, they will be considerably better.  The houses for which an £80 grant and an £80 loan will be given will cost £180&mdash;the £20 is to be found somewhere else.  The proposed house will have four rooms&mdash; a kitchen, a bedroom for the parents, a bedroom for the boys and a bedroom for the girls.  That is the plan. 
     
     
      
       Three bedrooms and a kitchen. 
     
     
      
       Let us say that it is a four-roomed house.  The repayment of £4 10s. 0d. per annum will mean a payment of approximately 1/9 a week falling upon that poor person.  That means that the man in the Gaeltacht will be called upon to pay more per annum than an agricultural worker in Dublin, Leix, Offaly, Kildare or Meath, where they have labourers' cottages for 1/- or 1/3 per week.  That leads us to the question, is this Bill going to bring all the advantages that we were promised?  I do not think that it is going to be of such benefit to the people in the Gaeltacht as was the scheme under which cottages were built for labourers in other parts of the country.  A labourer in County Dublin drawing 38/- or 40/- a week is asked to pay only 1/3 a week for his cottage, but these poor people will be asked to pay 1/9.  I believe the Bill will not remedy the evil.  I had hopes that it would have   been a better Bill.  I can see all through it the hand of the Minister for Finance.  I believe, as far as the Minister for Lands and Fisheries is concerned, he realises that it could have been a better Bill.  I believe it is a question of £ s. d. 
       That brings us back to what was mentioned by Deputy Tubridy.  The C.D. Board, when formed, had a capital of £1,500,000.  At 23⁄4 per cent. that brought an annual amount to the congested areas of £41,250. That proves that the people in the congested areas in the Gaeltacht are not getting as good treatment as they did under the C.D. Board.  I do not think that will be denied. 
       With regard to the various sections of the Bill, some will require to be altered a little if the measure is to be of any benefit.  Section 2, dealing with the extent of the Gaeltacht, gives power to the Minister to make certain alterations.  I think this power is altogether too great to be vested in the Minister.  It is mentioned in sub-section (3) that an order can be annulled, but &ldquo;without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such order.&rdquo;  I think there is too much power conveyed there.  Deputy Tubridy has made reference to the restriction in Section 7 on the making of grants.  That section sets out that: &ldquo;No grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling-house or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwellinghouse in respect of which a grant out of public moneys is being or has at any time within seven years before the passing of this Act been made under any other Act of the Oireachtas or any British statute.&rdquo; Let us say a person in the Gaeltacht gets £45 to build a house under a previous Act.  I presume that will debar him from getting a grant to build a poultry house or a piggery.  If, for instance, a person gets a loan from the Agricultural Credit Corporation, it is possible he might be debarred from getting a loan under this Bill.  Perhaps the Minister will elucidate that matter. 
     
     
     
      
       Are not these Committee points? 
     
     
      
       In regard to Section 8, I think the Minister should make the matter more clear.  His Department will have power to grant loans, but it is set out that the rate of interest will be fixed by the Minister for Finance.  The Minister should give us some indication of what the maximum rate of interest will be. While I welcome the Bill generally, I think it does not go far enough. Legislation in the interests of the comparatively rich was enacted in 1925.  This legislation which should be of benefit to the poor is not up to the standard of the 1925 legislation which was of advantage to comparatively rich people. 
     
     
      
       I wish to congratulate the Minister on the very admirable manner in which this Bill has been drafted.  It appears to be an honest attempt to deal expeditiously and inexpensively with a very pressing matter.  The Bill gives preference, in the first instance, to those people who are able to speak Irish.  I think that point will not meet with disapproval on the part of any section or any member of this House.  Speaking of the people who are in a position to use the Irish language, the Minister referred to them as people who have been abandoned and forgotten.  He has described them as nobody's children and he thinks that the time has at last come when somebody should take care of them and when the sheltering hand should be held out to them. Many of them are unable to express themselves in the language which the majority of the people in this country speak.  I see no reason why that hand should not be held out.  When the Minister was speaking I could not help applying his words particularly to the district electoral division of Cape Clear, which is in my constituency, and which comprises the island of that name and the adjoining island.  The people there are far away from the mainland.  They all speak Irish.  Up to the present, for some strange reason&mdash;perhaps it is   that they are afraid of spreading the native tongue&mdash;they have been cut off from the mainland.  They have no communication with it and despite all attempts to provoke the generosity and justice of the responsible Department they are still cut off from the mainland; they have still no opportunity of spreading their knowledge, which is unusual, of the Irish language.  I hope when the Minister comes to deal with places like that, he will give them special consideration and will provide the people with some means of taking out building materials which at present they cannot do without risking their own lives and the lives of those who take out the materials. I know the Minister has not forgotten and I appeal to him to give those people a special chance. 
       I think Deputy Tubridy was a little bit ungracious in his interpretation of this Bill and in the criticisms he made.  He emphasised over and over again that he had not had time to read the Bill.  He had the same opportunity of reading it as had every other Deputy.  I do not know that it is a fair criticism to keep repeating that he had not time to read the Bill.  It is a pity he had not time.  Perhaps he would have been wiser had he restrained his criticism until such time as he had read the Bill.  If he had read it I am sure a great many of his criticisms would have been left unsaid. Deputy Cassidy said that he expected the Bill would be something advantageous. I think that the time will never come when a Bill of that sort to relieve very pressing needs will be as good as we would wish it&mdash;I think we will always look for something better.  I think the spirit of looking for something better, as depicted by Deputy Cassidy, is one which actuates us all.  As we have it before us at present, I suggest that the Bill would go through in the form in which it is, with some trifling amendments. 
     
     Deputy Murphy points out what I think is apparent, that this is a Bill which may not assist many of the   labourers and fishermen who have not got the land themselves on which to build, and who certainly have no means of their own to build.  He suggested that perhaps they could be included before the Report Stage. I should like to back the appeal if I thought that was practicable.  I need not point out that it would mean the introduction of powers for the compulsory acquisition of land and other matters that would not only delay the Bill, but embarrass the carrying of the Bill into effect. I suggest that that will of necessity, and very regretfully, have to be left over for some future occasion on which we may again appeal to the generosity of the Minister and the good feeling which we know that he has towards the people in those distressed counties.  From time to time I have heard in this House pictures drawn of the slums of Dublin and other places.  The slums of Dublin are palaces compared with the slums of Cape Clear&mdash;there is no comparison between them.  There are houses to be found on these islands and in the congested districts on the mainland of West Cork which would baffle description.  I take it the Bill is meant to deal with these extreme cases as much as possible. 
     I was alarmed when I heard from the Minister a suggestion that the loans would be very sparingly given. I would ask the Minister to bear in mind that he is dealing with people who, having regard to the present state of the fishing industry particularly, and of the agricultural industry in West Cork, are broken to the world.  They are living like dogs, and unless they can get some assistance to build a house they cannot produce the cash themselves. It will be only tempting many of them to desperation to say that if they build a £160 house they will get a grant of £80.  The remaining £80 is absolutely unprocurable by them.  I hope that the loans contemplated will be dealt with in no niggardly spirit, and that as well as the grant the loan of £80 will be given where it is found necessary   by reason of the financial condition of the person applying.  I have no doubt that in many of these cases where people have no capital they would be able to provide their own labour and, to a certain extent, the material, such as stones, as well as the cartage, and in that way they can build for £160 a house which an ordinary man would not build for £300.  I take it that that is the view which the Minister has.  They can only get £160, but with their own labour, with the assistance they will be able to give to the tradesmen, they will be able to put up a house which will be worth at least £300, and which an ordinary man could not put up for £300 or £400. 
     One point which Deputy Murphy made and which I will put before the Minister in a slightly altered form, is this: The Land Act of 1903 established a congested county consisting of the four rural districts of Schull, Skibbereen, Bantry and Castletown.  Dunmanway is outside it and so is Clonakilty.  I would ask the Minister to have no cheeseparing about it.  He has left out of the Schedule a very considerable portion of the Schull rural district, which is, with two or three exceptions, one of the poorest and most congested rural districts in the Saorstat.  I would ask the Minister to restore to the Schedule of the Bill the congested county established by the Act of 1903&mdash;in other words, instead of the various electoral divisions we find in the Schedule, put there the rural districts of Schull, Skibbereen, Bantry and Castletown. 
     As regards the fact that they do not speak Irish there, if it were known when they were taking the census that the speaking of Irish had anything to do with the provision of houses, I would guarantee that every man-jack of them would speak Irish, and I would say that they speak Irish there as well as they speak it anywhere else.  They may not speak it quite as well as the people of Cape Clear, which, to anybody who wishes to study Irish and to hear it spoken, is the one bright spot.  Up to the present the Minister   has said: &ldquo;You will not send them to Cape Clear, because I will not give you a boat.&rdquo;  At present people go there at the risk of their lives.  In the other parts of the district they speak it as well as they do in other parts of Ireland, and they will speak it until further order if you will bring these rural districts under this Bill.  It is a real treat to hear them speaking Irish in Cape Clear.  I was thinking of that when I heard Deputy Derrig speaking, and I agree with every word he said.  If he could only hear them speaking Irish in Cape clear he would discover that they speak it somehow differently from anywhere else.  I am told that they are particularly expressive when they speak of the way in which they have been abandoned and forgotten up to this by those who are in authority.  On occasions such as that they always use the Irish language.  Up to this I would not care to be in the position of the Minister if he were anywhere around, but when this Bill has been put into operation I can promise him that he will be always remembered in their prayers in Irish. 
     
      
       Evidently some members of the Government Party expect the House to throw bouquets at the Minister for producing this Bill. Deputy Wolfe thought that Deputy Tubridy was ungracious in his reception of the Bill.  This question of the Gaeltacht and congested areas as a whole, has been a burning question for at least the last seven years as far as the particular Party is concerned that has produced this Bill. It has been a burning question for the last hundred years, and, unfortunately for the country, at the present time the Minister, in this Bill, has not produced anything better than what has preceded it&mdash;in fact, it has been held with some truth that it is worse. 
     
     Everybody was under the impression that when this Free State Government got into power at least one of the principal planks in its platform would be the preservation of the Irish language; and not alone should they have preserved the language in the particular parts of   the country in which it is paramount but also in the surrounding and adjoining areas of what is commonly called the Gaeltacht, because it is not from Dublin to the Gaeltacht that the language must spread, but from the Gaeltacht outward.  Naturally, one would conclude that the adjacent areas to the Gaeltacht would be the first to revive the language as spreading from the Gaeltacht outwards. 
     Deputy Wolfe made a very significant statement when he said that there were areas in the congested areas adjoining the Gaeltacht in which the people, if they had known that there was any benefit accruing from a knowledge of Irish would have recorded themselves in the Census as being Irish speakers.  Very significant that.  Why?  Because these people in the areas adjoining the Gaeltacht, where ordinarily they should be Irish speakers, were terrorised into denying any knowledge of Irish by the predecessors of the Deputy who has just spoken.  They were afraid to acknowledge that they spoke the Irish language, and the Deputy has admitted that out of his own mouth.  If we are supposed to throw bouquets at the Government because they have produced a Bill which, according to Deputy Wolfe, is an inexpensive measure, I am afraid the Government are going to go down unwept, unhonoured and unsung, as far as we are concerned.  They themselves were responsible, under pressure, for setting up a Commission to deal with this problem of the Gaeltacht, and they had evidence from everybody who was capable of giving evidence, and it was recorded in a report.  We have been waiting for something to be done for the last seven years in regard to the Gaeltacht, and now we have a Bill which certainly does not meet the needs of the Gaeltacht, and we are expected to heap flowers on the Minister because he has produced this Bill. 
     I have myself gone into houses not alone in the Gaeltacht area, but in the areas which formerly were dealt with by the Congested Districts Board, adjoining the Gaeltacht, and these houses were not fit to put a dog   into if you thought anything about the dog.  There were bags on the floor and there were dishes and pans on the floor to catch the rain when it came in.  How people lived in them is a marvel to me.  It made me ashamed to be living in a house. Then we are expected to throw our hats in the air and cheer over this Bill.  Deputy Wolfe pretended, and the Minister apparently agrees with him, to interpret the Minister when he said that the people in the Gaeltacht would be able to provide stones and labour, with the result that a house costing an ordinary individual £300 would cost a man in the Gaeltacht only £160.  If Deputy Wolfe knows anything about the Gaeltacht, or if the Minister knows anything about it, as he ought to, would he tell us how is the poor man in the Gaeltacht&mdash;part fisherman and part farmer&mdash;to provide stones and to provide labour?  Where is he to get a horse and cart to bring the stones to the place where he is building the house?  How is he going to live while quarrying the stones?  What a farce to talk about a poor man who does not know, in practice, where his next meal is coming from, doing a heavy day's work quarrying stones, and a heavy day's work carting these stones to the place where he is to build the house, even though he is to get the Government grant, for which he will have to pay later through the nose.  Deputy Wolfe talked about the fisherman, and the Minister has often talked about the fisherman.  In Donegal, last August, these men, part fishermen and part farmers, in the Gaeltacht were fishing for lobster at a time when they had not milk to put in their tea. They had to be content with black tea and a piece of bread while doing their fishing, and they had no milk until a neighbour came down to the boat at Innishowen Head and gave them a can of milk.  Yet these are expected to provide houses, a horse and cart, an explosive, hammers and crowbars to quarry in order to build their houses. 
     Is Deputy Wolfe not ashamed to talk like this?  Is the Minister not   ashamed to expect bouquets to be thrown at him on account of it?  As Deputy Cassidy said, not alone should the Gaeltacht area as at present constituted be included in the Bill, but all those adjacent areas which formerly were included under the old Congested Districts Board, because they are just as much poverty-stricken as the Gaeltacht is at the present time.  As I remarked already, if the language is to spread it must spread outwards from the Gaeltacht, not inwards into the Gaeltacht, because nobody is going to convince me that the language is going to spread from Dublin into areas like Killybegs and Inver and Carndonagh and Buncrana in Donegal.  No one is going to convince me that Dublin is to be responsible for the spread of the language. The Minister, in framing this Bill, should have taken these things into consideration.  This Bill was due and overdue, and it certainly has not come up to requirements, and unless the Minister does something more than he has done the Gaeltacht problem will be very far from being solved. 
     
      
       Deputies on this side of the House were very far, indeed, from expecting the Fianna Fail Party to throw bouquets at the Minister for this Bill.  In actual fact, I think, the feelings of the Deputies on this side of the House would be that the Minister would be more damaged than anything else by any bouquets the Fianna Fail Party might throw at him.  Deputies from the Party opposite who were for the last six years shedding crocodile tears over the Gaeltacht and shouting about what others were not doing can hardly be of any great advantage to any Minister or to anybody else. 
     
     Perhaps I am in a somewhat better position than most speakers to discuss impartially the points which I want to raise because I do not think that any parts of my constituency are affected to any great degree by the incidence of the benefits likely to be given under the Bill.  There has been a tendency in most parts of the House, so far as I can see, to demand   that the advantages of the Bill should be extended outside the bounds laid down in the Schedule. From an examination of the Schedule my opinion is that the bounds of the Bill are far too wide.  The Bill is for the purpose of providing better housing in the Gaeltacht.  What I am afraid will happen is that certain parts of the country which can by no means be described as belonging to the Gaeltacht will get the benefits of the Bill, while the real cost of it will be put on Irish-speaking districts which will not get their proper share of them.  I have examined the Schedule so far as it applies to County Galway and I find that several electoral divisions are mentioned including my own parish and those adjacent to it.  I find it difficult to know why they are included in the Bill.  My parish and the neighbouring ones in County Galway stand economically in relation to the people of Connemara in somewhat the same relation as I stand to people in the Coombe.  There is about as much difference between them as there is between Merrion Road and the slums of Dublin.  To pass a Bill providing better housing accommodation for the Gaeltacht and to include in it places like Castleblakeney, Mounthazel, and Mountbellew in County Galway seems to go dangerously near throwing dust in the eyes of the Gaeltacht. 
     
      
       Obviously you are not a member for Galway. 
     
     
      
       I stated that I was in a peculiarly advantageous position to discuss the Bill as none of my constituents is likely to be looking for grants for houses in the Gaeltacht, or outside of it for that matter.  I know that it has already happened, at least in County Galway, that grants for the relief of distress in really poverty-stricken areas, such as Connemara, were availed of to a far greater extent by people in the richer portions than by the people of Connemara who should have got the benefits but who got very few of them.  From my examination of the Galway part of the   Schedule I am strongly of opinion that the whole Schedule would need to be severely revised and, instead of extending the Bill, I would like to see its provisions rather tightened so that districts which are actually Gaeltacht districts would get the benefit. 
     
     If outside districts want to have such provisions for housing they could be provided in another Bill, but not in a Gaeltacht Bill.  Do not have the people in Connemara, Donegal, Kerry and Waterford saddled with the odium of causing expenditure on housing in congested districts without securing proportionate benefits.  If the Gaeltacht is to be provided with houses, let it be the Gaeltacht, and let us have some fixed definition of &ldquo;Gaeltacht.&rdquo;  I know that I am saying things which will not be palatable to many members of the House, but to include two electoral districts in County Leitrim and three in County Cavan in a Bill of this kind is altogether beside the point.  I doubt if there is any area which could be called part of the Gaeltacht in either County Cavan or County Leitrim.  I have, of course, no doubt that there are congested districts in those areas much bigger than those mentioned in the Schedule.  There is no point in arbitrarily selecting a few small districts and leaving the rest of the county, which is as much congested, out of account.  If you want to deal with the housing problem in Cavan, Leitrim or East Galway you can have a special Bill for the purpose, but do not confuse it with the housing problem in the Gaeltacht, which involves other factors altogether.  It has been said that if you want to spread the knowledge of Irish you should spread it out from the Gaeltacht, and that the best way to spread it would be to extend the provisions of the Bill to cover areas besides the Gaeltacht.  It seems to me that it might well be said to people living in such areas, if they want the provisions of the Bill to be extended, the sooner they adopt the procedure suggested by Deputy Jasper Wolfe the better, and the   sooner they begin to talk Irish the better.  Whatever the needs of a Deputy's constituency may be, I think that the Bill will be weak, and be in danger of being ineffective, if the present Schedule is allowed to go through.  I would certainly suggest that several districts in County Galway be deleted.  I know that in several of these districts the Land Commission has left practically no available land undistributed for the past six or seven years. 
     
      
       They are looking for more. 
     
     
      
       I can mention Mounthazel.  I can mention Castleblakeney. The fact remains that the Land Commission has been giving land in those districts to landless men who were not able to stock it.  In a district like that, where there is so much land available, and you have not suitable people for it&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That is nonsense. 
     
     
      
       I am talking of the district in which I was born. 
     
     
      
       That is one district only. 
     
     
      
       I mentioned three districts, and I say that it applies to a great majority of districts in East Galway.  I know East Galway as well as, if not better, than the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       I do not think you do. 
     
     
      
       The same remarks apply to that part of the Schedule dealing with County Mayo. I know that there is congestion and poverty in Kilmovee and Kiltimagh. I do not see why Kiltimagh should be included in a Bill designed to provide houses in the Gaeltacht.  If you want to make provision for Kiltimagh in that respect you should make it in another Bill.  There is great danger that this Bill, like other measures for the relief of distress, will be vitiated by including in it all sorts of things that should not come under it.  For that reason   I will propose when the time comes that several districts be deleted from the Bill.  If the Bill is carefully de-limited in its scope and if the money intended for one specific purpose is not diverted to other good but different purposes it will be all right. 
       One of the difficulties of making out a Schedule of this kind lies in the fact that we have not in this country a satisfactory rural unit, a local area, for the purpose of a Bill like this.  The old baronies and parishes are done away with and nothing remains but the electoral divisions, which are only small fragments, and which cannot apply to a Bill of this kind.  We had that difficulty in regard to the Gaeltacht Commission.  It was extremely difficult to de-limit any area for the purpose of the work of the Commission because there existed no units of sufficiently manageable size.  The electoral division unit is too small. To include three from County Cavan, two from County Leitrim and also a few from County Roscommon in a Bill like this is both dangerous from the point of view of a Bill for the provision of houses in the Gaeltacht and useless from the point of view of the people of Cavan, Leitrim and Roscommon, because it can only touch the small fringe of the congestion problem which exists there.  I would recommend to the Minister that, the object of the Bill being as it is, its operations should be confined instead of extended.  If that is done, some good will accrue, but, if not, the people of the Gaeltacht will find once more, as has often happened in the past, that they are saddled with the name of having caused considerable increase in the cost of administering the country, an increase for which they are not responsible. 
     
     
      
       I confess that I do not often differ from Deputy Tierney, but I find myself doing so on this occasion.  I want to say a word or two in regard to the points with which he dealt.  I attach enormous importance to the elasticity of the provisions in the Bill.  The Bill says   that a certain sum of money&mdash;a quarter of a million&mdash;should be devoted to housing in the Gaeltacht. It does not say that it should be distributed equally among all the electoral divisions.  When I look at sub-section (4) of Section 11 my criticism, curiously enough, is as to whether it is wide enough rather than that it is too wide.  Again, Deputy Tierney says that the district electoral area is too small to be a satisfactory area for administration. I would say that, on the contrary, it is often too large.  What I am afraid of in connection with sub-section (4) of Section 11 is that you may easily get an area, even after you have taken out the valuation of over £20, in which you may still get a fairly high average valuation and yet it may very easily happen, and constantly does happen, that in such an area you may get little pockets in which the housing is at least as bad as in areas where you have a £20 average valuation.  I think that that is one of the few blots in the Bill.  Fortunately, however, there is a good deal of elasticity.  The sub-section begins by saying: &ldquo;So far as may be practicable, having regard to the number and local distribution of the cases in which it appears to the Minister to be proper to make grants...&rdquo; So that there is wide discretion left to the Minister which I hope he will use in all fitting cases. It seems to me that Deputy Tierney has hardly realised how much easier it is to administer an Act in which wide powers are given rather than one in which the powers are so restricted that you are constantly coming across hard cases which you would like to relieve but in which you find yourself tied down by too rigid definitions. 
     
     In regard to the more general aspects of the Bill nobody expects or desires that in dealing with a Housing Bill of this kind one should merely devote himself to throwing bouquets, as one of my colleagues from Donegal did, to the Minister responsible.  I think that neither he nor another colleague of mine from Donegal who spoke has done justice   to the provisions of the Bill.  Deputy Carney told us that the Bill did not meet the needs of the Gaeltacht.  I listened carefully to him, and he did not tell us in what respect it failed, except that he ridiculed the idea that the poor people in the Gaeltacht would be able to do any serious amount of work on the houses themselves. Deputy Carney knows as well as I do that, in fact, the houses in which the people live were built by themselves or their predecessors and that what they have done before they can do again. 
     Anyone who knows the Gaeltacht knows that what a man wants there is, as the Minister said, cash down to enable him to buy slates, timber, cement and other materials, if necessary, and to pay such skilled workmen as may be necessary, such as masons, plasterers, and carpenters. It never occurred to such a man to do otherwise than to give a large amount of his own labour.  As Deputy Wolfe stated, you can get houses built under these conditions in the congested districts for, at least, two or three times the money value of the actual cash expenditure. That, I think, is the answer, if I may say so, to the misleading comparison given by Deputy Cassidy.  He said that there is one law for the rich and another for the poor.  He said that in the past, under the old Labourers Acts before the War, houses were built which were let for a shilling a week, and that now to people in the Gaeltacht, who may be poorer than agricultural labourers in other parts of the country, you are giving grants under conditions which, he suggests, will be equivalent to rents of, at least, three shillings a week.  What Deputy Cassidy failed to notice is that no one can build a house and charge a rent of 1/-, 1/3 or 1/6 a week.  Such houses were built in pre-War conditions.  What was done in 1912 or 1913 has no possible relevance to what can be done now.  I notice that Deputy Cassidy carefully selected the year 1925 and compared the conditions governing the grants for houses in that year, and pointed out that for relatively well-to-do people there   were grants of from £75 to £100 per house.  He did not tell us that the proportion which these grants of £75 or £100 bore to the total cost of the house was very much less than that which the £80 bears to the £180. I am quite certain that houses built under the grants of 1925 could not be built at less than £500 or £600. They were houses which were built largely under urban or semi-urban conditions.  They were built by contractors for profit and under very stringent regulations.  Deputy Cassidy also omitted to tell us that at present the maximum grant available to what he would call the rich is not £80, but £45.  If he wanted to make a fair comparison, I suggest that a fair comparison would be that between the conditions available for well-to-do people at present and those offered in the Bill for people in the Gaeltacht. 
     I thought it necessary to make these few remarks lest it should be thought that representatives of the Gaeltacht were altogether uncritical. It is quite right that we should be critical.  No doubt we shall have an occasion to be more critical, as is proper, when we come to the Committee Stage.  I am quite convinced that the Bill, though we hope we shall see it improved, does make a very real contribution to a very real need. 
     
      
       Several speakers on the Government side of the House, and I think elsewhere, said that we should be thankful for this Bill.  If it is understood that we should be very thankful for small mercies, I suppose in that way some of us might be thankful that we get anything, but I certainly do not feel in the humour to be particularly grateful.  I am glad something has come, but I see no reason, as some people suggested, for throwing bouquets at the Minister, or at the Government who are, I suppose, finally responsible for this Bill.  I have heard it rumoured&mdash;I do not know whether it is correct or not&mdash; that Bills of a more extensive nature were prepared by the Department   and submitted to the Finance Department but were turned down. Whether that is correct or not, I do not know.  At any rate, whether it be the Department of Lands and Fisheries or the Government who are responsible for this Bill, it is nothing, in my opinion, for them to be proud of.  Instead of bouquets something that would not smell as sweet ought to be thrown at them for producing a Bill of this kind after seven years hatching.  If there was one thing that that Government ought to have done, considering its promises for years past, it would be to produce something that they could be proud of so far as dealing generously with the people of the Irish-speaking districts is concerned.  They have not attempted to do it yet.  I am sure the Minister himself would not suggest that this measure is anything like what is due to the Gaeltacht. 
       I have counted up the number of electoral areas that are in the Schedule to the Bill.  There are over six hundred of them.  If you divide that number into the amount of money that is set aside there will be £380 for every district electoral area. If loans and grants are made to all these areas there cannot be more than two loans or grants for housing in each electoral area.  That is a fat lot, after seven years' promises of the glorious things that this Government was going to do for the stronghold of the Gael, moryah, which it was going to revive and bring into power in Ireland again.  I suppose the people in these areas, because they are so poor, will be happy to get even this.  They will be happy to get the little crumb that is thrown to them, and thankful for small mercies, but they have very little to be thankful for as far as this Government is concerned if this is all they can produce. 
     
     There was one thing that induced me to speak, and that was the suggestion that had been made by a number of Deputies that the area should be widened.  I think the Title of the Bill itself ought to induce the Minister to reduce the area as set out in the Schedule.  It is seldom   that I agree with Deputy Tierney, because it is seldom that I hear him talking anything like sense, but he talked something like sense to-day, and I agree with him that in that Schedule there are areas that are not Irish-speaking.  I do not know on what the Schedule is based&mdash;perhaps it is on the Gaeltacht Report&mdash;but there were people who put themselves down in the census as being Irish speakers, whose desire was to call themselves Irish speakers, and there was a good deal of it.  Deputy Tierney mentioned places in County Galway, and I know places in other areas in this Schedule, that are not Gaelic-speaking areas, to which grants out of the limited amount set out in this Bill ought not to be given.  If this Bill is to assist the Gaeltacht&mdash;and it is called Bille na dTithe (Gaeltacht)&mdash;the money that is available ought to go to the Gaeltacht and to nowhere else. 
     Efforts have been made by different Deputies to put forward the claims of neighbouring areas. No doubt these neighbouring areas are as badly in need of houses as the areas in which Irish is spoken, but this Bill does not propose to deal with these people, and the money that is available ought to go to the Gaeltacht alone.  I hope the Minister will resist the pressure that is brought to bear upon him by Deputies on all sides of the House to extend the area for which these grants will be available, and that he will insist on restricting it to the terms set out in the Title of the Bill. 
     It is, I say, a serious disappointment to me at any rate.  I thought the Minister for Fisheries, being one who is interested in the Gaeltacht, or at least was&mdash;perhaps he is still interested in it&mdash;would have made a better fight for it than apparently he has done in producing a Bill of this kind. 
     Deputy Tierney talked of the crocodile tears that were shed in the last four or five years by people on this side of the House.  I do not know whether he included me or not, perhaps he did.  This much I can say, that I do not represent a Gaeltacht constituency.  He did at one   time represent a constituency that included a large Gaeltacht area, and that constituency kicked him out. They had no belief in him or regarded him as one who was doing nothing but shedding crocodile tears for the Gaeltacht.  That could not be said of some of those on this side of the House who spoke on this Bill, and who represent Gaeltacht areas. They have tried, at any rate, to do something, and they have not been kicked out of their constituencies as Deputy Tierney has.  I am sorry that I have to speak in this way with regard to this Bill, the first of the kind to be produced for the Gaeltacht. I hope the Minister and the Department will take greater heart and courage and show something better at their second effort. 
     
      
       (West Cork): As a representative of a Gaeltacht constituency, I rise with great pleasure to congratulate the Minister and the Government on the introduction of this Bill.  I was exceedingly sorry to hear the tone of speeches such as the one just delivered.  They take us nowhere whatever in the building up of the Gaeltacht or the nation. Two deputies from Donegal, Deputy Cassidy and Deputy Carney, spoke here to-night.  I think if the Minister were to appeal to heaven and bring down manna to the Gaeltacht it would not satisfy these two Deputies.  As regards the ninetyseven divisions that are scheduled in the premier county of Cork, I wish to say that there is not a single division of them that will not hail with the utmost satisfaction the arrival of this Bill.  The Government have been taunted that they did nothing for the last seven years.  Was there ever such a slander?  Are they not building up the nation in every direction?  They come along now with a quarter of a million of money for the most deserving classes of our countrymen, the small farmers and the fisherfolk along our two thousand miles of seaboard, and where is the thanks?  They are sneered at because there is a compliment given to the Government by others.  I may tell them that the country will not folow up that sneer and that when the   debate on this Bill is published and the statement of the Minister for Fisheries is read carefully, there will be a sigh of satisfaction.  Notwithstanding all the vicissitudes of the Government and the struggle they have made to help this State, they are able at last to come with this substantial sum of a quarter of a million to the assistance of the Gaeltacht. Deputies in every quarter of this House ought to realise their responsibility to the people.  We ought to drop this class of sharpshooting and handle the Bill as practical business men, seeing how far it will do any real good.  If the Bill has a particle of good or is in any degree going to help the downtrodden and the most miserable of our countrymen in their struggle for existence&mdash;and we all know the great difficulties in the Gaeltacht&mdash; we ought to hail it with delight.  Let the Government continue their progress and let them not be taunted. They can only go as far as their financial position will allow them. What more can they do? 
     
     
      
       I would like to say that I am not in favour of extending the districts over which this Bill should run.  I find from this map which I have before me, and which was brought out by the Gaeltacht Commission, that one of the districts which was referred to by Deputy Tierney is just included in the Gaeltacht area.  To a certain extent, conditions in the eastern part of Galway are very much different from conditions in the western portion. In Connemara, in the far west, the conditions are deplorable, and the grant given in the eastern portion would be altogether out of proportion to the needs as compared with the grant given in the western portion of the county.  In fact, from my knowledge of the western portion of the county, I consider that £80, which is the grant under this Bill, is altogether inadequate.  I cannot understand how people in Connemara and in other poor districts in the Gaeltacht can ever hope to build a house with a grant of £80.  They can get a loan, but if they get a loan,   according to the Minister, they will have to pay back something like £4 10s. a year, and, in the present economic conditions there, it is absolutely impossible for them to do that. Of course the Minister stated that in conjunction with this Bill other steps would be taken to improve the economic conditions in the Gaeltacht. If that is done it may be satisfactory, but we have no indication from the Minister when these steps are to be taken.  We have had promises for many years that the Minister was to introduce Bills for the improvement of fisheries.  Anyone who goes to Galway and visits the docks can see there at the present time at least five boats that were given to fishermen by the Congested Districts Board and which were beginning to fall to pieces.  They are in a fairly good condition at present, and would be very useful if they were handed to the fishermen without any more delay.  Several other boats were there, and they were allowed to fall to pieces.  Some of them were sold for firewood for sums ranging from 5/- to £15.  If anyone goes to the docks in Galway they should not be satisfied until they see where these boats are lying up. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has gone away from the housing. 
     
     
      
       There is a shed there that was allowed to fall to pieces although it cost something like £40,000 to erect.  I just mentioned that to suggest to the Minister that if he is sincere steps should be taken immediately to improve the economic conditions. As to the extent of the Gaeltacht, the line must be drawn somewhere. I think the line has been satisfactorily drawn in this case and should be left so.  As regards the City of Galway, I think it is an omission. Do I understand from the Minister that that is included in the Bill? 
     
     
      
       I mentioned that it was accidentally omitted. 
     
     
      
       Under some of the previous Housing Bills there were people who succeeded in getting two grants.  They put up individual houses first and then broke a door   out between them and used them as one.  I do not know if that was tolerated.  I just mention it now to remind the Minister that steps should be taken to prevent people getting grants and loans in connection with this Bill who are not really entitled to them.  As I said in the beginning, I do not think sufficient money is offered as a grant for the purpose of relieving the housing position.  Certainly if the area is to be extended an increased grant should be given.  I would also agree that in some of the poorer districts special steps should be taken, and where it is particularly necessary to increase the grant power should be given to that end. 
     
     
      
       Deirtear an te buailtear sa cheann go mbionn faitchios air.  Tar eis an meid cainnte a rinneadh anocht i ngeall ar an nGaeltacht agus i ngeall ar theorainn na Gaeltachta ta nios mo faitchis orm-sa roimh an nGaeltacht na mar bhi ariamh.  Ta a fhios agam go bhfuil croidhe an Aire agus a lucht conganta leis an bhfior-Ghaeltacht, ach ceard d'fheadfadh se a dheanamh tar eis an meid cainnte a chuala se annseo anocht ag daoine a bhi ag leigint ortha fein go raibh siad ar thaobh na Gaeltachta agus gan blas measa acu uirthi. 
       Is maith liom go bhfuil, ar a laghad, beirt Theachtai&mdash;Micheal O Tighearnaigh agus Sean T. O Ceallaigh&mdash;annseo anocht adubhairt an fhirinne i dtaobh na Gaeltachta. Dubhairt siad mas Bille Gaeltachta an Bille seo go mba cheart e do thabhairt don Ghaeltacht agus gan bheith ag cur aiteacha ar bith eile isteach ann nach bhfuil gaol na baint acu leis an nGaeltacht.  Cuid de na daoine a thagas go dti na ceanntracha seo seard adeireann siad: &ldquo;O go bhfoiridh Dia orainn, ce'n chaoi a d'fheadfadh daoine do mhaireachtail in a leitheid seo d'ait?&rdquo;  ach anois nuair ata an tAire ag iarraidh rud eicint do dheanamh dhobhtha siad na cead daoine iad ata ag iarraidh e do sciobadh uatha. 
     
     Nil a fhios agam an ceart dom ainm duine ar bith do tharraingt isteach ach is cuimhin liom-sa i   mbliain a '13 go raibh Eamonn Ceannt thios i mo theach fein agus go ndubhairt se lion: &ldquo;Nuair a thiocfas muid-ne i reim ni bheidh an tir seo mar ata si&mdash;gan duine ar bith innte gur fiu leis tada do dheanamh don Ghaeltacht.&rdquo;  Anois ni har a laimh a thainig mar do mharbhuigh na Sasanaigh e. 
     Eisean adubhairt an chainnt ach is againne ata comhacht an gniomh do dheanamh.  Ba cheart tus do dheanamh leis an bhfior-Ghaeltacht; ta muinntir na breac-Ghaeltachta in ann feachaint 'na ndiaidh fein. Daoine as Beal Atha na Sluagh agus as Phlaineid Mhuigheo ag fail an airgid cheanna ata le fail ag na daoine bochta sa gCeathru Rua agus a leitheidi sin d'ait.  O, go bhfoiridh Dia orainn! 
     Mar sin iarraim ar Theachtai an Tighe seo tabhairt le teasbaint go bhfuil siad da riribh faoi'n Ghaeltacht. Deirtear gur fearr an gniomh a chruthuigheas na na raidhte breige as beal na mbreagadoiri. 
     Anois do mhol an Teachta, Tomas O Deirg, Bord na gCeanntar Druidithe agus an meid a rinne siad. Ceard a rinne siad do na daoine bochta?  Noimead tar eis do sin do ra dubhairt se gur fhag an Bord ceanna £1,000,000 gan caitheamh. Ma bhi siad cho gradh-diamhar don tir bhoicht agus a bhi an Teachta ag ra, tuige nar chaith siad an £1,000,000 leis na daoine bochta agus gan bheith ar an Rialtas £250,000 do chaitheamh leo anois?  Do chuir se iongna orm nuair a chuala ne an Dr. O Tiobraide ag mola an Bhuird agus a gcuid coisti.  Tar eis an meid mola a thug se do Bhord na gCeanntar Druidithe agus ag 'chuile rud eile a bhaineas leo cuirim-se an cheist seo air agus freagradh se i mas feidir leis: 
     Ceard a rinne Bord na gCeanntar Druidithe le feabhas do chur ar na sa limisteir tire on Spideal go dti Droiochead Chuigeil agus isteach go dti an Ceathru Rua?  Ma rinne siad tada nil a chosulacht le n-a chois.  Deirim-se nach ndearna siad tada ach a suile do chaocha agus leigint ortha fein go raibh siad gha dheanamh. 
     Nach e an Ceathru Rua agus   aiteacha eile mar e a chuir iachall ar  Balfour  agus na daoine a thainig 'na dhiaidh Bord na gCeanntar Druidithe do chur ar bun an chead uair. Ach nuair a bhi se curtha ar bun acu agus postanna mora faighthe ag 'chuile dhuine acu ni raibh aon aird acu ar Chonamara na ar a leitheid eile d'ait. 
     Focal faoi'n Bhille anois.  Sul ar dubhairt mise aon cheo faoi do chuaidh me thart agus do labhair me leis na sagairt sa nGaeltacht.  Do theasbain me an Bille dhobhtha agus tig liom labhairt ar a son anaseo. Ta siad lan-tsasta leis.  Ta eolas nios fearr agam-sa ar an nGaeltacht na ata ag duine ar bith sa teach seo agus tuigim muinntir na Gaeltachta nios fearr na duine ar bith a labhair annseo anocht agus deirim gan fuath gan faitchios ma fagtar an Bille seo ag an nGaeltacht an duine a d'fheicfeadh aris i fa cheann tri mblian o indiu go mbeidh brod air fa ra 's go raibh aon bhaint aige leis mBille seo.  Toigfidh na daoine na tithe ar an airgead ata leagtha amach ag an Aire dhobhtha, agus spleodar ortha gha dheanamh.  Geallaim dibh go mbeidh spoirt ar lucht  Gaeltachta ach an congnamh seo  thabhairt dobhtha agus go  a gcroidhe ag preabadh.  Ta athas orm go bhfuil an tAire ag tabhairt congnamh do na daoine bochta na tithe ata acu cheana d'fheistiu, mar is ri-mhaith an rud e.  An t-alt is fearr a fheicim-se sa mBille se, nuair a bheas lorg an tighe gearrtha ag duine agus cuid de na clochai tarraingte aige go bhfuighidh se £8 no £10, agus cuid eile do reir mar bheidh se ag dul ar aghaidh leis an obair.  Sin e an rud a thaisbeanann go bhfuil an tAire da riribh faoi na daoine fior-bhochta mar, do reir na nAchtanna eile a thainig roimhe seo, nior mhor do dhuine a theach do bheith togtha aige agus an tslinn air sul a mbeadh pighinn den airgead le fail aige.  Ni hiad na daoine bochta, ach na buicini mora agus a leitheidi, a d'fheadfadh sin a dheanamh.  Muna bhfuigheadh na daoine bochta duine cicint le dul i mbannai ortha le slinnte agus adhmad d'fhail ni fheadfadh siad tada do dheanamh   faoi na nAchtanna eile.  Ni fiu na hAchtanna sin an paipear a bhfuil siad scriobhtha air. 
     Anois iarraim ar na Teachtai in ainm an Phiarsaigh agus in ainm na ndaoine a d'imthigh leis agus in ainm Gaedheal na tire seo gan an mBille sco do mhille no do sciobadh o na daoine go bhfuil ceart acu congnamh d'fhail faoi.  Ta daoine ag ra go bhfuil lucht na Gaeltachta ag fail an iomarca ach deirim-se nach bhfuair siad ariamh ach cuid Phaidin den mheacan&mdash;an t-iarbaillin caol.  Do bheinn lan-tsasta rud eicint do chur isteach sa mBille gan aon airgead do thabhairt do dhuine ar bith le teach do thogail faoi 'n Bhille seo muna bhfuil an Ghaedhilg gha labhairt sa teach cheana.  Bille don Ghaeltacht 'seadh an Bille seo agus fagtar e do na Gaedhilgeoiri bochta.  Ma chruithigheann an dream ata sa mbreac-Ghaeltacht go bhfuil siad da riribh faoi 'n Ghaedhilg agus ma fhoghluimeann siad i do bheinnce sasta iad do leigint isteach faoi 'n mBille seo. 
     Silim gurb e an tArd-Easbog Mac Eil adubhairt go bhfuil blas gan ceart ag an Ultach, go bhfuil ceart gan blas ag an Muimhneach, go bhfuil ceart agus blas ag an gConnachtach ach nach bhfuil ceart na blas ag an Laighneach.  Ma bh'fior do sin, deirim-se, in a ainm sin, gur ag lucht na fior-Ghaeltacht ata an ceart agus an blas faoi 'n mBille seo agus nach bhfuil ceart na blas ag an dream ata lasmuch den fhior-Ghaeltacht faoi. 
     
      
       Cuirim failte roimh an mBille seo.  Ta cuid againn sasta&mdash;lan-tsasta&mdash;leis agus ta cuid eile nach bhfuil sasta go bhfuil an Bille cho-maith agus ba choir a bheith.  Nuair a bhi an tAire ag labhairt iniu dubhairt se gur Bille e seo a bhaineas le dream amhain i gceanntair airithe den tir. Ach ni he seo an chead Bhille a tugadh isteach a raibh baint aige le dream amhain i gceanntair airithe. Ise seo an chead Bhille a bhaineas leis an nGaeltacht in a bhfuil aon mhaitheas.  Ise seo an chead Bhille a thuibhreas aon ni&mdash;beag no mor&mdash; don Ghaeltacht.  Ar an abhar san, ta failte agam roimhe.  Deirim go   bhfuilim buidheach den Aire fa e do thabhairt isteach. 
       Nuair do chuala me an tAire ag ra go raibh an Ghealtacht dearmadta ag an Rialtas go dti anois, nach raibh suim ag aon duine i nGaedhil na tire seo go dti anois&mdash;nuair a chuala me an tAire a ra sin, dubhairt me liom fein gur mhaith an rud e.  Ta suil agam go gcuimhncoidh se ar an bhfaoistin phuibli sin.  Ta suil agam nach ndeanfaidh se dearmad ar an nGaeltacht aris. 
       Na Teachtai do labhair ar an mBille go dti anois, ta cuid acu sasta leis agus cuid acu nach bhfuil sasta. Deir cuid acu nach ceart ceanntair airithe do thabhairt isteach fa'n mBille seo.  Rinne Teachta ata tar eis labhairt gearan toise daoine ata lasmuich de cheanntair cosuil le Conamara agus aiteacha mar e a bheith in ann congnamh d'fhail fa'n mBille.  Is do liom go mb' fhearr mar ainm ar an mBille seo&mdash;Bille i gcoir na gCeanntar gCumhang na Bille i gcoir na Gaeltachta.  Is fior a ra ait ar bith a gheobhas tu daoine ata fior-bhocht gur Gaedhil iad.  Ach ta cuid acu nach bhfuil Gaedhilg acu.  I gceanntair aithride i gContae Mhuigheo ata lasmuich den fhior-Ghaeltacht, nil Gaedhilg ag na daoine.  Ce'n fath nach mbeidh faill acu tigh do thogail no do dheisiu fa'n mBille seo?  Ach b'fhearr mar ainm ar an mBille Bille i gcoir na gCeanntar gCumhang na an t-ainm ata air fa lathair.  Taobh amuich den Ghaeltacht, ta aiteacha in Mhuigheo agus Liathdruim agus is ceart cuidiu leis na daoine ionnta. 
       Nilim sasta leis an meid ata a thabhairt le teach do thogail&mdash;£80. Be cheart an meid sin d'ardu.  Mar a dubhairt an tAire, is beag daoine a bheas in ann airgead eile d'fhail mar iasacht faoi'n mBille seo.  Ta siad an-bhocht; ta na tithe go dona ar fad agus ni fiu £5 gach rud ata taobh istigh agus taobh amuigh den tigh.  Ta aiteacha eile gur feidir leis na daoine deis do chur ar na tithe ach ni fiu £3 a gcuid ar fad.  Ni feidir leo-san iasacht d'fhail agus ba cheart an £80 d'ardu go dti £100 idtreo go bhfeicfidh na daoine seo go bhfuilimid i ndairiribh faoi'n congnamh do thabhairt doibh le tithe do thogail. 
     
     
        Ta congnamh le fail le tigh do dheisiu ach ni do liom gur fedir le duine congnamh d'fhail chun cro bo do thogail no chun deis do chur ar shean-chro.  Ta aiteacha in a geomhnuigheann na daoine, na ba agus na cearca san tigh ceana.  Is bocht an sgeul e, ach is fior e.  Ce an chaot a dtiocfadh le duine mar sin rud ar bith do dheanamh faoi'n mBille seo? Gheobhfaidh se £80 le tigh do thogail ach ni leor sin le tigh nua do thogail.  Gheobhfaidh se £40 le deis do chur ar tigh ach ca cuirfidh se na ba agus na muca?  Ni bheidh aon teach aige taobh amuigh den teachcomhnuidhe. Ta bearna sa mBille annsin.  B'feidir go ndearna an tAire dearmad ar an gceist sin.  Ba cheart don Aire leasu do chur isteach le £20&mdash;ni h-abraim gur ceart an meid sin&mdash;do thabhairt le cro-bo no tigh i gcoir capaill do thogail.  Ba cheart £20 do thabhairt do fheirmear le sgiobal do thogail, cur i gcas. 
     Ma theastuigheann iasacht O dhuine, caithfidh an tAire a fheiceal go bhfuil an fheirm claruighthe in a ainm fein agus go bhfuil se bunuighte san ait.  Nuair a bhi Bord na gCeanntar gCumhang ag obair, nior bhac siad ach fior-bheagan le claruidheacht agus a leitheid.  Ni ceart costas do chur ar na daoine bochta a bheas ag iarraidh iasachta d'fhail.  Ach ni shilim go mbeidh moran iarrtais ar iasachtai.  Ta na feilmeacha ro bheag agus ni bheidh an tAire sasta iasachtai do thabhairt doibh. 
     Mar a dubhairt an tAire ni mor seans do thabhairt do na daoine a gheobhas iasachtai an t-airgead d'ioc ar ais.  Ise an plean ata ceaptha aige leis sin do dheanamh na £5 do thabhairt chun cro muc no cro ceare do thogail.  Ma ta aon rud sa nGaeltacht ag a bhfuil taithigheacht ag na daoine ise togadh mue agus ceare.  Meireach iad, ni bheadh moran daoine sa nGaeltacht.  Ach ni dheunfadh an £5 seo moran maitheasa; ni togfar 20 muc no 20 ceare nios mo mar gheall ar an deontas seo. Ce an chaoi ar bh'feidir leo muca agus cearca do choineal muna bhfuil fatai agus turnipi acu agus muna bhfuil an t-airgead acu le min do cheannach?  Sin 'e an t-aon locht a fheicim-sa mBille.  Ta an Bille maith   go leor i gcoir tithe do thogail ach ni bheidh pioc maitheasa ann muna gcuidigheann an tAire leis na daoine ar bhealach eile.  Bhi an t-Aire ag cainnt iniu ar na rudai ata le deunamh aige.  Ta sean-fhocal ann&mdash;&ldquo;Is fear maith e an te a bhfuil sceal maith aige i gcomhnuidhe.&rdquo;  Nior chuala me an tAire ariamh gan sceal maith a bheith le h-innsint aige ach ni fheicim an gniomh.  Is fearr gniomh maith na sceal maith. Molaim an tAire ar an iarracht seo agus ma dheanann se na rudai ar a raibh se ag tracht, le congnamh do thabhairt do mhuinntir na Gaeltachta an maitheas ata san mBille seo do bhaint as, seasfaidh na Teachtai annso leis. 
     Ni feidir le muinntir na fior-Ghaeltachta usaid do bhaint as an mBille seo cho-mor leis na daoine in aiteacha eile.  I gComparaid leis an droch bhaill ata ortha, is beag usaid is feidir le muinntir na Gaeltachta do bhaint as an mBille. Mar is eol do daoine a chaith tamaill sa nGaeltacht, ta na tithe ins na bailte beaga an-chumhang agus anchomhghaireach da cheile.  Ta na daoine seo ag suil i gcomhnuidhe go n-aistreofar as na h-aiteacha seo iad go dti na taillte reidhthe.  Ta na milte acra de thaillte bana san nGaeltacht agus sa mbreac-Ghaeltacht agus na daoine ata in a gcomhnuidhe cho chomhghaireach le ceile ta siad ag suil nach mbeidh siad annsin ar feadh a saoil&mdash;go gcuirfear iad ar na taillte reidhthe.  Cuir i gcas Leachan, i gContae Mhuigheo.  Ta na tithe cosuil le cross-word-puzzle.  Is naireach cho-chomhghaireach agus ata siad.  Ta leath an meid daoine seo ag suil go dtabharfaidh Coimisiun na Talmhan taillte reidhthe doibh, agus ce'n fath an dtogfadh siad tithe nua?  Ni thogfaidh siad tithe nua na cro muc na cro cearc faoi'n mBille seo.  Ma's feidir leis an Aire Coimisiun na Talmhain do ghriosa agus cuid de na daoine seo d'athru go dti na tailte reidhe, beidh seans ag na daoine eile usaid do bhaint as an Bille.  Ach go dti go ndeanfar sin, ni feidir le muinntir na fior-Ghaeltachta usaid do bhaint as an mBille. 
     
        Ta eagla orm go mbeidh se anchostasach an Bille seo do chur i bhfeidhm.  Dubhairt an tAire go geuirfeadh an tAire Talmhaiocht a thuille cigiri go dti an Gaeltacht le feachaint isteach do dheanamh annso agus ansud.  Nilim in aghaidh cigiri a bheas in ann maitheas do dheanamh ach nil ach ceathru miliun ar fad le caitheamh faoi'n mBille agus ba choir don Aire feachaint chuige nach mbeidh an costas le h-e do chur i bhfeidhm ro-throm. 
     Rinne an tAire tagairt do chocheannach adhmuid agus eile.  Do reir an eolais ata agam ar an nGaeltacht, ni feidir fear nios fearr le margadh do dheanamh d'fhail na duine as an nGaeltacht.  Is do liom go bhfuigheadh an fear as an nGaeltacht an t-abhar togtha nios saoire in Iorrus, cuir i gcas na da gceannofai ar shli ar bith eile e. 
     Nil a fhios agam an bhfuil aon rud sa mBille a chuirfeadh bac ar mhaistir scoile sa nGaeltacht usaid do bhaint as an mBille le tigh nua do thogail do fein.  An bhfuil aon rud sa mBille a chuirfeadh bac ar an siopadoir sa nGaeltacht £80 d'fhail chun tigh nua do thogail do fein? Cho fada agus a bhaineas an Bille seo leis na daoine bochta, ba choir bac do chur ar dhuine ar bith gur feidir leis tigh do thogail ar chaoi ar bith eile, usaid do bhaint as.  Ta an Bille seo nios fearr na Act a 1927 agus ta eagla orm go mbeidh daoine ata saidhbhir go leor le tithe do thogail doibh fein ag iarraidh cuid den airgead seo d'fhail.  Is do liom go mba mhaith alt do chur sa mBille nach mbeadh cead ag aon duine ag a bhfuil ioncum priobhaideach no pinsiun o'n Stat na duine ar a bhfuil luachail nios aoirde na £15 ar a ait usaid do bhaint as an mBille seo.  Ta Bille eile i gcoir an dreama sin agus ba choir an ceathru miliun seo do chimead ar son na ndoine mbocht. 
     
      
       It cannot be said that the Bill before the House this evening is a very generous one when we consider that it is covering such a large area as the Gaeltacht, which is specified in the Schedule attached to the Bill, and when there is such a meagre sum as £250,000 to meet all   that area.  When you consider that that money is to be expended on such a vast area it certainly means that the Bill cannot in any way claim to be generous, as far as the districts around the western and southern coasts of the Twenty-six Counties are concerned.  Notwithstanding anything that Deputies here may state, I expect that there must be some of the inland Gaeltacht areas also considered.  One would imagine in listening to Deputy Tierney speaking that he was almost sorry that the Gaeltacht did extend inland to any extent.  At least, he would give one that impression.  I am very glad to see that these inland corners of the Gaeltacht are mentioned by the Minister in the Bill. As far as I am concerned I think that a few other localities around the western coast should also be included, more particularly certain localities in the Westport Union which are at present omitted.  There is a large tract there which I always understood was considered as being in the Gaeltacht.  I fail to see how it can be outside it.  As far as Irish speakers are concerned, I know that there are large numbers along the coast and in many townlands extending as far as Castlebar and Kiltimagh inland.  I hope that before the Bill assumes its final form that these areas will be included.  I would like to help to have this Bill amended on points such as those, and we on this side feel it our duty to support it, but we would like to see it much improved before it passes the Dail in its final stages. There is to my mind what I personally consider a great weakness in the Bill.  It seems to be assumed that no such thing as stabling is required at all in the Gaeltacht.  I say that because there is no mention of any improvement in the matter of stabling for cows, horses or donkeys, or anything of that kind, contained in the Bill.  I do not see why there should be such a lack as that in this Housing Bill for the Gaeltacht. After all, people in the Gaeltacht districts are not so poor that they cannot afford a cow, and most of them require some stabling of one   kind or another.  I would like to see included in the Bill a clause that would cover this weakness so that the people in these areas would be able to erect the necessary outhouses near their houses.  It would be a great addition to the Bill.  I am sorry to have to mention it, but it is a fact that some of those people have to stable their cows in their dwellinghouses.  That is a very unfortunate state of affairs.  It is perhaps one of those things which calls most for attention in the Gaeltacht. This unsanitary condition requires very special consideration.  A sum of £40 is allowed for the repairing or renovating of existing houses.  I consider that amount is insufficient and it ought to be increased.  Houses may not require to be built from the foundations and yet renovating them may cost as much as double the amount allowed, or almost as much as if they were newly built, because the stonework of a house is the smallest item in its construction. For that reason I consider that £40 is very inadequate, more particularly when the Minister is satisfied to allow a grant of £80 for a new house.  I think he should, in certain cases, allow as much as £60 for the renovation of an existing house.  I would be very anxious to see that the Minister would consider these points.  They are really very important. I expect that at a later stage we will get an opportunity of inserting amendments in the Bill that would cover those points. 
     
     
      
       I appreciate the effort made to tackle this problem, even though it does not meet with the full requirements or ambitions of those who are out for the improvement of houses in the area known as the Gaeltacht or the congested districts area.  Still it is an attempt, and so far as an attempt is honestly made it deserves support.  I do entirely disagree with the elimination of certain areas from the administration of this Bill.  For instance, mention has already been made by other Deputies of the areas scheduled.  In the opinion of some Deputies the area is too extended.   In the opinion of others the area is not wide enough.  The Bill aims first at improving dwelling-houses, and in the second place it aims at developing industries so as to make the conditions of living in the area somewhat better.  The Bill does aim at improving the conditions of life in the area.  I fail to see why that limitation that is so patently here outlined in the Schedule should apply.  My idea is that this Bill should apply to what were known as the old congested areas.  For the life of me, I cannot understand how it could be maintained that the development of poultry and pigs, which it is sought specifically to develop here, would not be as much needed by the people of Sligo and Cavan, which are part of the Gaeltacht, as any other areas in the Gaeltacht.  In his speech the Minister referred to the work that his Department had done in the development of industry along the Western seaboard, particularly the development of fishing and kelp. 
     
     It is a very good thing that the Minister has succeeded in making some little progress in this direction. However, in the areas that I speak about, that exist in Leitrim and in other counties that have no seaboard, or practically none, those industries cannot be developed and the result is that the economic conditions of the residents are much worse than the conditions existing in the areas to which this is intended to apply.  In this Schedule we have two electoral areas included from County Cavan, two electoral areas included from County Leitrim, six from County Limerick, seven from County Roscommon, eleven from County Sligo, and so on.  I cannot understand why there is such discrimination in Leitrim.  I speak of Leitrim because I know that county best.  I do not understand why two electoral areas should be selected and others equally deserving left out.  I can say with knowledge that there is just as much Irish spoken in other areas as there is in those two and the same would apply to counties other than   Leitrim.  The selection of two areas and the leaving out of other places equally entitled to consideration are matters that need explanation. 
     I remember when practically the whole of County Leitrim was included in the old congested districts. Prior to the war, the Congested Districts Board was carrying out improvements in the way of houses and out-offices.  Quite a number of farmers were promised grants for the carrying out of these improvements. As the war developed those grants were withdrawn.  The farmers have received no grants since. I anticipated that when this Bill would be introduced the time would come when the promises made some years ago to the farmers would be fulfilled.  They were undoubtedly made promises by the C.D.B. prior to the war and I expected that under this Bill they would be made grants to enable them to carry out improvement work.  Looking at the matter purely from a humanitarian point of view, the condition of the housing is as bad in Leitrim as in any other part of the country.  That has also been stated by Deputy Cooper, who knows the condition of the county fairly well, because he lives in an adjoining county.  Nobody can assert that he has any special reason to state the case other than that he speaks from his personal knowledge.  The condition of housing in County Leitrim is perhaps even worse than the condition of housing in any other county.  Why County Leitrim should be deprived of benefits under this Bill is a very difficult thing to understand.  I go so far as to say that if the congested areas in Leitrim are not included in this Bill the poor people there will have to assert themselves in some way in order to get the benefits to which they are entitled.  They should be given assistance from the fund set aside for the C.D. Board, and which was taken over by the Dail in 1923, and has been used since for the general purposes of the Land Commission. 
     I and other people representing congested areas held our patience to an extent anticipating that money   would be set aside and would be made available for all the congested areas.  If it is really contemplated to deprive those areas of the benefits to which, in all equity and justice, they are entitled&mdash;and it would seem to be the intention in some parts of the House so to deprive them&mdash;then I think such an attitude cannot be described otherwise than as most unreasonable and unjust.  If the Minister confines himself to the justification that certain areas are not included because they are not Irish-speaking districts, then one could understand the position.  But the fact is that he has included areas which were never associated with the Gaeltacht, and by doing so he has opened up an avenue that is likely to lead to a good deal of dissension. It is an attitude that he cannot justify. 
     With regard to the question of necessity, I assert, and I am sure Deputy Cooper and other Deputies will equally assert, that the conditions in Leitrim require consideration more than any other area in the Saorstat.  Housing and other conditions there are so bad that they are deserving of immediate attention on the part of the Government.  This matter was, on former occasions, forcibly brought home to the members of the House by reason of the fact that attention was called to distress existing there.  On one occasion we had the question of the area flooded in Ballinagleragh.  Again, only a few weeks ago, that matter was raised once more and the Minister responsible for the Land Commission had the matter investigated. He expressed himself as satisfied that the conditions in the area were such that they warranted special attention. He said he had made representations to the Minister for Finance with a view to getting more money to enable the people there to provide themselves with houses.  As regards the end of the county where Kiltyclogher lies, I have been told by the inspectors from the Land Commission that it is really the worst part of the country they have ever visited, including the worst portions of the western counties.   Officials in the Land Commission have told me that the land there is the poorest they have ever had to deal with.  These are matters the Minister should have had before his mind when he was framing this Bill. From the humanitarian viewpoint County Leitrim is specially entitled to any of the benefits that are to flow from this Bill.  The fact that he has not included County Leitrim is unjustifiable, particularly because he has included only two areas in the county which cannot strictly claim to be situated in the Gaeltacht.  Unless, as I say, there is some sinister motive somewhere at the back of this, I am sure the Minister, when these facts have been pointed out, will make such amendments in the Bill as will give at least an equitable distribution of what is at best a very meagre attempt to deal with a very large problem. 
     
      
       A Chinn Comhairle, ar shon mhuinntir na Gaeltachta i dTirchonaill cuirim mile failte roimh an Bhille seo.  Ta dochas laidir agam go rachaidh se cun tairbhe do'n Ghaeltacht agus chun sochair do iomlan na tire sna bliantai ata romhainn. 
       Nil aon locht mhor agam air acht go bhfuil se ro-leathan.  Ba choir duinn an fhior-Ghaeltacht bheith i dtoiseach mar an chead churam orrainn.  Tigeadh an breac-Ghealtacht agus na h-aiteacha eile 'na dhiaidh sin.  Is fada foidhdeach muinntir na Gaeltachta ag fanacht leis an tarrthail seo.  Deirtear go bhfuil foighid iongantach aca agus gurb e an fath e go bhfuil cineal cuairim aca nach mbeidh purgadoir ar bith rompa ar an t-saol eile.  Os rud e go ndeanfaidh an Bille seo a mbeatha nios fusa fulaingt ar an t-saol seo, bheirim mo bheannacht do. 
     
     
      
       Nil moran agam le ra ar an mBille seo ach ba mhaith liom chur sios ar chupla pointe nach ndearn na Teachtai tagairt do go dti seo.  Deputy Murphy made some reference to the demand for labourers' cottages owing to the impossibility   of carrying out any further building under the Labourers Acts.  I know that in many places plots were acquired years ago by the old rural district councils on which they found it impossible to erect houses.  I wonder if it would be possible for the Minister to arrange with the county councils to help the labourers themselves to erect houses on these plots?  As the law stands, a labourer cannot himself erect a house on one of these plots.  The plots are the property of the county council, and it should be possible in this Bill to make provision for such men to erect houses on them.  The idea of having the work done by the people themselves is a very good one. It is not possible, if we wish to solve the housing problem, to erect absolutely perfect houses, and every effort should be made to have the work done as cheaply as possible and to use local material as far as possible. Instead of using imported timber, for instance, in districts where native timber is available, it would be far cheaper to use the native timber.  The men themselves are capable of felling the timber and carting it to the site, and with the help of their friends and local tradesmen the work could be done very cheaply. 
       Reference has been made to the fact that many districts which should be scheduled are not scheduled in the Bill.  I am afraid that many of those who spoke forgot that this is a Gaeltacht Bill, and that the idea is to help people in the Gaeltacht area to better their housing conditions.  We would all like to see the Bill extended to the whole of the country, because in many places in the Midlands where no Irish is spoken the housing conditions are very bad.  But, dealing as we are with the Gaeltacht, we had better confine ourselves to the discussion of the Bill as it applies to the Gaeltacht. 
     
     There is another point which I should like to make.  Under Section 11 (4) there is just the possibility   that some hardship will occur.  I have in mind one district which is about the worst from the housing point of view in the County Waterford&mdash;that is, the Ring peninsula. There are people living in houses there which are as bad as any houses in the West of Ireland, but if the aggregate of the valuation of the parish is taken, I am afraid it will exclude this particular area&mdash;at least it will exclude it from the three-fifths expenditure supposed to be devoted to districts such as this.  In that way certain hardship might be done.  These people are in need of houses, and they certainly should come under the three-fifths clause, but I am afraid that they will be excluded. 
     
      
       Does the Deputy understand that in a case like that any individual valuation of £20 or over will be taken out in the totting up, and then you divide the valuations left by the population, and if you then get 21/- or less the three-fifths will apply.  That may elucidate the matter for the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       It will mitigate it to a great extent, but in this area practically 90 per cent. of the valuations would be under £20, but near £20, and the danger would be that that might exclude the people who are very urgently in need of houses. This particular district is one of the most Irish-speaking in the country. Some Deputy made reference to the fact that there is no use erecting houses for people who have no work. I do not want to go outside the scope of the Bill.  These people are practically all fishermen, not farmers.  I think it was Deputy Carney referred to the fact that fishermen in Donegal had to go out fishing without milk for their tea.  The Ring people have to do that.  They are just as badly off as any people in any part of the Gaeltacht, and I think some attention should be paid to them. 
     
     I do not know exactly what is meant by Irish-speaking families. Does it mean that all the children must speak Irish as well as the   father and mother, and must use Irish as the home language? Reference is made in the Bill to grants being made for the erection of out-houses such as piggeries and hen-houses, and a point arises in connection with that.  In many of these areas there are small tradesmen who have to work in their own kitchens.  I hope this clause will be wide enough to help these people to erect workshops outside their houses, so that they will not be compelled to do the work inside. 
     
      
       This Bill will go a long way towards settling the housing problem in the Gaeltacht, but, as Deputy Cooper and others have said, the Gaeltacht area is not properly described.  For instance, County Leitrim, which is one of the poorest counties in Ireland, is almost entirely left out and practically not considered at all in this Bill.  I should like to ask the Minister if he intends to include Leitrim in the Gaeltacht, or, if not, if he will see that it will get the same treatment as the Irish-speaking districts. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill.  It will do a great deal for the improvement of the sanitary conditions in the West, as the people will be provided with decent houses. It is some years since I made a tour through the West, and on that occasion I was struck by the fact that the people were living in houses in which it was impossible for any sanitary provision to be made for their convenience.  Typhus fever is practically extinct as far as the country as a whole is concerned, but occasionally it breaks out in the Western islands or in the Gaeltacht.  If the people were provided with better houses, and more air were allowed to get into the houses, the disease would practically disappear. 
     
     One of the reasons why one has been so anxious to see improvement in the housing conditions of the poor there is that when typhus fever did break out not only was it liable to carry off people living in the district   but there was no disease that carried off so many doctors and nurses as typhus fever at all times of epidemics throughout the West.  I am glad to say it is much diminished now, but it is to a certain extent endemic in the West of Ireland.  Nothing will get rid of it so quickly in my opinion, as improved conditions of housing so that more air and light will get into the houses of the people. 
     I need not go into any dissertation as to the cause of typhus fever, but no doubt cleanliness has a great deal to do with it, and not only cleanliness but also fresh air in the houses. During the visits I paid to the West from time to time it was no uncommon sight to see the pig coming from the cottage that the people were occupying.  I do not think that that prevails to such an extent at the present time as it did in those days gone by, but it is a pleasure to me to find the Minister is making provision in his Bill for the pig that the cottier wants to feed.  Some Deputy has mentioned that it would be a good thing to make some provision where it is necessary for some technical work to be done.  Supposing a man were engaged on technical work it would be a desirable thing if there was a structure in connection with his out-house where he could work outside.  I merely rose to say that I think this Bill will do a great deal for public health conditions in the Gaeltacht. 
     
      
       I hope the Minister, when replying, will be able to tell us what kind of things he could really put in force within the next six months in the way of matters which are not in the Bill, because otherwise his speech instead of being an encouragement will be a discouragement. It is a speech that could be used against the Minister if it is read in the light of the past promises with complete failure to put those promises into force. 
     
     We speak from knowledge that we have of our own district, each one of us.  From the slight knowledge that I have of Ring, one of the   Irish-speaking districts in the County Waterford, I would say that there are left very few young men or women in that district.  They are nearly all gone.  I am only repeating now something said frequently before; I suppose hardly a month of the year passes without this being repeated and repeated ad nauseam, that nothing is really done to supply these small industries which are to make this Bill of any use at all.  As the Minister has pointed out, and it was the significant thing in his speech, this Bill is going to be an almost futile waste of money unless he is able in a short time to bring in some measures which will build up these small industries. 
     
      
       I do not know whether the Deputy was here when the Minister was ruled out and not allowed to deal with these matters.  The Minister was ruled out of order and this matter cannot be dealt with again. 
     
     
      
       I do not propose to pursue the Minister into his retreat, so to speak, but if I might be allowed to finish what I was about to say, I was going to suggest that bee-keeping might turn out to be a very valuable asset, because the best honey is heather honey. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy deals with bee-keeping, other Deputies will want to deal with other things. 
     
     
      
       Having dealt with it so far I shall leave it with, I suppose, a stinging suggestion.  That is all I wish to say about the thing.  I hope, in reply, the Minister will be able to tell us what practical things he means to do at once in order to show that this Bill is something more than an ephemeral relief for people without bringing any permanent results. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill, but I find that there are two or three   districts in the County Cork not mentioned that ought to be included. There is one place, Rathcoursey, and the other, Ballycotton, which are very important districts.  I would like to see these included in the measure.  Other portions of the constituency that I represent will not be affected by the Bill.  I must say, however, that we welcome the Bill and will give any encouragement we can to other portions of the country, and we are satisfied to pay our share to provide decent housing for the people. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I suppose it would be almost impossible to say anything which has not already been said during the evening, but by way of emphasis I may be allowed to say that I think the main fault of the Bill is that it is too niggardly.  There is not sufficient money provided to build sufficient houses and to allow the matter to be dealt with in a proper fashion.  I think, as Deputy Kelly pointed out, the amount of money given would amount to something less than £400 for each electoral division.  That will only touch the fringe of the problem.  Of course, it is a good thing that we are touching the fringe; probably we will get into the heart of the problem later on.  I suggest there is not so much irrelevancy in speaking of providing industry when speaking about building houses, because the houses are no use to anybody while you have the young men and women of the country going out of it day after day.  There is nothing in the Bill either which enables local authorities to give any help in this matter.  That, to me, is somewhat of a flaw also.  Further, there is the matter of short tenure.  I think there are a good many people very badly in need of housing in the Gaeltacht seaboard who should get some attention in this Bill.  It is not altogether, as Deputy Wolfe said, a matter of the compulsory acquisition of land. There are sites purchased already by local authorities which could be utilised.  There are various means by which sites can be procured without compulsory acquisition powers.   If the Minister would discuss the matter with some other Department he would probably find some way out of the difficulty.  Clearly, there are a great many people who want consideration in that direction.  It is not altogether the small holder who needs consideration.  Fishermen and other small tenants require a good deal of consideration.  I am not so much in favour of the elasticity which is given in the Bill.  Some people admire elasticity.  I would not be against allowing the Minister elasticity in one direction, but there is another in which I would not like to see him use it.  There is, however, the provision that whatever he proposes to deal with will be tabled here, so that we can raise a discussion on it, whether we agree or disagree with it.  I suggest to Deputy Cooper that before he proceeds to discuss nomenclature he ought to learn the derivation of some of the words which he criticised, and before he suggests that Ballysmith or Ballysomething ought to be cut out he should see that the names of places not a thousand miles from this House should be deleted. 
     
     
      
       Ballycooper. 
     
     
      
       I would like to get from the Minister an explanation of sub-section (3) of Section 6.  What is the purpose of making part of the grant applicable to the demolition of a house where it is proposed to give a grant for a new house?  If a person is getting a grant to build a new house, would it not be sufficient inducement to demolish the old one? To give part of a grant towards the demolition of a house looks to me like too much coaxing for one thing, and looks unnecessary for another. I think that it is waste of money. The demolition of houses in the Gaeltacht, such as will be condemned, should not take very long.  If there is a man or two about the place it should be a very easy matter. Further, it will lead to scores and scores of disputes.  The only other matter to which I would like to call attention is in regard to Section 16, where the Minister has power to prescribe   regulations in regard to the design and construction of dwelling-houses. I suggest that the policy in connection with the building of these new houses should be to put them in groups, villages as far as possible. That would correspond to present-day conditions a great deal better than if we had more isolated houses. It would mean economy in the building of houses and, if real civilisation can ever be provided for the Gaeltacht, it can be done much easier if the houses are in groups.  Again, it will appeal more to the people and will be more likely to keep them content in the Gaeltacht than if you proceed to build isolated houses. 
     
     It always seemed to me that the building of labourers' cottages at great distances from each other was a big mistake, and that it would have been far more conducive to keeping labour on the land if those cottages had been built in groups and had been to some extent miniature villages.  In the same section the Minister is to prescribe the materials to be used in the construction of houses.  He referred to the possibility of buying in bulk economically. I suggest that it would be a good thing to get the materials for building as far as possible within the Gaeltacht.  This measure, simple and inadequate as it is, could act as a sort of fertilizer if all the materials required for building were obtained, as far as possible, from the Gaeltacht or districts contiguous to it.  In connection with Section 7, I think it would be almost as useful if the Minister went boldly out to impose fines for any abuses that may take place in regard to the new houses by bringing cattle or other animals into them.  I take it that the intention of Section 7 is to stop that practice and to prohibit, as far as possible, the use of dwelling-houses for anything but human purposes. It would have been more effective if the Minister proposed to impose penalties for the use of dwelling-houses in that way.  As it is, I think that the purpose of the Act could be evaded, and it would be very undesirable if new houses   were allowed to deteriorate through any evasion of the measure such as may take place as things are at present. 
     
      
       I think that it is generally agreed that legislation to provide decent houses for people in need of them should be supported, but I confess that I am more or less opposed to the Bill owing to its title, &ldquo;An Act to facilitate the erection and improvement of dwelling-houses in the Gaeltacht.&rdquo;  I want to know whether there is such a thing in this country as a Gaeltacht.  In the Schedule certain areas are set out.  There are seventy-nine in County Clare, ninety-seven in County Cork, sixty in County Donegal, 151 in County Galway, 87 in County Kerry, 105 in County Mayo, 53 in County Waterford, 3 in County Cavan, 6 in County Limerick, 2 in County Leitrim, 7 in County Roscommon, 12 or 13 in County Sligo, and last, but not least, one in County Louth.  Could the Minister conscientiously tell the House that people residing in these areas are proficient in Irish; and why should any person residing in the Free State who happens to speak Irish receive a grant of £80 as against £45 to a person who does not speak Irish, as under the previous Acts?  I do not want to be taken as being opposed to preserving the language.  I know that it is the official language of the State, and as such must be supported, but I think that the attitude and policy as set out in this Bill of making distinctions between people residing in various areas of the State are such that cannot be commended, and should not be introduced into this House.  There reside in the county which I represent large numbers of people along the Eastern coast who are in great need of suitable housing accommodation, but large areas are not included in the Schedule attached to the Bill. 
     
     There is a seaport known as Clogherhead which is inhabited by a large number of hardy fishermen who are at the moment in extreme want of housing accommodation.   Under this Bill these people are excluded.  As the question of the preservation of the language has been mentioned, I would point out that there is established in the immediate vicinity of Clogherhead an Irish College where students attend to gain proficiency in the use of the language.  Yet that area is not included in the Schedule of the Bill.  There is another fishing village, Blackrock, where there are also large numbers of poor fishermen whose means are not sufficient to enable them to take advantage of the grants given under previous Acts to erect houses.  They are very much in need of houses and as Deputy Hogan, of Clare, has stated, many plots of ground were purchased by boards and various councils since dissolved, with the express intention of building labourers' cottages but owing to the high cost of building the erection of these houses could not be proceeded with.  Again, the people of that area are excluded and the only district in Louth included in the Schedule is Drummullagh.  I would like to ask the Minister does that include the whole area known as Omeath because I know that most of the people of that area have a thorough knowledge of the Irish language. In fact they spoke the language when perhaps it was not so fashionable to speak it as it is to-day. I would like to hear from the Minister if he is prepared to include the whole area as far as Omeath and Carlingford are concerned, because as a result of the flooding that took place there some time in August, a very considerable amount of crops have been ruined.  Potatoes and oats have been swept away as a result of the torrential rains which occurred in August. 
     When we come to the question of the amount of the grant we find that £80 is given as a free grant and that a loan of equal amount is also given. The annual payment necessary to repay the interest and principal of the loan will be somewhere in the vicinity of £4 or £5.  I have not very much knowledge of the conditions prevailing in the West of Ireland;   perhaps I have not the same knowledge as the Deputies who represent that vast area, but I do know that there must be there at the moment very many holdings which would not yield an annual income of £4. There must be holdings in which the annual turnover would not be more than £2 or £3 and, as a matter of fact, the people have to migrate to Scotland and England during the harvest time to earn sufficient money to keep them for the winter.  I do not want to blame the Minister, because he is doing the best he can, but how he expects these people to pay £4 or £5 when, at the moment, in other parts of the country, judging by what has appeared in the Press from time to time, those who occupy labourers' cottages find it impossible to pay elevenpence per week, something less than £2 10s. Od. per annum, I do not know.  I think that is a problem the Minister will find it very difficult to solve.  In fact, unless these houses are erected free of charge to the occupiers and given to them as a sort of present, the Bill will, as far as that class of person is concerned, be absolutely useless. 
     There is another very important point to be remembered in connection with the building of houses.  It has been stated here that the £80 free grant, plus the £80 raised by a loan, or in all £160, will erect a fairly decent house.  Of course, exception was taken to that, but I do not think that very much exception could be taken to it because anybody who has experience of building knows that people who have means of self-help and the help of neighbours, will be in a position to erect these houses fairly cheaply.  I have no doubt that it will be possible to erect houses in the west of Ireland at £160.  In fact, I know of people who have erected them for less in other parts of the country.  The point I want to impress on the Minister is that there is nothing in the Bill which would ensure that houses are constructed in a proper manner. What provision is made in the Bill to ensure that before houses are   built, in the foundation of the houses, proper damp courses are put in and that the superstructure of the house is such that it will resist the storms and rains that prevail along the western seaboard?  Unless some precaution is taken in the erection of houses I am afraid that the disease of tuberculosis, which has been so prevalent in this country for the last quarter of a century, will increase. Everyone knows that damp houses are one of the ways and means of causing tuberculosis, and I appeal to the Minister, when he comes to make grants to the people of these areas, to see that the houses are erected in a way that will give satisfaction.  Unless precaution is taken it will only be a question of time until these damp houses, with damp ceilings and damp walls, will spread the terrible disease of tuberculosis. 
     I am more or less in agreement with the principle underlying the Bill, but I do not agree with the differentiation that is being made as between people who speak Irish and who do not.  I think when one considers the position in this country during the past ten or fifteen years, one has to admit that it is not the fault of the people that they cannot speak Irish.  Further, I might point out to the Minister that in his opening speech he referred to the fact that the Schedule was prepared on the census taken in 1926.  Since 1926, I am sure that in many areas not mentioned in the Schedule Irish is universally spoken and that there are vast numbers of people who have made themselves proficient in the language since that year.  I think it would be well if the Minister would consider that point and if possible extend the provisions of the Bill. That brings me back to my chief objection to the Bill.  There is absolutely no such thing as a Gaeltacht, because in all the speeches delivered by Deputies to-day the uppermost idea was to extend the areas as stated in the Schedule.  The Minister, I think, should withdraw the Bill altogether and introduce a Housing Bill to cater for people in all   areas in the Free State who are in need of housing and whose means at the moment are such that they are not, and can never be, in a position to build houses for themselves. 
     That, I think, would be a more honest course to adopt than to introduce a Bill here which is supposed to deal with an area which, in my opinion, does not exist.  It would be much more honest if the Minister would introduce a Bill or leave it to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health to introduce a Housing Bill that would deal with the Free State as a whole irrespective of the preservation of the language question altogether.  There are many other clauses in the Bill that perhaps can be dealt with in Committee, but I hope and trust that when the Minister comes to deal with them in Committee he will make them a little more specific and that his explanation will be a little more lucid.  Of course, I quite recognise the fact that some of the sections are almost impossible of explanation; for instance, Section 11, sub-section (4), which reads as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;So far as may be practicable having regard to the number and local distribution of the cases in which it appears to the Minister to be proper to make grants under this Act and to the foregoing provisions of this section, at least three-fifths of the moneys available for making grants under this Act shall be applied in making grants to occupiers of dwelling-houses situate in district electoral divisions in the Gaeltacht in which the product of the division of the aggregate at the passing of this Act of the valuation under the Valuation Acts of all hereditaments in the district electoral division valued under those Acts at twenty pounds or less by the population of the district electoral division according to the census of 1926 does not exceed the sum of twenty-one shillings.&rdquo; 
     I will ask any Deputy to parse that; at least I think it will surpass   the wit of many Deputies of this House to give a lucid explanation of that section.  I am sure the Minister will be able to give that explanation if and when the Committee Stage is arrived at.  That is practically all I have to say to the Bill except that I welcome on the whole any Bill that has for its objects the provision of decent houses for the people who are in need of them.  My chief objection is the differentiation in this Bill between people who have a knowledge of the language and people who have not. 
     
      
       I look on this Bill not so much as one introduced into this House by the Cumann na nGaedheal Government, to be examined by a Fianna Fail and a Labour Party, but as a Bill which is being introduced by the non-Gaeltacht body as a discharge, more or less complete, of their responsibility to the Gaeltacht body.  If I understand the principle of the Bill, it is a recognition that we have a definite, clear responsibility to the Gaeltacht, to its maintenance and to its development, that we do understand the value to this country and to its national future of having had preserved in it a residuum of an old culture and a place where the native language is still the natural language.  In this Bill we say that if the Gaeltacht, if that old national residuum is to be kept as a seed from which is to grow a new Ireland in keeping with the traditions which were interrupted nearly ten centuries ago, that something must be done in that district, which is other than cultural, which is other than spiritual; it is a recognition that we have to build up the physical body of the Gaeltacht. 
     
     A nation is a larger man.  A nation as a man has a body to be nourished, a heart to be made glad, a soul to be saved alive, but in so far as a nation is a human organism we have to recognise the almost overwhelming importance of the purely physical side of the tabernacle in which that spirit is to be kept.  Now, if I understand this Bill carefully it is an open declaration that we who are more prosperous, who belong to portions   of the country which are not as poverty-stricken as the Gaeltacht, do recognise that we have a direct financial responsibility to that Gaeltacht to build it up.  To the extent to which this Bill is that declaration, and to the extent to which it attempts to do something practical in that direction, it is a discharge by this House of a responsibility which belongs to it.  It is not a question of whether it completely discharges the responsibility; it does not.  The idea that that Gaeltacht is going to be maintained merely because we put a physical covering over the people in it is not, I think, the opinion of any member of the House, but in tackling the housing question in the Gaeltacht you tackle the economic problem at the point where impact is most essential and likely to be of most immediate effect.  It is said that the total contribution under this Bill is insufficient.  Of course it is.  It has been said that the area is possibly not the right area. Probably it is not, but you have an area and an amount, and unless the Government are in a position to increase the amount corresponding to the area, then they will reduce the efficiency of their blow against the evils in the Gaeltacht if they increase the area of the impact. 
     The best is always the enemy of the good, and it is no sound policy, in my opinion, to wait for the best and not to do what you can do at the moment, because it is not what is wanted to be done.  I am in favour of keeping the area as small and as definitely segregated in relation to the available amount of money as possible.  I want to see something actually done, and then I want the Ministry to come back and say: &ldquo;That has been done.  We have spent that money; we want more.&rdquo; For these purposes it is an absolute duty of this House to provide that money so long as it is effectively and efficiently spent, and so long as results can be shown.  The Gaeltacht&mdash; I am using the word literally&mdash;is the glory and the shame of the country; it is the glory in the sense that there has been kept there, in spite of the   turmoil and disturbances and all the political changes for the last fifteen hundred years, the residuum of people who, in tradition, in language, in outlook, in inspiration, in hope and in faith, are capable to-day of linking us up with the tradition which has been broken in the rest of Ireland.  That portion in which that can be said, of which that high spiritual and national testimony can be given, is at the same time the most poverty-stricken, the most unhappy, the most hard-driven portion of this country. 
     It is our shame if we do not find the means out of the surplus wealth of the rest of the country to re-build it materially into something better.  I do not mind what figures you show of the development of your cities, the development of your towns, of your imports, your exports, or your manufacture.  I do not care what amount of prosperity you show in this country if, in the end, you leave those people who have carried on that tradition hungry and hard-driven.  That is the test by which we will be known and tested in the world.  It is because this Bill does attempt in a small way but with direct intention of impact upon the right point to do something that this House can feel some gratification in the fact that the Bill has been introduced. 
     I have had from the Minister for Fisheries the figures on which his estimate of a £180 house is built.  I find that that includes no allowance whatever for owner's labour, no allowance whatever for quarrying or carting stones or any local material. All this is assumed, in this estimate of £180, to be provided free by the owner.  This is a method, as far as I can see, of providing in the Gaeltacht a manufactory of houses by the people who are going to occupy these houses.  Here you are not dealing with a little more and a little less.  You are not dealing with people among whom there are some whose prosperity is a little greater than somebody else's prosperity. You are dealing with people who are practically below the ordinary   level of subsistence, although many of them are infinitely higher than the most prosperous people in their intellectual and spiritual wealth.  I do think that to bring to these people as cheaply and as efficiently as possible the material on which they can work is probably the best way in which a limited amount of money can be expended.  If that money can be increased and if the Government, having used this money and the machinery in this Bill, will show that it is going into the manufacture of houses by the people for themselves in the West and that that money is exhausted they should have no hesitation whatever or no qualms at all in coming to the House to have that amount increased.  I know cases myself&mdash;Hare Island is one of them &mdash;islands down in West Cork, where quantities of material were brought down&mdash;wood, slate, and so on&mdash;and the people built good houses at a small amount of money.  I believe that in the Gaeltacht and all through the western seaboard districts no revolutionary change can be made.  I believe we will have to gather up all the small things and add them together. I certainly would not treat with any suggestion of contempt such a contribution as an increase of £15,000 a year under the head of kelp.  It is the little more which makes the difference there, and the little things that you and I in our ordinary life would throw away and not think of any importance that are the difference between human and inhuman conditions of life. 
     I only take this as an example. Take, for instance, the Arran Islands.  The island of which I am speaking at the moment is one in which I have recently been.  We had three or four fishing stations in the Arran Islands for many years and we know the people there very well. If you went through one of the Arran Islands and you were only familiar with the farms, say, of Limerick, or even of the less barren portions of West Cork, you would be amazed that any human being could win a livelihood from those rocks,   and yet they do.  They have made the land themselves.  They have carried up sand and seaweed; they built very little fields, sometimes in fifty foot squares, because that was all that could be done for the time being.  What I am asking you to do is to envisage this particular place. They are absolutely economic horrors. Yet the people can make a living in the Arran Islands.  If there could be added to the Arran Islands what the people in Connemara, for instance, possess&mdash;turf&mdash;people with their particular training, their experience and their extraordinary methods of industrious husbandry, could change the Arran Islands from being merely a place of existence into something which would be very much more.  It is in that spirit, in relation to the Gaeltacht, that I would not have any one treat with disrespect the little things in the West.  The fishermen have little curraghs which the ordinary person would regard as impossible, but they are the craft which do enable them to get that little amount of fish which, added to that little amount of farming and that little amount of something else, has enabled that residuum to remain. 
     It is a question of what we can add to that, and, to the extent that we are adding to it in this Bill, it is to the good.  My own personal feeling is that the solution of the problem in the West will be an artificial solution; that there will have to be directly and ad hoc imported into that district industries which are not indigenous to it.  We may have to say that in protecting the industries of the country we will deliberately select some industry and protect it in the Gaeltacht districts as against even the rest of the country.  Something artificial of that kind will have to be done. But in the meantime, and until we are prepared to take larger steps of that kind, every small effort which is directed to remedy a specific evil, and specifically even in small ways to build up, is to that extent discharging the duty of this House to the Gaeltacht, and in proportion   as we find that that work is being effectively done, in proportion as we find that results are being obtained by activities of that kind, in that proportion also will we be the more bound to give more and more out of our comforts, and our luxuries, and even possibly out of our lesser necessities to the help of those to whom we owe a greater debt than any people ever owed to any portion of their own countrymen. 
     
      
       I would not have sufficient time to conclude now and I move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate adjourned until Thursday, 28th November. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies' Business. - Proposed Wheat Control Board. 
     Debate resumed on the following motion:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;That it is the opinion of the Dail that proposals for legislation should be introduced by the Executive Council to provide:&mdash; 
     (a)  for the establishment of a Wheat Control Board, which shall be a Limited Liability Company, charged with the purchase of imported wheat for resale to millers and the fixing of a minimum price to be paid by Saorstat millers for home-grown wheat sold to them for milling purposes; 
     (b)  for the prohibition of the importation of wheat by any person other than the Wheat Control Board, and such persons as may be authorised by the Board; 
     (c)  for the payment by the Board to Saorstat millers of such sums as may be necessary to make good the difference between the price paid by the millers for home-grown wheat and its market value compared with Pacific wheat, taking into account its higher moisture content; 
     
        (d)  that the Minister for Finance be authorised to subscribe to the capital of the Company, and to make good any losses incurred by the Company in the administration of the scheme out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas; 
     (e)  that the importation of flour be permitted only under licence issued by the Wheat Control Board, and subject to an import duty; provided that there shall be no restrictions on flour imported for biscuit manufacture.&rdquo;&mdash;(Deputy Ryan.) 
     
      
       On the adjournment of this debate on the last occasion I stated that wheat can be successfully and profitably grown in this country.  It is a mistaken idea and a nonsensical argument for any Deputy in this House to assert that the growing of wheat impoverishes the land and fills the ground with weeds more than any other crop. Now, the fact is that wheat is the easiest of all grain crops to grow. Any weed or dirt that springs up during the growing of the wheat crop can, in the following spring, be easily got rid of.  When the land is cultivated for the growing of root crops, mangels, turnips and potatoes all the weeds that may spring up in the growing of the wheat can very easily be got rid of by the simple process of running a chain harrow over it.  Wheat is the easiest of crops to harvest, for the straw of wheat stands up better than any other grain crop and it is easier to get it harvested than any other grain crop.  The straw of wheat is most valuable for bedding purposes for cattle and horses.  It is also used for the manufacture of mattresses and for harness-making. Wheaten straw is very much sought after by the owners of racing stables, for it keeps the horses clean and warm in the winter and in the summer it keeps their feet cooler.  All race-horse owners and the owners of training stables find their principal trouble is to keep the horse right and in good condition, and so far as   bedding is concerned, there is no bedding so suitable as the straw of wheat.  In oats grown after wheat you have better results than after any other crop. 
       One of the most valuable foods for the rearing of young calves is the wholemeal made from wheat.  It does not matter what agricultural instructors may say or what professors of agricultural colleges may say, these instructors and professors have yet to find a substitute for butter fat.  To my mind, wheat, when crushed and boiled, is the best substitute for the butter fat taken out of the milk at the creameries. The principle reason why the cattle of this country are not improving is because the young calves are not properly fed until after twelve months old.  A certain number of calves die during the winter months from such diseases as hoose and pneumonia, which are very prevalent amongst calves.  This is because they do not get enough substantial and nourishing food from their infancy.  Wheat for poultry is the most productive food, especially for laying hens.  In the winter months, when the eggs are scarce and dear, laying hens fed with whole wheat will produce eggs in abundance, and I can assure the Deputies here that they will lay very few gluggers.  The farmers of this country seventy or eighty years ago largely or solely depended on their wheat products to pay their rack rents.  Wheat was then grown on lea land ploughed into ridges of sixteen sods.  The land so ploughed was treated with a hand harrow, furrows were dug with spades and the wheat was sown with the hand and covered over with a shovel.  It was reaped with a sickle and thrashed with a flail. That wheat was sold at 50/- per barrel. 
     
     You must understand that in those days, seventy or eighty years ago, men did the work which is done by horses and farm machinery at the present time.  These were a healthy and noble race of people   and they depended entirely for their daily needs on wheat made into bread.  These people also used their own butter, eggs and milk.  Meat was not allowed to them in those days, for if it were known that the farmers ate meat their rent would be raised.  The landlords before the gale day would send round their rent warners.  These jokers would drop into the farmers' houses at meal-hours to see if there was any meat on the table.  Woe to the farmer who had a couple of flitches of home-cured bacon hanging up in the kitchen.  He would be immediately reported to the landlord, who would increase his rent after the next gale day or throw him and his family on the roadside.  But even with this food and without any meat you had a strong, healthy people.  They used wholesome food.  Meat was not then used by the farmers.  However, the Land League days changed all that. As one who was a member of the old Land League and served several terms of imprisonment under Balfour's Coercion Act, I am glad to say that all that is now ended.  I do not wish to boast about the fact that I was imprisoned under the Coercion Acts, but I am proud to say that the rack-renting persecutors of our race are as rare to-day as are the Red Indians on the shores of Manhattan.  They are very few, at all events.  Deputy Thomas Hennessy, in his opposition to this motion of Deputy Ryan, based his argument on this statement: &ldquo;I know that the saving of one acre of old meadow hay gives far more employment than the sowing and reaping of an acre of wheat.&rdquo; 
     Every farmer Deputy in this House knows that the secret of wheat-growing is not altogether the saving of the crop.  It certainly requires skilful labour properly to stock wheat and afterwards stack it.  The longer it is left without being threshed the better the grain becomes. Any individual can go into a farmer's place and save an acre of hay.  But continual cropping hay impoverishes the land more than any   other crop which is taken off it. Any farmer is aware that hay makes farmers as poor as the proverbial church mouse.  Deputy Hennessy also stated that there was more nourishment in three inches of grass than in a yard of wheat.  I maintain that wheat is far more valuable for a dairy cow than any other cereal you will grow.  I am sorry that Deputy Hennessy is not in the House, because I do not wish to criticise any Deputy in his absence.  He seems to forget, however, that a cow has to be fed for five months in the winter.  With Deputy Hennessy it is a case of live cow until you get three inches of nutritious grass grown in the months of April and May. 
     If we were to establish a winter dairying industry in this country wheat would be a valuable asset. Wheat imparts great milk-giving properties to the cow.  You would have also richer butter fat by cultivating a more extensive area of wheat.  You have an army in this country, a useless, worthless and expensive army.  It is costing two millions of the ratepayers' money to keep it.  We have unemployed in the cities and towns, and their maintenance is costing thousands of pounds.  My advice to the Executive Council is to put the useless, worthless army back to the land, and turn all their war paraphernalia into plough-shares.  Let us march the unemployed out of the cities and towns. 
     
      
       You would have to get the army to do that. 
     
     
      
       We could march the useless and costly Army out of barracks, not in military formation or anything of that sort, but in good agricultural formation.  More extensive wheat-growing will give much-needed employment, and we will be in a position to produce the necessaries of life which this land of ours is quite capable of producing.  The money now being uselessly spent can be successfully utilised by subsidising the growing of wheat, barley, flax, tobacco, sugar beet, and the   other necessaries of life which can easily be produced in this country. 
       The Minister for Agriculture would be well advised to withdraw his opposition to this motion.  I assure him by doing so that he will get every assistance from the Fianna Fail Party and from the backbenchers of Fianna Fail in particular. We will be then prepared to assist him to round the agricultural corner which he has been so blindly groping for during the past seven or eight years.  He can then blossom forth like the rose of Jericho and be proclaimed the greatest Minister for Agriculture that the world has ever seen.  I do not wish to hurl bouquets at the Minister for Agriculture, but with all due respect to him I must give him credit for being one of the greatest political acrobatic jokers of modern time.  He knows as well as I do, and as well as every other Deputy in the House knows, that wheat can be successfully and profitably grown in this country for a dual purpose, as a cash crop and as a crop which can readily be converted into food both for man and beast. That is the food that is capable of producing bone and substance. 
     
     
      
       Quite true. 
     
     
      
       I appeal to Deputies on the Labour Benches and the Independent Benches to support this motion.  As I am scattering this precious wheat seed of Deputy Ryan's to-night, I hope that when it reaches the benches of Cumann na nGaedheal it will not fall on barren soil and that eventually they will support this motion.  As far as I can see, the Deputies of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party are politically blind and deaf to everything that is in the interests of the community. What does it matter to what political party a Deputy belongs when he brings in a Bill or a motion such as Deputy Ryan's for the welfare of the people of the country?  Our duty is to support such a measure.  Are we not sent here by the people to safeguard their interests and promote their welfare and prosperity?   Deputies on the Opposition Benches forget that. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       They forget that they are the servants of the people.  They indulge in jeers and taunts which have been flung across the House with lightning-like rapidity from the razor-edged tongues of the front benchers of Cumann na nGaedheal. This important motion proposed by Deputy Ryan is the first stepping stone to the solution of the unemployment problem.  It will be the first stepping stone to putting a stay on emigration and so saving thousands of healthy young men and women who are leaving our shores as if it were a veritable plague-stricken country.  It will be the first stepping stone to the rearing of a healthy people.  Above all, it will be the first stepping stone towards relieving the farmers from the deplorable plight in which they find themselves now.  It will be the means of extricating them from the shifting quagmire of economic ruin and placing them on the solid road along which they will march industriously to regain their former state of prosperity. 
     
     Not within the memory of the oldest inhabitants were the farmers in such a deplorable plight as at the present moment.  To substantiate my statement I will read for the House a copy of a resolution sent from the Midleton Urban District Council, County Cork, on the 6th October, 1929:&mdash;&ldquo;Proposed by Mr. E. Carey, T.D., seconded by Mr. Connors, and resolved: That owing to the general depression in agricultural produce during the past four years, together with the bad prices prevailing, a great many farmers find it impossible to clear their annuities up to date in the constituency of East Cork.  We, the members of the Midleton Urban District Council, hereby request the Minister for Agriculture to devise some means whereby outstanding arrears can be collected, without undue hardship on the farming community; for instance, spreading them   over a number of years at the old rate of 31⁄2 per cent. until the debt is cleared.&rdquo; 
     I am not a pessimist by any means.  Bad and all as the farmers are at present, I hope they will change their system of farming. When the sun will shine on this fair land of ours in all its brilliance in the near future, and on an industrious and prosperous people, I hope to see the farmers change their system of farming and grow more wheat, which will be a means of giving more employment and a bountiful supply of food for the country. 
     How would it be if there was another world war?  What position would we find ourselves in?  The Minister for Agriculture would be the first to scratch his head and say, &ldquo;I was not a wise man when I opposed the wheat motion of Deputy Ryan.  Now I will have to bring in a compulsory tillage Bill to compel the farmers to grow wheat.&rdquo; There is every sign of another world war.  It does not matter what the angels of peace preach at the League of Nations, nor does the Kellogg Pact matter.  These people are only preaching peace to bluff the world. They tell us that the world is at peace and that we shall have no more war.  The world was never at peace and never will be.  War will go on until the end of the world.  Now is the time to prepare for war.  I hope this angel of peace will not pull the wool over the eyes of the President and the Executive Council.  The opportunity is offered by this motion to prepare for war by growing plenty of wheat.  It will mean abundance of food, and that is the mightiest weapon of warfare. 
     Deputy Ryan has proved his case up to the hilt and has left no shadow of doubt that wheat can be profitably and successfully grown here as food for man and beast.  I hope that as a result of the interest which Deputy Ryan is taking in the farming community he will be crowned with the golden grain and be acclaimed the wheat king of Ireland. I hope the flour which is used to manufacture Jacob's biscuits will   be manufactured from home-grown wheat and that the special brand used for the manufacture of these biscuits will be known as Deputy Ryan's snow-flake flour.  I hope that the motion will be left to a free vote of the House, but I doubt very much if it will. 
     
      
       Notwithstanding all the speeches that have been made by Deputies opposite, I am afraid I am an unrepentant opponent of any attempt, by a subsidy or tariff, to revive wheat-growing.  I am particularly opposed to the present resolution or set of resolutions, because they combine the two things.  Indeed, I think it would have been wiser if Deputy Ryan had left out paragraph (e), as we discussed that matter before and took a division on it.  I do not propose to go into the question of the growing of wheat or to enlighten the House, as some Deputies did, as to how it should be grown, or as to the uses to which it might be put&mdash;whether it should be fed to calves or other animals.  Every farmer knows to what uses it can be put and he knows that he can use wheat for these purposes if he wishes.  He can grow wheat for these purposes if he wishes, without any subsidy or resotion, such as the one before the House. 
     
     I may say, in passing, that I like wheat.  It is a very nice cereal, and I would be very glad to grow wheat in the quantities I did grow wheat at another time in another country. But I mean to confine myself to the question: Will the subsidy that Deputy Ryan inferentially suggested, of 30/- per barrel, have the effect of reviving wheat-growing to any extent in this country, and if so, is it desirable even?  Will 30/- per barrel have the effect of achieving any great increase in the acreage of land under wheat?  I doubt if it will.  If it would, farmers within the last four or five years would have been growing wheat, because there have been various occasions when wheat has practically touched 30/- a barrel&mdash;at least if it did not, it went very near it; and the prospect   of 30/- per barrel was not a very far distant prospect.  I doubt if even double the subsidy suggested by Deputy Ryan would have the effect of increasing to any extent the growing of wheat.  Some Deputies argue that because wheat was grown to a very great extent in this country ninety or a hundred years ago it should be grown to-day.  The comparison is irrelevant&mdash;I might say it is almost odious.  It was even suggested that, not alone should we grow wheat to a greater extent than we do grow it, but that we should grow it to the extent it was grown here a hundred years ago.  By inference, Deputies have suggested that we should increase the population to what it was eighty or a hundred years ago by wheat-growing. Even then the comparison would be irrelevant.  One hundred years ago we were largely a wheat exporting country.  We exported very considerable quantities of wheat.  I might say that we also exported considerably larger quantities of other cereals than wheat.  I ask Deputies where is our export trade to-day?  Where is the possibility of our exporting one grain either of wheat or any other cereal? One hundred years ago we were not faced with the opposition of the great wheat-growing countries, east and west, producing cheaper and better wheat than we can produce. The repeal of the corn laws doomed wheat-growing in this country, and, if it were not doomed then, it would have been doomed fifteen, or twenty, or twenty-five years afterwards by the advent of these countries I have mentioned. 
     We had a population of seven or eight millions one hundred years ago.  Does any Deputy seriously suggest that we maintained seven or eight millions of people in this country then?  We did not maintain them.  It is true that they existed, but they existed under conditions that would be revolting to the mind of any Deputy at present. They grew wheat in large quantities and sold it at forty shillings or more per barrel.  They did not consume large quantities of it.  They   sold the wheat to provide themselves with other necessities and to pay their rents, and they lived mainly on potatoes in a state of semi-starvation. I do not say that we should not have a larger population.  We should have a larger population.  There are, however, other ways of arriving at a larger population than by wheat growing.  Wheat growing one hundred years ago became so profitable that the farmers could not grow it in sufficient quantities.  The land was split up into small divisions. Labourers got two or three acres, and absolutely burned the land in order to extort a bushel or more of wheat from it.  Did that make their circumstances better or would they be more profitably employed in other directions than producing wheat? All the wheat we produced at that time was exported, and I saw a reference that in one or two years at that time we exported more than two or three million bushels of grain, and yet the farmers were not able to eke out enough money to provide themselves here with the necessaries of life.  Are we to be told that what we could not do then with no external opposition in growing a better and a cheaper wheat we could do now under infinitely more adverse conditions? 
     I admit that we could induce farmers to grow wheat again if the inducement is big enough.  We could persuade them to grow anything if the inducement was big enough.  We could induce any set of people in this country to grow anything or to do anything if the inducement was big enough, but does any Deputy suggest here that the inducement that should be offered or would be offered if it was to achieve anything in the line of wheat-growing in this country would be a reasonable inducement? Even if the state of affairs desired by Deputy Ryan and other Deputies was brought about, and even if the number of people growing wheat satisfied the desires of Deputies on the benches opposite, and even if the people were persuaded to use only Irish wheat and its products wholly or in part, and   we will assume for argument's sake that they were induced to use it wholly, what would happen?  There would be six hundred thousand acres of wheat, or whatever the figure is, largely substituted for other crops.  When that was grown what would become of the surplus? If Deputy Ryan's idea and other Deputies' ideas were actually carried to their logical conclusion there would be a very big surplus.  If the inducement was big enough the farmers would fall over one another in their eagerness to grow wheat.  Then when our demands were met what would be done with the surplus?  Deputies opposite cannot get over that bitter word, that bitter pill, &ldquo;exportation.&rdquo; There would have to be exportation.  When Deputy de Valera was asked why he selected wheat he said: &ldquo;We selected wheat because there will be a big market.&rdquo; But if there was this great production there would be a surplus that would be unsaleable, because that portion would not be governed by the subsidy.  After the demands of the people, whatever proportion that would amount to, we would absolutely find ourselves in the position that, having provided for a certain proportion, there would be a big surplus to be disposed of.  The subsidy would not apply to it, and it would be unsaleable for human consumption, and it could only be used for the purpose Deputy Kent suggested, of feeding pigs and calves and other animals, but the farmers can use it for the feeding of their pigs and calves at the present moment.  The subsidy would not apply, but it would be sold as a cereal to feed cattle and other animals. The farmers do not grow it because they believe that other cereals pay them far better for feeding stock than wheat.  If the farmer believed that wheat was the better crop than oats or barley he would grow wheat.  Like every other member of the community, he would grow what is profitable to him.  The subsidy, if it was big enough, would certainly have the effect of providing enough wheat to make the bread   of this country.  But you would have to pass a law prohibiting the farmers from growing one acre more of wheat than was necessary for bread because if my neighbour is making big money selling wheat at a subsidy to make bread I naturally would follow suit. 
     You cannot get out of your mind the question of surplus and of the necessity for exportation for that surplus. 
     As I said a moment ago, the farmer selects other things than wheat because they are more profitable to him; for instance, such things as cattle and milk, and butter and eggs, and even the despised potato would pay him better than the growing of wheat.  I believe the more we confine ourselves to doing these things which we can do economically the better it will be for the farmers and for the country as a whole, and the better the effect will be for tillage. The more these things are developed &mdash;the rearing of cattle and calves, and the raising of butter and eggs and such things&mdash;the more tillage there will be, and more than could be found by any resolution asking the farmers to grow wheat under subsidy.  The extension of tillage will be achieved, I believe, on these lines.  No subsidy that I could dream of would have the effect of adding very many acres to those under tillage already in this country.  If the subsidy was big enough&mdash;bigger than the country could afford&mdash;there would still be a surplus, and I have not heard any Deputy on the other side say how, if that state of affairs was brought about, we are going to dispose of that surplus.  I am against subsidies; I do not believe in subsidies. But if we had money to spare in this country, and if we had money to throw away&mdash;if we could spare one hundred thousand or two hundred thousand, or one million of money, that money would be much better applied developing transport for the farmers of the country than in developing the acreage under wheat in this country.  I am as opposed now as ever I was to any subsidies on wheat growing, and I do not believe any subsidy that could be   reasonably given would have any effect upon the acreage in this country under wheat, and if it had any effect it would be minimised by the over production. 
     
      
       I think it is rather a pity that we should break the charm of a few moments ago, when Deputy Kent gave us to understand that we were on the eve of the millennium and that wheat growing was to make the country blossom like the rose. 
       This debate has lasted for a considerable time, and I think that the deplorable thing about it is that we have wandered so far from wheat-growing during a great deal of the time occupied by this motion.  I do not wish to digress from the question of wheat-growing further than to take notice of a few remarks made in respect of it.  There are many questions that occupy the time of the House of which I have very little knowledge and in which I can consequently take very little interest.  I hope that on those occasions I am sufficiently wise to be silent, but I can claim that on this question I have some little knowledge.  I have been a tillage farmer all my life.  I have been a wheat-grower to a limited extent, and I know a good deal about the conditions under which wheat must be grown in this country.  Deputy Aiken in prefacing his remarks rather attacked the Minister for Agriculture for what he had said about this particular subject and described him as being asleep, a tired man.  I have been in this House for some time and if there is any man here who could be called less asleep than the Minister for Agriculture I have yet to meet him. He has at times shown considerable liveliness, and I think he can be lively still. 
     
     
      
       Not on wheat. 
     
     
      
       Yes, on wheat too. Mention was made of alternative things or of things which the Minister for Agriculture had tried or had brought into being, such as the inspection of bulls for breeding purposes,   the Eggs Act, and other measures.  I think it is very bad reasoning to condemn these things and to put in their place the alternative of growing an increased acreage of wheat.  Deputy Aiken has had the advantage which a great many of us have not had.  I have seen by the newspapers that he was abroad in the great wheat-growing districts and he should surely realise that to put our island home with its moist climate up against those broad acres with their sunshine and ideal conditions is surely showing oneself to be blind to facts. 
     
     
      
       It is not all sunshine over there. 
     
     
      
       No, but there is sunshine at the time for growing and reaping and at the time for maturing the wheat. 
     
     
      
       European countries must be mad. 
     
     
      
       Deputy de Valera in speaking in much the same strain talked about the failure of Irish eggs on the English market.  I thought when he made that statement that it was a very lame argument, for if there is any Deputy in this House, since I came into it, who has gone to great lengths to assert that this is a foreign country, foreign to the British market, it has been Deputy de Valera.  If we are taken at our own estimate we cannot surely complain, and we know that therein lies the key of the whole situation.  Coming to the question of the growing of wheat, my experience of it as a crop&mdash;I live in a district where we have as good wheat land as can be found in most parts of Ireland&mdash;is that the only place to grow it successfully is after potatoes or, possibly, roots.  It must be grown on manured land.  That limits the area under wheat.  We can grow oats or some other cereals to a greater extent than that.  To grow wheat successfully it needs to be put in in October or November, and there are a great many farmers this year who could not get it in because of climatic conditions.   When it is in for ten months of the year it is, no doubt, a very exhausting crop, and anyone who has grown it can see that a field in which it has been grown has been robbed of its fertility and is mostly under weeds. Such a field must be broken up to restore it to its original fertility. 
     
     The first point to which I would refer in dealing with Deputy Ryan's motion is our ability to carry out its terms.  As I tried to show from my own experience, we are not able to compete in the world's market for that particular crop.  The suggestion has been made that it could be done by way of subsidy or by controlling the import of wheat.  There is no stability whatever nor can any prosperity be brought to any country simply by debarring stuff like that from coming in.  Artificial prices are not stable.  If foreign wheat is to be kept out of the country in order that we may grow wheat here to sell it to our neighbours at a higher price, then I submit that that is not going to benefit the country as a whole.  Another factor to be considered is whether it is, after all, the best crop on which to concentrate.  Even if we grow it, can we have an assured market for it?  Anyone starting in business, whether commercial or agricultural, naturally wants to know where he will have his market.  For many things exported from this country there is an unlimited market. There is an unlimited market for our farm produce.  For beef, pork, butter, eggs and other things which we can grow, there is an unlimited market, but if we read the newspapers a week or two ago we would find that around the shores of the British Isles there has been a real glut of wheat, within a few hours' journey from this country.  If there is a glut of wheat there, how can we hope to get into the market, even if we could export wheat, when it costs double the price to grow it? It has been pointed out by other Deputies that even at the price contemplated, namely, 30/- a barrel, or 1/6 per stone, it would not pay to increase tillage in other directions in order to accommodate wheat.  If   we increase the area under potatoes in order to get a larger area for wheat, what would be the result? Fields upon fields of potatoes are, we are thankful to Providence, full, but there is no export trade, with the result that the farmer cannot profit from that crop.  We cannot go on producing it if there is not a reasonable hope of a market for it. We are trying to get too many scapegoats and to blame them for these things.  A number of Deputies blamed other influences for the decreased area under wheat. 
     We all came to a time, the time of the world war, when there was no trouble in getting people to increase tillage.  There was an unlimited market for anything produced.  It is different now, but if the farmers of the country can be shown that there is a market for particular produce there will not be a bit of trouble in getting them to grow it. We grew a great deal of produce before, when it was wanted, and if there is a demand for anything and a place for it, we will grow it. 
     Some Deputies, in speaking to this question, spoke of it in the light of another war.  Surely at this stage we ought to get away from the atmosphere of war.  Surely this country has seen enough of the world war and of civil war, and surely every Deputy in the House and every citizen of the State ought to address themselves, not to the subject of war, but to the very reverse. 
     
      
       We may not be consulted. 
     
     
      
       The best way to safeguard that is to go on and pursue the path of peace. 
     
     
      
       A platitude. 
     
     
      
       It may be a platitude, but I think that we all, perhaps Deputies on the other side too, are tired of war.  We will never reach anything by that attitude of mind, and I think that at this stage of the world's history we should set ourselves to outlaw war.  I have tried to point out that we can grow wheat to a limited extent.  I grew it personally,   and it is a very useful crop to use as wholemeal.  That is what Irish wheat is best suited for, in my opinion.  We cannot grow it economically to make into flour; it is a different class of flour.  It may be argued by some that our own wheat may be a stronger wheat and may make stronger flour, but we have got to take into consideration, not alone what it costs to grow, but also the moisture content and the cost of extracting that moisture.  The whole thing will be bound to raise the price of food in this country, and surely we do not want to add to the difficulties of living or the cost of living. This attempt to solve all the troubles of the country in itself will relieve nothing, I am afraid. 
     
     It is said that the growing of wheat will relieve unemployment. What is the experience of the farming community in the past season in regard to employment?  Though there was a great cry about the number of people unemployed in the country, I know several farmers who had the greatest difficulty in getting anybody to work on the land. People have got an idea of flocking to the towns.  It is like bringing them to some place of confinement, though it should not be, to ask them to do agricultural work.  There is a great amount of work which can be done on the land, but I do not think that the growing of wheat would be very much of a factor in the relief of unemployment.  Farming in this country, in a great many places, is being carried on at the moment under very difficult conditions. The tillage farmer is being hit unless he is able to feed his stuff and to turn it out in that way. There is no use in treating the farming community as if farmers were in a state of infancy.  The farmers with whom I have come in contact are quite anxious and quite keen to try to earn a decent living.  They work harder than any other people in the State as far as manual work is concerned, and work longer hours.  You have only got to show them where they have a market and I promise that they will rise to the occasion and produce any stuff that they can   produce economically for that market. 
     
      
       Although a member of the Committee at which these proposals were first formulated, it is with considerable hesitancy that I rise to take part in this debate, because I am not, never have been, and probably never will be, a farmer, and I am certain to be reminded of that fact by a number of Deputies on the other side. 
     
     
      
       That is your luck. 
     
     
      
       In fact, quite recently the Minister for Agriculture told an astonished audience in Longford that I never saw a field of oats except from a motor car. 
     
     
      
       Was I right? 
     
     
      
       I am quite prepared to say that that statement, although not absolutely correct, was much nearer the truth than any other statement made by the Minister at that meeting.  However, I promise Deputies that I will not attempt to offer any opinion upon the purely farming difficulties that may arise in the growing of wheat.  I am going to confine myself exclusively to the economic and financial aspects of the problem with which we are concerned. The minority report of the Economic Committee starts off with the assertion that it is the primary function of agriculture to produce human food.  I think that any Deputy who is prepared to admit that statement will, if he is logical in the conclusions he draws from it ultimately arrive at the position that it is necessary to take steps to encourage production of wheat in this country.  The contrary statement has been made, I think, by the Minister for Agriculture, certainly by one of the members who sat on the Economic Committee, in an article in the Press&mdash;that it was the primary function of agriculture to produce nothing in particular but profit for the farmers.  It is between these two ideas, as to what is the function of agriculture, that the division of opinion lies. 
     
     
        We had a very long experience of the fruits of the policy of allowing the farmers to do what they liked with the land regardless of its effects upon the community provided they themselves were satisfied with the livelihood the land gave them.  That is the policy which is in operation at present and has been for quite a large number of years, and since it came into operation we have seen our population go down by over fifty per cent. and the general level of prosperity in the country considerably reduced.  The exportation of men and women has become our most profitable industry and there were a number of other serious economic consequences.  Quite recently I was in the Minister for Agriculture's constituency and had an excellent opportunity of watching in operation the effects of this policy of allowing the farmers to do what they liked with the land provided they were satisfied with the result themselves. I travelled from Galway to Oughterard and Clifden.  In the hotel in Galway I saw a number of young men and women carrying in their hands bags which were labelled North German Lloyd.  When I walked out I saw on the streets a number of people with trunks labelled North German Lloyd.  In Clifden I saw standing in the hotels and standing in the streets waiting for buses a number of fine young men carrying handbags all labelled North German Lloyd.  People seemed to be flying out of the country as if there were a plague in it. They were going away to get a livelihood or perhaps to see their friends in America.  It seemed to me, however, that the economic conditions were the main causes of their going.  I may be wrong.  I am not going to base any argument upon that conclusion. 
     The fact is, however, that the results of this policy which the Minister for Agriculture advocates and which has been in operation for a period of half a century has been altogether disastrous for us.  If we are going to continue our policy in the light of the assertion that the main function of agriculture is not   to produce anything in particular but to provide for the farmers then inevitably the consequences which we have seen flow from that policy in the past will also continue to flow from it in the future.  We, on the other hand, assert that the function of agriculture is to produce human food, that the community in its own interests should take steps to see that the land which it gives to the farmers to be used is used in the manner best suited to the production of the food which the community requires. 
     We have advocated and urged here in this House the adoption of a scheme for the promotion and encouragement of wheat-growing. Various arguments have been advanced against that scheme.  We have had the commonest argument used twice by Deputy Bennett and Deputy Haslett; they asked us to visualise wheat-growing countries to the east and west of us, and ask ourselves can we possibly go in for competition with those countries.  Why did these Deputies, the Minister for Agriculture and the other members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party confine their argument to the matter of wheat and wheat only?  There are countries in Europe, the Baltic countries, which have recently gone in on a more extended scale than heretofore for the production of dairy produce, who can produce butter which can be marketed at a price which enables it to compete with margarine.  Can we in this country produce butter at that price?  Let us look at the great butter-producing countries and ask ourselves can we produce butter in this country in competition with these. 
     
      
       How can we export six million pounds' worth and sell it at an international price if we do not? 
     
     
      
       I am quite prepared to let the Minister have the point he gets by asking that question.  If we are going to use that argument, if we must not produce wheat because other countries produce wheat cheaper, I say we should not only   apply it to wheat, but to every other commodity we produce.  You have a tariff on boots.  Do you think you can produce boots cheaper than they do in Nottingham?  You have a tariff on furniture.  Do you think you can produce it here as good as they do in Czecho-Slovakia? 
     
     
      
       Or as good. 
     
     
      
       Or as good.  Is there any single commodity being produced here which can be produced better and cheaper than in any other country in the world? 
     
     
      
       There is only one, that is beef. 
     
     
      
       We are told we can produce beef cheaper and better than it can be produced&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       When I say produced I mean produced and marketed. 
     
     
      
       That is another matter.  But the question is whether we can produce beef cheaper than it can be produced in the Argentine. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Obviously we cannot. The question for this Dail, if it is facing up to its responsibilities as a legislative assembly, is not whether we can produce wheat cheaper than in Canada, but whether it is in the national interests that it should be produced here.  I assert it is.  I assert the necessity of having a balanced agricultural economy, the necessity of being self-supporting, of reducing our adverse trade balance, of getting employment for our people and stopping the trend of emigration.  All these interests combined make it essential for us to formulate some scheme that will ensure production here of at least a large portion of the wheat which we consume.  We are told that the scheme which we formulated will prove utterly useless.  Deputy Bennett asks would thirty shillings a barrel induce the farmers to increase the acreage under wheat, and he answers that question in the negative. Other Deputies have done the   same.  The question, however, which he should have asked is an entirely different one.  It is not whether thirty shillings a barrel will induce farmers to grow wheat, but whether a guaranteed market for three years at thirty shillings a barrel will induce them to grow wheat.  We think it will.  It does not matter a jot that the fact that wheat was at thirty shillings a barrel four or five years ago did not produce increased acreage in the following year.  If there was somebody who could go to the farmers in November or December and say: &ldquo;I can guarantee you thirty shillings&rdquo; there probably would have been an increase in the acreage under wheat.  The essential thing in the scheme for getting increased acreage is a guarantee of the price and of the market for grain.  Of course Deputy Bennett wants to have it both ways. Not merely does he tell us that this scheme is not going to produce an increased acreage under wheat but his main argument is that it will produce a surplus which we will not be able to sell. 
     
     
      
       If it succeeded. 
     
     
      
       If it succeeded.  It is going to succeed so well that there will be a surplus which we cannot possibly dispose of.  We will have 800,000 acres under wheat to supply our own requirements and the balance we will have to throw away in order to get rid of it, according to Deputy Bennett.  We can deal with the problem of the surplus when it arises.  We have a very long way to go before we are able to supply one-tenth of our own requirements.  We can leave it to the next generation to deal with the problem of the surplus when it arises.  The point that I want to put to the Dail is this: If the scheme outlined in Doctor Ryan's proposal does not produce the results we think it will produce then it will cost nothing.  The proposal is that this guaranteed price will be paid for milling wheat delivered to the millers.  If no wheat is grown then obviously no subsidy   will be paid.  If the wheat is grown and fed to live-stock no subsidy will be paid.  It is only when the wheat grown is delivered to the miller that a subsidy will be paid.  Unless such wheat is grown in excess of what is grown at present the scheme cannot possibly have all the dire effects upon the national finances which the Minister for Agriculture pretends to believe.  I believe, however, even on the narrow issue of its profitableness to the farmer, Dr. Ryan's proposal is worth considering.  He, I think, proved that the growing of wheat is as profitable as the growing of any other crop.  Agricultural economists in England who have been studying this problem in a scientific way, taking the costings of a number of farms over a number of years, have arrived at the conclusion that the growing of wheat pays better than the growing of any other crop. 
     
     
      
       On a free market, I presume that is what you mean. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Why do not they grow it then? 
     
     
      
       I have here a number of cuttings which I took from various journals containing information given by prominent agricultural economists in England, Sir Rowland Biffen and others.  Sir Rowland Biffen is described in an article in the &ldquo;Sunday Observer&rdquo; as the world's greatest wheat breeder.  He stated in an interview: 
     
     &ldquo;If I were to engage in farming to-morrow in England, what should be my mainstay, my principal crop?  Nothing in the price fluctuations and other difficulties of the past few years has altered or even modified my opinion ... Slowly but surely men are beginning to understand where their profits lie.  You read J.A. Venn's Report, or rather the one to which he wrote the introduction?  Well, you remember that he commented on the costs of twenty-six farms, the carefully-kept accounts of four years on all soils save the lightest, and under all conditions of cultivation.   Corn-growing showed a profit, the figure was about £2 per acre.  No other act of husbandry showed better results.&rdquo; 
     Other quotations are of a similar class.  I do not propose to read them all.  The point I want to stress is this: that wheat-growing is, even on the narrow issue of its profitableness to farmers, a proposition worth considering. I maintain that on national grounds it is in the interest of the State to make it profitable, even if it is not under normal conditions.  If we set out seriously to solve the various difficulties that will arise in ensuring the production of an adequate supply of wheat in this country we can overcome these difficulties. While, however, we have in charge of agricultural administration a Minister who is thoroughly prejudiced against the wheat crop we cannot possibly make any progress. I assert that the Minister is prejudiced.  I do not think that it is possible to convince him, even though he is obviously in error.  His whole outlook on this is displayed in the remark he made here once in which he put wheat-growing on the same level as tobacco-growing.  He seemed to think of both of them in the same light.  When we are considering this question of the profitableness of the wheat crop to farmers, we have also to consider the profitableness of other agricultural products to the farmers.  It is not merely the profitableness at the moment, but their prospects in the future.  As I said, I am not a farmer.  I do not pretend to know anything about husbandry, but I do claim to know something and to have learned something about the general trend of production throughout the world.  I know, however, that Deputies will not take my view or my opinion upon matters of that kind.  So I propose to refer them to other authorities which they will be less inclined to question.  I have here, for example, a cutting from the &ldquo;Statist&rdquo; of July 27th, 1929, dealing with the agricultural prospects of the Irish Free State.  It reads as follows:&mdash; 
     
       &ldquo;The past four weeks show a substantial decline in cattle exports through the Port of Dublin, the number being 33,387, as against 49,080 in the corresponding period of last year.  Prices are still substantially below last year's level, and, indeed, the low prices obtaining at English markets offer very little encouragement to speculative buying.  As a slight compensation, however, fat sheep and lambs are being exchanged for prices at about last year's level. 
     &ldquo;There is thus nothing particularly encouraging at the moment in the farming position, and, in the near future, there is a prospect of accentuated competition for the British market in dairy produce and live stock.  Arrangements have been made for the amalgamation of the marketing services in London of Australian and New Zealand co-operative dairy producers, and this is expected to strengthen their position against competitors.  The American Tariff Bill will, if passed, have a serious effect on Canadian producers, and probably Canada will look again to the United Kingdom for a market for butter, cheese, bacon and cattle. Hitherto, Canadian stores imports into the United States have been duty free, but henceforth it is proposed to subject this class, like fat cattle, to a heavy duty.  That the British market will be able to absorb larger supplies of agricultural produce without difficulty is unlikely, in view of the general trade position there, the June trade returns being distinctly disappointing. Some little satisfaction will, however, be felt by Irish farmers at the recovery in oats and feeder barley prices from their recent low level, although much may happen in this connection before the harvest here is available for disposal.&rdquo; 
     The belief which I hold is that the concentration on the production for export of live stock and live stock products is going to prove much less profitable in the future   than it is proving at present.  I do not think it is proving very profitable at present.  The figures quoted here show Irish butter at a lower price in Britain than the butter of any other country.  The same applies to eggs. 
     
      
       It is absolutely absurd. 
     
     
      
       They are at lower prices. 
     
     
      
       That does not apply to eggs.  There is one general rule that Deputies should remember when they are quoting, that they should not give summer prices as against winter prices. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister assert that we are getting a higher price for our butter than other exporters? 
     
     
      
       I do not want to argue this, but the prices which are quoted as a rule for other countries are winter prices or winter and summer prices.  The prices quoted for Irish produce are summer prices, which are, of course, always lower. 
     
     
      
       I think the prices quoted by Deputy de Valera were for a particular week. 
     
     
      
       I was not referring particularly to Deputy de Valera's statistics. 
     
     
      
       I think it is unwise for the farmers in their own interests, even thinking of the mere matter of the profits which they are going to get for their labour, to contemplate increased concentration upon the production for export of livestock and livestock products. They would be very much wiser to vary their production and to endeavour to supply to a larger extent than they are doing at present the home market which is available for them here, the principal part of which is for wheat and wheaten flour. We have had arguments of every kind advanced against this project of Deputy Ryan.  We are told that   failures of the wheat crop are not unknown.  I think this is a favourite point with Deputy Brennan.  In fact, in his experience there was one failure in twenty years, and because wheat occasionally fails farmers should not be encouraged to grow it, as it might involve them in ruin. 
     
     
      
       What I said was that there was one complete failure of wheat and several partial failures. That is quite a different thing. 
     
     
      
       It can be contended that failures in other crops are not unknown.  If Deputy Brennan's argument be pushed to its logical conclusion, it could be used as an argument for abandoning tillage altogether.  But I want to point out that farmers in the great wheat-producing countries that we hear about have to cope with failures of the wheat crop.  There was a partial failure in Canada this year.  The &ldquo;Economist&rdquo; for the 3rd August, 1929, says:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Under such conditions the whole grain crop of Western Canada has been steadily deteriorating, and only optimists will now predict a yield of 300,000,000 bushels of wheat for the prairies; indeed, many sober authorities think they will be lucky if they now reap 250,000,000 bushels of wheat, which will not be more than half the yield of 1928.  The straw is unusually short and the wheat is ripening prematurely.  In many districts the damage done is reported to be beyond repair, and thousands of struggling homesteaders will have to face a very difficult winter, as their crop returns will be negligible.  From Saskatchewan the reports are almost uniformly gloomy, and in the southern and south-eastern regions many farmers have simply ploughed their wheat into the ground to make summer fallow land for the crop of 1930.&rdquo; 
     
     The farmers in Canada are not going to run away from wheat-growing. As I have said, wheat-growing, even at present prices, is   a profitable crop for the farmers here. 
     
      
       The farmers themselves do not think so. 
     
     
      
       It is the duty of the State to make it a most profitable crop for the farmers. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass said that it was already a most profitable crop for the farmer.  His leader also said it. 
     
     
      
       I have not said that. 
     
     
      
       Deputy de Valera and Deputy Ryan said it. 
     
     
      
       What I say is that it is the most profitable crop for the community.  Whether it is the most profitable for the individual farmer, I do not know.  That is a matter upon which practical farmers can have their own opinion.  I say that it is the duty of the State to make the wheat crop sufficiently profitable so as to induce the farmers to increase the area under wheat.  I say that though the crop may occasionally fail in consequence of bad weather that cannot be advanced as an argument against wheat-growing. An occasional failure is not going to drive farmers in Canada from wheat-growing and out of tillage altogether and into the production of live-stock. The wheat crop fails from time to time in Canada.  But they simply plough the crop into the ground to prepare the land for the coming year.  On these occasions they lose everything as a result of the failure, they lose their year's labour; but they are still sticking to wheat because it happens to pay them, as Deputy Brennan very wisely remarked. The argument is also advanced, and it was advanced in the majority report of the Economic Committee, that the cost of the project outlined in Deputy Ryan's motion would be prohibitive.  In fact, they arrived at a certain enormous figure as to the possible cost in certain given circumstances. Of course, the Minister for Agriculture on all occasions based his calculations as to the cost of this   scheme upon the figures of the prices of wheat prevailing in 1928. 
     
     
      
       I did not.  I gave alternative figures. 
     
     
      
       We will deal with the alternative figures.  The position in 1928 was that the world's wheat crop was very considerably in excess of the wheat crop for any previous year for a considerable number of years.  There was in fact I think a greater yield of wheat throughout the whole world in 1928 than in any previous year in recorded history. The figures revealed that not merely was that the case, but the portion of the 1928 crop which was carried over to 1929 was also much larger than is usually the case.  In fact, it exceeded in extent the carryover for the previous three years added altogether.  It meant that there was available for sale in this year an extra large supply of wheat, which fact of course helped to depress the prices.  I think, however, that the comparative failure of the crop in Canada, together with certain other considerations, justifies the prophecy given before the Economic Committee by one expert witness whom we examined, that in future a general rise in wheat prices might be expected.  The fact that the Canadian Wheat Pool is at present withholding its wheat from the market and the fact that the United States Farm Relief Board has made available a subsidy of one hundred million dollars in order to enable farmers to withhold their wheat from the market, indicates that in those countries at any rate the authorities in control are taking steps to insure that that rise in prices will in fact be effected. 
     
     
      
       They were never lower. 
     
     
      
       But as Deputy Ryan pointed out, we do not have a crisis in Wall Street every year.  If the Minister has any doubt that the present low price prevailing for wheat is a direct result of the Wall Street collapse, I am prepared to read him another quotation from   those journals that I have been reading. 
     
     
      
       We have had sufficient quotations. 
     
     
      
       I know that my opinion is bound to be contested by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I do not think anyone could say that. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister will compare the trend of wheat prices, the day to day prices, during the last three months with the fluctuation of the general prices on the Stock Exchange, he will find a direct connection between the two.  It is a fact that because the present price of wheat in the United States is much lower than the agricultural authorities think it should be, that the Farm Relief Board stepped in to place at the disposal of the farmers the necessary credits to enable them to tide over the difficult period.  The cost of the scheme as calculated by us, taking as the price of foreign wheat the average for the past five years, does not come to anything like what the majority of the Economic Committee assumed it would.  In fact it is not unlikely that on the average the total amount of the subsidy, required in any one year in which the entire wheat requirements of the country would be grown within this country, would be about £250,000.  There are certainly years in which it is possible that the amount of the subsidy would have to be larger.  There will be years in which it will be less. 
     
     
      
       That would be 5s. an acre.  I imagine that! 
     
     
      
       Why does the Minister always think of subsidies in terms of acres? 
     
     
      
       It is a rough and ready way. 
     
     
      
       Five shillings an acre is your subsidy.  I do not know what yield per acre the Minister is working on. 
     
     
     
      
       Your own figures&mdash; 900,000 acres at 5s. an acre. 
     
     
      
       That has nothing to do with it at all.  The farmers are prepared to grow wheat if they are guaranteed a price of 30s. a barrel, and the market for it.  Whether they will always grow it at 30/- is a matter no one can say.  We propose that a Board be established which will control the importation of wheat, and it is for that Board to fix the price which should be guaranteed to the farmer. 
     
     
      
       At 5s. an acre, that would get us a million acres.  Now, if I thought that would get us an extra million acres of land under wheat, I would have a Bill here in the morning. 
     
     
      
       The Minister can produce his Bill.  Let him on this occasion take his chance, for he is in the right and he can lose nothing. I assure him we are right this time. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to be laughed at. 
     
     
      
       Who is going to laugh at you? 
     
     
      
       Everybody, if I accepted those figures. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister is right, and if that scheme is not going to produce an extra acre of wheat, then it will cost nothing.  If we are right, and if the scheme is going to produce an increased acreage, then it is going to cost us the figure which I have mentioned and which relates to the 800,000 acres of wheat. 
     
     
      
       Then that would mean six shillings an acre. 
     
     
      
       I do not care how the Minister plays with that figure.  He can play with it to his heart's content. I believe, and practical farmers whom I have consulted believe, that a guaranteed price of 30/- and a guaranteed market will get the wheat grown.  I believe, also, that the trend of world wheat prices will be such that the average cost of the   scheme per year will not exceed £250,000.  I believe that figure will get the entire acreage required.  We are not going to get immediately the entire acreage required; it will be ten or perhaps twenty years before we will be called upon to expend the £250,000.  There will be a gradual growth, and if we succeed in ten years' time in getting half of the total acreage required I think we will have done very well indeed. 
       Deputy de Valera indicated the nature of the steps taken in a number of other countries to protect the home market for wheat.  Deputies who talk about the great wheat-growing countries, and who declare that it is unwise and foolish for us to go into competition with them should realise that they are not doing their duty by humanity when they merely tell us about these things.  The Minister for Agriculture, if he is right in his contention, has the duty devolving upon him of instructing our representatives in Berlin and Spain&mdash;if we have one there&mdash;in Portugal, Italy, Poland, Norway and France that he has made a great discovery, and that the policy adopted in those countries of protecting and developing wheat production is economically unsound. 
     
     
      
       I did not make that discovery.  I did not state that. 
     
     
      
       Surely there must be truth somewhere.  The policy cannot be economically unsound in this country and sound everywhere else. If the Norwegians, the Germans, the French, the Spaniards, the Italians, the Portuguese, the Poles, and other European countries think it is good policy to protect and develop wheat production within their shores, why should it not be good policy here also?  If the Minister for Agriculture thinks that these countries are proceeding towards economic disaster, and if they are friendly States, he should at least give them a friendly warning.  Of course, in these countries they are not blessed with the services of the greatest Minister for Agriculture in the world, because there can be only one   and we have him.  Personally I would have no objection whatever to lending him to another country in order to put the people of that country upon the right track economically. It would benefit them possibly&mdash;the Minister himself would certainly think so&mdash;and I have no doubt whatever that it would benefit us.  There has been a lot of nonsense talked&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;from the Cumann na nGaedheal Benches concerning this matter of wheat production&mdash; quite a lot of nonsense.  I think the nonsense spoken by the Minister for Agriculture was easily the worst, because he happened to have the ability to disguise it under the guise of sense.  He talks the kind of materialistic cynicism that appeals to the average farmer in those days.  He tells us that our best representatives abroad are our eggs, our cows, our pigs and our chickens, and things of that kind.  It all sounds very well, but it means nothing.  He talks here as one practical farmer to another, mar eadh!  He talks about the futility of Deputy de Valera's scheme for the growing of wheat, but he has not been able to produce one solid argument against it.  Deputy Corry, who knows more about agriculture than the Minister, exploded his whole contention in the speech that he made here.  The Minister's whole attitude was: &ldquo;The farmer knows best; leave him alone.&rdquo;  That was because somebody suggested that the farmer should be induced to grow more wheat.  Deputy Corry pointed out that it is only in relation to wheat that the Minister will admit that the farmer knows best.  In almost every other sphere of agricultural activity the Minister has interfered, and directly interfered, with the farmer, compelling him to do what he does not want to do&mdash;and all because he knew best. 
     
     
      
       I never told the farmer to go in for cheese.  I have never said to him: &ldquo;Give up butter and go in for cheese.&rdquo; 
     
     
     
      
       Are you threatening to do that now? 
     
     
      
       No; the farmer knows best in that case. 
     
     
      
       He knows best, no matter what the price of cheese is. 
     
     
      
       Under present conditions. 
     
     
      
       Yes, under present conditions.  Apparently the farmer did not know best about scrub bulls or eggs or quite a number of other matters.  It is only in relation to wheat and cheese that he knows best. 
     
     
      
       That is not an analogy, but cheese is. 
     
     
      
       I will resist the temptation to say &ldquo;cheese it.&rdquo;  I am quite clear on this point, that the Minister's idea that the chief function of agriculture is to produce nothing in particular, but to provide a profit for the farmer is the root cause of all the economic evils that are hitting our people; the root cause of emigration, of unemployment, of agricultural depression and industrial decay.  Until we can get a majority in this House to declare the land of this country is to be used in the most economic manner for the production of food required by the people living in the country, we will not be able to hold with any degree of certainly that an improvement in our economic conditions is being brought about.  It is because the community interest must predominate over the private interest of the individual that we believe the State should take action in the manner that we propose in order to induce the farmer to grow wheat.  We do not propose to compel him to do it; we propose to induce him by making it profitable.  I now move the adjournment of the Debate.  I intend when we resume to deal briefly with the kindred problem of flour. 
       Debate adjourned. 
     
   
   
     Adjournment Debate. - Alleged Ill-treatment of Prisoner. 
     
      
       The answer given me to-day by the Minister for Justice   to the question I put him with regard to the treatment of George Gilmore would indicate that the Minister must have been deliberately misinformed as to the exact details in connection with this matter or, if he has not been misinformed, and has the facts at his disposal, he is not desirous of giving this House a proper answer regarding the treatment to which Mr. Gilmore has been subjected.  The Minister admits that Mr. Gilmore, in the month of November, was arrested on two occasions. No charge was preferred against him and no reason was given for his detention. The Minister states that on one occasion it became necessary to have him removed to hospital, and as to the other occasion, he is not aware of the facts.  On Sunday, 10th November, which was the second occasion on which Mr. Gilmore was arrested, when proceeding down Harcourt Street he was accosted by C.I.D. men, who told him that they were going to take him to the police station.  He resisted, as he had done on the previous occasion, because no reason was given as to why he should be detained.  He tried to attract attention to his predicament by shouting, and a small crowd gathered.  The C.I.D. men were not able to make him proceed to the police station willingly, and they assumed that the crowd would become hostile.  Detective Officer Coughlan, who was in charge, ordered his subordinate to draw his revolver and told him in the hearing of these people that he was to shoot, but to shoot Mr. Gilmore first and then to fire on the crowd. 
     
     The next thing that happened was that Mr. Gilmore was beaten on the head with the butt of a revolver until he became unconscious.  He was carried in this unconscious state to Kevin Street police barracks. He was revived by means of water being thrown over him in the yard of the barracks, and at 1 o'clock the police in charge of him thought he was sufficiently recovered to be able to go home, and he was released, notwithstanding the fact that he would have to get to Killakee at 1 o'clock in the morning.  Mr. Gilmore, who   was still bleeding from some of the wounds in his head, proceeded to Mercer's hospital and was admitted to the accident ward and treated by the doctor.  I took the trouble to go to Mercer's Hospital and I have here a certificate from the house physician. The Minister may probably say, as he did on a previous occasion, that Mr. Gilmore was kicked by a horse or a cow, but I would advise him to find out first of all from the hospital whether Mr. Gilmore's wounds could have been obtained in any other manner but by his having been struck on the head with a very sharp instrument.  In his certificate, which he has given voluntarily, the doctor states: &ldquo;This is to certify that Mr. George Gilmore, of Killakee, Co. Dublin, was treated at this hospital on the night of November 10th for head injuries.  He had two hæmatomata with two small incised wounds on the crown of the head. He was detained here overnight and discharged next morning.&rdquo;  I asked the doctor if these wounds in the head could have been obtained in any other manner but by having received blows on the head.  The doctor told me that the certificate should be sufficient evidence to show it was so, that there could be no other way but by having been struck on the head.  The wounds which he describes are two covered by clots of blood and two other wounds which were bleeding.  He had four definite wounds on the head. 
     
      
       That is not the certificate.  Is the Deputy adding to the certificate now? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not taken the trouble to send anybody to the hospital.  I spent an hour with the doctor making sure that I understood his certificate and I state that he had four wounds on the head. 
     
     
      
       The doctor only saw two. 
     
     
      
       I can hand over the certificate to the Minister.  Other Deputies have read it and are satisfied that it refers to four wounds&mdash; two and two are four. 
     
     
     
      
       There are only two mentioned. 
     
     
      
       On the day previous to this, Saturday, I received a telephone message from a Mrs. Kelly, telling me that her son had been again arrested, and was being detained by the police.  He was a young man whom I had interested myself in on the previous evening, on the Friday, having gone to the Bridewell to bring him home after he was released.  Knowing him to be in a very weak condition and not wishing him to go home in the rain, I drove him to his home.  On the way home he told me that Mr. Gilmore had been subjected to a severe beating and was carried to Pearse Street police station unconscious.  I should like to mention that prior to going to the Bridewell, I telephoned to the police station, and I was told that there was no young man detained there.  I went back to Pearse Street police station, and I asked the sergeant in charge if Mr. Gilmore was in the station, and he told me he was.  I asked him if he was still unconscious.  He said he did not know, that he was not in charge of him; that it had nothing to do with him; that it was not the ordinary police that were concerned with Mr. Gilmore.  I asked was he charged with any offence, and the sergeant said no.  Finally, a stick was produced, and it was stated that this stick was used by Mr. Gilmore to beat the police.  Subsequently, that was corrected and was withdrawn, because Mr. Gilmore had no stick at all with him.  I waited in the police station for about an hour, roughly.  I protested all the time against the attitude adopted by the sergeant, and pointed out to him that if this man was seriously hurt, the responsibility would fall on his shoulders as the person in charge of the station, and that the least he might do was to 'phone for a doctor or to have the man conveyed to hospital.  I asked to be allowed to see the man.  I was refused at first, but subsequently I was allowed to see him, and I was satisfied that his condition was not such as would permit his being kept any longer,   and the sergeant, at my request, ordered an ambulance which conveyed Mr. Gilmore to Mercer's Hospital.  In that ambulance was an ordinary Guard, a C.I.D. man, and myself.  When we came to the hospital the doctor asked what was wrong with the man, and the C.I.D. man said he had had a fit.  I told the C.I.D. man that he was not speaking what was true; that he should give the doctor the proper information to enable him to make a proper examination.  The doctor was satisfied that it was not a fit from which Mr. Gilmore was suffering. During the examination of Mr. Gilmore, when he thought he was coming to normal again, the C.I.D. man stated that he was leaving, and that Mr. Gilmore was now released.  The doctor decided to detain Mr. Gilmore for a certain period and pointed out to me a very serious and large swelling on Mr. Gilmore's forehead.  He could not account for it, naturally.  Mr. Gilmore states that the bump which he got on the head which rendered him unconscious was caused by the fact that he was carried by six men into the station, and instead of releasing their hold of him to open the door, they opened the door with his head. I subsequently received a letter from the Minister for Justice which I shall read.  I want to point out that on each occasion on which I went to a police barracks in connection with these cases, I went at the request either of a relative or a near friend of the person detained.  On the Friday night I was in the police station from about 8 o'clock until 12.35 in the morning, when Mr. Kelly was released. 
       I received this letter, dated the 19th November:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;I am directed by the Minister for Justice to inform you that it has come to his notice that on several occasions you have visited police stations representing your desire to establish contact with various persons in police custody, and that you have persisted in remaining at the station after it has been made clear to you that it is   not then possible to allow you to interview the detained persons. The Minister has directed me further to remind you in this connection that, whilst it is customary for the police to accord special courtesy to public representatives, membership of the Dail confers no absolute privilege as regards interviews with persons who may be in police custody; that it is unfair to the police for a Deputy to abuse this courtesy by subjecting them to undue persistency, and that it would be quite impossible to allow even public representatives to remain as long as they choose in police stations when it was clear that their presence could serve no useful purpose.  The police have now received instructions from the Minister that they are at liberty to bring your visits to a close when it is apparent that there is nothing they can do for you.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Who signs that letter? 
     
     
      
       It is signed by the Secretary to the Department, Henry O'Friel.  Now, I recognise I have a certain responsibility, as a public representative, and I believe the Minister will accord me that much confidence that I attempt to carry out my duties and responsibilities to my constituency with the same honesty as he does towards those who have elected him to this House. There is no question of doubt that the people dealt with in the manner I have outlined are not allowed to communicate with any of their relatives, or even with a solicitor.  If a person comes to me, as in the case of Mrs. Kelly or a member of Mr. Gilmore's family, and states to me that that person was brought to the police station, whether he has been beaten or not, I claim that I am only exercising a right that I have in going to the police station to find out if such a person is in their custody, and if they would facilitate me by advising me as to what was the nature of the charge against that person.  I know of no law as at present in force which permits constant arrest and rearrest of individuals without their being charged with any offence.   There is not even the suggestion that they are arrested on suspicion.  In the case of Mr. Kelly, who was in custody from 6 o'clock on Friday evening until 12.35 a.m., and the reason given to him for his arrest&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Are we dealing with the case of Mr. Kelly or with Gilmore? 
     
     
      
       I am dealing with the suggestion that brought that letter. 
     
     
      
       I submit that we are dealing with the case of Gilmore. 
     
     
      
       Order, order!  The Deputy will have to keep to the case mentioned in his question, and which he intimated he would raise on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       I ask your ruling.  I am making the point that I have the right to ask why a person is detained. When a person is detained for six hours, during which period something happened outside, and that person is arrested next day for having had something to do with what happened while he was detained&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Why do you not put down a question to that effect? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister will allow me to deal with this point of order.  The Deputy is confined to the question that is on the Order Paper, and he cannot deal with anything outside that. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, may I say Kelly was an essential witness to what happened to Gilmore, and therefore Deputy Briscoe is entitled to refer to Kelly as well as to Gilmore. 
     
     
      
       I allowed the Deputy to refer to Kelly in so far as he referred to him as a witness, but he must not further refer to him. 
     
     
      
       Although Kelly was one of the persons detained, I will   not deal with his case any further, but I will impress upon the Minister that I am satisfied as a result of my investigations that there is a definite set upon certain individuals to incite them to bring about a breach of the peace, or finally to bring about their deaths, or to make them leave the country if they cannot stand this treatment.  We need not go far back to know that members of that force &mdash;servants of the Government&mdash;have taken part in illegal executions. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is getting away from this question.  He must confine himself to what is in the question on the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       He is talking against time. 
     
     
      
       I shall give the Minister full time.  I want the Minister to explain to this House by what right his agents can harass an individual as in the case of George Gilmore; by what right they can arrest and detain him; and if he resists arrest when there is no reason for it, by what right they can render him unconscious in order to bring him more easily to the place of detention. And further, if he is prepared to consider giving instructions to his police force to stop this kind of thing, which I say will lead to a breach of the peace, and in which innocent civilians may be involved. 
     
     
      
       I just only want to say a couple of words and I must say that in speaking in a debate like this one has to exercise considerable restraint.  If I told the Minister what I think of him, I certainly would commit a breach of the Standing Orders, I am afraid. 
     
     
      
       That might apply to a whole lot of us you know. We could all do that. 
     
     
      
       I know.  I ask why does the Minister come to this House and stand over what are obviously deliberate lies.  We were told that the man who was beaten down in Clare was kicked by a cow, although the doctor and other witnesses&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       You are wrong in both these statements.  I said as a matter of fact that the man was knocked down by a cow, and there was nothing except his own word to the contrary. 
     
     
      
       That matter does not arise in any case upon this question. 
     
     
      
       We are told now that George Gilmore fell down in an epileptic fit, although there is proof by the doctor who attended him that he received at least four blows on the head. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not know what he is talking about.  The doctor's certificate relates to another night. 
     
     
      
       There is no doubt as far as I can see that the Minister and those who sit on the Front Bench opposite want some trouble in the country&mdash;they do not want themselves to do it, but it does not matter if an odd C.I.D. man is shot if that will help at the next general election.  If that is not the reason, will the Minister tell us one reason why this kind of thing should be allowed to go on?  If they want peace, why do they deliberately incite their agents to deliberately commit breaches of the peace? There is no doubt in the world that they want by these beatings and continual arrests, for which there is no justification, to try to get someone to shoot some of their C.I.D. so that they will have a nice cry to restore law and order at the next general election. 
     
     
      
       You know so much perhaps you will tell us something more about Gilmore. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Briscoe said he was moved by nothing except a sense of public duty and he painted himself in very glowing colours.  I think anybody looking at the dates in connection with this question will paint the Deputy in somewhat different colours to the colours in which he paints himself. Here are occurrences which took place on the 9th and 10th of the   month.  The Dail sat on Wednesday and Thursday following that.  Nothing was heard from the Deputy about it.  To-day, the 27th November, he comes along to this House and raises this matter as a matter of immediate public importance. 
     
     
      
       What is the date of my question to the Minister. 
     
     
      
       That was on the 20th November, the date on which you received my letter.  That is the date of his question.  It is a matter of urgent public importance to-day. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say whether&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should allow the Minister to make his speech. 
     
     
      
       On the 9th he receives this terrible account that he tried to paint to-night, and on the 10th the other event is supposed to have taken place.  The Dail sits on the Wednesday and Thursday following, and there followed Saturday and Sunday.  Why was the Deputy, who is now so voluble, tongue-tied for those two days?  He got this letter from me on the morning of the 20th, and on that very day it occurred to him for the first time to put down the question.  So far as the letter is concerned, it is a letter which I directed to be sent to the Deputy. There were two courses open to me. One was to instruct the Guards, when the Deputy came arrogating to himself the functions of a Chief Superintendent, which he is not yet, that he should be asked to leave the barracks, that he had no business there, and if he did not do so, that he should be put out.  That was one course open to me.  The other was that before such a thing should happen, before the Deputy would be put, for a Deputy of this House, in that degrading position, I thought that it would be more courteous to write this letter and, in consequence, directed it to be written.  That letter is going to be acted upon.  Let us take the Deputy's statement about George Gilmore.  He states   that he came to the Guards' station and that he saw Gilmore.  I have carefully inquired from the sergeant in charge on that particular night, and from the other Guards there, and their account of what happened is diametrically opposite to the account which the Deputy has given. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister dispute that I saw Gilmore in the police station? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I say that that is a deliberate untruth.  I was taken to the room by the sergeant. 
     
     
      
       I do not accept the Deputy's statement that it was he who telephoned for the ambulance. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that I did. 
     
     
      
       I say that it was the sergeant who, seeing the condition in which this man was and that he was obviously suffering from something in the nature of a fit, telephoned first for a doctor, but as the doctor was not available he then telephoned for the ambulance and, what is more, Deputy Briscoe, who was there and who got into the ambulance, said that he had done a very wise thing, or words to that effect. 
     
     
      
       I asked him to 'phone for the ambulance. 
     
     
      
       There is a very considerable difference of opinion about that.  We will get it clear.  Some time or other we will get an explanation and, if Deputy Briscoe's story is accurate, why was there this extraordinary delay?  The man was brought there suffering from a beating, suffering from terrible injuries, and was brought there unconscious.  That is Deputy Briscoe's case. 
     
     
      
       That is the second night. 
     
     
      
       I am talking of the first night.  On the 9th he is brought, as a result of a beating and of having been knocked   unconscious owing to his head being banged against a door&mdash;that is the Deputy's case.  He is reduced to a state of unconsciousness from this terrible blow and is suffering from concussion for several hours.  In the hospital he is found to be all right and is immediately discharged.  He is not brought to his own home in the ambulance, but in Deputy Briscoe's car.  Does anybody believe that a man, who is knocked unconscious by a blow, who remains unconscious for a couple of hours, at the end of these couple of hours able to get out all right and able to walk the streets all right next day? Deputy Briscoe was very careful on the second occasion.  He got a certificate from a doctor, but there is no certificate from a doctor of any single mark of violence on the first night.  Now, listen to the second night.  This man again resisted arrest.  He was discharged from the police station.  Remember that here again he is supposed to be beaten into a state of unconsciousness, and lies unconscious for a long time. Again he is able to walk.  There is no fit on the second occasion.  He walks to the hospital, and what is found?  Two small incised wounds, as the Deputy read out.  Though the man is beaten unconscious all that can be found are two small incised wounds. 
     
     
      
       Four. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy read out two, two small incised wounds. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Two haematomata with two small incised wounds.&rdquo; Two and two are four.  Perhaps the Minister would like to see the certificate. 
     
     
      
       What the Deputy read out was &ldquo;two small incised wounds,&rdquo; as it reached my ear. 
     
     
      
       Four. 
     
     
      
       That is all that was found. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister   read the certificate?  I have sent it to him. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;This is to certify that Mr. George Gilmore, of Killakee, Co. Dublin, was treated at this hospital on the night of November 10th for head injuries. He had two haematomata.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Ask Deputy O'Higgins what that is. 
     
     
      
       If you want Deputy O'Higgins's opinion, the answer is that the haematomata would be very likely in association with the incised wounds.  In other words, there were two wounds there. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Two small incised wounds on the crown of the head.  He was detained here overnight, and discharged next morning.&rdquo;  Of course, he was detained overnight.  You have a man brought to hospital in a fit the night before.  This highly-strung gentleman who works himself into a fit, comes again the next night, and it is very wise for the doctor to say that a person who is in the condition in which he was the night before, should stay in hospital.  This man, verging on hysterics, remains in hospital, and on the doctor's advice remains that night.  Deputy Aiken came in for a few moments to-night and wants to know what the policy of the Government is.  The policy of the Government is to maintain peace and order in this country, and the Government is going to do it. 
     
     
      
       Since when? 
     
     
      
       And persons who set about disturbing peace and order in this country are not going to be allowed to carry out their aims without let or hindrance. We are quite determined about that. 
     
     
      
       Will you put another police force to watch the C.I.D.? 
     
     
      
       It is   owing to the splendid work of the detective officers in Dublin that there is peace in this country now, and that there will continue to be peace.  That is the object of the Government. We were told by Deputy Briscoe to-day that the police want trouble; that some of them want to be shot, and are desirous of committing suicide. 
     
     
      
       I never made such a statement.  I said that if you wanted them shot&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I took down the Deputy's words this afternoon. They will appear in the regular report.  There is no doubt about that.  Are these persons to be allowed to walk about Dublin as much as they like and to carry land mines as much as they like? 
     
     
      
       Had he a land mine? 
     
     
      
       He is of the set that carry them about, and we do not know what day he will have a land mine.  Does the Deputy deny for one moment, or does he so much live in the moon that he does not know that Mr. George Gilmore is one of the leaders who are endeavouring to upset the State by force? We have heard of Mr. George Gilmore before. 
     
     
      
       Why not try him? 
     
     
      
       We know that Mr. Gilmore is a gentleman who was imprisoned for eighteen months not very long ago.  We heard of the sad and deplorable stories&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What was he imprisoned for? 
     
     
      
       He was imprisoned for assault. 
     
     
      
       On whom? 
     
     
      
       On the Guards. 
       The Dail adjourned at 11 p.m. until Thursday, November 28th. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Duties of Garda Siochana. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice what is the amount saved per annum to other Departments of State through the Garda performing work on their behalf, such as the collection of agricultural statistics, the enforcement of the School Attendance Act, etc., work which is outside the scope of their duties as peace officers, and if the Minister is prepared to have the amount examined into, and credited to the Garda Vote. 
     
     
      
       It would be extremely difficult to estimate the amount saved to other Government Departments by the performance by the Garda of such duties as the collection of agricultural statistics and the enforcement of the School Attendance Act, and I do not consider that any useful purpose would be served which would justify the time and labour involved in arriving   at such an estimate.  The answer to the latter portion of the question is in the negative. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Acquisition of Mayo Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what is the present position with regard to the acquisition of the Brudenel Murphy estate, Co. Mayo, 89, and if he is in a position to say when it is hoped that the vesting of this estate will be completed. 
     
     
      
       The estate referred to was purchased by the (late) Congested Districts Board and the holdings of all the tenants on the estate were vested in them on 13th June last. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Dail Loan Subscriptions. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when Dail Loan, 1919-20, in respect of Mrs. M. Doyle, The Piers, Ballindaggin; Philip O'Brien, Monbeg, Ballindaggin; and Philip Murphy, Ballinstraw, Monamolin, will be paid. 
     
     
      
       The particulars furnished in Mrs. Margaret Doyle's application for repayment do not correspond with those of an entry in the records in my Department.  A communication on the matter which was addressed to Mrs. Doyle on the 15th instant has not yet been replied to. 
       A form for completion by Mr. O'Brien, which was posted to his solicitor on the 25th April last, has not yet been returned to my Department. 
       Until replies to the above-mentioned communications have been received no steps can be taken towards authorising repayment of the subscriptions in question. 
       There is no record in my Department of the receipt of an application from Mr. Philip Murphy, of Ballinstraw, Monamolin. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he has received repeated applications from Richard Bailey, 96 Irishtown, New Ross, for   refund of his subscription of £3 to Dail Eireann Loan, and when he intends to authorise payment of same. 
     
     
      
       There is no record in my Department of the receipt of the applications referred to and I am not, therefore, in a position to authorise repayment in respect of the subscription in question. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid an ndearfadh se cathon a haisiocfar bannai Sheain Ui Mhuiridhthe, Sraid an Droichid, Cill Coca, Contae Chill Dara. 
     
     
      
       Nil ainm Sheain Ui Mhuiridhthe as Sraid an Droichid, Cill Coca, le fail sa Chlar Bunaidh mar dhuine do thug sintius d'Iasacht Dhail Eireann agus ni bhfuarthas aon iarratas o aoinne darb ainm Sean O Muiridhthe on seoladh sin. 
       Do tugadh udaras, afach, don Roinn Puist agus Telegrafa ar an 7adh la de Mheadhon Foghmhar seo imthigh tharainn chun Carta Coigiltis a thabhairt do Shean O Muiridhthe, on gCearnoig, Cill Coca, i leith sintuis cuig bpunt. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has received applications for refund of subscriptions to the Dail Eireann Loan, and, if so, when payments may be made in respect of the following:&mdash;Andrew Parle, Ballyreilly, Kilrane, £5; Patrick Casey, Ballybreit, Kilrane, £1; Charles Casey, Ballybreit, Kilrane, £1; John Murphy, Grange, Rosslare, £1; Robert John Murphy, Coddstown Tagoat, £2; and Anastatia Murphy, Coddstown Tagoat, £1, all of County Wexford. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to previous replies given by me to similar questions, and to the statement I made in the Dail on the 22nd June, 1928.  The claim of any subscriber who made application in writing within the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription, will be dealt with in my Department in due course. 
     
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the following are registered as subscribers to Dail Eireann Loan for the following amounts:&mdash;Andrew Parle (£5); Michael Redmond (£1); John Lambert (£1); Michael Ford (£1); Edmund Murphy (£2); B. Murphy (£1); W. Walsh (£1); J. Keating (£1); P. Carey (£1); J. Fitzhenry (£1); and R. O'Brien (£1), all of Tagoat, Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to previous replies given by me to similar questions and to the statement I made in the Dail on the 22nd June, 1928.  The claim of any subscriber who made application in writing within the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription will be dealt with in my Department in due course. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he has received applications for refund of subscriptions to the Dail Eireann Loan, and, if so, when payments will be authorised in respect of the following:&mdash;William Cowman, Newtown, Duncannon, £4; James O'Rourke, Dungulph, Duncannon, £1; James Gleeson, Ballygow, Duncannon, £5; John Murphy, Ballygow, Duncannon, £1; Martin Hanton, Batterstown, Duncannon, £3; John Ryan (Junr.), Fethard, £1; John Rowe, Conna, Fethard, £2; Peter Rowe, Conna, Fethard, £1; Thomas Ryan, Conna, Fethard, £2; Michael Kearns, Conna, Fethard, £1; Anastatia Neville, Conna, Fethard, £12; Richard Rowe, Conna, Fethard, £1; Nicholas Chapman, Ralph, Fethard, £4; Felix Connolly, Templetown, Fethard, £3; Michael Fortune, Slade, Fethard, £5; John Murphy, Gurtins, Saltmills, £1; Geoffrey Power, Gurtins, Saltmills, £1; Mary Walsh (Mrs.), Gurtins, Saltmills, £2; Philip Rice, White Hall, Fethard, £20; and Michael Walsh, Portersgate, Fethard, £1, all of Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to previous replies given by me to similar questions and to the statement I made in the Dail on the   22nd June, 1928.  The claim of any subscriber who made application in writing within the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription will be dealt with in my Department in due course.  Repayment has already been authorised to several of the persons mentioned in the Deputy's question. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has received applications for refund of Dail Eireann Loan, and, if so, when payments may be made in respect of the following:&mdash;William Doyle, Andrew Doyle and John J. Gregory, of Auburn Terrace, Wexford, and Patrick J. Gregory, of George Street, Wexford. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to previous replies given by me to similar questions, and to the statement I made in the Dail on the 22nd June, 1928.  The claim of any subscriber who made application in writing within the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription will be dealt with in my Department in due course. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has received applications for refund of Dail Eireann Loan, and, if so, when payment may be made in respect of the following:&mdash;Miss M.A. Brennan, Cushinstown, Ballinaboola (£2); Jas. Doyle, Cushinstown, Ballinaboola (£2); P. Clancy, Templenscrow, Raheen (£1); Mrs. Maddock Corlican, Killurin (£1); Margaret Maddock, Corlican, Killurin (£1); James Cogley, Killurin (£1); Edward King, Corlican, Killurin (£3); Matthew Ryan, Ballybeg, Taghmon (£3); John Howlin, Ballykerogue, Campile (£5); Annie Murphy, Camolin (£1); John Nolan, Ballinteskin, New Ross; John Lambert, Rosslare Harbour; Wm. Barry, Maytown, Tagoat; Elizabeth Barry, Maytown, Tagoat; James Somers, Coolroe, Ballycullane; Jeremiah Somers, Coolroe, Ballycullane; John Winters, Tincurra, Taghmon (£10); Mrs. Brady, Newtown, Duncannon, representative of Dominick Grady, Curraghmore, Ballycullane (£5), and John Redmond, Mullins   Hotel, Tully, North Queensland, formerly of Wexford (£5), all of Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to previous replies given by me to similar questions, and to the statement I made in the Dail on the 22nd June, 1928.  The claim of any subscriber who made application in writing within the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription will be dealt with in my Department in due course. 
     
   
 