 
 
 
   
     
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Bank of Ireland Bill, 1929&mdash;Report Stage. 
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That this Bill be received for final consideration.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       When this Bill was last before the House, we indicated our opposition to it on the general ground that the whole question of the banking position in Ireland, its system and organisation, should have been investigated long ago, and that such an investigation was in fact long overdue.  Therefore, we felt that there should be no interference with the existing position until that investigation had been made, because we felt that, if there were such interference, the making of whatever alterations might be found to be necessary would be rendered more difficult. There were two particular grounds as well upon which our opposition to this Bill was based.  There was, first of all, the fact that we were not satisfied that sufficient safeguards were being embodied in the Bill to prevent the Bank coming ultimately under foreign control.  The other ground was on the question of amalgamation. It is not to be taken that we are opposed to amalgamation as such.  Some of us feel that amalgamation in certain cases would be justified, but there are amalgamations which we, and, I think, the public as a whole, would view with alarm.  In regard to that, however, our opposition has been to a certain extent met in the Seanad.  On those particular grounds, we are not at the present moment prepared to oppose the Bill. 
     
     There is one other ground, however, upon which we have not been met, and it is upon this that we cannot accept responsibility for permitting the Bill to go through this House.  That ground is this, that the representatives of the principal   Opposition Party in this House were denied the right in Committee to consider this Bill.  I argued before, and I state it again, that this Bill is not an ordinary Private Bill.  This is a Bill which ought to have been introduced as a public measure. Every clause of it should have been considered by this House as a whole, because the interest promoting the Bill is an interest which practically controls and dominates the whole commercial and industrial life of the country.  The Bank of Ireland touches every citizen of this State in its ramifications and, therefore, the legislature of this State ought to have been entitled, in Committee if necessary, to consider any Bill promoted by that interest.  We made that plea.  It was rejected by the House, and therefore we think that, in fairness to the Opposition, the representatives whom the Opposition desired to have placed on the Joint Committee to consider the Bill ought to have been given their place as of right and in justice and equity. On the ground that that right has been denied us, we are not going to assent to this stage of the Bill going through the House without challenge. 
     There is another point on which we would like to have further information. We would like to have an authoritative statement from those who are promoting the Bill as to their attitude on a matter which at the present moment is seriously exercising the minds of those engaged in industry and commerce in this country.  I refer to the danger of a further increase in the bank rate.  We know that that danger has been the cause of grave depression in England.  It has been, I believe, the cause of no less serious depression here, because up to the present moment an increase in the bank rate in England has been automatically followed by an increase in the bank rate here.  We are aware, of course, that the Bank of Ireland is not the sole agent in fixing the bank rate here, but undoubtedly it is a very big factor, and it exercises a   very big influence in the matter.  If that influence were to be exerted against an increase in the bank rate, it is scarcely believable that the bank rate would be raised.  In regard to the anticipated increase itself, we feel that in the present circumstances such an increase would not be warranted. 
     The primary justification for an increase in the bank rate by the central bank in any country is that such increase is essential &ldquo;to enable the rate of interest on deposits to be raised to such a level as will ensure the retention in the banks and other financial institutions of that country of the funds which have been placed there, and more particularly those funds which have been placed there by foreign depositors.&rdquo;  Now, I emphasise in this connection the latter point, &ldquo;more particularly those funds which have been placed there by foreign depositors,&rdquo; because it is the flow of foreign capital in its most liquid form which it is sought to influence and control by the bank rate.  There are occasions when its flow cannot be influenced and cannot be controlled.  For instance, in the year 1926, if the bank rate in England had been reduced to 2 per cent., nothing would have stemmed the flow into England of French gold flying from the falling franc. 
     On the other hand, it has been suggested, and I think is now admitted, that if the British bank rate were to be increased to seven per cent. or eight per cent. nothing would keep in England the French gold which France, in view of the Young Conference, is determined to have back in its own coffers.  What is the position here?  We have no French gold here, and we have no Irish gold here, except possibly the few sovereigns which old women in the country have rolled up in their long stockings.  I must say they were wiser in their generation and more provident, from the point of view of the future of the country, than our bankers were.  Since we have no foreign funds deposited in this country, no matter how high we raise the bank rate, we are not going   to retain here what we have not got. But there is one form of foreign capital which we have here which I believe would be very adversely affected by the bank rate, and that is the foreign capital invested in Irish industry.  An increase in the bank rate is going to make that capital less remunerative and make Irish industry less attractive to it. It is going to influence that capital to seek a more remunerative employment abroad.  In the present circumstances of Irish industry, and particularly of those industries which have sprung up under tariffs, and which at present are largely dependent upon foreign capital, I believe an increase in the bank rate would be disastrous. What is the position in regard to native capital?  I have shown, I think fairly conclusively, that from the point of view of foreign capital on deposit here there is no justification whatever for an increase in the bank rate. 
     
      
       The Deputy seems to be raising a very general matter on this Bill.  Would the Deputy say what is the relevancy of the matter he is raising at this particular stage of the Bank of Ireland Bill? 
     
     
      
       The relevancy, as I pointed out in the beginning, is: the Bank of Ireland is one of the big influences which will determine the policy of the Banking Committee on this matter.  Before the Bill goes through the House we want to have an expression of its attitude towards an increase in the bank rate, which we fear. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot get an expression of the point of view of the Bank at this stage. 
     
     
      
       We think we are entitled to it, and unless we are assured that the Bank is going to be opposed to an increase in the bank rate we think the Bill ought to be opposed. 
     
     
      
       It is quite clear the Deputy cannot get an   assurance on the Report Stage of this Bill.  The question arises, but I am not deciding it, whether the matter to which the Deputy has referred could be raised by way of an amendment to the Bill, but it is quite clear that a general discussion on the bank rate has no relevancy to the Bill, and that the House, in entering on such a discussion, would be doing so without any end in view, for there is no one to answer. 
     
     
      
       Might I point out that when the Bill was last before the House the Government were its sponsors?  They put on the Party Whips, and a Party vote was taken on this matter. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will realise he has put a point which the Chair is not capable of deciding. This is a Private Bill which has now reached this particular stage, after having been referred to a Joint Committee.  If the Deputy were speaking to an amendment framed to meet this particular case, it would be a different matter, but it would be quite impossible at this stage to have a general discussion on the bank rate. 
     
     
      
       I do not wish to contest your ruling, but I do feel, in view of the attitude the Government have taken up on this matter, and in view of the fact that they are possibly going to put on the Government Whips to carry the Bill through the Report Stage, I am entitled to have from them an expression of opinion in regard to a proposed increase in the bank rate, and what their attitude will be on that matter is what we are anxious to know.  It is for the purpose of eliciting that that I have raised this matter. 
     
     
      
       Every Deputy on these benches is quite free to vote any way he likes, not like the Deputies on the opposite benches. 
     
     
      
       That is not the point at all.  The point is that the Deputy wishes to raise a matter for which a Minister is not responsible.   This is not the occasion.  I allowed Deputy MacEntee to go to a certain distance with a view to seeing whether I could allow him to go any further, and I came to the conclusion that it was impossible, because it is impossible to debate the matter of bank rate on the Report Stage of this Bill.  I think Deputy MacEntee realises that now. 
     
     
      
       I was only wishing that you would allow me to go on to deal with the position of latent capital, because I would have shown that there was no justification for raising the bank rate.  However, since I am out of order, I am prepared, having stated our position in regard to the Bill, to let it stand at that.  At the same time I think it is only right, before the House adjourns, having regard to the position that industry labours under, that we ought to have an authoritative statement from some member of the Executive Council as to whether they will bring pressure to bear upon the banks not to follow the example of the banks in England in the raising of the bank rate. 
     
     
      
       In view of the superior knowledge of the President on these matters, it is with fear and awe that one approaches the subject of banking&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The nearer the Deputy approaches the subject of banking the further away he will keep from the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I approach the subject of the Bank of Ireland Bill, and I think it would not be right that this Bill should become law without a certain protest.  This Bill gives certain privileges to the Bank of Ireland. It is right to say that the Bank of Ireland and the other Irish banks enjoy privileges which no European or American banks enjoy. In view of these privileges one would expect a national sympathy from these banks.  We do not get that in this country.  It is a notorious fact that this bank, which is facilitated under this Bill, this bank, the   principal bank in Ireland, lays down and has carried out a practice by which the majority of its employees should belong to the faith of the minority of the people.  It is a notorious fact that no employee of this Bank can rise beyond the rank of cashier unless he belongs to the favoured creed.  It is a very painful thing to talk about sectarian matters, but sectarianism has not been developed from these benches but in an institution like this.  The Government, in affording facilities to this Bank by a Bill like this, should at least stipulate that these seventeenth century practices should cease. 
       We who have on the various Stages of this Bill criticised the operations of banking as we find them in this State, are actuated by these motives, that we realise that financial freedom precedes economic and political freedom and that until the Government of the State makes up its mind that they will have financial freedom and that the issue of credit shall be correlated to the needs of the community there cannot be real progress.  That has not been done in Ireland.  Until it is done, all your legislation is in vain. We will, however, continue to press this matter in spite of the terrorism of the Press and in spite of the fact that the banks largely subscribe to the Cumann Na nGaedheal Party during elections. 
     
     
      
       I take it that by rising in opposition to the Bill we will block the Bill for the time being until the next meeting of the Dail, and that in the meantime we will give the President an opportunity of thinking seriously about the whole question as to whether he should not hold a thoroughgoing inquiry into the question of banking in this country. 
     
     
      
       If opposition is raised to a Private Bill in any particular Stage, no discussion can be allowed.  When opposition is taken to a Private Bill it is postponed. If there is opposition to the Bill, consideration of the Bill will be   postponed.  Unless the House is prepared to go on with the Fourth Stage, we cannot take that Stage now. 
     
     
      
       In view of Deputy Kennedy's statement, I wish to state that my information is that the General Manager of the Bank at the present moment is not of the faith of the minority of the people as the Deputy has alleged. 
     
     
      
       A speech after the ruling by the Chair! 
     
     
      
       Tell the truth. That is all I want to do. 
     
     
      
       rose. 
     
     
      
       A certain discussion has been allowed on this. Technically, the procedure is to have opposition noted.  Then further consideration must be postponed, as the Deputy has reminded me.  I will, however, hear Deputy J.X. Murphy. 
     
     
      
       I did not intend to intervene in this debate at all, but if I heard Deputy Kennedy aright, I think he is labouring under a misapprehension.  The Deputy said that no Catholic can get to a higher rank than that of cashier in the Bank.  I want to say that that is not true. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy give us the figures as to the positions held by persons of different creeds in the Bank? 
       Opposition taken; Report Stage to be taken at a later date. 
     
   
   
     Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, 1929. - Motion by Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Standing Orders relative to Private Business, leave be given to take all stages of the Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, 1929, to-day. 
     
     I am moving this motion because the matter to which it refers, the   Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, has already been given a vast amount of publicity.  It originated by the promotion of a Provisional Order by the Buncrana Urban District Council.  Arising out of that order a public inquiry was held, and witnesses were heard for the particular Order then promoted, and evidence was taken against it. That Provisional Order, differing in some respects from that promoted by the Buncrana District Council in the first instance, was prepared and in accordance with the regulations that had to be deposited and public notice given by advertisement of the deposit and time allowed for objections to be taken.  There were no objections taken during the time stated in the advertisement.  The Order itself follows the model which has been brought up to date from time to time by additions here and there.  The matter, therefore, has received a large amount of publicity. An opportunity has been given in full for discussion and objections, and the actual form of the Order follows the recognised model.  There is no reason to anticipate a debate on the details of the Order, and I do not anticipate any objection to the actual measure.  Accordingly, I now move this motion. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, 1929. - Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, 1929&mdash;From the Seanad.  Second Stage and Final Stages. 
     
      
       I move that the Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, 1929, be read a Second Time. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill because it authorises the appointing of Commissioners for Buncrana Harbour in the County of Donegal, and vesting the pier and harbour in them, and for the construction of works and the improvement, maintenance and regulation of the harbour. As the Minister for Industry and Commerce is well aware, considerable delay has taken place in regard to the promotion of this Bill.  As   the Minister mentioned in the Seanad, there was a commitment entered into prior to 1914 whereby a sum of money should be given to the Buncrana Harbour from the Development Fund.  It is only after fifteen years that this Bill is being promoted in the House, and it is only this year that we are asked to vote half the sum of £20,000 for the project. I hope that this Bill will be passed by this House and that no further procrastination will take place, and that the work in regard to the erection of the new harbour will be started as soon as possible. The Minister mentioned to-day that the Provisional Order was moved for by the Buncrana Urban District Council.  That is true, but I would like to call the attention of the Minister to the fact that the Buncrana Urban District Council made certain suggestions which had not been followed in the Bill before the House now.  This Bill or Order, as the Minister has pointed out, is along the lines of a model Bill.  For instance, the Council were under the impression that instead of four of the Commissioners being appointed by the Government and three by the Urban District Council that there should be three on each side. 
     
     Another matter arises out of Section 10 which deals with the limits of the harbour.  Under this Bill the limits of the harbour&mdash;within which the Commissioners shall have authority and within which the powers of the Commissioners may be exercised&mdash;&ldquo;shall be the existing harbour, together with the works and lands authorised by or acquired under this Order, and a further area below high water mark lying within a distance of 330 yards measured from any part of the pier lands or works of the existing harbour and the works and lands authorised by or acquired under this Order.&rdquo;  The suggestion of the Buncrana Urban District Council was that the limits of the harbour should extend not to a distance of 330 yards, but to a distance of 880 yards.  The Council were under the impression that by   extending it to 880 yards it would allow the Commissioners to collect the dues, etc., on cargo boats which break bulk outside the radius.  The Minister knows very well that Scottish fishing boats are followed up by coal boats to a point outside the existing harbour, and here they receive their coal supplies.  If the distance is limited to 330 yards, as set out in the Bill, the Commissioners will not be able to collect tolls from these cargo boats. 
     Under Section 16 the Commissioners will only have power to alter and improve on the present structures or new wharf.  The works authorised are the reconstruction of the timber work on the existing pier and the construction of a new wharf north-east of the existing pier, together with the erection of sheds for storage purposes, the construction of stations for fishery purposes, and the erection of cranes for loading and unloading.  Supposing that the Commissioners intended to develop the south side of the pier, or to continue the new wharf from the existing pier to bridge on Railway Road, that would mean that a further Order would have to be sought, and further expenditure would have to be incurred by the Commissioners or by the Buncrana Urban District Council.  I understand that when these proposals were put to the Minister by the Urban District Council, he could not agree to them because he was following on the lines of the Act of 1861. 
     I do not oppose this Bill; in fact, I welcome it.  I hope that the work will be started as soon as possible. I do not know whether the Board of Works will be carrying out this work.  If the work is left to a private firm I trust that the contract will be given to a firm inside the Free State.  I hope the Minister will take that suggestion into consideration when the contract is being placed, whether by his Department or by the Commissioners. 
     
      
       I welcome this Bill. I think it is long overdue.  I desire to draw particular attention to the method of appointing the first Commissioners.   I must diverge from my colleague's point of view in this direction.  I think there are too many representatives from the urban district council.  Urban district councillors, as a rule, are not very experienced in such matters as are involved in this Bill.  I would like to know what are the qualifications of the four men who are proposed to be nominated by the Minister. There is no mention made in any part of the Bill of representation for the payers of dues, the merchants who use the harbour.  If the Minister casts his eyes over many other schemes of this nature that run back over forty or fifty years, he will find that almost 50 per cent. of the harbour boards are elected by the people who have paid dues in the year previous to the election.  That seems to be a fair method.  I do not think that the Minister for Local Government, if he were asked, would give it as his opinion that the majority of urban councillors are fit and proper persons to be Harbour Commissioners. 
     
     
      
       We have a Labour council there; they are quite competent. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps in that case there might be some justification for electing them, but as a rule it is not an urban district councillor's job. They have no interest in the work, and I suggest to the Minister that some representation should be given to the men who actually use the harbour and whose interest it is to keep the harbour alive.  I come now to the question of rates.  I notice that the Minister has made use of the schedule of tolls supplied by the Donegal County Council.  He diverged only on one or two minor points.  He has, to my mind, put an undue tax on the principal export of Buncrana.  He has taxed fish barrels at 2d. each.  Herrings are practically the main support of this harbour, and I think 2d. is really too much.  The Minister is taxing us at the rate of 1d. on each barrel coming in empty.  This is going to be a great drawback to the trade, because the herring barrels come empty in   ship loads.  If 1d. has to be paid on each barrel it will really mean 2d., because half-barrels are used in the main; the majority of Donegal herrings are packed in half-barrels.  The county council considered this question with men on the spot who were cognisant of the business in other parts of the country.  They decided to include both the export of herrings and the import of empty barrels under Section 3 (c): &ldquo;All other goods not particularly enumerated&mdash; heavy goods, per ton, 8d.&rdquo; 
       I would like the Minister to take another matter into consideration. There is a certain amount of trade done from Buncrana with various little ports and piers along Lough Swilly and with some of the islands, such as Tory Island.  The Donegal County Council considered that matter. It would be a great hardship if the people on the islands and along the coast of Lough Swilly had to pay these tolls. 
     
     
      
       The point to which Deputy Myles referred, the question of rates, is the one which I will take first.  It is quite impossible to change that particular item to which he objects, because the charges were drawn up according to plan and they were based upon goods that seemed likely to be brought in.  The charges were fixed on these according to what was thought to be their importance. There were generally the variety of considerations that have to be brought in before charges are actually made.  If the charge in respect of barrels were altered as suggested &mdash;and there was no great argument put up for it when the schedule was considered&mdash;it would mean modification elsewhere through the list. I will point out to the Deputy that if hereafter the charges seem to be hampering the development which the whole scheme sets out to encourage, then there is room under Section 32 to have it reconsidered and possibly revised.  As to the qualifications of the first Commissioners, there are no qualifications laid down, and there is no obligation on me in that respect.  Three nominees   have already made their appearance from the county council; two are big merchants in and around Buncrana, and one is a railway clerk.  So far as I am concerned, I would take very definitely into consideration the nature of the business in which a man is engaged in Buncrana, his reputation as a shipper, and the volume of trade he brings in. I could not leave out of consideration, in addition to that, that in the past, when the harbour was more or less in a chaotic condition, and when it had very little regard from anybody, there were certain local people who took a very deep interest in it. I would like to get these, at any rate, on the Board.  Deputy Cassidy has referred to procrastination. There has been a lot of procrastination, mainly because the people of Buncrana were not able to carry out an important bargain which was made at the time when the moneys were to be advanced from the Development Fund.  There was a definite charge of one-third to be levied all over the county.  The county was not prepared to put up that amount of money.  It is because, even at the moment, they are not prepared to put up as much as it would seem their duty reasonably to put up that the situation is as it is in regard to the appointment of Commissioners.  I do not think that it is anything too harsh for the Government to demand the right to appoint four Commissioners out of seven when they are putting up three-fourths of the money for the development of the harbour.  The contract will be carried out under the authority of the Office of Public Works. 
     
     
      
       In regard to Section 26, would the Minister say whether it is intended to convey power to the Commissioners to construct, for instance, a kippering station at the harbour? 
     
     
      
       Yes, if it is found necessary or desirable.  The phrase is there for the Deputy to read.  It says: 
     
     
       &ldquo;The Commissioners may, subject to the provisions of this Order, purchase, lease, construct and maintain any houses, warehouses, offices, sheds, weighing machines, cranes and other works, buildings and conveniences which may be found necessary or desirable in connection with the harbour for the accommodation of vessels using the harbour and traffic landed at or embarked from the same and the convenient working thereof.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I suggest that it is not quite clear from that that they have the power.  Since this Bill has been introduced to aid the fishing industry it is very desirable that it should be made clear that they have the power.  When the re-organisation of the fisheries has taken place, I believe that it will be found necessary to have these kippering stations at all the important fishing centres. Failing the provision of such stations by private capital, it would be important that public authorities, such as Harbour Commissioners, should have that power.  Perhaps the Minister would tell us whether this Bill has any relation to the Report of the Harbours Tribunal which has not yet been published. 
     
     
      
       No, the Report has not yet been received. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went into Committee. 
       Bill passed through Committee without amendment. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Bill reported without amendment and put through its Final Stages. 
     
   
   
     Private Notice Question. - Lough Foyle Fisheries. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether his attention had been directed to an affidavit made in the High Courts, Belfast, by the Manager of the Foyle   and Bann Fisheries, Ltd., claiming that the waters of Lough Foyle to the open sea between the point of Greencastle and Magilligan are situated in &ldquo;Northern Ireland,&rdquo; and whether he has any statement to make to the House in regard to the matter. 
     
     
      
       The attention of the Government has been directed to this matter.  Action is being taken, but I am not in a position to make a statement to the House. 
     
     
      
       Might I express the hope that the Minister and the Executive Council will keep a close eye in regard to developments in this matter so as not to allow this usurping junta to carry out a decree of the Six County courts against poor fishermen, and also to see that the fishermen will not be prevented from earning their livelihood in a legitimate manner? 
     
     
      
       I observe that Deputy Cassidy has asked, by way of private notice question, for information on a matter of which I have given notice.  The matter is one which I wish to raise under Standing Order 27.  I request leave to move the adjournment for the purpose of calling attention to a matter of urgent public importance, namely, the situation on Lough Foyle arising out of the forcible seizure, on July 20th, 1929, by agents of the Foyle and Bann Fishery Co. of nets the property of licensed Saorstat fishermen, and the infliction of personal injuries on four Saorstat citizens; and the need for immediate action on the part of the Executive Council to protect the rights of Saorstat fishermen in Lough Foyle and to prevent conflicts which may lead to loss of life. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is claiming under the provisions of Standing Order 27 to move the adjournment of the Dail for the purpose of calling attention to a matter of urgent public importance.  I would, I think, if the sitting had been an ordinary one have accepted   that notice, but the circumstances attending to-day's sitting are not such as normally obtain, and in these circumstances it will be difficult to give full effect to the provisions of Standing Order 27.  The House already, has, by Order, been adjourned until 23rd October.  It meets to-day specially under the provisions of a certain Standing Order for the transaction of certain specified business which is set out in the notice signed by the Ceann Comhairle summoning the Dail.  When that business is concluded, if it is concluded to-day, the House will automatically stand adjourned, without question put, until 23rd October in accordance with the Order previously made.  Therefore, if the Deputy's notice were received by the Chair and received the requisite support of twelve Deputies, which I am assuming it would, the matter would be set down for discussion under the provisions of Standing Order 27 at 7 p.m. on Wednesday or Thursday which now, under the provisions of a subsequent Order, becomes 9 p.m.  If consideration of the matters on the Order Paper has concluded by 9 o'clock, it would not be possible to divide on the Motion for the Adjournment, but discussion could arise at the conclusion of business. On the other hand, if the matter arose before the business was concluded, I think that under the circumstances the House would perforce have to agree to the Motion for the Adjournment.  The purpose of Standing Order 27, which is, I think, to get a discussion with a division, if required, on a particular matter could not be made effective. I think the better solution would be to raise the matter at the conclusion of the Orders of the Day and, by agreement, there could then be a debate for something longer than the ordinary time allowed for discussion on the Motion for the Adjournment. 
     
     
      
       It was my intention to raise another matter on the conclusion of business, namely, the ill-treatment of Mr. T.J. Ryan, of Crannagh, Co. Clare, by members of the police force.  The statement   made by the Minister for External Affairs, in reply to Deputy Cassidy, appears to me to be altogether unsatisfactory. I would like very much to raise this matter. 
     
     
      
       I think that the matter could be raised at the end of public business, but it will then become a matter raised for discussion on the adjournment.  I think that only one such matter can be discussed. I will take the Deputy's notice for 9 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       If we had an assurance from the Minister for External Affairs that the Executive Council are going to exercise their rights of jurisdiction over the Foyle we would be satisfied. 
     
     
      
       I have already intimated that action is being taken and that I would not be prepared to make a statement.  I would like to make it more explicit, that in any debate arising on the Motion for the Adjournment I would not take part. 
     
     
      
       Under the circumstances, as the Minister would not reply, and as my chief reason for bringing the matter up was to get a definite expression of attitude from the Executive Council on the matter I mentioned, I propose to raise the question of the ill-treatment of Mr. T.J. Ryan on the Motion for the Adjournment. 
     
     
      
       That will arise on the conclusion of the business on the Order Paper. 
     
   
   
     Finance Bill, 1929.&mdash;From the Seanad. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I intend to propose the acceptance of all the Recommendations from the Seanad to this Bill. The first Recommendation is:&mdash; 
       Section 5, sub-section (9).  That a new sub-section be inserted before the sub-section, as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(9) Every re-hearing of an appeal by the Circuit Court under   Section 196 of the Income Tax Act, 1918, shall be held in camera, and every hearing by the High Court or the Supreme Court of a case stated under Section 149 of the said Act or under that section as extended by Section 10 of the Finance Act, 1924 (No. 27 of 1924) shall, if the person whose chargeability to tax is the subject of the case so desires, be held in camera.&rdquo; 
     This recommendation covers a matter which was raised when the Bill was before the Dail by Deputy J.X. Murphy.  It is a matter which had not been brought to my attention previous to its having been mentioned by Deputy Murphy, and I was not able to accept it then as I felt that it required some consideration and also, if it were accepted, that it might cause the Finance Bill to be no longer a Money Bill.  As it was raised again and became a Recommendation in the Seanad, I see no objection to it.  It will not prevent the reporting in the Law Reports of cases which may be decided in camera, but such cases will be reported as the case of X. or the case of Y.  As I say, I have not heard very much about it.  I heard, first, Deputy Murphy's complaint, and a few other instances.  I cannot see that the adoption of this Recommendation will do any harm, and it may, in certain cases, prevent what individuals would feel as a hardship, namely, the divulgence of matters connected with their private affairs which so far as the hearing before special Commissioners or before the Circuit Court in the ordinary way is concerned, did not come to the public notice at all heretofore. 
     
      
       We are in agreement with the Recommendation. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Recommendation be accepted&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       The second Recommendation is:&mdash; 
       Section 23, sub-section (1).  That the word &ldquo;five&rdquo; be deleted in line 16 and the word &ldquo;two&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
     
        This deals with the question of the new exemption limit in respect of woollen cloth.  As Deputies will remember, the section adopted by the Dail provided that the new exemption limits should hold for a period of five years.  I was asked, I think on the Committee Stage of the Finance Bill, whether I could make any statement as a result of certain discussions that had taken place with the woollen manufacturers and others in regard to the matter.  I said that I might be able to make a statement on the Report Stage.  As a matter of fact, I was not in a position to make any statement on the Report Stage.  This matter seems to me to be extremely complicated, and it is extremely difficult to feel with any certainty that we have got all the facts.  Undoubtedly the woollen manufacturers assert rather strongly that in a comparatively short time they will be able to make the bulk of the cloth required by the wholesale clothing manufacturers, but, on the other hand, those statements and assertions vary somewhat and have varied in their terms from time to time. 
     I have already stated in the Seanad that I saw myself a deputation of woollen manufacturers, and in conversation with me they said that they would be able to supply the goods required to the extent of 80 or 90 per cent. in a period of 18 months.  A few days afterwards I had a letter from a representative of the woollen manufacturers who put the period at six months.  In view of that, and in view of other circumstances, it is difficult to come to any conclusion about which one could feel certain as to what rate the manufacturers will make progress towards being able to supply the needs of the wholesale clothing manufacturers, and how soon they will be able to supply the bulk.  It was the desire of the Government, and the original report shows that it was the desire of the Tariff Commission, to include the greatest possible bulk of cloth within the scope of the tariff.  In pursuance of that desire I propose to accept this Recommendation from the Seanad limiting the   life of the section which fixes the new exemption limit to two years. It may be, to take one point of view, that the woollen manufacturers will make no great effort to meet the requirements of the wholesale clothing manufacturers in the next two years, or to put themselves in a position to show that they can meet the demand. If that were to happen, it might be necessary to re-enact the section which is now only given a life of two years. 
     If, on the other hand, the manufacturers do demonstrate that they are willing to take all the steps they can take&mdash;I do not include in that the actual manufacture of cloth, because orders must be obtained before manufacture is undertaken&mdash;if they commence the preparation of designs and the actual issue of patterns, if they show that they are prepared to take all steps which it seems reasonable they should take to put themselves in a position to supply the requirements of the wholesale clothing manufacturers, then there will be no case for the re-enaction of the section, and at the end of the two year period the scope of the tariff would be as it was originally proposed. 
     
      
       This is a further change in the device which the Government have been elaborating for the purpose of repairing the mistakes they made when they acted on the report of the Tariff Commission.  It is a further indication, if a further indication were necessary, that their one desire is really to avoid taking the obvious remedy, the remedy we suggested, of increasing the duty on ready-made clothing.  So long as they avoid taking that remedy they will be coming to this House with new proposals, each as bad as the other, to try to remedy the situation which they have created. 
     
     
      
       We desire to say, at the same time, that we are not opposing the Recommendation. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Recommendation be accepted&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
        The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Acceptance of Recommendation reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in its Report&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Amendments made accordingly to the Bill. 
     Message ordered to be sent to the Seanad acquainting them accordingly. 
   
   
     Juries (Protection) Bill, 1929&mdash;from the Seanad. 
     
      
       I propose asking the House to accept, without alteration, all the amendments that have come down from the Seanad. 
       The Dail went into Committee. 
     
     
      
       There are on the Order Paper eight amendments to the amendments made in the Seanad.  Under the provision of Standing Order No. 120, no amendment can be offered to an amendment made by the Seanad that is not strictly relevant thereto, nor can any other amendment be moved to the Bill unless it be consequential upon the acceptance, amendment or rejection of a Seanad amendment. On the grounds that they are neither strictly relevant thereto, nor consequential upon the acceptance, amendment or rejection of a Seanad amendment, the Chair is not accepting Amendments Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5.  It is accepting and will put to the Committee, Amendment 1 by Deputy Ruttledge, Amendment 6, Amendment 7 and Amendment 8. 
     
     
      
       May I raise a point arising out of the relevancy of some of those amendments, because I think if you can rule these out you can rule all the others out as irrelevant just as well? 
     
     
      
       I am much interested. 
     
     
      
       If you can rule out Amendment No. 2 you can rule out Amendment No. 1.  In the case of Amendment No. 2 the principle involved   is that it gives a greater opportunity to the person charged to escape the death sentence, and in this particular amendment, that is, No. 2, it gives the power to the judge there and then where there is no unanimity of the jury to avoid giving the death sentence. 
     
     
      
       The amendment made in the Seanad is not concerned with the sentence. 
     
     
      
       Yes, it is.  I will tell you why; if it is not it is tomfoolery. It means where there is a majority merely that the prerogative of mercy is going to be exercised to commute the death sentence to a sentence of penal servitude for life, which is 20 years.  Otherwise the thing is nonsense.  Therefore, I submit once you have accepted this amendment from the Seanad, we are entitled to vary the terms of that principle.  That applies to No. 2, but it applies with even greater strength to No. 3, because in the case of No. 3 we are not there concerned with the judge, but are simply getting him to bring the matter before the Minister; that is, the Minister is to take the necessary steps to have the sentence commuted. In No. 3 he is simply making the Seanad amendment much more explicit, but it is almost an identical one.  There is, I admit, a difference, not in principle, but in degree in No. 2.  Besides, I think there are very valuable suggestions involved in these matters.  I would suggest that this is a very serious matter; that it is as permanent as the building of a bridge or the making of a will; that it is going to affect the lives of people in subsequent generations, and that merely on the subtle point of procedure we should not be prevented from discussing very important matters of this kind.  Of course we disagree with the whole Bill; it is a rotten Bill, but, such as it is, it is going to dominate our legal system for some time.  While it is there it should not be too rotten. We should try to make it better.  Even in the interests of a pleasant holiday we should take a   little time over this thing to get it right. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy I presume, has been putting points of order to the Chair, although it did not seem like that at times.  The Deputy will realise that the Chair is only bound to take cognisance of certain considerations.  The Standing Orders are quite clear, and our procedure has been quite clear with regard to the consideration of amendments to amendments made in the Seanad.  The Standing Order stipulates &ldquo;strictly relevant.&rdquo;  The word &ldquo;strictly&rdquo; is presumably used advisedly.  The Deputy will realise that the rule as to relevancy must be strictly construed, because in this particular case, and in every other similar case, we are dealing with a Bill which has gone through five stages in this House, four stages in the other House, and then comes back to us for the purpose of discussing the amendments made, and only these amendments.  Discussion at this stage must therefore be limited. Much of what the Deputy has said by way of a point of order contains matters which the Chair could not take any cognisance of at all, such as, for example, that the Seanad amendment makes nonsense, that the amendments put down by the Deputy contain valuable suggestions, and even the consideration that we should have a pleasant holiday is, I am afraid, not for the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Ceann Comhairle is misinterpreting me.  I said if it does not involve the same principle which is in our amendment, then it is nonsense, if it does not involve the principle of giving the accused person an opportunity of escaping the death sentence. 
     
     
      
       If the Seanad amendment is not in accord with the view taken by the Deputy, then the suggestion is that it is nonsense. Seanad amendment No. 2 inserts into the Bill a provision that in certain cases a judge shall make a report to the Minister for Justice, and goes no further.  It is not strictly relevant to that amendment either   to insert in the Bill now a provision as to what the judge shall do when he has received the report, or what the Minister shall do.  The Seanad amendment concerns merely the making of a report to the Minister. Accordingly, I could not accept the Deputy's proposed amendments two or three.  We will take points on the other amendments as they arise. 
     
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment No. 1&rdquo;:&mdash; 
       Section 5.  After the word &ldquo;number&rdquo; in line 2 the words &ldquo;(save as is hereinafter mentioned)&rdquo; inserted in brackets. 
       That is an amendment consequent upon the adoption of a new sub-section to Section 5 which appears next. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be well to take Amendments 1 and 2 together? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so.  I think Amendment 1 is different. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment No. 2&rdquo;:&mdash; 
       Section 5.  A new sub-section added at the end of the section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(2)  Whenever a jury finds a person to be guilty of a crime for which the penalty provided by law is death, the Judge shall inquire of the foreman of the jury, and the foreman of the jury shall notify to the Judge privately in writing, whether the verdict was or was not unanimous and the number of the dissentients (if any), and the Judge shall report to the Minister for Justice the information so obtained.&rdquo; 
     
     Amendment No. 2 is to the effect that when a person is found guilty of a capital offence by a majority of the jury the foreman of the jury shall so inform the Judge, and the Judge shall report that fact to the Minister   for Justice.  The object, of course, of reporting the matter to the Minister for Justice is that it would be an element, not the only one, to be taken into consideration by the Executive Council in the exercise of the prerogative of mercy. 
     
      
       I move that the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; be deleted.  The Minister stated, in referring to this amendment that has come from the Seanad, that it is merely an element that might be considered.  Does not the Minister consider that in the section as it stands there is no provision as to whether the Judge shall pronounce sentence or not?  Does the Minister propose, if this amendment as it comes from the Seanad is accepted, that the sentence which the Judge might pronounce will be held up? 
     
     
      
       Of course not. 
     
     
      
       The section as it stands at present does not state whether the Judge shall pronounce sentence of death, and that it shall then be referred to the Minister as regards commutation of sentence. However, that is not the real objection. We would be glad to see more matters which would lead to litigation and to the bringing of further Bills before this House to right these matters.  What we are concerned with at the moment is the fact that there is brought in here another Star Chamber element which we have complained about in the various stages of this Bill.  You have here an attempt to have colloguing and whispering going on between the Judge and the foreman of the jury, and the public shall not know. Where there is a division of opinion, and it is brought so forcibly to the mind of the Minister that it would be an element of consideration in regard to the commutation of the sentence in a matter of life and death, only the Minister for Justice, the Judge and the foreman of the jury shall know anything about it.  One of the greatest forces that have been at work in any country is that of   public opinion.  Governments have erred, they have been tyrannical, and despotic, but they have been held in check by the force of public opinion.  The Minister is endeavouring by this amendment to ensure that so far as this Bill is concerned, the forces of public opinion will not be able to be utilised as a check with regard to the administration of this particular measure.  The question that must strike one very forcibly in this matter is that an element of doubt exists.  If one, two, or three members of the jury disagree, certainly an element of doubt does exist, and we are going to have brushed aside, for the period for which this Act will be in operation, that thing which judges have always charged juries with, even in the simplest criminal cases&mdash;namely, if any reasonable doubt exists, the prisoner is entitled to the benefit of it. In this Bill that is to be brushed aside, and the public are not to know about it.  In the most serious cases, cases where the death sentence may be imposed, nobody will know whether any doubt exists, except those three people. 
     
     I understand that this document that will be signed by the foreman of the jury and handed to the Judge, showing the dissentients to the verdict, will be regarded as a confidential document.  Even if it was asked for in this House, if we wanted to get an opinion in regard to it, when matters of life and death might arise, we would not be entitled to get it.  It would be regarded as a confidential document. The public have no check, and public opinion cannot assert itself in the way in which it has been able to assert itself in the past.  I have referred here before, during the Fifth Stage of this Bill, to what has been regarded by the greatest legal authorities as the essence of the administration of law, and that is publicity. I referred to authorities with which I am sure the Minister has been familiar&mdash;Bentham and Hallam&mdash;who stated that the greatest safeguard in the administration of the law was publicity; and that, even over and above the Constitution, the   greatest safeguard for the impartial administration of the law would be that it should be open and above board.  In this measure the Minister refuses to allow the light of publicity, and I am sure the administration of the measure will be as rotten as the Act itself.  We do not stand for this Bill, and in putting in this amendment we want to make that position absolutely clear. We recognise that it is an oppressive and coercive measure; that it is unnecessary and unjustifiable in any circumstances, and under any conditions which the Minister has been able to put before the House.  We put in this amendment merely to try and improve in some little way what we regard as a very bad, unnecessary and evil measure.  It is not to be taken that by putting in this amendment we are in any way identifying ourselves with this Bill.  I move this amendment to try to get the cloak of secrecy that has been associated with drumhead courtsmartial removed from this unnecessary and evil measure, and so that the unfortunate people who will come under its jurisdiction will have some little chance of having the public at any rate see what is going on, so as to try and safeguard them in some way. 
     
      
       I will ask the House to reject this amendment. Deputy Ruttledge, in the early part of his speech, talked about the Judge not passing sentence.  Of course the Judge will pass sentence when a verdict of guilty is brought in.  That is the ordinary procedure.  After he has passed sentence he will receive from document which he will receive from the foreman to the Minister for Justice. The Deputy tried to get rather vigorous in his denunciation of this Bill.  His adjectives were numerous and rather forcible. 
     
     
      
       Not inflammable. 
     
     
      
       They were well strung together and numerous&mdash;a nice chain.  One of the objects of this Bill is, of course, where there are jurymen dissenting the public will not know.  That is perfectly clear by the Bill.  The Deputy   dislikes that principle.  He has already told us so.  He dislikes the fact where there is a majority verdict of that not being known.  The reason we desire that it should not be known is that we do not wish jurymen to be exposed to undue risks.  The Deputy's amendment, to my mind, is an entirely meaningless one.  What is the difference between &ldquo;He shall notify the Judge in writing,&rdquo; that is to say, before he leaves the jurybox, and notify him &ldquo;privately in writing&rdquo;?  The Deputy says he is not to notify him privately. How is he to notify him? I would like to know exactly what it means. 
     
     
      
       Why then did the Minister insist in having &ldquo;privately&rdquo; inserted?  If it is meaningless, as he says, why did he insist on having &ldquo;privately&rdquo; inserted?  I would refer the Minister to the Official Report of the Seanad Debates. 
     
     
      
       Read what I said. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to have the Seanad Debates quoted. 
     
     
      
       I say if the Deputy wishes to have the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; inserted, he is paying me a very high compliment. 
     
     
      
       The Minister said, &ldquo;I think the word &lsquo;privately&rsquo; is the very essence of this Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       We ought to confine ourselves to our own debates, and not quote the debates of the other House. 
     
     
      
       What is the difference between handing it in writing and doing so privately? The document is handed by the foreman to the Judge.  That is to be handed to him privately.  The Deputy says it is not to be.  What is the Deputy's alternative?  I would like if the Deputy would kindly explain what would happen under his amendment.  He has not attempted to do so.  The Deputy talked about Star Chambers and other things. He got very vague and quite cloquent,   but he kept clearly off his amendment.  I ask the House to reject the amendment. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Justice has already confuted his own argument in another place.  If I might be allowed to say it, it is difficult to work without one's tools, and when an argument has been put up in another place in certain words it should be within our competence to quote these words, but no matter.  The Minister now argues that the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; is quite unnecessary. 
     
     
      
       I asked the Deputy to explain the difference. 
     
     
      
       The difference then as he pictured it is that if the document is handed up without the word &ldquo;privately,&rdquo; it is open to publication in the Press that the verdict is not a unanimous verdict. 
     
     
      
       No.  Will the Deputy read the amendment? It says that the number and the identity of the dissentients (if any) shall not be disclosed. 
     
     
      
       Quite so.  But you have already amended that. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       By saying, &ldquo;save as is hereinafter mentioned.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Yes, after the writing is given to the Judge. 
     
     
      
       The verdict of the jury without disclosure of the number, &ldquo;save as is hereinafter mentioned.&rdquo; In other words, that there can be a disclosure. 
     
     
      
       No, only the disclosure which is allowed&mdash; that is, a disclosure by the foreman to the Judge.  That is the only disclosure allowed by this section. 
     
     
      
       No, because you must read the two sections together.  If we get what we want, the &ldquo;save as is hereinafter mentioned&rdquo; will apply.  It must, and what we envisage   is that, at least, the public will know the jury has not been unanimous. As a matter of fact, it would be the greatest protection to the jury, because every one of the jurymen can go out and say: &ldquo;I was one of those who did not sentence these people.&rdquo;  It is greater protection for the jury to have publicity in this matter than to leave it as a Star Chamber proceeding, where the whole thing is clouded in mystery, and therefore greater suspicion will attach to the unfortunate jury.  These words in the previous section are going to give a lot of trouble.  I let them pass without comment because I thought they afforded a trap to the Minister.  Read in conjunction with Section 6, if this Bill is going to be operated at all, the Minister will have to bring in further amendments such as we have on the Order Paper, because an amendment such as our Amendment No. 3 will be absolutely essential.  The new amendment, as it stands, leaves the whole thing in the air, read in connection with the amendment now being discussed as part of Section 5. It is impossible to know whether the Judge is to act and is to give his judgment, and I will tell you why&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       We are only discussing the question of the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; now. 
     
     
      
       Yes, but this all works together. 
     
     
      
       We can take the Seanad amendment afterwards, but we have to dispose of Deputy Ruttledge's amendment now. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy Ruttledge has dealt very amply with the word &ldquo;privately.&rdquo;  Of course the whole Bill is wrong.  It is not because we are trying to improve it slightly that we are in anyway implicating ourselves in supporting the Bill or any section of it. 
     
     
      
       I want to get clearly from the Minister for Justice what exactly the Seanad amendment means.  The Minister has asked Deputy Ruttledge to state what in his opinion would be the effect of the   deletion of the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; from the amendment; what would happen in the Court if the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; were deleted?  I want the Minister to tell us what would happen if the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; were kept in?  What does it mean there?  Are we to take it that the foreman of the jury is not to notify the Judge in Court, or is to meet him outside in some lane and notify him there?  If he hands him a written document in Court, is he not handing it to him publicly?  He cannot do that under this section if it is accepted.  I take it that the foreman is to slip round to the side door, meet the Judge coming out, and having taken precautions to see no one is looking, to slip into the Judge's pocket a notice to the effect that the jury disagreed in its verdict.  Is not that the plain meaning of the wording of the section? If it is not, I want the Minister to tell us exactly what it does mean. I take it that if the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; is deleted, it will involve the foreman sending a written notification of disagreement to the Judge in the Court, in the presence of the Court and in the full view of the Court.  He will convey that written notification to the Judge, and the Judge will be at liberty, in his discretion, to make known the fact that there had been disagreement in the jury if he thinks it is in the interests of justice that it should be made public.  I do not think it is undesirable that the public should know that there has been a disagreement. I will admit the Minister's point that the Bill is for the protection of jurors, and that it may be undesirable that the individual jurymen who disagreed should be singled out. 
     
     That is not necessary, and it is not asked for in this amendment.  The only thing that is asked for in this amendment is that the public should know if a man has been sentenced to death upon a majority verdict. Why is the Minister anxious that the public should not get that information? Is it not because he knows that public opinion would not stand over, in any circumstances, the execution   of a man, tried in court before a jury, when three members of that jury, having listened to the evidence, were convinced that he was innocent?  It is because the Minister knows that a single execution on a majority verdict would so arouse public opinion that the whole Bill would be swept away that he is anxious to prevent public opinion from being so informed, that he wants to get this thing done in the dark instead of in the light, that he wants to keep as many words in the Bill as possible that suggest secrecy and privacy?  I think that if the Minister wanted the Bill to work properly, he would accept Deputy Ruttledge's amendment.  We do not want the Bill to work, and therefore I hope that the Minister will succeed in carrying the Seanad's amendment.  In the first place, it means nothing; in the second place, it will involve some meeting between the foreman of the jury and the Judge in some back street or in some private house, and in the third place, I believe that, as soon as the Minister permits one execution to take place on a majority verdict under this Bill, the whole structure of the Bill will collapse. 
     
      
       It is with great delight I hear that when we come to vote upon Deputy Ruttledge's amendment, I will find Deputy Lemass in our lobby.  It will be, I think, about the first time that the Fianna Fail Party has split. 
     
     
      
       We are unanimous. 
     
     
      
       I will be delighted to see it, because after his plain statement a moment ago, I do not think, in spite of his mental agility, that Deputy Lemass will manage to wriggle himself out of voting in our lobby on this occasion. If he does, then Deputy Lemass's plain, open statements in this House mean nothing.  He wanted to know what will happen, and he talked about the foreman of the jury meeting the Judge in a back lane, or something of that kind.  That will be absolutely impossible.  What will happen will be that the foreman of   the jury will privately hand to the Judge&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       In the court? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       That will not be private; that will be public. 
     
     
      
       Oh, yes, it will be private.  He will hand there in court to the Judge a paper which will state whether the jury were unanimous or whether they were divided.  That is precisely the procedure that will be adopted. 
     
     
      
       Then I take it that the foreman of the jury will hand it publicly to the Judge? 
     
     
      
       It depends entirely on what the Deputy means by handing &ldquo;publicly.&rdquo;  If the Deputy means that he reads it out&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Oh, no. 
     
     
      
       It will be the same as if I were to hand a document to the Deputy here privately. 
     
     
      
       Will it not be in Court, in the view of the public? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       That will be public. If the Minister can make sense out   of that he can make sense out of anything. 
     
     
      
       If that is the Minister's interpretation of the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; that would not prevent the reporters publishing in the papers the fact that it was a majority verdict. 
     
     
      
       Of course it would, because a paper will be handed in any event, and it will state whether the jury are unanimous or whether they are divided. 
     
     
      
       And it will not appear in the Press? 
     
     
      
       Of course it will not.  It will be handed privately to the Judge. 
     
     
      
       In public. 
     
     
      
       And the fact that the paper is handed in is the only thing that will be known. 
     
     
      
       The paper will be handed privately to the Judge in public? 
     
     
      
       If the foreman only hands up this document publicly-privately that the jury are not unanimous, the public in Court will judge, if the paper goes up publicly-privately that they are not unanimous. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 70; Nil, 40. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene.
 MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. 
             Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick.
 O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. De Valera, Eamon. Fahy, Frank. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Powell, Thomas P. Ruttledge, Patrick J. Ryan, James. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P. S. Doyle.  Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       The question is, therefore, &ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment No. 2.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       We are opposed to this amendment with or without the word &ldquo;privately&rdquo; in it.  We think that the purpose for which the amendment was inserted in the Bill was to give the illusion of a safeguard against a miscarriage of justice. I think it is obvious that it is only an illusion, that in fact no such safeguard is provided.  I do not know if that is also the view of the Minister, but I take it it is&mdash;that it is only an illusion.  If he thinks otherwise, we are still opposed to the amendment, because if he thinks that any safeguard is provided by this amendment, then we are to take the acceptance of it by the Executive Council as an admission that under the Bill as originally introduced by them a miscarriage of justice was possible.  In any case, the acceptance of the amendment by us would or could be taken as an expression of confidence in the Minister for Justice or the Executive Council, which we do not feel.  The proposal here is that if a jury, which is empanelled to hear the evidence at the trial of some person charged with an offence for which he is liable to be sentenced to death, is unable to agree as to that person's guilt, if in fact a number up to three of the members of that jury are convinced on the evidence that the man is innocent, but the remainder believe him guilty and record their verdict as guilty, and that man is accordingly sentenced to death, then the question as to whether or not he is to be executed is to be decided by the Minister for Justice.  We do not believe that the   Minister for Justice is capable of giving an impartial verdict upon any question.  We do not believe the Minister for Justice is a fit and proper person to decide whether or not a man should die when a jury of twelve impartial citizens empanelled for the purpose are unable to decide it.  Since the Minister for Justice was appointed to the post, he has repeatedly given indication that he is less concerned with the proper administration of his Department than with the making of capital for the Party of which he is now a member.  If any trial of a political nature came up for decision while this Bill was in operation; if there was a disagreement of the jury and a majority verdict recorded; if a person opposed politically to the Minister was sentenced to death, and the question as to whether or not he should die was referred to the Minister, I do not believe the Minister is capable of giving a fair decision. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I might inform the Deputy, so that he may spare himself this exhausting diatribe, that it is not the Minister for Justice who decides in a capital case, but the Executive Council, on whose advice the death sentence is commuted. 
     
     
      
       That is worse still. 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy says, that is worse.  I am dealing with the amendment.  I want to keep strictly in order.  The amendment states that the judge shall report to the Minister for Justice the information so obtained.  Why is he to report to the Minister? 
     
     
      
       In order that the Minister for Justice may inform the Executive Council of that fact, as it is a circumstance to be taken into consideration.  I am afraid the Deputy did not listen to me. 
     
     
      
       I take it another amendment is required&mdash;that it shall be the duty of the Minister to inform the Executive Council if he receives such a report.  I take it   that as the law will stand if this amendment is passed there is no obligation on the Minister so to inform the Executive Council&mdash;no obligation whatever.  The Minister can put the report in the wastepaper basket and forget all about it, and that settles the question and the man hangs.  Even if the Minister does report to the Executive Council, what difference does it make? Is it likely that the possibility of an unfair decision will be obviated by having the question decided by the Minister for Justice or by the Minister for Justice's colleagues on the Executive Council?  From our experience of the Minister's colleagues, our opinion of them is no higher than it is of the Minister himself. We do not believe that the Executive Council are capable of giving an impartial decision when political issues are involved any more than the Minister for Justice.  It is the Minister who is mentioned here.  The Minister could, I submit, settle the question for himself by putting the report into the wastepaper basket. That settles it&mdash;there is no more about it.  Whether or not two or three members of the jury that tried a man believe him to be innocent, he dies, just because the Minister for Justice puts the report in the wastepaper basket, or because the Executive Council, unable to act in a judicial capacity, decide the issue on a political ground.  The Minister for Justice and the Executive Council have at all times shown that they are less concerned with the respect or repute of the Department of Justice than with the political capital which they can make for themselves by the operation of that Department.  The Minister for Justice has repeatedly shown that not merely is he incapable of arriving at an impartial decision where political issues are involved, but he is incapable or unwilling to control his Department where political issues are involved, if that Department is acting irregularly.  It is because of that fact that we are opposed to the amendment, and because of that fact I would personally prefer that the question of the sentence to be imposed   upon a man found guilty under such circumstances should be settled, not by the Minister for Justice, not by the Executive Council, but by the Judge. 
     
     
      
       It is settled by the Judge.  The Judge passes the death sentence, and it is only the question of commutation that comes up. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       Exactly, the question as to whether or not a person whom the Minister wants to railroad out of existence dies or not.  The whole Bill, as we argued repeatedly, is designed to make it possible for the Executive Council to bring before a packed jury somebody against whom they cannot get enough of evidence to convict in the ordinary way. 
     
     
      
       Are we discussing the Second Reading of the Bill or the amendment?  It is a pity to lose this brilliant rhetoric, but I submit this is quite irrelevant. 
     
     
      
       We will get back to the amendment.  The Executive Council originally intended that when they had got the victim tried before a packed jury and a sentence of death by a majority from the jury, they should end the matter. However, certain criticisms were expressed, not by members on this side of the House, but elsewhere&mdash; in the columns of the &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; and of &ldquo;The Irish Statesman,&rdquo; and such like Conservative organs, which, having become alarmed at the revolutionary proposals which the Executive Council introduced, expressed criticism.  Even the august Seanad saw there was danger of a miscarriage of justice, and awakened from their apathy in order to express an opinion on the matter and suggest this amendment. The Minister at long last bowed his head slightly to the storm of criticism and accepted the amendment.  I say he has accepted the amendment, not because it does in fact provide any safeguard against a miscarriage of justice, but   because it serves as a red herring to delude the mugs in the Seanad and the innocent people who exist throughout the country.  In fact there is no safeguard.  The issue is decided once the jury have recorded their verdict.  The sending of a notice to the Minister will not alter it unless, of course, it is a trial of no political importance, and unless the circumstances are such as to make it politically expedient for the Minister to reverse the death sentence.  But, if the victim is politically an opponent of the Minister, and if it is in the interest of Cumann na nGaedheal that he shall die, then he shall die, whether this amendment is in the Bill or not. That is why we are opposed to it. 
     
     
      
       Taken in connection with the amendment already passed in Section 5, this amendment now makes the original section read: &ldquo;and the verdict of such nine members, or upward, shall be taken and recorded as the verdict of the jury without disclosure of the number save as is hereinafter mentioned. In other words that, taken in connection with this amendment, is going to leave it in doubt as to whether it is to be taken that the verdict of the jury is to be recorded or not.  It is open to the Judge to interpret this amendment together with the amended section, that he is not to record it as a verdict if it is only that of the majority.  His duty, and his only duty, is to report to the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I can quite easily deal with the points that have been raised.  As far as Deputy Lemass is concerned, I notice that all his courage oozed out when he came to the sticking point.  He could not go into the Division Lobby that his speech before had obviously suggested that he should go into.  Then, to show his courage had come back, he indulged in some very violent rhetoric, but rhetoric that was nicely worded.  The Deputy always words his speeches nicely; but so far as effective criticism of the Bill, or of the amendment made by the Senate, is concerned,   I submit the Deputy's speech was perfectly valueless.  What will happen will be that when the Executive Council takes into account, as the Executive always does, whether the prerogative of mercy should or should not be exercised in a case in which the death sentence has been passed, they will have the knowledge before them that it was a majority verdict.  That is the object of this amendment.  If Deputies opposite think it is inadvisable that they should not have that knowledge; if they think it is a thing that should be kept from the Executive Council; if they think it is a thing that should not be known at all by the Executive Council, then, of course, they will vote against this amendment, as Deputy Lemass suggested.  I would like to ask the Fianna Fail Party seriously will they vote against this amendment, because, in spite of Deputy Lemass's rhetoric, he has completely gone back on every argument hitherto put forward by his own party on this Bill.  I would be surprised if he brings his party and his leader with him on this occasion into the Lobby against this amendment. 
     
     
      
       Is there not plenty of machinery already providing for the exercise of the prerogative of mercy? 
     
     
      
       No, because, unless this amendment is inserted, even the Minister for Justice or the Executive Council would not know it was a majority verdict. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agrees with the Seanad in Amendment No. 2,&rdquo;&mdash;put and declared carried. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agrees with the Seanad in Amendment 3: &ldquo;Section 6, sub-section (3).  The word &lsquo;shall&rsquo; deleted in line 35 and the word &lsquo;may&rsquo; substituted therefor.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Amendment 3 has already been ruled out of order. 
     
     
      
       The Ceann Comhairle   dealt with my amendments, 2 and 3, and ruled No. 3 out of order, but with regard to my amendment, No. 4, on the Order Paper, he said he would deal with that on its merits when the time came.  There are powers under the Standing Orders, I think, though I cannot put my hand on the particular Order at the moment, to recall the Ceann Comhairle on an occasion like this, because otherwise it would place me in a difficult position.  Having argued the case before the Ceann Comhairle up to a certain point, it would be better to complete the matter with him.  Of course, I do not wish to cast any slur on the Leas-Cheann Comhairle in making this suggestion. 
     
     
      
       I shall allow the Deputy to put his points to me now. 
     
     
      
       This is a case where a person charged has refused to recognise the court, and the Judge is to sentence such a person to six months' imprisonment, it may be for one or various offences, all of which are included in the phrase, &ldquo;shall act disrespectfully or contumaciously towards the court.&rdquo;  Not recognising the court is regarded as an act of that kind.  Now, while it would be impossible, without changing the present procedure, to ask the jury to decide the matter, at later stages the jury could be asked to decide the matter, because even in the course of the trial something may arise where an expression of opinion will be given by the person charged, as has happened in cases in the past, and then it would be for the jury, exercising its proper function, to decide a question of fact, and not of law.  We had an amendment of this kind down at the early stages of the Bill, but the Minister chose not to understand the principle involved, because it crossed with the present practice and procedure. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not arguing the question of the relevancy of the amendment, but is rather dealing with the merits   of the amendment, with which the Chair is not concerned. 
     
     
      
       In arguing the relevancy of the amendment, we must take it in connection with Amendment 3, which substitutes the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; for &ldquo;shall.&rdquo;  Instead of being a matter of obligation upon the Judge to impose a sentence, he now is in the position to form his own judgement on the matter, where you have the word &ldquo;may,&rdquo; and we are simply adding that the principle remains exactly the same&mdash;namely, that the Judge may do that, but once the jury is sworn that he does that with the concurrence of the jury.  If that is not relevant, I do not see what is relevant, and the ruling of that out of order is a thing that I cannot understand. 
       It makes any amendment impossible. Here we have the case where a Judge is going to exercise his power.  The amendment says that he &ldquo;may&rdquo; exercise it, instead of that he &ldquo;shall&rdquo; exercise it.  We say that he may exercise it in concurrence with the views of the jury. How that varies the principle of the exercise of power I fail to see.  I believe that if the Ceann Comhairle were here he might be inclined to form a different view to the view that he formed at first and allow the matter to be argued in full. 
     
     
      
       I may say that the Deputy's amendment and the other amendments were very carefully considered by the Ceann Comhairle and myself.  The amendment submitted by the Deputy is not a variation of any particular principle, but is the introduction on this stage of a completely new principle into the Bill.  It is on that ground that it has been ruled out of order, and it is clearly out of order on that ground.  The Deputy's amendment seeks to introduce a completely new principle into the Bill as it has come back from the Seanad.  That is something which could not be done, or, at all events, should not be allowed to be done by the Chair on this stage of the Bill. 
     
     
     
      
       I think it is a variation in degree and not of principle. It says that the Judge may do such-and-such a thing. 
     
     
      
       The Chair is allowing that.  As I have already pointed out, the Deputy's amendment to the Seanad amendment seeks to introduce a completely new principle into the Bill&mdash;a principle which was not in the Bill when introduced, or inserted at any stage when it was going through this House or through the Seanad.  The amendment is not relevant and is therefore out of order. 
       Amendment 3 from the Seanad put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment 4: Section 7, sub-section (1).  The word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; deleted in line 6 and the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       Amendment to Amendment No. 4. 5.  In Amendment No. 4 after the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;upon hearing such further evidence as he shall think proper.&rdquo;&mdash;(Patrick J. Ruttledge). 
     
     
      
       Is my amendment being ruled out of order? 
     
     
      
       I cannot add anything to what Deputy Little has already said.  It is not a question of principle.  If it is a question of principle, then that question of principle was introduced by the Seanad.  In this matter, the Seanad have changed what was peremptory in the Bill as the Bill went before them.  The Seanad amendment gives a discretion.  As regards any variation of that discretionary power, we are merely seeking that, instead of the Judge having a discretionary power with regard to the evidence of the superintendent, there should be power to call other evidence.  I think that the Judge always has that power to call other evidence if he wishes. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is now speaking on the   merits of his amendment.  The Seanad amendment merely substitutes the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; for the word &ldquo;shall.&rdquo;  Deputy Ruttledge's amendment seeks to introduce a new principle altogether.  That is the view of the Chair on the matter.  As the Chair takes that view, I cannot allow Amendment 5 to be moved. 
     
     
      
       Do you suggest that for a Judge to hear evidence is a new principle in law? 
     
     
      
       The Chair has nothing to do with that. 
       Amendment 4 from the Seanad agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment 5: 
       &ldquo;Section 7, sub-section (1).  Before the word &lsquo;shall&rsquo; in line 7 the words &lsquo;in that case&rsquo; inserted.&rdquo; 
       This is a consequential amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment 6: Section 8, sub-section (1).  After the word &ldquo;often&rdquo; in line 1 the words &ldquo;(but not more than twice in respect of any one trial)&rdquo; inserted in brackets. 
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 6 to this amendment from the Seanad. 
       &ldquo;In the amendment to delete the word &lsquo;twice&rsquo; and substitute therefor the word &lsquo;once.&rsquo;&rdquo;  Perhaps the Minister would deal with the amendment from the Seanad first. 
     
     
      
       As the Bill was originally drafted there was no limit to the number of times. If a jury were intimidated, or if a Judge were satisfied that it came under this section, the trial may, at the discretion of the Judge, be adjourned.  In this amendment from the Seanad the adjournment is limited to two occasions, that is, the   trial of a prisoner on the same charge for the same offence can only be twice adjourned for the grounds stated in the section. 
     
     
      
       In this case, we suggest the limit should be not &ldquo;twice,&rdquo; but &ldquo;once,&rdquo; for even as it is the power is abused by the courts, particularly in political cases.  We wish to limit that as much as possible, and we, therefore, propose that &ldquo;twice&rdquo; be changed to &ldquo;once.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I cannot accept the amendment, and I ask the House to reject it.  Consider the section:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Whenever and as often as a Judge presiding in the Central Criminal Court or a Judge of the Circuit Court, sitting for the trial of criminal issues, is satisfied that, by reason of intimidation or attempted intimidation of jurors or witnesses either in relation to the trial of criminal issues generally or of any class of criminal issues or in relation to the trial of a particular person....&rdquo; 
       In other words, when the Judge is satisfied on the matter of intimidation he can give an adjournment, but he must be satisfied that there is intimidation going on, that there cannot be a fair trial, and that the jury have been intimidated, and cannot bring in a verdict, or that it is putting too big a strain on them to ask them to bring in a verdict according to their conscience.  The Judge, under these circumstances, has power to adjourn.  I think twice is as short a time as possible in order that justice should be done. If intimidation exists an adjournment for three months would be too short.  Six months would be the shortest possible time. 
     
     
      
       What about the poor, unfortunate man in jail all this time? 
     
     
      
       If the poor, unfortunate man or his friends did not intimidate the jury he would not be in jail.  I hope the Deputy does not approve of intimidation. 
     
     
     
      
       How can a man in jail intimidate? 
     
     
      
       His friends could. 
     
     
      
       This is giving the power to the Judge to remand and remand on what he imagines to be intimidation.  It does not say evidence is to be produced, but merely   as long as the Judge is satisfied, whatever that means, he can go on adjourning. 
     
     
      
       I cannot explain the English language to the Deputy if he does not know it. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the word proposed to be deleted stand part of the Seanad amendment.&rdquo; 
       The Committee divided:&mdash;Ta, 65; Nil, 40. 
       Ta. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Beckett, James Walter. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. MacEoin, Sean. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Murphy, James E. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahoney, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. De Valera, Eamon. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             
               Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Leary William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Powell, Thomas P. Ruttledge, Patrick J. Ryan, James. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P. S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     
     
      
       Amendment 7 inserted in the Seanad is consequential on the amendment that has been passed.  It reads: 
       Section 8, sub-section (3).  The word &ldquo;more&rdquo; deleted in line 26 and the word &ldquo;two&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
     
      
       My amendment to amendment 7 is also consequential. 
       Amendment to amendment No. 7 not moved. 
       Seanad amendment No. 7 agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 8:&mdash; 
       Section 13, sub-section (3).  The words and figures &ldquo;31st day of December&rdquo; deleted in lines 68-9 and the words and figures &ldquo;30th day of September&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       That alters the date of the expiration of the Bill from the 31st December to the 30th of September. 
     
     
      
       I move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       In the amendment after the word &ldquo;September&rdquo; to add the figures &ldquo;1929&rdquo; and consequentially to delete the figures &ldquo;1931&rdquo; in Section 13 (3) of the Bill. 
     
     This amendment is to the effect that the period of the Bill shall terminate on the 30th September, 1929. It is about a month too long for the Bill to last.  Already we have seen the effect of this Bill.  It has created an atmosphere in the country which has done a great deal of harm, and the quicker it is brought to a conclusion the better.  It is reeking with secrecy where publicity is the very essence of justice. It is imposing sentences of imprisonment on persons simply for holding strong political views where they refuse to recognise the authority of the Court.  The whole Bill is a degradation of justice in the country and a prostitution of the jury system.  You can see the effects of it even at present, where sentences   of two years with hard labour have been imposed in cases which were obviously political. 
     
      
       On a point of order, has this anything to do with the date of the expiration of the Bill?  I respectfully submit it has not.  The issue before the House is as to whether this Bill is to expire in December, 1931, or in September, 1929.  I submit that is the only question and not the merits of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I am in agreement with the Minister on that point.  I am prepared, however, to allow the Deputy to make a case for his amendment, but he should realise that he must not make a Second Reading speech.  I cannot allow the Deputy to go into the matter as thoroughly as he would be permitted if the occasion were a Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       I had that in mind. That was why I said that even at the present time one can see the effect of the Bill&mdash;the shadow cast by this Bill&mdash;because already it is prejudicing&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must not, on this or any other Bill, criticise judgments of the courts. 
     
     
      
       If I cannot argue the merits of the Bill as it is, and if I cannot argue the effect it is already having upon the administration of justice, I am in a difficulty to know what I can argue. 
     
     
      
       I have not suggested that the Deputy cannot argue the merits of his amendment.  I have informed him that he cannot criticise judgments of the courts. 
     
     
      
       This Bill helps those who wish to do so to confuse the cases of real criminals with those of persons who, according to the present Administration, are political offenders.  It adds to that atmosphere the cloak of secrecy.  That is   about the vilest principle that could be introduced into a judicial system. We have here people who are honest&mdash;some might say they are too honest&mdash;victimised as criminals because they feel it is their duty in open court to say that they do not recognise the court.  Because of that they are to be victimised; they are to be confused with people guilty of the vilest crimes who may be sentenced for various periods with or without hard labour.  There is no clause in this Bill which gives it any redeeming feature.  One can take clause after clause, and ask one's self: &ldquo;Would it not be better for that clause to have ceased to be in existence by the end of September?&rdquo; One could examine each clause and each sub-section of that clause, and be quite clear in one's mind that there is nothing in the Bill which deserves a continued existence after September.  It will add to bitterness instead of reducing it.  It will make the name of the Minister for Justice, who introduced it, more odious in the country than it has been in the past.  I submit that in the interests of justice and in the interests of fair dealing with political opponents, the Minister should, even at this late hour, accept my amendment, and put an end to this Bill as quickly as possible. 
     
     
      
       Nuair a thainig an Bille seo os coir na Dala ar dtuis, dubhairt an tAire Dli agus Cirt go mbeadh saol fada roimhe&mdash; go leanfadh se cho fada agus leanfadh reim an Rialtais.  Tar eis tamaill, dubhairt se nach leanfadh se ach ar feadh dha bhliain.  Ba mhaith an smaoineamh san agus ta a fhios agam cad fa ndear an t-ath-aru tuairime sin.  Ba mhaith an smaoineamh anois deire do chur leis an mBille i gcionn miosa.  Da thuisce a cuirfear deire leis, is amh-laidh is fearr e agus tuigeann an tAire an meid sin.  Thar aon ni eile, is ga i gcursai dli gach rud a bheith os ard, i dtreo nach mbeidh droch-amhras ag na daoine fa na cuirteanna.  Chonnaiceas le deanai sna paipeiri tuarasgabhail ar a thuit amach i gcuirt i mBeal Feirste.   Tathar ag cainnt ar an Rialtas annseo agus cho maith agus ata se.  Tugadh os coir na geuirteanna i mBeal Feirste beirt nar aithnigh an chuirt. Leigeadh saor an bheirt ach da mbeadh siad in a gcomhnuidhe san Saorstat gheobhadh siad se miosa.  Is mor an naire e an sceal a bheith mar sin.  Ta daoine ann nach n-aithnionn na cuirteanna; ni coir sin a ra agus ni ceart se miosa do chur orra. 
       Mar gheall ar uimhreacha do chur ar lucht an ghiuire, an gereideann duine ar bith nach feidir na h-ainm-neacha d'fhail amach?  Agus ma bhionn uimhreacha ar na coisteoiri, is deine a bheas daoine ag obair chun fhail amach ce hiad.  Ma bhionn naonbhar ar thaobh daortha agus triur in a aghaidh, an saoileann duine ar bith nach mbeidh se i gcumas duine ainmneacha an triuir d'fhail amach?  Nach gcuirfidh an triur in uil do chach nach raibh siad ar thaobh an daortha?  Is olc an plean e ar fad. 
       Nil aon dabht nach ceart duine do dhaora chun bais ar thuairim furmhor an ghiuire.  Thiocfadh liom a lan a ra ar an mBille seo ach deir an Leas-Cheann Comhairle nach mbeidh cead ag Teachta moran do ra ar an leas-run so.  Ach deirim go mba cheart deire do chur le gach alt den Bhille seo cho luath agus is feidir e.  Is do liom go mba cheart deire do chur leis i gcionn miosa agus, mar gheall ar sin, taim i bhfabhar an leas-ruin seo. 
     
     
      
       I submit to the House that this is a childish amendment.  The House is asked to insert an amendment in a Bill which will have the extraordinary effect, that the Bill will cease to act before it has ever become operative. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear; excellent. 
     
     
      
       If this were to be inserted in the Bill it would mean that this Bill would cease to be operative before a single criminal court would sit under its provisions.  Bringing forward an amendment like the present is simply turning the whole procedure   of the Oireachtas into a farce. I ask the House to reject it. 
     
     
      
       The Minister does not make any case for the continuance of the Bill.  Does not the Minister realise that this Bill has served its purpose?  It has served its purpose at two by-elections and having served that propagandist purpose which was the only purpose ever genuinely intended that it should serve, would not the Minister agree now to let this amendment of Deputy Little's go through? 
     
     
      
       (West Cork): The Deputy who has just spoken, Deputy Ruttledge, made a very unfair suggestion with regard to this Bill. He said the Bill was promoted for propagandist purposes at two by-elections. That is not so.  The Bill was introduced because a juror was shot and because a witness who had given evidence in a court of law was shot.  The Government had no other alternative open to them but to introduce this Bill in the Dail, and we   here, elected by the people, have no alternative but to pass this Bill into law.  The time that has been spent over these silly amendments to this Bill is time that could be put to better use.  I have no hesitation in saying that there has been a pure waste of public time here in presenting objections to the placing of this Bill on the Statute Book. 
     
     
      
       I would point out to the Deputy who has just spoken that he should reconsider his attitude towards this Bill.  It is really several months since these unfortunate incidents to which he referred occurred and there is no question of an alternative at all. Nothing has happened since and what did happen then was of such a sporadic nature as not to justify the upheaval and the destruction of the whole system so far as penal law is concerned. 
       Amendment to Seanad Amendment 8 put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 41; Nil, 65. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Colohan, Hugh. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. De Valera, Eamon. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. 
             
               Goulding, John. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Leary, William. Powell, Thomas P. Ruttledge, Patrick J. Ryan, James. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Beckett, James Walter. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin.
 Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. MacEoin, Sean. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. 
             Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N.
 Murphy, James E. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta Deputies G. Boland and Allen; Nil: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Seanad Amendment 8 put and agreed to. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Agreement to Seanad amendment reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in its report&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
     Message to be sent to the Seanad acquainting them accordingly. 
   
   
     Police Activities in Clare. 
     
      
       As the Dail was about to adjourn on the last occasion, I sought permission to call the attention of the House to a case of ill-treatment about which I had just heard that afternoon.  An Leas-Cheann Comhairle ruled that I could not raise the matter, and as I got subsequent confirmatory information, I thought it my duty to pay a visit to Co. Clare and to see the man who was ill-treated.  Accordingly, on Monday, July 15th, I went to Clare and saw this man.  A short while after I returned I sent a letter to the President of the Executive Council which was written from the notes of the statements made to me by this man, Mr. T.J. Ryan, of Cranny, Co. Clare.  I think that the best way for me to give the House the information would be to read the letter. 
       &ldquo;Concerning the maltreatment on several occasions of Mr. T. J. Ryan, of Cranny, Kilrush, Co. Clare, by members of the Detective Branch of the Civic Guard:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;July 17th, 1929. 
       &ldquo;To the President of the Executive Council. 
       &ldquo;I wish to draw your attention personally to the following: 
       &ldquo;(1)  On June 16th last, on his way home from Bodenstown with five companions, Mr. T.J. Ryan, of Cranny, Kilrush, Co. Clare, was held up on the road between Clarecastle and Ennis by two members of the Detective Division, ordered to leave the car, and searched. 
     
     &ldquo;On refusing to give an account of his movements (he had already been held up three times on the journey from Sallins), Mr. Ryan was pushed against a wall, threatened, and struck repeatedly on the stomach and chest.  He was then ordered into the car, and, as he was entering, one of the detectives rushed at him and kicked him. When in the car he was again assaulted, one detective, taking hold of the iron starting handle   of the car, struck him with it on the legs, severely wounding him on the shin.  The other detective rushed at him and struck him with his fist on the right eye, blackening it.  Before he was let go threats of all sorts were made by the detectives, including threats to murder Mr. Ryan.  He was treated for injuries to his stomach, leg and eye by Doctors M'Auliffe and O'Dea. 
     &ldquo;(2)  On July 1st, Mr. Ryan's house was raided, and a watch has been kept since by detectives day and night.  No reason was given to Mr. Ryan, either for the raids or for the constant surveillance to which he has been subjected. 
     &ldquo;(3)  On Sunday, July 7th, about 3 a.m. Mr. Ryan was called from the window of his bedroom and ordered to get up.  He got up and opened the door.  He was then pulled outside the house by two detectives, and pushed into an adjoining yard.  He was repeatedly struck on the face and body, one of the assailants, with a drawn revolver, struck him with it on the body.  The second lashed him with what appeared to be a belt on the body and legs.  He was maltreated like this for some minutes before he was allowed back to the house. 
     &ldquo;(4)  On entering, he went to the bedroom of his mother, who is old and an invalid.  He was ordered by the detectives to get out of the room or he would be riddled with bullets. 
     &ldquo;(5)  He then went to his own room and returned to bed.  Some time later he was again ordered by a detective from the window to get up.  When he opened the door he was once more beaten and kicked.  He was then allowed back to bed. 
     &ldquo;(6)  He got up about seven or eight o'clock.  It would appear that the detectives on watch had meanwhile been changed.  Whilst preparing breakfast (he resides alone with his mother), he was   again struck on the face by a detective. On saying that he would take legal proceedings, the second detective said he saw no assault. 
     &ldquo;(7)  Mr. Ryan next went out to milk his cows; he was again struck several times, knocked down, punched generally on the body and stomach.  This was repeated a number of times whilst he was endeavouring to milk the cows.  His ears and hair were pulled, until finally he had to abandon the milking.  The milking stool was thrown at him as he left.  He was dazed with the beating and went to bed. 
     &ldquo;(8)  About noon he was again ordered to get up.  When he did not obey, the window of his bedroom was raised, and an attempt was made by one of the detectives to get in by it.  Being unable to do so, this detective and his companion burst in the door, which was on latch.  The two detectives rushed into Mr. Ryan's bedroom; they pulled him out of bed, struck him, threw him down and kicked him.  He went back to bed, but was pulled out again and beaten and thrown on the floor.  This happened three or four times.  Whilst in the bed he was throttled by one of the detectives, the other holding his hands. When lying on his back in the bed also they knelt on his stomach.  These assaults were accompanied by abusive and threatening language.  All this took place, roughly, between 12 and 1 o'clock.  Mr. Ryan's mother was witness to his being beaten in the bedroom. 
     &ldquo;Having been told of the assaults on Mr. Ryan, I went to Clare on Monday last; saw Mr. Ryan in his home, and learned from him the above details.  As I was approaching Mr. Ryan's house I saw a man beside the house, obviously on duty.  He accosted me as I was about to enter, asking my name, which I gave.  When I entered he followed; and when Mr. Ryan invited me into his bedroom, he   accompanied us and was present in the bedroom whilst I took notes of Mr. Ryan's statements.  On leaving, I asked this man his name. He showed me his police card and said his name was Mulkeen.  When I reached the road, on leaving Mr. Ryan's house, two men with bicycles, whom I believed to be detectives, signalled me to stop.  I was recognised and let pass. 
     &ldquo;Mr. Ryan bears on his person marks of the ill-treatment he has received.  One of his eyes is black and his shin has medical dressings on it, which I did not let him remove.  He is being attended by Dr. O'Dea of Kildysart.  He has also been visited by the local curate, Father Austin&mdash;both of whom can give evidence of Mr. Ryan's condition and of the condition of his invalid mother. 
     &ldquo;The attention of the Minister for Justice has been called more than once to the conduct of some members of the Detective Force in West Clare.  He was furnished with affidavits made by citizens who were assaulted by detectives who were named, and was called upon by the Clare Teachtai and by the Clare County Council to hold a public enquiry into the charges made; but he refused to hold an investigation or to take any disciplinary action.  His attitude has been such as would encourage unruly members of the Detective Force to believe that their assaults on unarmed citizens had the approval of the Executive Council. 
     &ldquo;May I ask why Mr. Ryan is kept virtually a prisoner in his own home; what legal authority there is for it; and whether you will have an enquiry held into the conduct of the Guards who have assaulted Mr. Ryan? 
     &ldquo;(Signed) EAMON DE VALERA.&rdquo; 
     I signed that letter and had it delivered at the office of the President. I got a reply from the office the next day informing me that the President had referred the matter to the Minister for Justice.  On 26th July I received the following letter   from the Minister for Justice, which I also think it better to read: 
     &ldquo;Department of Justice, 
     &ldquo;Dublin. 
     &ldquo;26th July, 1929. 
     &ldquo;A Dhuine Uasail, 
     &ldquo;With reference to your letter of the 17th instant addressed to the President and referred by him, as you are already aware, to me, I write to say that I have now completed my inquiries into the charges of assault made to you by T.J. Ryan of Cranny, County Clare, as set forth in your said letter to the President. 
     &ldquo;Mr. Ryan's complaint to you appears to be that on the 16th June and again on the 7th July he was assaulted by certain members of the Garda Siochana.  The Garda concerned emphatically deny the truth of these allegations, and their denial appears to me to be borne out by the facts and circumstances of the case. The story given to you by Mr. Ryan of the assault alleged to have taken place on the 16th June sounds highly improbable, and it is noteworthy that no formal complaint was made by him to any officer of the Garda Siochana.  As regards the 7th July, the police report that when Mr. Ryan was milking one of his cows in his yard on that morning in the presence of the police on duty he was knocked down by the cow he was milking and appears to have received a black eye in consequence. Mr. Ryan apparently proceeds to build up on this accidental injury the long story which he told you, obviously by way of propaganda. It appears to me that the whole value of Mr. Ryan's testimony throughout can be measured from this little episode and in the circumstances I accept the police version. 
     &ldquo;With reference to the police surveillance to which Mr. Ryan has subjected himself, I have to say that it is well known that Ryan is the leader of those people in West Clare who desire to upset the established form of Government   by violence, and having regard to the nature of this conspiracy it is essential for the preservation of public peace that Mr. Ryan's movements should be watched by the police and they have instructions to do so.  Mr. Ryan is at liberty to leave his house any time he likes and there is no foundation for the statement that he is a prisoner. 
     &ldquo;I think this answers all the points in your letter. 
     &ldquo;Mise, le meas agat, 
     &ldquo;(Signed) 
     &ldquo;JAMES FITZGERALD-KENNEY, 
     &ldquo;Aire Dli agus Cirt. 
     &ldquo;Eamon de Valera, Esq., T.D. 
     &ldquo;84 Serpentine Avenue, 
     &ldquo;Sandymount, Dublin.&rdquo; 
     I think it is the duty of every member in this Assembly, no matter what bench he sits on, to put an end to this state of affairs.  We have repeatedly brought up here authenticated information, information made by way of affidavit, that assaults such as these I have described here have taken place in Clare.  When we brought them here to the attention of the Minister for Justice, we got the very same type of reply as is contained in this letter, which a responsible person should not be guilty of sending out. No person, I hold, in any responsible position, who had any regard whatever for the responsibilities of his office, would send out a letter like that to the charge which was made. All we asked for was that an inquiry should be made into the charges to find out if they were true or false.  The only answer we ever get when these irregularities and brutalities are brought to the attention of the Minister, is that those who have been assaulted have the remedy of the courts.  We know perfectly well, and the Minister for Justice knows perfectly well&mdash;that is why he is relying on it&mdash;that very often those who have been assaulted have not the means to bring these   actions against the State and to continue them, with the various appeals which are inevitable, up to the High Court.  I hold that it is the duty of the Minister for Justice quite independently to hold an inquiry to find out whether his force is a disciplined one or not.  Everybody here will admit, I think, that there could be no greater boon to a community than a good, disciplined police force who have the interests of the citizens at heart, and who would protect the rights of the citizens, and at the same time that no greater scourge could be inflicted on any community than a body containing within it a number of indisciplined ruffians who have liberty evidently to do and carry on as they like.  From the information I have got, anyhow, and I say all we ask for is that a public inquiry be held to investigate it, certain members of the Detective Division are trying to create a reign of terror down in Clare.  The answers which the Minister for Justice makes here when we bring these matters to his notice are obviously regarded by these members as an encouragement and though I personally would hate to be forced to that conclusion, I am practically forced to it in the circumstances, I believe it is the deliberate policy of the Executive Council to give a free hand to these individuals.  Either that is their policy or else they are afraid to take the necessary action to discipline them.  To suggest that this man got the injuries he showed to me when he was milking his cows by a kick from a cow is absolutely absurd.  He is prepared to give evidence himself, and bring forward witnesses to prove that these injuries were inflicted by the Detective Division.  All we ask for is that it should be made possible for him and other citizens who have been equally maltreated to come forward and give sworn public evidence of the maltreatment they have received. 
     We have our own responsibility in this matter.  The Minister for Justice, when he replied to us on a former occasion, said to us that we had not denounced a certain outrage   which had taken place in Clare. My attitude with respect to that, and, I believe, the attitude of every member of our party is unmistakable. If there was a letter deliberately sent with a view to entrapping these officers and blowing them up, it was a horrible outrage, and I believe every decent member of the community will reprobate it.  That is our attitude.  We would have no hesitation whatever in reprobating such an outrage for the simple reason that we know no good cause whatever can be served and advanced by such methods.  We leave the Ballyseedys, the Countess Bridges and the Bahaghs to our opponents.  We do not believe, not one of us, no matter in what Republican Party we may be, in such methods.  Therefore, when the Minister comes along and tries to pretend and take cover under the fact that apparently there has been no denunciation of this crime from us, we want to know whether there is justification for believing that that was a deliberate plot or not in the sending of this letter, or whether, in fact, the letter was sent by somebody who wanted to give secret information to the Guards, or whether it was not the Guards' tom-fooling with the infernal instrument which caused the explosion. If it could be shown that there was a deliberate plot like that, to my mind it ranks almost in the Ballyseedy class and we have no hesitation in regarding it as such.  But, even if it were so, is that any excuse for the Minister for Justice on his side condoning such brutality as, we are certain, has taken place in Clare?  We feel perfectly certain that if the Minister for Justice will set up this public inquiry these cases of assaults will be proved. 
     This was not the first series of assaults on Mr. Ryan.  Back in March, there was an affidavit of his, I think, presented to the Council of the town of Kilrush, and a resolution was forwarded to the Clare Deputies by the Council drawing their attention to it, and also to the Minister for Justice.  I think the particular case itself was brought up here by Deputy Hogan.  The attention of the   Minister for Justice has been called to these assaults by the resolution of another responsible body, by the Clare County Council.  What justification has the Minister for Justice for denying a sworn inquiry of the kind asked for?  Let him answer this question: Is it the policy of the Executive Council to allow detectives a free hand; to let it be known to them and the people in the area that they have liberty to do just as they please; that we are going to have the Black-and-Tan terror brought back here at this hour of the day?  If it is not, and if responsible people are prepared to give testimony on this matter, why will he not hold this public inquiry by which we can know who is right and who is wrong; whether it is the cow kicked Mr. Ryan or whether it is ruffians we have heard about&mdash;the gun bullies?  Let the Minister for Justice, if he thinks he is right, give an opportunity to the people affected to bring this matter definitely to the test and have a public inquiry.  There is no other way out as far as I can see; and I would say to everyone, to every member of the House, that every one of us will share in the responsibility of the Minister for Justice if we allow this sort of thing to go on.  I do not think any further purpose will be served by my commenting on this further.  It is savagery pure and simple.  Just think of a man living alone with his mother, out in the country, isolated practically, and every day and night, in constant danger.  There were three men present on this occasion; there was the one I saw at the door who accosted me, and two on the road, evidently on guard.  This man cannot talk to visitors; he cannot talk to his mother; he cannot move from one room to another without some detective, if he wishes, accompanying him.  Fancy that man living alone in his house at the risk at any moment of being pulled out and beaten, and perhaps murdered, by ruffians, because I have no hesitation in calling them ruffians if they are guilty of this brutality. 
     
     
      
       May I ask am I to get any time to reply, or is Deputy de Valera to take the whole half-hour? 
     
     
      
       The practice when the House is about to adjourn earlier than the ordinary time is to give the Deputy who has given notice half an hour, and then the Minister replies. 
     
     
      
       I am sure there are other members in the House, particularly Clare Deputies, who are equally interested in this, and I do not wish to curtail any time they want.  What I do want to have an assurance about, and I fear I will not have it unless the House compels it, is that this thing is going to stop, that we are going to have ordinary, civilised conditions in West Clare, and that the people who are supposed to be keeping the peace will not be the greatest offenders against it. 
     
     
      
       The Minister stated that he has made inquiries. I want to know from him what do these inquiries comprise?  I think the House is entitled to know the nature of these inquiries.  Did they include ascertaining from the doctors mentioned by Deputy de Valera their opinions as to the way in which the injuries could have been caused.  If this was anything except a whitewashing business, I could not imagine it being done impartially without getting a statement from the doctors as to how these injuries were caused.  They might have been able to throw some light on this cock-and-bull story.  This is certainly a cow-and-bull story, or, as somebody suggested, a cow-and-bully story.  I came across a case the other day where it was suggested in a certain assault case that injuries all over the body were caused by the person himself, or that he procured somebody to cause them.  The person who put up that case paid dearly for it, because the court recognised that he was a person not to be believed, any more than the person who put up the story in the Minister's letter.  No reasonable   man would believe it.  The whole question, so far as I can see in this case, is as to how the injuries were inflicted.  It is very easy to ascertain that.  The first step one would imagine that would have been taken, if it was anything except what we believe it to be, an attempt to cover up the tracks of these gun bullies, would be to ascertain if the injuries could have been caused in the way those gun bullies allege. The Minister knows that there has been certain feeling with regard to the assaults that have been committed on unfortunate, defenceless people in Clare.  We can easily realise the atmosphere that exists there, that there is feeling between certain members of the Civic Guards with regard to certain members of the community, and that that feeling is not a very friendly one.  It is very easy to realise what happens when people who have feeling towards each other find themselves in the same house.  Would anybody here consider himself very happy or very safe if he were put in the same house with people who he believed were his greatest enemies?  It does not require very much imagination to see that the first thing that must happen will be that there will be ill-treatment from them.  If the Minister wants to argue on that line he will see that the suggestion is an improbable story.  It must be obvious to the Minister by now that he is not helping discipline or he is not trying to establish or maintain a force that would gain the respect of anybody by adopting the attitude that he has adopted in this House. If these people can stand up and show a clean record, when they are involved in these allegations, why not let the light of day in on them? Is he afraid to take it any further than what are, I suppose, regarded as confidential documents passing between him and his inferiors down in Clare?  If anybody asked for the report that came up from these officers in Clare, would we see every paragraph in that report?  Would the public see it?  No, it would be regarded as a private document.  It is all right for the Minister to get   up here and say he has made inquiries amongst people who are in the same force and who have the same prejudices as the gun bullies who are guilty of these assaults on unfortunate citizens.  The Minister knows, and every member of this House knows, if the Minister was not afraid of a public inquiry it would be the first thing he would have.  He knows perfectly well what a public inquiry would result in.  It is because he is afraid of that that he is trying to hide and safeguard these Civic Guards and to throw a cloak over their crimes.  It is solely because of that that he is refusing this inquiry. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister if he will state if he is prepared to send an independent medical witness to examine this man's injuries and to find out how they could correspond with the cock-and-bull story he has told us, or that he intends to tell us, that a cow kicked the man.  I would advise him to ask any farmer if a cow can kick with two legs because it certainly could not inflict these injuries with one leg. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister to tell the House under what statute and by what authority the detectives accosted Deputy de Valera when he was going to visit a constituent, and by what authority one of them forced himself into the room and was present at the interview between Mr. Ryan and Deputy de Valera.  I think that is significant. When the leader of the Opposition went to visit a constituent to investigate the complaint, a member of the detective force deliberately forced himself into the House and insisted on being present at the interview which took place between a constituent and a member of the Dail.  I think that is unjustifiable and should not be tolerated. 
     
     
      
       I think the whole tone of the debate was very well shown by the second last speaker, Deputy Dr. O'Dowd, who immediately started off with the statement that this is a cock-and-bull   story.  Therefore, everything which rests upon the unsubstantiated word of Mr. Ryan of Cranny is Gospel truth to Fianna Fail and everything which rests upon the statement of the Civic Guard is cock-and-bull, not to be believed, to be disregarded absolutely.  That is the attitude of Fianna Fail.  Let us ask first what are the allegations.  Mr. Ryan tells a long story to Deputy de Valera; mark you, it rests on Mr. Ryan's word and Mr. Ryan's word alone.  Deputy de Valera says he saw one black eye and he saw dressings on his leg.  Let us consider the story which is told to Deputy de Valera.  This man says that he was assaulted and that when he was inside the car, sitting in the car, or standing in the car, he was hit on the shin by the starting handle of the car.  Will Deputies just consider that.  If he was standing, he could not be hit by the starting handle of a car. 
     
     
      
       Will you try it? 
     
     
      
       I have got sufficient common sense to know. [Interruptions.] 
     
     
      
       It is too soon to interrupt the Minister yet. Let him have a few minutes more. 
     
     
      
       If he were sitting down he could be easily struck but how he is going to be struck on the shin by a twisted article like a starting handle certainly beats me. I say that story has got about it almost all the elements of impossibility. Against that, I have the clear and definite statement of highly respected members of the Civic Guard that no such assault took place. 
     
     
      
       Motor car stealers. Joy riders. 
     
     
      
       I am glad I can listen to anything the Deputies say but the Deputies cannot listen to me.  Ce n'est que la verite qui blesse.  This story about the cow and the grass is said to be a cock-and-bull story.  Now, what is the   story about the cow and the grass? It is a very natural story [Interruptions]. 
     
     
      
       Fair play. 
     
     
      
       Deputies opposite do not want it.  What is the story about the cow and the grass?  It is this: We have been told that Mr. Ryan owns two cows. He went out to milk his cows.  He put opposite the head of each cow a certain amount of cut grass.  Is there anything extraordinary about that?  He milked the first cow, and having milked it he moved his stool over and proceeded to milk the second cow.  Cow No. 1, that had already been milked, having eaten up its own grass, went over towards cow No. 2, and, as the Guard puts it, made a &ldquo;puck&rdquo; at cow No. 2, which moved away upsetting Mr. Ryan, upsetting his milk can and breaking his stool.  Anybody who has been in a country place, anybody who has seen cows milked&mdash;I do not know whether Deputy de Valera has ever seen it&mdash; will see that this is in itself a most probable story; that it is a most likely thing to happen.  This gentleman is therefore in a bad temper.  He does not look very much after his cows; and one cow, having eaten her own supply of cut grass, proceeds to &ldquo;puck&rdquo; the other&mdash;a most likely thing to happen, and one which appears to me, at any rate, to have all the elements of truth about it.  Then what happened? Mr. Ryan gets a great opportunity&mdash;the opportunity of his life.  He has been knocked down by a cow in the presence of the Guards. That is the great opportunity.  This man is full of hatred of the Guards; his breast is seething with hatred of the Guards; and he is anxious to bring as many charges against them as he can.  He objects to surveillance, of course, and he has got a number of willing mouthpieces here. He has got Deputy de Valera&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What does the Minister mean exactly by &ldquo;willing mouthpieces&rdquo;?  Does he suggest that   I went down to Clare to get a story to bring up here? 
     
     
      
       I suggest that any story that Mr. Ryan tells Deputy de Valera, Deputy de Valera is willing to repeat here as truth. 
     
     
      
       I submit I did not do anything of the kind.  I gave those statements in my letter to the President, and I gave them to the House as having come from Mr. Ryan himself.  What I hold is that when allegations of that kind are made, and when we have got the names of doctors and others who have been attending this man, there is a case for an inquiry, and that it is the duty of the Minister, if the charges are untrue and the force can be cleared, to clear it. 
     
     
      
       That has nothing to do with my statement. This gentleman gave Deputy de Valera, as his mouthpiece, the charges which the Deputy has made against the Guards in this House. Now, who is this Mr. Ryan?  Mr. Ryan is a gentleman who was at one time a wireless operator.  He came home during the Great War, settled down in his home in Clare, and joined the Volunteers.  During what is known as the Black and Tan war he did not do what he was told to do.  In 1920 he was court-martialled by the then Volunteers for disobeying orders&mdash;for failing to turn out when he was called upon to do so. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister what is his authority for making these statements?  He is apparently quoting from papers, and I would like him to tell the House what they are. 
     
     
      
       I am giving information which I have received from the Guards. 
     
     
      
       Oh, from the Guards. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy or any other Deputy can verify this if he likes.  He was ordered by the Volunteers in consequence to leave Clare, and he was not allowed back into Clare until   after the Truce was made.  Now, if there is anything wrong in that statement, any Deputy can check it. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister for Justice pleading this as justification for the treatment of this citizen? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Surely when Deputy de Valera and others have occupied half an hour in making a certain case, some latitude should be allowed to the Minister to come to the point of the case. The object, presumably, is to hear what the Minister for Justice has to say, and it would seem to be only fair that he should be allowed to say it. 
     
     
      
       I do not put this forward as a justification for the use of violence towards Mr. Ryan. 
     
     
      
       Then why recite it? 
     
     
      
       Really, members of the Fianna Fail Party are a little too sensitive.  I do not put that forward as a justification for violence towards Mr. Ryan.  I say there is no evidence forming, in my judgment, even a prima facie case, that violence was used against him.  It does not matter what type of man he is the Guards are not justified in using violence. That is perfectly plain and simple. I have never said anything to the contrary. 
     
     
      
       You implied it. 
     
     
      
       I have never said anything to the contrary, in spite of what this irrepressible chatterbox says.  I think when you come to consider and test the credibility of a man like Deputy Ryan&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister is getting mixed. 
     
     
      
       &mdash; this Mr. T.J. Ryan, you must consider what type of man he is.  This gentleman, having been out of Clare   for some time, came back and was for a short time interned during the Civil War.  He was let out on the recommendation of the local Superintendent, and after that Mr. Ryan joined in with the most extreme element in Clare.  He is now one of the most important, if not the most important, leader of that extreme element in Clare.  That is the type of man he is.  Against that man you have got Guards of the highest probity and the highest standing; men who have got the complete confidence of their superiors; picked and chosen men; well and highly disciplined men.  You have got Mr. Ryan on one side and those men on the other side.  I am asked why there should not be an inquiry. I say that if there was an inquiry in a case where I am satisfied there is not a prima facie case made out, it would be doing a wrong to these Guards.  On the other hand, if there is any foundation in fact for the story which Mr. Ryan told Deputy de Valera, then Mr. Ryan can have as public an inquiry as he likes.  He has got the ordinary courts of justice open to him.  Deputy de Valera suggests that Mr. Ryan is a pauper, and that he could not go into court as he has no means. That is not so.  Mr. Ryan is not by any means a pauper.  He has got a substantial farm, and the courts are open to him if he wishes to go into them. 
     
     
      
       And beggar himself. 
     
     
      
       He can go into the courts and have the most public form of inquiry that he could wish for before the courts which are established for that purpose.  He is not satisfied with that.  For propaganda purposes, as it can only be for propaganda purposes, he wishes to have these charges brought again and again in the Dail, so that the Guards may be, if possible, discouraged in their work.  The main work of the Guards in Clare is to see that there is no recurrence of the terrible outrage which took place there recently.  It is the duty of the Guards to see that crime is not   committed, and to watch those persons who are the main instigators of the state of unrest that exists. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not replied to the questions I asked. I asked him if any statement had been taken from the doctors and the curate who attended this man who was beaten.  In the ordinary course of their inquiries one would assume that the Guards would have gone to the doctors who attended this man in order to support their improbable story. 
     
     
      
       I do not know that any doctor attended this man.  I know that a doctor attended his mother.  I do not know that any priest visited this particular man. He may have told Deputy de Valera that they did, but I do not know   that any priest did so.  I do know that the Guards requested Mrs. Ryan, his mother, to give them a statement, and that she refused to give any statement. 
     
     
      
       In the letter that Deputy de Valera sent to the President and to the Minister, did he not mention the names of two doctors? 
     
     
      
       He mentioned a doctor, but he mentioned him on the authority of Mr. Ryan only. 
     
     
      
       No matter on whose authority. 
       The Dail was adjourned at 6.30 p.m. until Wednesday, the 23rd October, 1929&mdash;pursuant to the Resolution of the House of Thursday, 11th July. 
     
   
 