 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 10.30 a.m. 
   
   
     Questions on the Adjournment. 
     
      
       I desire to draw attention to Question No. 11, which is a starred question on to-day's Order Paper.  The question was intended for oral answer, but owing to the circumstance that the Dail is adjourning to-day I was not able to get an oral answer.  This is a matter of urgency, and should not be left over until February.  First of all, I wish to say that a very important word has been deleted from the question. 
     
     
      
       What is the Deputy's point? 
     
     
      
       I want to get an opportunity of raising this on a motion for the adjournment.  I have got a written reply to the answer, but I am anxious to have the question discussed on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       I gave notice yesterday that if it were possible I wanted to raise a matter arising out of Question No. 5 on the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       We had two notices given yesterday, but we took on the adjournment a question raised by Deputy Boland on the   previous day.  Deputy O'Dowd now desires to raise a matter on Question No. 5, and Deputy O'Hanlon a matter on Question No. 11. 
     
     
      
       I would like to point out that Deputy Blaney, who is not present, also asked for permission to raise a question. 
     
     
      
       Of the two questions raised yesterday it seemed to the Chair that the one which should be taken was Deputy Blaney's, if the Minister had any function in the matter.  That was not made quite clear, but I still think that if the Minister has any function in the matter, the question would be one of more general interest.  I do not know whether any information is now available on that point. 
     
     
      
       If Deputy Blaney wishes to raise the question that he mentioned yesterday I am prepared to withdraw in his favour. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know if the House can be informed as to what the position is with regard to that particular matter. 
     
     
      
       The question arises out of a Private Bill in another place, and I fail to see how we have any function in the matter. 
     
     
      
       With reference to the statement made by the President, I think that Deputy Blaney pointed out that the matter of the demarcation of the territory between this State and the adjoining one comes into this.  The answer to the question stated that the whole matter was within the jurisdiction of the other State.  I think some Deputies are not satisfied that that is so&mdash; that the whole matter is within the purview of the other Government. We think this is a new thing, and that it ought to be examined from that point of view. 
     
     
      
       It would seem from the reply to the question yesterday that the Bill mentioned in Deputy Blaney's question   was a Private Bill introduced in another Parliament, dealing with the erection of a bridge on territory entirely under the jurisdiction of that Parliament.  It is difficult, with the information at my disposal, to see what the function of the Minister is when it was not made clear yesterday. I kept the matter open for the purpose of having representations made to me.  I presume that in the case of a Private Bill the interested parties could both petition and appear.  Officially I have no knowledge of the particular matter. 
     
     
      
       As far as I could gather from Deputy Blaney yesterday, this bridge, which it is proposed to erect, is going to block people in the Free State from using a waterway which up to now they had the right to use.  There was a movable span in the bridge which could be raised to allow boats, up and down, to go through.  The question, therefore, is one of blocking citizens in the Saorstat from using a waterway which up to now they had the right to use. 
     
     
      
       That is, for the purpose of getting from one place to another within the Saorstat? 
     
     
      
       Exactly. 
     
     
      
       I realise the difficulties of the Chair in a matter of this kind, but the Ceann Comhairle will realise that it is an important matter affecting the rights of citizens of this State.  Undoubtedly this bridge is being built in a place over which this House has no authority, but it affects the right-of-way of citizens of this State to waters that belong to or are under the control of this State.  If that passage be closed, then a right-of-way that has been in existence for all time may be blocked.  The passage is there at present, but the proposal made is to put a permanent obstacle in the way. While we all realise the difficulties in the matter, there would, I think, be a certain advantage in having it discussed here, because the rights of   citizens of this State are being vitally affected.  If the Government would say that they would do anything to see that the rights of our citizens are properly defended, probably that would satisfy. 
     
     
      
       So far as any rights are concerned, it would be for the persons possessing those rights to put forward their case.  I do not see on the facts as presented that the Minister has any right to present the case of those persons if they themselves do not look after their own case. 
     
     
      
       I might say that the question arose immediately after the Derry Corporation proposed the erection of the fixed bridge across the Foyle at Derry.  The Donegal County Council took up the case immediately, and they passed a resolution, which was forwarded to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, asking that he would take the necessary steps to protect their rights.  I do not think that the Donegal County Council had an acknowledgment of that, and the thing went on for a long time until a Private Bill was introduced into the Northern Parliament, and the Donegal County Council then&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The point is that the erection of this bridge interferes with the rights of our citizens to get from one place to another within our jurisdiction. 
     
     
      
       That is our point. 
     
     
      
       If that is so, a question should have been addressed to the Minister for External Affairs with a view to seeing what representations he could make in the matter.  I shall now allow the matter to be raised on that basis, but we cannot in any way discuss the Private Bill before another Parliament, nor can we discuss that Parliament.  On the precise matter indicated by Deputy Aiken, and confirmed by Deputy Blaney, it is desired to argue that a particular thing which is happening outside our jurisdiction is interfering with the right   of our citizens to move from one place to another within our territory. On that basis I will accept the notice. We cannot go into any other question. 
     
   
   
     Order of Business and Motion for the Adjournment. 
     
      
       I am arranging to take Private Members' time. 
       As regards the adjournment, I am moving that the Dail, at its rising this day, do adjourn until Wednesday, February 12th, 1930. 
       Ordered: That the debate on the motion for the adjournment be adjourned until later to-day. 
     
   
   
     Road Traffic Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce 
       A Bill entitled an Act to amend and consolidate the law relating to the following matters, namely, the classification and construction of mechanically propelled vehicles, the licensing of drivers of such vehicles, the speed at which such vehicles may be driven, the management of mechanically propelled vehicles in public places, the lighting of all classes of vehicles, the licensing and regulation of public service vehicles and the drivers and conductors thereof, the control of traffic in cities and towns, to make provision for the insurance by owners of mechanically propelled vehicles against liabilities incurred in respect of the user of such vehicles, and for other matters incidental to the matters aforesaid. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for 12th February, 1930. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister when we may expect to have the Bill in our hands? 
     
     
      
       I hope to circulate the Bill in the early part of January.  I will circulate it as early as possible. 
     
   
   
     Legitimacy Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce. 
       A Bill entitled an Act to amend the law relating to children born out of wedlock. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for 12th February 1930. 
     
   
   
     Criminal Law Amendment Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce 
       A Bill entitled an Act to amend the law with respect to offences against persons under the age of eighteen years and with respect to penalties under Section 13 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for 12th February, 1930 
     
   
   
     Housing (Gaeltacht) Bill, 1929&mdash;Money Resolution. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move: 
     
     &ldquo;Chun criche aon Achta rithfear sa tSioson so chun togail agus feabhsu tithe comhnaithe sa Ghaeltacht do chur in usacht agus chun coiriocht a bheidh ag gabhail leis na tithe comhnaithe sin d'eanlaithe clois agus do mhuca do sholathar agus chun na gcricheanna san a udaru go dtabharfai deontaisi agus iasachtai do dhaoine sa Ghaeltacht mar chabhair chun tithe comhnaithe dhoibh fein agus an choiriocht san roimhraite a bheidh ag gabhail leo san do thogail no d'fheabhsu iad fein agus chun socruithe eile do deanamh a bhaineas leis na nithe roimhraite, go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfai amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas (a) suimeanna nach mo le cheile na suim Dha Chead is Caoga Mile   Punt i dtaobh deontaisi agus iasachtai fen Acht san, agus (b) aon chostaisi fe n-a raghfar ag cur an Achta san in eifeacht. 
     That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to facilitate the erection and improvement of dwelling-houses in the Gaeltacht and the provision of such dwelling-houses with ancillary accommodation for domestic poultry and pigs and for those purposes to authorise the making of grants and loans to persons in the Gaeltacht towards the erection or improvement by them of dwelling-houses for their own use and of such ancillary accommodation as aforesaid, and to make other provisions incidental to the matters aforesaid, it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas of (a) sums not exceeding in the aggregate the sum of Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds in respect of grants and loans under such Act, and (b) any expenses incurred in carrying such Act into effect.&rdquo; 
     The main expenditure is set down in the Bill.  The incidental expenses are difficult to estimate, but they would be very minor sums in comparison with the £250,000 that would be required.  These expenses will be with regard to the necessary staff for making inspections and administering the Act. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To insert after the word &ldquo;pigs&rdquo; the words &ldquo;and other classes of live stock.&rdquo; 
       I think we can all realise from the map which is available that it should take far more than the Minister proposes to allot to solve the difficulties of the housing problem in these areas.  The Minister proposes to make the giving of grants or loans for houses dependent on the recipients making arrangements to have accommodation made either for poultry or pigs. 
     
     We all realise that poultry and pigs are very important, and are   very remunerative if they are handled and organised properly. The trouble is that both require a good deal of expenditure.  Feeding stuffs have to be purchased and substantial buildings and accommodation provided where people go in for pigs or poultry.  Then we have the position that in those areas the people are largely a pastoral people. They have been in the habit of rearing young cattle and calves for sale to live stock people in other parts of the country.  I think it might be said that the Gaeltacht existed principally on this small live stock industry, the selling of young cattle to stock breeders in other parts, and the exporting of stock.  We are anxious to get the Minister to make provision for the accommodation of cattle or other stock as well as pigs and poultry.  Pigs and poultry are an entirely new industry, which will have to be organised in many areas, and that will take time. In my opinion the conditions in the Gaeltacht are such that it will take a considerable time before the same amount of advantage will accrue there from the pig or the poultry industry as in other places.  The accommodation is not there for cattle, and if the old houses are there, as they are in a great many cases owing to the population having cleared out, I think these houses could be made into cow houses and that some allowance for that should be made in the Bill. 
     We must remember that a considerable amount of money is still granted for agricultural schemes in the old congested areas.  I think nearly £40,000 is spent chiefly on the improvement of live stock.  If we are spending that amount annually on the improvement of live stock, not necessarily confined to poultry or pigs, we ought to make provision for the housing of the live stock.  As far as I know there is not any adequate alternative provision for the housing of cattle.  The loans that the Board of Works gave have now ceased.  I think nobody will maintain that the Agricultural Credit Corporation is capable of dealing with this matter in the Gaeltacht.  It may be able to   do so in other areas, but in the circumstances I think that Corporation cannot reach the poorer areas.  The Land Commission used to do something towards providing stabling accommodation, but I think its funds are exhausted.  It may still have the powers over whatever housing and improvement schemes the old Congested Districts Board had, but I think it is impossible for the Land Commission to carry on these schemes, because it has not the money.  If we are going to make provision in this Bill, not alone for housing the people but for ancillary housing accommodation for stock, I put it to the House that we cannot overlook the provision of accommodation for cattle. 
     
      
       Cattle are to a large extent dealt with in the poorer districts in the west.  As I stated when the Bill was introduced, most of the people in the Gaeltacht have one or two cows, and it follows that they will have calves from time to time, at least one or two.  It is therefore necessary to provide accommodation for these animals.  There is nothing in the Bill making provision for such accommodation.  I do not altogether agree with Deputy Derrig and with the Minister when they stated that the old houses may be sufficient to accommodate live stock, because the small sum of £250,000 is not enough to remedy the bad conditions that exist in the Gaeltacht so far as sanitation and such matters are concerned. I hold that one of the main objects of the Minister should be to remedy such a terrible evil that arises from the fact that cattle are largely housed in the dwelling-houses in the west, and I presume in other parts of Ireland.  I say that £250,000 would not be able to do that.  It will be only able to touch as it were on the fringe of the conditions that exist and I suggest that an amendment should be introduced to provide facilities for the construction of out-houses, because new houses will not be built to any large extent in such a huge area as the Gaeltacht comprises.  If such an amendment were introduced it would facilitate the improvement   of the sanitary conditions which so badly require looking after.  It may be held that the old houses now occupied by the people, would remedy the defect, but I think that only a small number of the people will move into new houses.  If the sanitary conditions are to be improved, houses other than the old ones would be necessary. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry I cannot accept the amendment.  Deputy Kilroy stresses the meagreness of the £250,000 provided under the Bill.  The extension of the operations of that quarter million would to a large extent nullify its value by watering down the good it would do.  Whether or not it is desirable that there should be provision for cattle is another matter.  It is not true to say that generally speaking there is no accommodation for cattle, on the small holdings in the Gaeltacht.  In most cases I think they have some accommodation where there is any stock at all.  On the Second Reading I read out figures pointing to the almost entire lack of accommodation for poultry or pigs.  It is perfectly true to say, perhaps, that in many cases the cattle are housed in the dwelling-houses, but I should say that now-a-days that is becoming rather the exception than the rule. This matter was very carefully considered for many months by a committee. This Bill is not actually the child of my Department alone.  The Bill was practically brought up in its present form by a sub-committee of the Inter-Departmental Committee that is dealing with the economic position in the Gaeltacht.  Every matter of that kind, including the question of the housing of cattle, was considered by that sub-committee, and they felt that it would be better to confine the sum of £250,000 to the most necessitous cases, that where the greater necessity lay, there the money should go, and in their view the greater necessity lay, first in the provision of dwelling-houses, and second, poultry   and pig houses, to the exclusion of cattle.  Of course that may be another day's work. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister or his officials consult with people in the Gaeltacht area when they made that decision? 
     
     
      
       Most of the officials concerned in this matter knew the Gaeltacht pretty intimately.  Many of them have had long years of service there in one department or another. The persons at the very bottom rung of the ladder whom we hope to reach by this Bill will not have any live stock.  Those who have live stock other than poultry and pigs are usually persons who might be able to afford to take advantage of Housing Acts other than this one.  The question of the old houses arises.  Where a new building will be put up it is almost certain that the old house will be used for the accommodation of the cattle, the horse, mule or donkey.  Anyone who has lived in the Gaeltacht, and who has seen new houses going up, knows that the old houses have been used for such a purpose.  We give a grant in the Bill for the demolition of the old houses for fear that other persons might come in and live in them and perpetuate the existing insanitary conditions.  In fact, what will happen will be that the people will not look for that demolition grant.  They will use the old houses for cattle.  I am satisfied that this is far more important&mdash;and the Department of Agriculture has been consulted in this matter.  Deputy Derrig pointed out that poultry and pigs require a good deal of expenditure. The fact is that the keeping of poultry requires very little capital. The expenditure is not very serious. The Department of Agriculture agree that the best stock for the persons for whom we intend this Bill is poultry and pigs, rather than cattle. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Minister has made a few misstatements that I can contradict.  He said that the custom of keeping cattle in the houses in the Gaeltacht does not exist now to any great extent.  I   come from the Gaeltacht, and it is my duty to inspect houses and to send sanitary reports.  The reason perhaps why the idea may now be held by the Local Government Department that cattle are not kept in the dwelling-houses is due to the fact that when a sub-sanitary officer finds cattle in a house it is his duty to report it to the local sanitary officer, and it is then the duty of the local sanitary officer to report it to the chief sanitary authority of the county.  By the time that is done, the cattle have been removed from the house, with the result that no report about it goes to the Local Government Department.  For that reason the Local Government Department may have intimated to the Minister that cattle are not kept in dwelling-houses to any great extent. But in the area from which I come most of the families keep cattle in the dwelling-houses.  All over the area from Galway out towards the islands, and through the islands, the people do keep their cattle in the houses during the winter time, and I think that Deputy Mongan can confirm that.  In the islands especially the custom is to do that. 
     
     
      
       During the winter time? 
     
     
      
       Especially during the winter time. 
     
     
      
       Have they alternative housing? 
     
     
      
       No, they keep them outside during the summer.  I am sure that Deputy Mongan can confirm this, because he comes from the same area as I do.  I would urge on the Minister that the necessity for stabling is acute because the cattle are kept in the dwelling-houses to a large extent.  The Minister gave the impression that he believed that people who have a few cows or calves are the type which would be rich enough to have stabling of their own.  That is not so.  The fishing industry in Connemara is dead and the people there have now to depend principally on cattle, plus whatever income comes to them from America.   The cattle industry is their only industry at present, and they are as particular about the health of the cattle as they are about their own health.  They will not risk the health of the cattle, because if they did they might be taken up for land annuities, or if the shopkeeper came down on them they might be left derelict.  They take very good care, consequently, that the cattle will not suffer any inconvenience and that their health will not be endangered. For that reason they keep them in the dwelling-houses during the winter, and they let them out in May or June.  I had in my own experience a few years ago about eighty cases of typhoid fever in an island in the Rossmuck parish, and in every one of these cases the cattle were kept in the houses. What is the use of building new houses for the people if you do not give them some means of housing their cattle?  I know for a fact that no matter what houses you build for these people they will put their cattle into them.  They are not going to risk leaving their cattle out for the winter and having the shopkeeper or the Land Commission coming down on them. 
       It was suggested that the old houses could be used, but you must remember that most of the people will not build new houses; I suppose half of them will improve the houses that they already have.  They will not want a building grant; they will want an improvement grant.  The people who build new houses are actually coaxed to demolish their old houses, which they will do if they get a grant, but they will put their cattle into the new houses.  I think that Deputy Mongan, or any other Deputy who lives in the Gaeltact, will agree that it is very essential to have some arrangement made for the housing of cattle, because otherwise you will not get rid of the dirty conditions you have at present. 
     
     
      
       Nil fum-sa ach cupla focal a ra faoi'n leasu seo. Se an faitchios ata orm fa'n leasu go mbh 'feidir go ndeanfaii tithe do na   beithidhigh ach nach ndeanfai teach ar bith dobhtha fein.  Bheinn sasta glaca leis an leas run da mbeadh airgead sathach fairsing againn ach ta faitchios orm go ndeanfadh na daoine tithe do na beithidhibh ach nach ndeanfadh siad teach ar bith doibh fein.  B'fheidir nach bhfuil annseo ach an t-earlais agus go dtiocfaidh go leor 'na dhiaidh ma thugann muid fein an chead chuid den airgead mar chongnamh don Aire.  Ta's agam go bhfuil croidhe maith ag an Aire agus ta suil agam go mbeidh se in ann an meid seo airgid do mheadu i gcionn tamaill agus go mbeidh na daoine in ann tithe do thogail le h-aghaidh na beithidhigh freisin.  Ach ta faitchios orm nach ndeanfadh na daoine tithe doibh fein faoi'n leasu mar ta se. 
     
     
      
       An feidir liom labhairt aris? 
     
     
      
       Is feidir. 
     
     
      
       Aontuighim go bhfuil cuid de'n cheart ag an Teachta O Mongain.  Ach se mo bharuil, san am gceana, go mb'fhearr tithe do thogail le h-aghaidh beithidhigh na tithe nua do thogail le h-aghaidh na daoine agus beithidhigh do chur isteach ionnta nuair a bheadh siad curtha suas aca.  B'fhearr liomsa da gcuirfi suas tithe do na beithidhigh ar dtus mar a bhfuil airgead ann le h-aghaidh an da chineal tithe do chur suas. 
     
     
      
       That would be another day's work and another Bill.  I think that Deputy Mongan has hit the nail on the head.  If more money were given than this £250,000 at another time to put up cow-houses in these places in the Gaeltacht, well and good, but for the best disposition of the present £250,000 that is available we are satisfied, after all the examination that could be given to the matter, that the best thing to do is, first to have the dwelling-houses for the people themselves, and then to have provision for poultry and pigs. 
     
     We are satisfied, after consulting   the Department of Agriculture, that these are the stock that are best suited to these places in the Gaeltacht. A sum of £250,000 is not an unlimited amount.  It is a sum that will come to an end and will come to an end fairly quickly as a result of the number of applications which I anticipate we will get.  To try to spread that sum out for cow-houses in addition to poultry-houses and piggeries, means that you are watering down its effectiveness and the extent to which one can spread it over the Gaeltacht.  You have only that sum of £250,000 and you must deal with what must be considered the greatest necessity.  We hold that the greatest necessity first of all is houses for the people, where there are insanitary houses, and houses for the type of stock which the Department officials advise us will best pay the occupiers of these small holdings. 
     
      
       The people themselves may think otherwise. 
     
     
      
       Do you not agree that it is useless to build good houses and let cattle into them? 
     
     
      
       I do not see any way by which we can prevent people from letting cattle into that type of house.  If persons, after they have built decent houses, allowed cattle into them we cannot stop them. There is no way we can stop it except by ordinary education. 
     
     
      
       Which does the Minister consider better&mdash;to build new houses for this money, which will relieve only a small fraction, or to assist people in cleaning the houses which they occupy at present? 
     
     
      
       I am quite satisfied that the proposals which I have brought before the House are the most desirable proposals.  I think the problem is being faced in the right way.  It may not be an ideal solution, but I do not suppose that any proposal would be considered ideal by everyone.  Every Deputy will have his own ideal way of doing a particular thing, but at any rate this matter was considered by a committee   of persons who have long experience as servants of the State and many of whom have a long experience of service in the Gaeltacht. There were representatives from the Department of Agriculture, from the Local Government Department, from my own Department, from the Land Commission, the Local Government Department, from the Board of Works, etc.  Having considered all the pros and cons&mdash;and mind you, this question and the question of the housing of cattle were questions which they discussed&mdash;after we got to a figure of £250,000 they decided that the things upon which that could best be expended were the three matters mentioned here&mdash;first, houses and the improvement of houses; secondly, poultry houses; and thirdly, piggeries. 
     
     
      
       These officials who are supposed to have a knowledge of the Gaeltacht very probably led the Minister into this belief. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must remember that I have a certain amount of knowledge of the Gaeltacht myself. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps so, but I would like to point out that the knowledge which the Minister possesses and the knowledge of his officials were gained during the daytime when the cattle were in the fields, but I was in these houses at night and I saw the cattle there. 
     
     
      
       I wonder does the Deputy realise that I was born in the Gaeltacht. 
     
     
      
       Not the same Gaeltacht. 
     
     
      
       It is actually the Gaeltacht, in portion of Iveragh.  It is second to Carraroe, I suppose, but it is not very much behind it. 
     
     
      
       I think we all realise that the Minister and his officials have given very great and very careful consideration to this problem, but I confess frankly that what the Minister has stated does not convince me.  He points out very truly, and it is the basis of his whole argument, that there is a limited sum of   £250,000 to be spent on housing in the Gaeltacht.  He argued from that, that to spread it out over purposes other than those provided for in the Bill would be to diminish its effectiveness. I think that the Minister has lost sight of one fact and that his argument does not hold for the reason that there is nothing in the Bill which compels the Minister to spend any particular portion of the money on any one or other object.  The amendment which Deputy Tubridy proposed appears to be purely a permissive one.  It enables the Department to extend the sphere of its operations in a particular direction, but it does not say that the Department must spend a fixed sum out of the £250,000 on the provision of accommodation for cattle.  As I said on Second Reading, it seems to me always desirable when you are dealing with conditions that very so much as do conditions in different parts of the Gaeltacht, even from parish to parish and house to house in the Gaeltacht, you should give yourself as much room as possible. The Minister claimed, quite rightly I think, that one of the merits of the Bill is that it provided greater elasticity in administration than is found in the other Housing Acts. 
       I am quite willing to be convinced, but I confess that up to the present I am not convinced by what the Minister has said, that in denying himself power to deal with the particular aspect of the problem to which Deputy Dr. Tubridy referred, if and when, in certain cases, it seemed to him good to do so, the Minister is really doing a very wise thing.  I do not really know why he wants to tie his own hands. 
     
     
      
       I will tell you why. It is because I am so convinced that the £250,000 will very easily be expended on those matters which I have already enumerated.  I believe that one could easily spend twice as much on the very same things&mdash; dwelling-houses for the people, poultry-houses and pig-houses.  I do not see any use in giving me permission to expend money on cattle-houses when the money would not   go that far.  I want to get the greatest possible good out of the £250,000.  I am convinced that we have found the direction in which the money can be best spent and I cannot accept any extension to these directions which will water down the effectiveness of the £250,000. 
     
     
      
       We would be willing to accept the principle which Deputy Law has just laid down, that the money would not be used for providing housing for livestock unless the Minister is satisfied that the dwelling-houses would otherwise be used for housing cattle. 
     
     
      
       We are in the awkward position that it would require some drafting.  I am absolutely convinced myself that there is no point in it.  Such an amendment as the Deputy suggests would require some drafting and that could not be done if we are to get the Bill through all its stages to-day.  Even if it could be done, I am satisfied that that kind of permission is no good. 
     
     
      
       Nothing is any good then.  We need not discuss the Bill any further, according to you. 
     
     
      
       While I sympathise most fully with the amendment of Deputy Dr. Tubridy I feel that the Minister is right inasmuch as that what is essential is to get houses for the people.  I think the Minister made the point that it is necessary to keep pigs and poultry out of these houses.  If that can be effected it will be a big step forward in the right direction.  If we had money to spend I would go as far as Deputy Dr. Tubridy in saying that this necessary provision should be made to keep poultry and cattle out of the house.  I did not know until I heard Deputy Dr. Tubridy's speech that this method of treating cattle is still employed.  It is most objectionable that there should be cattle occupying the same dwelling-house as human beings, particularly houses which are not fit for people to live in.  To say that such houses should be used as cattle byres is very objectionable. It is clear from what   the Minister has said that they have made up their minds that poultry and pigs are the chief sources of industry. I would like to support the amendment of Deputy Dr. Tubridy, but I feel that the Minister is right in confining the spending of money to the building of dwelling-houses. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to take the attitude that any amendment that would be moved here to-day would be ineffective.  In order to meet Deputy Derrig I am prepared to look into the point to see whether it is possible to bring an amendment before the Seanad.  I could look into the matter from that point of view, but I would not hold out any hope on the point because I am convinced in regard to it. 
     
     
      
       I think that we will have to ask the Minister definitely to commit himself to an amendment to the effect that where he is satisfied that there is no accommodation for cattle such accommodation should be provided.  In all schemes under the Land Commission, where new dwelling-houses are built and new tenancies set up, accommodation for cattle is always provided. Why should there be any distinction between the general procedure adopted by the Land Commission and that adopted in this case? 
     
     I do not often disagree with Deputy Sir James Craig, but I think that on this occasion both he and Deputy Mongan forget that this is not a Bill to provide dwelling-houses alone.  It is a Bill to provide dwelling-houses provided the people have poultry houses or piggeries or that the Minister is satisfied that they are going to provide them.  The Minister's word is not going to rule in that matter.  The Minister must consult with the Department of Agriculture, and if he says: &ldquo;I am satisfied that So-and-So should get a grant for the building of a dwelling-house, but I feel that he cannot go into the poultry and pig-rearing industry,&rdquo; the Department will say&mdash;otherwise what is the meaning of the clause in the Bill?&mdash;&ldquo;We object to a person getting a dwelling-house unless he builds accommodation for poultry or   pigs.&rdquo;  If there were no provision in the Bill for the building of piggeries and poultry houses this amendment of mine and that of Deputy Kilroy would hardly come up here.  We are as anxious as anybody else that the quarter of a million pounds should be spent on dwelling-houses, but when that provision is contingent on the existence of poultry-houses and piggeries, which, in my opinion, are as difficult to get as cattle-houses, this amendment should be carried. 
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom ceist amhain a iarraidh faoi'n leasu seo, a bhfeadfadh na daoine a dheanfadh tithe do bheithidhigh&mdash;an feidir leo tithe breagha do bheith ag na beithidhigh agus tithe granna do bheith acu fein? 
     
     
      
       An feidir e sin do dheanamh gan cead on Aire? Ni feidir tigh do thogail gan cead on Aire? 
     
     
      
       Ma taid ag iarraidh airgead d'fail o'n Aire, ni feidir. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister think that £250,000 is going to relieve this housing problem? 
     
     
      
       We are not considering that. 
     
     
      
       I sympathise with the Minister in the small amount of money he is getting from the Department of Finance.  I do not think that he can blame Deputies here when he sees money squandered in other ways. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must sit down. 
     
     
      
       (Cork): I wish to state that, to my mind, the most important matter in connection with this Bill is the housing of our poor fishermen and labourers in the Gaeltacht.   A number of them are in the position that they cannot contribute money in order to qualify for a loan. Some months ago I drew the attention of the House to the condition of fishermen in Myross, County Cork, and I felt it my duty to get an inspector to go down there and visit the place.  Mr. Hickey, the inspector, made a report that seven or eight houses in that hamlet, which are occupied by hardy and industrious fishermen, were unfit for human habitation.  I appeal to the Minister to see that the first people who have claims on the £250,000 are these fishermen who live along the seaboard. 
     
     
      
       That is not the point.  The Deputy cannot continue along that line. 
     
     
      
       I will come to the point.  In my opinion, it is far more important to house our poor industrious people living along the seaboard than to house cattle.  I would agree to provide accommodation for the housing of cattle if the Minister had sufficient money to do so, but the first and paramount duty of the Dail is to provide houses for those who cannot build them.  If they are shunted now and if they are not given a chance to qualify for houses under this scheme the responsibility for the lives of many of our industrious fishermen will rest on the shoulders of those responsible.  I know that so far as the Minister is concerned he is doing his level best, for, since I entered the Dail&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy had better keep to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps you will permit me to say that I have every hope that under this Bill the Minister will leave no grievance amongst those who live along our seaboard. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 40; Nil, 68. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Bourke, Daniel.
 Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. 
             Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank.
 Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Broderick, Henry. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Colohan, Hugh. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Daly, John. Davin, William. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). 
             Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Morrissey, Daniel. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Myles, James Sproule. Nally Martin Michael. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies G. Boland and Allen; Nil, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Resolution agreed to. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Report of Resolution agreed to. 
   
   
     Housing (Gaeltacht) Bill, 1929&mdash;Committee. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     Section 1 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     SECTION 2. 
     
      
       On Section 2, I think if you, sir, gave us a certain amount of latitude, we might be able to discuss the matter of how the percentages, which are to determine whether the area is to be considered an Irish-speaking area or not, are determined. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is proposing to take on Section 2,   with a certain amount of latitude, all the amendments to the Schedule with a view to determining the Schedule.  If Deputies who have amendments down are agreeable to that course, that can be done. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  This is a section which gives the Minister power to add new names to the Schedule.  We have no objection to giving the Minister power, if we know how he is going to exercise it.  There is a provision that such additions to the Schedule shall be laid on the Table of the House, which seems a satisfactory safeguard.  But, it says that the Minister will add new names, or make changes in the Schedule, on account of local variations in the numbers or distribution of Irish-speaking persons.  I should like to know how exactly the Minister is going to find out what the local variations are.  The Census figures, as has been pointed out by some Deputies from the Gaeltacht on this side, are taken as the sole basis, and in my opinion are not satisfactory.  It simply means that, in these areas, for example, where the local schoolmaster told the pupils at school, when he was instructing them how to fill in the Census papers, to fill in the names of their people as Irish speakers, that area has a high percentage. If, in other areas, that was not done, and if the Census papers were filled in a haphazard way, the percentage may be low.  The Census figures give us the numbers of people who can speak Irish, but there is no proof that they do speak Irish habitually; neither is there proof, as I say, that that is absolutely authoritative.  There are a number of areas on the border line. 
     
     We know that the line must be drawn somewhere, and that the Census figures may be the best available. But, the fact is that they are not satisfactory, and it is the duty of the House to get a more definite formula which, if it cannot be included in this Bill, will be made the foundation in future for legislation with regard to the Gaeltacht, so that we will not have the position that   areas, which were in the Gaeltacht in 1926, are not in it now, and that areas, which were not in the Gaeltacht in 1926, at some future time may be in it.  I think the best way out of that is to try and have a homogeneous area even at the risk of having certain electoral divisions or small units in it, which have a small percentage of Irish speakers, if we are satisfied that the union area for example&mdash;if you take the union area as a basis&mdash;is in the main Irish-speaking.  The Minister and Deputies on the other side of the House may take up the position that areas which are not really native-speaking, but which may, through the school programme and so on, acquire a percentage of Irish speakers, may in time, although they have actually no native Irish speakers left there, be considered part of the Gaeltacht.  I do not see what is to stop that.  There is no test as to homogeneity, or as to the territory being united.  There are spots on the map in different counties.  There is nothing to unite them together, or bring them under the one administration. That was the reason why I suggested we should make an effort to get back to the old congested areas, because I regard the valuation test as a very important thing, and while I do not suggest now that we can get back to the congested areas, I should like the House to know that there are numbers of areas which are excluded where the people are badly off, where there is low valuation and so on, because they have only 23 or 24 per cent. of Irish speakers instead of 25 per cent.  There is no definite authoritative ground in my opinion which shows that the Census figures are correct.  I should like the Minister to tell us how he intends to proceed in the future when considering the advisability of adding fresh names to the Schedule, or what are the chances of adding to the Schedule a percentage, or all, of the names that appear in the amendment. 
     
      
       Perhaps the reasons that I would like to advance in support of the substantial additions   included on the Order Paper to the Schedule would be different from those advanced by Deputy Derrig.  I want to say again what I said on the Second Reading Stage of the Bill, that I do not accept at all the percentages in the recent Census.  I am quite certain that the whole method of arriving at the information contained in that Census was faulty and that the result is not a fair indication of the real position, and I think the Minister will not have to go very far to get absolute confirmation upon that point.  Again I stress the point that even admitting that the figures were correct, this is not the way to administer a Bill of this kind and that there should be the widest possible interpretation of the spirit that ought to underlie the Bill in order to get the best results from it.  I hold again that the predominant consideration in this matter ought to be the need for housing, and that this question of ruling out very deserving cases ought to be considered in a different light from that underlying the whole Bill. 
     
     I do not accept the percentages arrived at in respect to a great many areas in West Cork.  I repeat in that constituency there are areas and individual cases that I do not want to go into or describe here, that it would be a tragedy to omit from the Bill.  It was in that spirit that I refused to subscribe to the amendment to provide accommodation in another direction.  While I realised there was some case for that, I wanted to support the principle that the real need in a Bill of this kind is for housing of the people and that housing accommodation in other directions, if agreed to, would limit the money available for housing.  I hope it is not going to be advanced that this Bill is going to be the end of the attempt to solve this whole question.  I think it must be generally realised that the amount of money available here is not going to do that.  I do not accept the view of the Minister that by making additions to the Schedule we are going to water down the whole principle   of the Bill.  I regard this Bill as the first instalment of an attempt to deal with this whole problem. 
     It seems to me that the limitation of the Bill on the basis on which the Minister proposes to go forward is entirely wrong, and I hope there will be some accommodation found on this point and that there will be a real effort made to get the best out of the Bill and to see that the areas that have an absolute claim to sanitary dwellings owing to the terrible conditions under which the people live are, irrespective of limitation either of language or otherwise, included within the scope of the Bill. 
     
      
       Surely we cannot now enter into a discussion as to whether areas should be included in the Bill which are not included in the Gaeltacht.  The Deputy is raising a point which has already been decided.  We can argue what is the Gaeltacht on this amendment, I think, and on the amendment to the Schedule, but we are going into a point which has already been decided by the Second Reading.  As regards the point that the Bill should apply to areas where houses are needed, irrespective of language, the Bill is based on the question of language. 
     
     
      
       I submit it would not be impossible for the Minister, under the regulations which he has made, to give some effect to the point. 
     
     
      
       I could not do it. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister could not do it.  The Bill was adopted on the basis of providing dwelling-houses with ancillary accommodation for certain areas which have to be defined on a language basis.  That is the whole essence of the Bill.  What we can discuss is the limits of the Gaeltacht and whether a particular house in an area not otherwise Irish-speaking could be included, but to get away from the language basis now would be impossible.  I think the Deputy should see that himself. 
     
     
      
       I have discussed the question even on the basis you mentioned,   and I think I have nothing more to add to it.  I have strong ideas on the matter, but I am content that I have said enough to establish a case which undoubtedly exists. 
     
     
      
       That is another day's work. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the point made by Deputy Derrig about the position of Irish since the Census was taken, there are many districts which could only show 23 per cent. but which now, owing to the position which the language has reached in the schools, show a considerably higher percentage since the Census was taken. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I would like to support the plea put forward by Deputy Derrig that the Minister would indicate in what fashion he is to arrive at variants to the Gaeltacht subsequently to this Bill.  I know that it is a difficult matter the Minister is tackling.  I fully appreciate the very great difficulty of the problem that is before him.  I know he will have some difficulty in satisfying himself that statistics and census returns are always right.  I have some experience of that matter.  In considering the situation I know the Minister will have a very difficult problem to face.  I am not anxious to confuse him or to put any impediment in his way in arriving at a decision, but I would put to him this point.  Some districts verging on the breac-Ghaeltacht that have very low valuations, districts where Irish is showing an inclination to die, should be included in the Schedule. These are places where Irish is on the decay, and if a man with a bad house in that district who is anxious to build a house sees a few miles away another man getting the advantage of this Bill, he will say to himself: &ldquo;What is the use of starting to speak Irish, a language I have not spoken for the past ten years?&rdquo; If these districts are included I think it would be a great fillip to these people to restart speaking Irish.  It is not a case of coming in on the new and reviving the language in these   districts; it is a case of giving them some reason for doing it. 
       I say that to give the Minister some reason for the list I have put down to the Schedule in many districts. I do not know what the percentage of Irish may be within these areas as given by the Census.  I am not concerned with that.  I know there are houses in them where you have old men and middle-aged men who can speak Irish if they like and speak it well.  If they see people a few miles away who, because the Census returns show a certain percentage of Irish speakers, get grants. they will say: &ldquo;The Government has no respect for us because we do not speak Irish, and we are getting no encouragement to speak it here.  Because there is .56, or whatever it may be, on the other side they get advantages and we get no help.&rdquo;  That is the reason I include these lists.  I know there is dormant Irish in these districts, and I want them to speak it again. 
     
     
      
       I agree with the remarks of Deputy Hogan.  With regard to Donegal, I have a number of divisions to be included put down as an amendment.  Looking over some of the figures and returns I find, taking the Census of 1926, that the whole thing is all wrong.  I know in one part of Donegal, in Innishowen, which is one of the most mountainous parts of the country, the percentage given in some of the areas there is only .6.  One particular district, Illies, is given as .5. I am perfectly sure that at least 30 per cent. of the people there are Irish speakers.  Moreover there is a low valuation.  For that reason I think those amendments should be accepted and put on the Schedule. 
     
     
      
       Deputies know on what grounds the Schedule was based.  The Gaeltacht Commission Report advocated that the Gaeltacht should include all electoral areas which were 25 per cent.  Irish speaking and over. 
     
     
      
       Irrespective of whether they were native Irish-speaking or not. 
     
     
     
      
       I do not think they made any distinction.  I am not responsible for the Gaeltacht Commission Report. 
     
     
      
       The Gaeltacht Commission did not consider anything but native speakers. 
     
     
      
       The Government accepted that.  When we had to come along and get a schedule for a Bill of this kind we had to take this 25 per cent. and over as a line.  The only authoritative body that could give that 25 per cent. would be the persons who compiled the Census. We, therefore, based our Schedule on the Census of 1926 entirely.  The question as to the places outside and bordering on that is, one might say, another day's work.  Deputy Reynolds raised the question of a place in Leitrim, and Deputy Murphy raised the question of a place just bordering on the Gaeltacht. These places might be just as necessitous as the places included, but this is a Gaeltacht Housing Bill. It is for a specific purpose.  I might also say that if it were a question of housing outside the Gaeltacht it would not be my job.  I am not the Minister responsible for housing in the country.  It is the fact that it is the Gaeltacht Housing Bill that puts me in charge of it.  I have been put some posers that, honestly, I do not think I could answer. 
     
     My own point of view is that it is most unlikely that I would add to the Schedule now or in the near future.  It is so unlikely that I have not even yet considered in detail as to how I could go about increasing the Schedule or adding to it.  Of course, it would be laid on the Table of the House.  If I did so I would have to give some very good reason for doing it.  I do not know offhand how I could glean the information that would enable me to add to the Schedule, pending another census, of course.  I do not know how I could glean the information that electoral division so-and-so which is not 25 per cent.  Irish-speaking, according to the Census of 1926, has, in 1930, become 27 per cent.  Irish-speaking.   I honestly could not answer at the moment how that information could be gleaned.  One might take it, therefore, that the possibility of adding to these districts is very unlikely. 
     As regards Deputy Murphy's point about the need for houses, that generally may be so, and it might be that the greater poverty should be first considered without any question of language.  But, in fact, this is a Bill to deal with the areas which are language areas and at the same time to deal with a great deal of poverty, and mostly the greater poverty will be found in the fior-Gaeltacht.  As to whether the Census figures are correct, I do not know.  I can quite well imagine that they may not be. It would be very easy, for instance, if something like this were foreseen for the local school teacher or the local doctor&mdash;I would not say the local curate, because he would not do anything like this&mdash;to advise people in filling up the Census form to say they were Irish-speaking. There are people with certain mentalities who would say in filling up a form that they were Irish-speaking whether they were or not. I am sure nearly all the supporters of the Deputies on the opposite side would say that they were Irish speakers.  Of course, that is another matter.  At any rate, the Census must be taken.  The only real ground on which we have to stand in finding out figures of that kind must be the Census.  How I could depart from that I do not know. 
     
      
       (Clare): Regarding the point made by Deputy Derrig, as to how the Gaeltacht Commission came to the 25 per cent. conclusion, the Gaeltacht Commission caused a special Census return to be made, and it based its conclusions and districts on that. 
     
     
      
       On that point, I find that in that special enumeration the place that Deputy Blaney referred to, Illies, is .0, and it is .5 in the Census of 1926. 
     
     
      
       I suppose if some scheme were devised by which it   could be established that the pockets referred to by Deputy Law or communities or groups of people fulfilled the regulation as regards the number, and it were put to the Minister he would consider them. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I take it that disposes of the amendments to the Schedule. 
     
     
      
       Except one.  I have an amendment down to remove two electoral areas that were put in by mistake. 
       Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 agreed to. 
     
     
      
       Amendment 1 to Section 6 cannot now be moved in view of the failure of the amendment to the Money Resolution.  The amendment to the Money Resolution was put down in order to bring this in. 
       Amendment 1 not moved. 
       Section 6 agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
       (1)  No grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling-house or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling-house in respect of which a grant out of public moneys is being or has at any time within seven years before the passing of this Act been made under any other Act of the Oireachtas or any British statute. 
       (2)  No building grant or improving grant shall be made under this Act towards the erection or the improvement or extension (as the case may be) of a dwelling-house unless either&mdash; 
       (a)  there is in existence or will be provided with the aid of a grant under this Act or otherwise accommodation for domestic poultry ancillary to and suitable and sufficient in the opinion of the Minister for such dwelling-house, or 
     
     (b)  the Minister is of opinion that, having regard to all the   circumstances, the occupier of such dwelling-house could not be expected to keep domestic poultry. 
     (3)  No building grant or improving grant shall be made under this Act unless either&mdash; 
     (a)  there is in existence or will be provided with the aid of a grant under this Act or otherwise accommodation for pigs ancillary to and suitable and sufficient in the opinion of the Minister for such dwelling-house, or 
     (b)  the Minister is of opinion that, having regard to all the circumstances, the occupier of such dwelling-house could not be expected to keep pigs. 
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (1), lines 56-57, to delete the words &ldquo;or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling-house.&rdquo; 
       I think the Minister has agreed to this amendment.  It is brought in simply to prevent a position such as I described on the Second Reading whereby a man who took advantage of the recent grants and got £45 or £50, on seeing his neighbour getting a grant of £80 plus a loan and also a grant for building pig-houses and hen-houses, would endeavour to get the same.  It is to prevent that that I am moving this amendment. 
     
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom cuidiu leis an leasu seo.  Nil moran eolais agam ar na rudai seo ach silim go bhfuil se beagnach sa mBille cheana. 
     
     
      
       I am accepting this amendment.  It clarifies the section on a point on which I myself was not clear.  However, in order to make the position perfectly clear after the first word in the section&mdash;&ldquo;no&rdquo;&mdash;there must be inserted &ldquo;building grant or improving grant:&rdquo; No building grant or improving grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling-house or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling-house in   respect of which a grant out of public moneys is being or has at any time within seven years ... been made.  I read the section more or less as the Deputy read it. 
     
     
      
       Yet Deputy Jasper Wolfe said that I had not read the Bill. 
     
     
      
       You said that yourself. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       There are two amendments to this section.  Is that correct? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       We must take the Minister's amendments before Deputy Tubridy's amendment. The Minister desires, by leave of the Committee, to move in Section 7, sub-section (1), after the word &ldquo;No&rdquo; to insert the word &ldquo;building&rdquo; and after the word &ldquo;grant&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or improving grant.&rdquo;  The section would then read: &ldquo;No building grant or improving grant shall be made under this Act in respect of ...&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Tubridy moves the deletion in line 56 of the words &ldquo;or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling-house.&rdquo; The sub-section would then read: &ldquo;No building grant or improving grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling-house ...&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move amendment 3:&mdash; 
       Before sub-section (2) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;No grant shall be made under this Act to any person&mdash; 
       (a)  who is in receipt of a salary or pension other than an old age pension or disability allowance exceeding twenty-five pounds per annum; or 
     
     
        (b) whose Poor Law Valuation exceeds £10.&rdquo; 
     I think that people in receipt of old age pensions or a disability allowance, which would not include able-bodied people, should benefit under this Bill.  My principal reason in moving the amendment is to prevent doctors, teachers, rate collectors, R.I.C. pensioners, and shopkeepers from availing of the benefits to be derived under the Bill. They really are not poor people, and under former Acts, when things were done for the Gaeltacht, a lot of those people benefited.  I think this Bill is intended principally for the Irish-speaking poor, and we should limit it to them.  It would be very unfair to have people who could avail of other Acts coming in under this measure.  It would deprive some poor Irish speaker in the Gaeltacht of a loan or a grant if the type of person or official to whom I have referred were allowed to benefit under the Bill. 
     
      
       On a point of order, I would like to know from the Deputy how is this amendment to be construed. I think that Deputy Tubridy's words do not carry out his intentions.  &ldquo;No grant shall be made under this Act to any person (a) who is in receipt of a salary or pension other than an old age pension or disability allowance exceeding twenty-five pounds per annum.&rdquo; I read that as meaning that no grant can be made except to three classes of people, an old age pensioner, a person whose poor law valuation does not exceed £10, and a person whose disability allowance does not exceed £25. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I would like to have some information upon this amendment in order to ease my mind.  I quite agree there is some reasonable doubt as to whether a certain type of person should get benefit under this Bill.  I want Deputy Tubridy to clear this matter up.  Take the case of a caretaker   who has 10/- a week and three acres of land.  Does the Deputy see the reactions of this amendment?  It would rule out this very type of person I have mentioned, and I think a person of that type would be entitled to benefit under the Act.  Take the case of a man with three acres, just place for a cow or other stock. Surely he would be entitled to some consideration.  If the amendment is carried it will rule out that person. 
     
     
      
       My point is that anybody in receipt of 10/- a week in the Gaeltacht is comparatively well-off. The people there are living from hand to mouth; they have no means of subsistence except to sell their few cattle or eggs or get money from America.  Any man with 10/- a week is considered a semi-millionaire in the Gaeltacht. 
     
     
      
       I am acquainted with conditions in areas that apparently Deputy Tubridy does not know very much about.  I was anxious to hear the case made for this amendment, and I must say it has not impressed me in the least. I do not know anything more farfetched than Deputy Tubridy's fear that shopkeepers or teachers or bankers would come in under this Bill.  Other sections of the Bill make ample provision against that, particularly the section where the question of valuation is taken into account. 
     
     
      
       That is only as regards three-fifths of the expenditure. 
     
     
      
       Three-fifths will eat up the most of this money. Surely, it is not suggested that applications from the type of people the Deputy has mentioned would be entertained.  If we have any intention at all of preserving the principle of the Bill it ought not to be maintained in any sane assembly that people of the type the Deputy indicated will be included amongst those who will derive advantages.  Deputy Hogan has made the point that I was anxious to make, and that is that the insertion of this amendment is likely   to rule out people who should be considered very deserving.  Take the case of a person with some very trifling salary up to the amount mentioned in the amendment, and a tiny patch of land.  Nobody could suggest but that that type of person would be very deserving; yet, that very person would be ruled out under this amendment.  Unless a much stronger case is made for the amendment, I could not support it. 
     
     
      
       I feel in general agreement with the idea that there should be a limitation as to the class of people to whom this measure should apply.  I think, however, Deputy Tubridy's method of arriving at the limitation is somewhat too narrow.  I do not think you will get a satisfactory definition by confining the amendment to pensions and salaries in the manner specified.  You might have the case of a carpenter, who would make about £2 or £3 a week, entitled to a grant under this Bill, whereas an Army pensioner, who might be making far less of a total income, would be ruled out.  If you are to have a limitation it ought to be a general limitation somewhat in the terms that a person whose income from all sources exceeds a certain figure should not be entitled to any benefit. 
     
     
      
       I am quite agreeable to that. 
     
     
      
       That would be much better than to confine it to people with salaries and pensions. There might be other classes of people with no salaries or pensions to whom it would be hardly just to give benefits.  Under the amendment as it stands we might be excluding certain people who might have salaries or pensions but who would be really deserving of consideration. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree with the view expressed by Deputy Tierney. 
     
     
      
       I am not inclined to be hostile to the intentions behind this amendment at all.  How I look at it is this: that it is neither going   to do good nor harm.  I believe that there are provisions in the Bill to prevent absolutely the type of person that the Deputy speaks of coming in under the provisions of the Bill.  In Section 3 you have provided &ldquo;Where in the opinion of the Minister a dwelling-house in the Gaeltacht is wholly unsuitable for the proper and healthy accommodation of the occupier thereof and his family the Minister may&rdquo; and so on.  That is one of the overriding sections&mdash;that the house in which the person lives is absolutely unsuitable for the proper and healthy accommodation of the occupier and his family.  Then again in Section 7 there is an overriding provision.  Then there is the provision that preference must be given to Irish-speaking householders and there is a further provision that the preference in these cases must be given in cases where the house is most insanitary.  This imposes on us under the Bill as it stands a statutory obligation to make inquiry into the cases. That is to say that where a person makes application we have got to make inquiries on these two bases, first, as to whether the house is absolutely insanitary and, second, whether the householder and his family are Irish speakers.  I think there are sufficient overriding provisions in the Bill to prevent anything like what Deputy Tubridy feared happening.  If I had the slightest fear that a school teacher or &mdash;without meaning any disrespect to them&mdash;an ex-R.I.C. pensioner could benefit under this Bill, I would try to get in some amendment that would prevent such a thing from happening. I am satisfied that the Bill as it stands is sufficiently watertight to prevent that or any possibility of that.  It does leave a certain amount of discretion in the matter to the Minister.  I do not know that you could have a Minister here who could possibly stand behind giving grants to cases like those the Deputy mentioned. No Minister could possibly do it. 
     
     
      
       I know of a man   who has a salary of £5 a week in the Gaeltacht.  His house is insanitary. It is not a fit house for the man and his family. 
     
     
      
       There is a discretion left to the Minister in such a case. Supposing in that case this man did apply for a grant, then there would be some investigation.  Suppose his house is declared insanitary; the thing will have to go back, and what his income is will be shown.  It will be pointed out to the Department by the inspector that this person could avail of the existing housing legislation and that he does not come within the category to which this Act is intended to apply.  If there is not some confidence in the administration of the thing I do not know where it will end.  If I had the slightest fear that anything that the Deputy suggests might happen in the way of these grants being available for persons to whom the Deputy refers I would accept his amendment right off the reel. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister what is the objection to making it clear?  I do not think it is clear at all.  The Minister has only given one example &ldquo;where in the opinion of the Minister a dwelling-house in the Gaeltacht is wholly unsuitable for the proper and healthy accommodation of the occupier.&rdquo;  Surely that is not an overriding section. 
     
     
      
       I gave the provision with reference to Irish-speaking householders as well. 
     
     
      
       Take Section 11, sub-section (4), on which the Minister depends a great deal.  Under that section at least three-fifths of the moneys available for making grants under this Bill must be spent in the Fior-Gaeltacht area, and in cases under a certain valuation.  There is nothing in that to prevent persons with a valuation of £10 or more getting loans or grants.  There is nothing whatever in the Bill to prevent it.  There are no definite provisions by which a person could be excluded.  The £10 limit was always   accepted as a limit for small holdings, and I think it could be agreed that the £10 limit would be accepted as regards valuation. 
       I am strongly in favour of what Deputy Tierney says that there should be a definite clause confining loans and grants to persons whose income from all sources does not exceed a certain figure.  Our idea was that in the case of the salary or pension or regular weekly wage, it was much easier to compute the income than in the case of a person who had a small shop.  I think it would be invidious that certain classes of persons should be excluded on account of their occupations, because their occupations are interrelated. I think there should be some overriding clause preventing persons over a certain income from benefiting under these grants.  Such persons should be excluded. 
     
     
      
       I am really in a difficulty about this.  I am satisfied myself that the Bill is sufficiently clear and that we are enabled under the Bill to prevent what Deputy Tubridy fears.  If I had any fear to the contrary I would put in a specific provision including cases of the type that Deputy Tierney has suggested and that Deputy Derrig now recommends. But I have no fear and I do not quite see how at the moment I   could do it.  I think between Section 3, which refers to wholly unsuitable houses, and the section which provides for Irish-speaking householders and houses that are most insanitary and Section 11 which provides that three-fifths of the moneys available for making the grants must be in the Fior-Gaeltacht, I am satisfied that the Bill is as watertight as possible and that the persons that Deputy Tubridy fears might benefit under the Bill will not benefit.  At any rate I believe that some discretion must be left to the administration.  Some confidence must be placed in the administration. In looking into the applications where inquiries are made the administration must see that the proper persons must benefit and that persons who were never intended to come under the provisions of the Bill shall be excluded. 
     
     
      
       I know that provision is made about Irish speakers. We want the class of Irish speakers defined and I do not think it is clear enough in this Bill.  I do not think it is satisfactory to leave the whole question of the means in such a general way.  This amendment is very necessary.  It is felt so by us and by most people in the Gaeltacht. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 50; Nil, 69. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. 
             Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Mullins, Thomas. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Aird, William P. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. 
             
               Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies G. Boland and Allen; Nil, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Section 7, as amended, agreed to. 
     SECTION 8. 
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom go glacfadh an Dail leis an leasu seo leanas ata ar an bpaipear: 
       To add at the end of sub-section (1) the proviso:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Provided that in the case of a person to whom a grant out of public moneys in respect of a dwelling-house or in respect of accommodation ancillary to a dwelling-house has been made within seven years before the passing of this Act, the Minister may, subject to the provisions of this Act and regulations made thereunder, issue to the Commissioners a certificate in the prescribed form that such person may be granted a loan for improvement purposes under this Act of such sum, not exceeding forty pounds, as the Minister shall think proper and shall specify in such certificate.&rdquo; 
     
     Ta daoine a rinne tithe le goirid agus nach bhfuair ach £45.  Daoine bochta isea iad agus ta cuid acu ag togail tithe fa lathair.  Ni bhfuighidh siad tada faoi 'n mBille seo agus ba mhaith liom da bhfuigheadh siad suas le £40 mar iasacht.  Nilim ag iarraidh rud ar bith in aisge dobhtha; nil me ach ag iarradh go bhfuigidh siad iasacht suas go dti £40.  Na daoine ata ar an taoibh eile de'n teorann, na daoine nach ndearna rud ar bith do dti anois, gheobhaidh na daoine seo £80 d'iasacht agus £80 in aisge.  Ach na daoine nach raibh cho-leisgeamhai leis na daoine sin, ni bhfuighidh siad tada.  Nilim ag iarraidh rud ar bith in aisge ar son na ndaoine seo.  Mar a dubhairt me, ta me ag iarraidh go mbeadh iasacht suas go dti £40 le   fail acu.  Nil leas ar bith le fail ag na daoine seo faoi'n Agricultural Credit Corporation. 
     
      
       I think there is a good deal to be said for this amendment. As I understand it, the matter stands in this way: We have decided that under Section 7 no building or improvement grant can be given to any person who, within the last seven years, has already received a grant of public money under our other Housing Acts.  With regard to the effect of that, take the case of a man who, in the last twelve months, received a grant of £45 towards building a new house.  It is obvious that the sum of £45 has not gone anywhere near meeting the cost of the building of that new house, but that person has been a saving and a decent man and has done everything that he possibly could to help himself. He has, perhaps, borrowed from relations, and with the amount he has borrowed, and the little savings that he has put by he has put up this new house.  There may still be a certain amount of work that it is desirable to have done to the house, but under Section 7, as I understand it, such a man as that is precluded from getting any assistance either by way of grant or by way of loan. 
     
     What Deputy Mongan has said is that under this Bill you are giving to his neighbour a possible grant of £80 and a loan of £80.  Side by side with the person who is getting that grant and loan you have a man who, through his own exertions and the expenditure of his own money, has succeeded in putting up a new house or other works with the assistance the State has given him.  If a dweller in the Gaeltacht had not done anything in the way of helping himself he would be entitled to receive a grant of £80 and a loan of £80.  We are not asking that amount for the man who, through his own exertions and the expenditure of his own money, has succeeded in putting up a new house for himself with the assistance of a grant of £45, but what Deputy Mongan does ask is that though such a man has received a grant of £45 he shall not be   excluded from getting further assistance to the extent of a loan not exceeding £45.  That seems to me to be a very reasonable suggestion, and I hope the Minister will see his way to accept it. 
     
      
       We have not a great deal of sympathy with Deputy Mongan's amendment.  It seems to us that if you are going to alter the decision that other people who have got loans during the past seven years are now going to get either loans or grants you will be making an unfair differentiation.  While there may be hardships imposed on people who had the initiative and the enterprise to get certain works done under the facilities offered, other people now in better conditions will seem to be getting additional privileges.  We do not see how you can exclude grants and include loans.  We fail to see how you can tamper at all with the provisions so that all persons getting State moneys in one way or another during the past seven years shall be included without making a mess of the whole thing.  Deputy Law has pointed out that £45 is not enough, or that people did not get the work completed satisfactorily with that amount.  I do not understand that argument at all.  Persons who got either grants or loans got them for a specific purpose.  The work was inspected and found satisfactory. 
     
     The people knew what they were doing when they undertook this, and now to give them additional facilities would seem to be amending or adding to the facilities they have got already.  We would be really saying that people had got facilities though this House thought them sufficient, and that, therefore, we should increase those facilities.  I think if we go back seven years we would be entering upon dangerous grounds. I do not see the point of Deputy Law's argument that people who got a grant for specific purposes and did work with the help of that grant should now come along and be entitled to claim additional assistance to that already given under other Housing Acts.  They were insufficient   in a number of cases, but they were the best the State could give. 
     
      
       I do not think that Deputy Mongan's amendment should apply in cases where loans or grants were given in the past seven years.  I think his idea was that where grants will be given a loan of £45 should also be given in order to place the people receiving the grant on the same level as their neighbours who under this Act will receive a grant amounting to £80. The grant of £45 would not go far even in the buying of materials, and I think it would be unfair that people who started building operations which they have not completed should not get the additional grant of £45.  I hope that the Minister will see his way to accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Sin e an rud a bhi in mo cheann.  B'fheidir nach dtuigim an Bearla cho maith leis na Teachtai ar an dtaoibh thall agus nar dhubhairt me an rud a theastuigh uaim.  Caithfidh me labhairt i dteangain eile le ciall an leasuithe do thabhairt amach i geeart.  Sul a n-abroidh me focal ar bith i mBearla caithfidh pardun do ghlaca ag muinntir Chonamara faoi Bhearla labhairt annseo. 
     
     I have to apologise to my people in the Gaeltacht for speaking in English in this House.  I never did it before, but I have to do it now in order to convey to the House what I intend by my amendment.  What I intend is that the people who got a grant of £45 towards the building of their houses, and who received no other assistance, should be placed on a level with the people, who are perhaps as well off, who under this Act will get a grant of £80 and a loan of £80.  I hope the benefit of this measure will be given to those for whom I am speaking.  I say the best thing the House could do would be to give poor unfortunate men a loan of £45.  I do not want anything free for them.  I want the people to get a loan up to £45.  I can boast that I know a crowd of people who are   doing this at £45, but they would not be able to go on with it.  It would bring them beyond their depth.  Side by side with the people who get £80 will be those who only get £40.  That is, if you like, putting a premium on laziness. 
     
      
       I discussed this amendment fairly thoroughly with Deputy Mongan, and I thought he was satisfied that my objections to it were reasonable.  If, as Deputy Brodrick and Deputy Mongan now say, a person is able to avail of the existing housing legislation to get a grant of £45, well and good; that is not the person this Bill is intended to cater for.  This Bill is intended to cater for a person who is unable to avail of existing housing legislation. Undoubtedly, if the amendment were accepted it would enable houses built under existing legislation to be considerably improved, but would not that take so much money away from the purposes underlying the intention of the Bill? Any such cases as the Deputy referred to would be almost ruled out by Clause 3.  Surely if they had a grant for housing under the £45 regulations, they cannot be living in insanitary houses, so that Clause 3 would practically rule them out.  It would involve a very substantial change in the Bill, and would absolutely preclude all stages from being put through to-day.  For that reason I would like the Deputy to reconsider the matter and not to press the amendment.  Border line cases would need some consideration. The persons who he thinks were active, who availed of existing legislation, are border line cases, but a neighbour who benefits to the extent of £45 more might well be lazy.  It is a question for consideration, but I would not like the amendment to be pressed at present. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I could simplify the matter by reminding Deputy Mongan that those people who are at present erecting houses on a grant of £45, under the recent Housing Act, can borrow a sum equivalent to double the amount, that is   £90, from the county council.  Is not that a fact, and would it not simplify the matter? 
     
     
      
       That is so. 
     
     
      
       Tar eis a ndubhairt an tAire iarraim cead ar an dTigh an leasu do tharraingt siar anois.  Ach ta suil agam go geuimhneochaidh an tAire ar an gceist seo. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that county councils can make provision in regard to the issue of loans equivalent to double the amount of the grants, because I know that Louth County Council have given a grant of £90?  Needless to say, what I referred to on the Second Reading is now very obvious, the question of differentiating between different classes of people.  Deputy Mongan sees the force of the argument now. 
     
     
      
       I am not responsible for former Housing Acts. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 8, 9 and 10 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 11 
       (1) The aggregate amount of the grants and loans to be made under this Act shall not exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds. 
       (2) The amount of an individual grant made under this Act shall not exceed&mdash; 
       (a) in the case of a building grant, the sum of eighty pounds, or 
       (b) in the case of an improving grant, the sum of forty pounds, or 
       (c)  in the case of a poultry-house building grant or a piggery building grant, the sum of five pounds, or 
       (d) in the case of a poultry-house improving grant or a piggery improving grant, the sum of two pounds and ten shillings. 
     
     
        (3) In the making of building grants and improving grants the Minister shall give a preference to the occupiers of dwelling-houses in which the Irish language is habitually used as the home language of the household, and amongst occupiers of such dwelling-houses the Minister shall give a preference to the occupiers of dwelling-houses having the greater overcrowding, the worse sanitary conditions and the lower valuation under the Valuation Acts. 
     (4) So far as may be practicable having regard to the number and local distribution of the cases in which it appears to the Minister to be proper to make grants under this Act and to the foregoing provisions of this section, at least three-fifths of the moneys available for making grants under this Act shall be applied in making grants to occupiers of dwelling-houses situate in district electoral divisions in the Gaeltacht in which the product of the division of the aggregates at the passing of this Act of the valuation under the Valuation Acts of all hereditaments in the district electoral division valued under those Acts at twenty pounds or less by the population of the district electoral division according to the Census of 1926 does not exceed the sum of twenty-one shillings. 
     
      
       I move amendment 5:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2) (b), line 43, to delete the word &ldquo;forty&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;sixty.&rdquo; 
     
     My reason for moving this amendment is that I am well aware that £40 is inadequate for improving and roofing an old house.  The securing of sand and lime and the masonry of a new house is the smallest part of the outlay, while the roofing, the windows, the doors and the floors, and perhaps raising the side-walls, will entail a much greater expenditure than the half which £40 is expected to cover.  For that reason I   desire to have the amount raised to £60, as anything less would be inadequate. 
     
      
       I agree with this amendment.  The grant for reconstructing a house should be increased from £40 to £60.  The difference between the reconstruction of a dwelling-house and the building of a new house is not so great as the difference between £40 and £80.  If you take a one-storey building in the Gaeltacht at the present time, where the side-walls are eight or nine feet high, it would take £9 or £10 to bring the structure to the height to carry another storey if the walls are good, but because these people will not get more than £40 the building would be demolished and they would build from the foundation. 
     
     
      
       I would urge the Minister to accept the amendment. As Deputy Law pointed out on a previous occasion, this is merely permissive; it merely fixes £40 as the limit.  As Deputy Blaney pointed out, the acceptance of £60 as a limit for improvements might, as a matter of fact, save money to the State which would otherwise be spent by grants for new buildings. 
     
     
      
       I desire to support the amendment which I hope the Minister will see his way to accept. As I pointed out on the Second Reading, under the 1925 Housing Act, which did not apply to the Gaeltacht, inasmuch as people there were too poor to take advantage of it, the people in the cities and towns, who were a comparatively wealthy class, were able to get larger grants than are available for the Gaeltacht. I think what has been done for a comparatively wealthy class of people should be done for the people who are going to benefit under this Bill, and I hope, if the Minister does not see his way to accept the amendment, that Deputies on the Government Benches from the Gaeltacht will bring pressure to bear on him to accept it. 
     
     
     
      
       I support this amendment.  Forty pounds will not roof a house.  The principal things in the improvement of a house are the roofing and new windows and doors, and £40 will not do that.  What will happen is that people will naturally build new houses, although the old houses might be all right if improved. Sixty pounds will roof a three-roomed house in the Gaeltacht and provide for the putting in of windows and doors.  The whole House is in favour of this amendment, and I hope that the Minister will accept it. 
     
     
      
       I do not know how the Deputy has come to the conclusion that the whole House is in favour of it.  I am not.  I think that a £40 grant and a £40 loan, involving a total expenditure of £80, which represents half the cost of the assistance that is to be given for putting up a new house, is quite reasonable. 
     
     
      
       I understood from the Minister that loans would be exceptional, and that he would rely on grants mainly, realising that these people cannot borrow money. 
     
     
      
       I hope as far as possible to rely on grants.  I hope that the necessity for loans will be rather an emergency than normal, because I know the difficulty that these people will have in repaying. But the provision is in the Bill for a grant of £40 and a loan of £40 for improvements; the provision is in the Bill for a grant of £80 and a loan of £80 for all new houses.  The estimate that we have had in connection with the details of this matter is that the roofing will generally cost&mdash; that is, the outlay outside a man's own labour&mdash;about £30, and the windows about £10.  I am absolutely satisfied that this provision is a sound one, and I could not agree to any extension of it.  Any extension would probably mean the watering down of the building of new houses.  A £60 grant involves in my mind anyhow, an expenditure of £120, and if a person is going to expend £120 he might as well expend it on building   a new house; he might as well go the whole hog and look for the £80 grant.  Deputy Blaney made the point that a further £20 would enable a man to raise his walls and to make his house a two-storey one.  I wonder why the Deputy should want that.  Has Deputy Blaney any particular flair for the two-storey house? I think that as a farmer's house it looks abominable.  I would prefer a one-storey house if sufficient accommodation were available. 
     
     
      
       I disagree with the Minister on that point. 
     
     
      
       That is purely a personal opinion.  At any rate, I am satisfied that the provision of a £40 grant and a £40 loan meets the case entirely, and I cannot accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I think what the Minister said in regard to this question of a loan is rather misleading the House, because it will be remembered that on the Second Reading of the Bill the Minister used an expression which was tantamount to saying that the ability of a person to repay a loan must be taken into consideration when loans are made.  The overwhelming majority of the people who will make applications for the reconstruction grants are in such a poor position that they will not be able to give any guarantee as to the repayment of the loan.  Consequently if the Minister insists on that stipulation very few of the most necessitous cases will be able to get loans. On that ground I suggest that the Minister should reconsider his decision, because the majority of the people who will look for reconstruction grants of £40 will not be financially   stable enough to give guarantees or security in order to obtain the loans. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what condition may be made in the regulations for securities or otherwise, but I will say this at least, that loans will not be granted and should not be granted unless the persons concerned are able to repay them.  It is all very fine and it is very easy to be free with other people's money.  If we are making a grant we make a grant, but if we are making loans let them be loans, and let us not give loans knowing that they will not be repaid.  We should not misname them; if they are loans they are loans and if they are grants they are grants.  I will require to be perfectly satisfied that when a loan is given it will be repaid. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister explain how any person in the Gaeltacht will be able to give a guarantee for the repayment of a loan&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I have just said that I do not know what the regulations about guarantees will be. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;in view of the fact that very few people in the Gaeltacht at present can get people to go security for them for loans owing to the conditions that prevail? 
     
     
      
       But surely the Deputy must be aware of my promises. 
     
     
      
       Promises.  Yes, I am. 
     
     
      
       You might repeat the Sligo-Leitrim lot. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the words proposed to be deleted stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 68; Nil, 48. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt.
 Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. 
             Conlan, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan.
 Mulcahy, Richard. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             Hayes, Sean. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Motion declared carried. 
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     
      
       Before we proceed with the next amendment, I would like to know what is the position in regard to the motion for the adjournment. On Wednesday the question was raised, and we on those benches were given to understand that a certain amount of time would be allowed, on the motion for the adjournment to-day, to discuss the question of unemployment.  I would like to know is it proposed to go on after 2 o'clock and, if necessary, will the House sit later? 
     
     
      
       I understand that at the commencement of business to-day the President explained what the procedure was with regard to business and the motion for the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       I would like to point out that this matter was raised on Wednesday, and the Vice-President stated that if necessary the House would sit late to give time for a discussion in regard to the question of unemployment.  I think that that   promise should be fulfilled before the House adjourns. 
     
     
      
       If my interpretation of the Standing Orders is correct, notice of an intention to sit late should be given before twelve o'clock. 
     
     
      
       Does not the responsibility for that lie on the shoulders of the President? 
     
     
      
       No.  I endeavoured to conserve time, but last night, through some extraordinary mentality on the part of Deputies, a good deal of the time of the House was wasted and my calculations were upset. 
     
     
      
       I think that the President knows very well that Deputies sitting on these benches had no responsibility for that. 
     
     
      
       One of them participated. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the President was not in the House when the Vice-President made the promise that time would be afforded on the motion for the adjournment to deal with the question of unemployment. I want to know from the President does he object to have that promise carried out. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the Vice-President mentioned what the Government's intention in regard to business was, but that was portion of the contract, that this Bill should be finished at a certain time. If the Vice-President, in a moment of generosity, gave his signature to any larger cheque than that which I authorised, I regret it. 
     
     
      
       I said that after certain business had been done, the remaining time would be available for the discussion of a motion which Deputy Lemass wished to bring forward, and the discussion of the question of unemployment which was mentioned by Deputy Davin and Deputy Cassidy.  I understood this morning that the position was,   that it was hoped that this Bill would be finished at one o'clock. If it had been finished at one o'clock an opportunity would certainly be available for a discussion of the question to which the Deputy refers. 
     
     
      
       I suggest to the President and the Vice-President that time is not so pressing that they cannot provide some opportunity for the discussion of this question, seeing that the House is going to adjourn for two months. 
     
     
      
       This matter was discussed at the commencement of public business, and the order of business for the day was announced and agreed to by the House. 
     
     
      
       On the definite understanding that the Vice-President's promise would be fulfilled. 
     
     
      
       The President announced at the beginning of public business what the order of business would be.  That was agreed to by the House and business has proceeded in accordance with that order. 
     
     
      
       If the President is not prepared to allow the Dail to sit later, is he prepared to let the Dail sit next week?  I suggest that time is not so pressing that some time cannot be given to this urgent problem, seeing that we are going to adjourn for two months? 
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that the total number of days on which the Dail has met during this session is sixteen?  The manner in which Deputies were brought up from the country for two days during six or seven weeks shows that neither the President nor the Front Bench has respect for the capability of the people to pay or the manner in which Deputies' travelling expenses have been incurred in coming up here. 
     
     
      
       These are all points that should have been made this morning. 
     
     
     
      
       May I point out that the House was labouring under a misunderstanding, and that if we had thought at twelve o'clock that this situation would have arisen after one o'clock, we would then have moved, and have kept within the bounds of order, for the continuance of the sitting beyond the ordinary time of adjournment.  Now there is a different position, and I do not charge the President with responsibility for it, but he is availing of the position into which we have been led owing to misunderstanding, and our hands are tied.  I think the President should consider that. 
     
     
      
       The whole of the trouble arose out of the endeavour to pass a Bill for the protection of perjurers. 
     
     
      
       We are not going to discuss what happened yesterday.  The order of business was stated this morning at the commencement of business and no exception was taken to that statement.  The President stated that he proposed to take the Gaeltacht Housing Bill and put it through all its stages, and that any time that was available after the passing of the Bill up to two o'clock would be given for the discussion of questions on the adjournment.  That was agreed to this morning.  I make that statement for the information of Deputies who were not here at the time, and for the information of the House. 
     
     
      
       We are anxious that the Gaeltacht Housing Bill would go through, but I suggest that the President, the Vice-President or the Leas-Cheann Comhairle should not hold out on a technicality of this description. We were led to believe from what was stated this morning and on Wednesday last that a definite time would be allocated to discuss the question of unemployment. Now we find that we are going to adjourn for two months, and on a technical point of that description we are going to be held up, and the President or Vice-President will not provide any time for this discussion.   I say that is scandalous.  We have been misled just as the unemployed have been misled. 
     
     
      
       It is not a question of a technical point. This is a matter that should have been raised this morning. 
     
     
      
       It was raised last Wednesday. 
     
     
      
       A promise was given and we accepted it on the understanding that it would be fulfilled. If the President, or whoever was acting for him, realised at 12 o'clock to-day that it could not be carried out and that the business as regulated by the Government would last as long as 2 o'clock, I suggest that the responsibility lies with the President or his deputy. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy might have represented that to me just before 12 o'clock and, if he did, we would have a different situation now. 
     
     
      
       With the consent of the whole House I think the time could be extended. 
     
     
      
       If the whole House consents I think that that could be done.  It is prescribed that there must be a motion to sit late, but I think the House by general consent could sit after 2 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       The House could easily decide to do that and be strictly fair to all parties because there can be no vote after the Adjournment and all members need not remain. 
     
     
      
       We on this side of the House consent. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that it could be done by moving that Standing Orders be suspended. 
     
     
      
       Not necessarily.  With general consent it could be done. 
     
     
      
       We on these benches are quite agreeable that extra time should be given.  The Fianna Fail   Deputies are also agreeable and I suppose the Independent Deputies will also agree. 
     
     
      
       We are all agreed. We have just as much interest in the unemployed as any other Deputy. 
     
     
      
       Then I hope you will take part in the debate and try and get something done for them. 
     
     
      
       We did so, long before you. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the proposal to devote time to this very important question I think that the President should concede to the general demand and sit later than 2 o'clock.  He could suggest the time we should sit.  I suggest that it should be, at least, an hour. 
     
     
      
       The proposal is that the motion would be taken at 2 o'clock, that the Dail adjourn until 12th February and then that the House should sit later, but that no division be taken.  I suggest that we sit not later than 2.30.  I cannot be here after that as I have an engagement at three o'clock which was undertaken some weeks ago. 
     
     
      
       Why does the President suggest that no division should be taken in regard to this question? 
     
     
      
       Let us get clear on one point.  Do I take it that the President's position is that the discussion on this Bill should go on until 2 o'clock? 
     
     
      
       Not necessarily.  Why carry it on until 2 o'clock if it is not necessary? 
     
     
      
       Until 2 o'clock if necessary in order to conclude this Bill, and when this Bill is passed, we will then take up the question of the long adjournment until 2.30 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       Yes, I presume the Order will be made at 2 o'clock for the Adjournment. 
     
     
     
      
       What about Deputy Blaney's motion? 
     
     
      
       That would not be interfered with, as it would be discussed from 2.30 until 3 o'clock in the ordinary course. Might I suggest to Deputies that they are wasting a lot of valuable time? 
     
     
      
       Are you going to allow only half-an-hour extra time? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Cassidy should not address that question to me.  It is not within my province to allot the time of the House. 
     
     
      
       I was asking the President through the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I want to take the half-hour myself. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 6: 
       In sub-section (2) to delete paragraphs (c) and (d) and substitute two new paragraphs as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(c) in the case of a poultry-house building grant, the sum of eight pounds, and in the case of a piggery building grant, the sum of five pounds, or 
       (d) in the case of a poultry-house improving grant, the sum of four pounds, and in the case of a piggery improving grant, the sum of two pounds and ten shillings.&rdquo; 
     
     If a poultry-house is to be built at all, and is to be of any service, it certainly must be made comfortable and warm.  If it is not, the production of eggs, which I take it is the main object, will not materialise, because, of necessity, the fowl must be kept warm before they can be brought to a laying condition.  For that reason I take it that it must necessarily be a wooden house.  If it is to be a wooden house, the amount specified in the Bill, namely, a £5 grant and a £5 loan, would be entirely insufficient to erect a house of sufficient size and warmth.  That   is taking it that not less than one hundred fowl would be kept, because I think it is generally acknowledged that anything less would be entirely unprofitable to keep.  You cannot house poultry in a stone house, because it would be too cold; you could not bring it up to the temperature necessary to keep fowl in a healthy and warm condition.  For that reason, I hold that the amount allowed in the poultry part of the section should be increased to £8.  I hope the Minister will see his way to accept the amendment in order that the grant may be of some service to the localities to which it is intended to apply. 
     
      
       I support the amendment, because in the Gaeltacht tea and sugar and such commodities are traded for eggs in the shops, and people, therefore, will avail of the Bill who depend largely for their food on dealing in eggs.  With the small grant proposed in the Bill, a poultry-house could not be put up that would be suitable for the keeping of hens, and that would be sufficiently warm.  At present the people keep their hens in the kitchen, and that practice will be continued unless something is done to provide a decent warm building.  As poultry is such an important factor in the Gaeltacht, I support the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I also support the amendment, as poultry is one of the greatest essentials to the small uneconomic farmers in the Gaeltacht. Under the Act which is at present in force eggs can only be exported under licence, and they must be clean and in good condition.  It is, therefore, necessary that the poultry-house should be such that the eggs would be in proper condition. With an ordinary four-walled house, with no proper provision for nesting or anything like that, a person cannot comply with the regulations. A grant of anything less than £8 would, therefore, be insufficient. 
     
     
      
       I cannot accept the amendment.  The estimated cost of   a poultry-house for the particular type of place that is in our mind is of £10 or something slightly less.  I will admit that I do not know as much about poultry as Deputies Kilroy, Tubridy and Blaney, but in this matter I take my information from the Department of Agriculture. It is not a question of providing for 100 hens.  It is a question of these very small holders.  The estimated number of hens is from 24 to 30 and the estimated cost of a house would be something like £10.  The estimated cost of the material in different places is: Galway £9 5s.; Kerry £9 16s.; Donegal £9 19s. We do not provide as a grant all the sum necessary for the dwelling-house or the piggery or the poultry-house. We provide half grant and half loan, generally speaking.  We hold that the provision of £5 as a grant and £5 as a loan will meet the case. Deputy Kilroy said that a wooden house would be warmer and so on. A wooden house is not contemplated. These sums are, presumably, for a stone house or a cement house or something of that kind. 
     
     
      
       That defeats the whole intention of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I take my lectures in agriculture from the Department of Agriculture. 
     
     
      
       To establish an industry in a country place with 20 hens is beyond the ridiculous, because at any time there will be only a small fraction of these producing eggs. 
     
     
      
       We are not pretending to establish poultry farms in any sense.  We are merely hoping that by keeping from 24 to 30 hens on these holdings the people will so add to their income that they will be somewhat better off than they are at present. 
     
     
      
       Hens kept in a £5 poultry-house will not lay. 
     
     
      
       It is a £10 poultry-house. 
     
     
     
      
       There is a strong point to be put to the Minister in connection with that.  If it is recognised that the Gaeltacht has no industry, and if the difference between a £5 and an £8 grant for a poultry-house is going to bring about an industry, I do not see how the Minister can confine himself to £5.  I do hold that to keep poultry on a fairly large scale is profitable, but no one could hold that keeping poultry to the extent of twenty or thirty fowl is going to be profitable or anything like an industry. 
     
     
      
       The Department of Agriculture is looking after that side of the matter and also the particular breeds of hens that will be provided for those areas.  I think that this provision meets the case which it is proposed to meet. 
       Amendment declared lost. 
       Amendment 7 not moved. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 7 (a):&mdash; 
       In sub-section (4), page 6, line 64, to delete all words after the words &ldquo;in which&rdquo; to the end of the sub-section, page 7, line 5, and substitute the words&mdash;&ldquo;the valuation under the Valuation Acts of all hereditaments (other than hereditaments valued at more than twenty pounds) in the district electoral division when divided by the population of the district electoral division according to the Census of 1926 yields a sum not exceeding twenty-one shillings.&rdquo; 
       This is to make clearer sub-section (4) of Section 11 which, as it is in the Bill, appeared to me, and I think to many others who read it, to be extremely vague. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       On the section, I should like to point out that it simply says that a preference shall be given to occupiers of dwelling-houses in which the Irish language is habitually used as the language of the home.  There is nothing in the Bill to prevent English speakers, that is, those who are in the habit of speaking the English language,   from getting benefits under it.  It is well known that in some Gaeltacht areas people who have Irish and who have been put down on the Census as having Irish, not alone do not speak the language, but very often, unfortunately, are ashamed to admit that they have Irish or to use it.  We want the Bill to be used as far as possible for developing the speaking of Irish.  We want it to be definitely shown to people asking for a grant that if they have not the Irish language they are at a serious disadvantage.  Therefore I urge upon the Minister the necessity for giving a practical example to these people by having officials who will be competent to speak Irish, because there is nothing that counts so much in dealing with these Irish-speaking areas as having officials who speak Irish.  People will then see that the language counts; that it is of some importance; that it is definitely taking the ascendancy; that in future, in this country, the people who have not Irish will be at a serious disadvantage, and that it is up to them to acquire it.  I know it may not be necessary, but I want to state publicly that that is our feeling in the matter. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
      
       In the selection of officials to administer the Bill that will naturally be taken into consideration. My first outlook in this matter will be to get a man in charge who can do the job well.  If I can get a man with Irish, who is the best man for the job, well and good, but if I have to go outside the category of Irish speakers to get such a man I am not going to bind myself down that in the administration of this Bill nobody but an Irish speaker shall be put on the job.  I shall have to look, first of all, for the most efficient person.  Generally, of course, I agree with the view expressed by Deputy Derrig. 
     
     
      
       I want to say, again, that in the matter of old age pensions administration and in the Post Office administration, harm was done   to the language in the Gaeltacht because the Government did not force the position, as in the schools, and if there is not a definite improvement in the administration of this first Gaeltacht Bill, then we will have the question coming up here in the House, and we will have the individuals concerned made the subject of discussion here in this House. 
       Section 11, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       Sections 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 were agreed to and ordered to be added to the Bill. 
       THE SCHEDULE. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 14: 
       &ldquo;Under the heading `In the County of Donegal' to delete the following places:&mdash;`Rosnakill' and `Templedouglas.' &rdquo; 
       These places were inserted in the Schedule by mistake.  They do not come within the 25 per cent. provision. 
     
     
      
       I presume it is definitely understood that if a good case can be made to the Minister that a special enumeration has been carried out in a particular area, he will consider whether that area should not be included in the Schedule. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Schedule as amended be the Schedule to the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       TITLE. 
       Amendment 22 not moved. 
       Title agreed to. 
       Bill, with amendments, ordered to be reported. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Bill was reported with amendments, received for final consideration and passed. 
       Ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies' Business. - Public Charitable Hospitals (Temporary Provisions) Bill, 1929&mdash;First Stage. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Sir James Craig, I ask leave to introduce a &ldquo;Bill entitled an Act for the granting of powers to enable funds to be raised by means of sweepstakes for the support of charitable hospitals and sanatoria in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
       Leave given; Bill read the First Time; ordered for Second Reading, 12th February, 1930. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies' Business. - Adjournment of the Dail.&mdash;Christmas Recess. 
     Debate resumed on the following motion made by the President to-day: &ldquo;That the Dail, at its rising to-day, do adjourn to February 12th, 1930.&rdquo; 
     
      
       In order not to interrupt speeches that may be made on other matters, and to give the longest possible time to the matters coming on, I think it would be well that this motion should be agreed to now; otherwise if there is to be a division it must be taken before 2 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid we cannot agree to this motion. 
     
     
      
       The position of the Chair is that the question, if not agreed, must be put before two o'clock, because it has been ruled on a previous occasion that if the question is not put before two o'clock it will go by default, and the House would have to meet next week without being given an opportunity to decide whether it wished to meet or not. 
     
     
      
       Would agreement end the discussion? 
     
     
      
       No; the discussion would go on till 2.30. 
     
     
      
       The position is that it would become unopposed business after 2 o'clock if there is agreement on that and it goes on until 2.30. 
     
     
      
       It is necessary that we on this side of the House should not alone protest against taking the   adjournment now but that our protest should be entered on the records of the Dail by the only means available besides speeches, and that is by taking a division.  It is proposed that we should adjourn for ten weeks.  If we had been occupied here for say the last two or three months and kept busy over a period of that kind, excuse might be found for such an adjournment as is proposed of practically ten weeks.  But taking into account the session which it is proposed to conclude now I do not think there is any possible reason in the suggestion, first, that we should adjourn now, and secondly that we should adjourn for so long a period. This session has had fifteen working days including to-day.  During the last few weeks that the House has been sitting we have met usually two days a week, and one week we did not meet at all, because, as I understand, the Government were not able to provide us with legislation.  I think there was enough work to be done, even on the Order Paper as it stands, to keep us busy and well occupied with legislative work during the last two months, or less, during which the House has been sitting. We have not tackled many of the big pressing problems that face the country.  There are problems urgently demanding consideration in this House, and some of them have not been adverted to much less tackled.  There has been extraordinary delay in bringing forward legislation that has been promised over and over again.  Last summer when the session was ending we had many Bills rushed through the Dail. We saw a similar effort made here last night to rush legislation.  Considering the fact that time available for legislative work has been wasted and seeing that Teachtai have been brought up to Dublin all these weeks for two days per week I am sure if it were put up to them they would have been prepared to sit three or four days a week if the legislation which was pressing and urgent and necessary for the welfare of the country had been put before the House.  The fact that this legislation   was not produced, though in many cases promised over and over again, requires some explanation. There are Bills like the Town Tenants Bill that the country is clamouring for.  All sides agree that the country is clamouring for some legislation to deal with that problem. It is an urgent matter that has been neglected.  Promises were made every session that the matter of town tenants legislation would be dealt with. 
       A Commission was set up, recommendations were made and the whole question has been shelved. There is the urgent matter of fisheries.  That has not been touched.  I have a long list here of promised legislation.  These promises are repeated from session to session; nothing is done.  There is the matter of technical education; the question of minerals; the question of poor law in various ways; the question of insurance and the ratification of international conventions. There is quite a considerable list.  The President knows very well that these promises have been made and have not been fulfilled and that an opportunity has not been given to the House.  The House here is not responsible for the delay in these matters.  The House has dealt fairly expeditiously with any legislation that has been put before it, especially during this session. But the House and the country have not been fairly dealt with in the way this session has been conducted, and in the proposition now to adjourn for ten weeks. 
     
     There are other matters that are urgently seeking to be remedied. One is the question of unemployment, mentioned here by others to-day. That matter has not been tackled.  No effort has been made in the House during the last session and there is no proposition so far as we know, to come before us at an early date to deal with the question of unemployment.  No specific effort has been made to tackle that particular problem, and as long as we take such long holidays and act as we have acted in this last session,   there is certainly grave reason for people who suffer as the unemployed have suffered&mdash;you are giving them very good grounds&mdash;for complaint and for acting as some of them act in protest against what they consider the neglect of the unemployed. 
     These are important matters that require attention urgently, and it is certainly no credit to the House and less credit to the Government to meet here two days a week for fifteen days and call that a session, call that good work done for the country, and then to propose to give ourselves ten weeks' holidays.  In my opinion it is not too strong a word to say that it is a scandal. 
     There are other matters that affect us, and those who send us here, in a material way.  Another reason why we object to the House adjourning is because whatever little protection there is for the people I have in mind when the House is sitting, there is much less when the House is not in session.  I refer to the maltreatment of Republicans by members of the C.I.D.  That thing is going on every day.  The force that is supposed to protect the citizens and keep law and order is breaking the law by the maltreatment of citizens and there is no remedy except publicity.  The only remedy we have of exposing the scandalous behaviour of those so-called peace officers is publicity, and that is taken away from us when we have these long adjournments.  We did make an effort over two years ago also to try and protect some of those prisoners, Republicans and others, incarcerated in some of our prisons. An effort was made to try by means of having somebody in whom we had confidence put on the Prison Visiting Committees, to get accurate and reliable information about many charges levelled against the authorities by persons that were maltreated. A promise was made by the Minister for Justice, nearly two years ago, that if from these benches a panel of citizens was submitted to him he would select a representative. That panel was submitted to   him, and, to-day, Deputy Little gave me a letter that he got from the Minister for Justice, in which he acknowledges the promise but refuses to carry it out.  He writes: 
     &ldquo;It is true that in the autumn of 1927, when a deputation of members of your party came to interview me about certain matters, I informed them that I would favourably consider appointing on the Visiting Committee to Mountjoy Prison a person selected from a list of responsible citizens submitted by the Fianna Fail Party. 
     &ldquo;In 1927, when I received the deputation above mentioned, I entertained the hope that your party were genuinely interested in the preservation of order in this State.  My experience of the happenings of the last two years has banished this hope.  Where the due execution of the law is concerned, the maintenance of good order, and the protection of life and property, I find in the Fianna Fail Party no desire to help, and there is ample manifestation of the desire to thwart and hinder. 
     &ldquo;In my judgment any claims that your party may have had to have their views considered in making appointments of the nature now in question have long since been forfeited.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Does the Deputy suggest that the matter he is now dealing with has a direct bearing on unemployment? 
     
     
      
       I suggest it has. 
     
     
      
       Have we agreed to adjourn, because if not we must take a division before 2 o'clock? 
     
     
      
       Before the motion to adjourn is put, while I am sure Deputy O'Kelly is just as much interested in the unemployed as I am, we had a discussion here to-day and the President agreed to allow time after the disposal of the Gaeltacht Bill to discuss the unemployment question.  I submit that Deputy O'Kelly, perhaps unintentionally, has infringed on that time and it is   most unfair.  I consider that a good deal of time has been wasted that might have been usefully taken up in discussing unemployment. 
     
     
        Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the House at its rising this day do adjourn until Wednesday, 12th February, 1930&rdquo;&mdash; put. 
     The Dail divided: Ta, 69; Nil, 52. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlan, Martin. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. 
             Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Colohan, Hugh. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas.
 O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. 
             Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Jordan, Stephen. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew.
 Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies Boland and Cassidy. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Resolved accordingly. 
     
      
       I have only one sentence to add to what I have said, and that is where such important legislation is so urgently necessary, the slacking behaviour of the Ministry in the last session, and which they propose to continue for another ten weeks, is, in my opinion, a scandal that the Government will find it difficult to justify. 
     
     
      
       The principal matter that we on these benches desire to deal with is the question of unemployment. It may be said by the President or whoever is replying, that this has come to be a hardy annual.  That is all the more reason why the President should be ashamed of it. It only goes to show that he has not done anything, or at least he has not done very much, to lessen the evil of unemployment, because if he had there would not be any necessity for bringing it up here year after year.  I hope if the President is replying that he will spare us the usual long list he reads out about what has been done and the moneys that have been provided for the relief of unemployment.  We are not concerned with those who have got, through one means or another, employment.  We are concerned with those who have not got any employment, notwithstanding the measures which the President claims the Government have taken. 
       If there was anything at all to show that this unemployment problem is getting worse rather than better, it was provided, I think, in this House during the last few weeks on the Poor Relief (Dublin) Bill. We must take it that the Government were compelled to bring in that Bill to enable the authorities in Dublin to give relief to destitute able-bodied men, and that the position in Dublin County and Dublin City is getting worse than it has been at any time since the present Government came into power.  We ourselves know that in the country the position is not improving.  We know that during a number of years the Government provided relief grants, and there were fairly substantial sums provided in the Land Commission Estimates and other Estimates, but principally in the Land Commission Estimates, for the improvement of estates.  This gave very useful and necessary employment in the rural areas.  There was also employment under the Drainage Acts.  But the Land Commission Estimate for the improvement of estates was reduced by nearly 50 per cent. this year. 
     
     I do not wish to take up very much time, realising that only twenty minutes are available and that a number of other Deputies wish to speak.  But there is another matter to which I wish to refer.  That is the matter of the Town Tenants Bill. That Bill has been definitely promised in this House by the responsible Minister.  On more than one occasion, he promised that the Bill would be introduced.  In reply to a question put a couple of months ago by a member of his own Party, the Minister gave a very definite promise that a Town Tenants Bill would be introduced in the present session. A large number of people in the country are looking forward to that Bill.  The landlords are taking advantage of the fact that the Bill has not been brought in.  Many leaseholders throughout Dublin City and   County know that to their cost. The Minister is also aware of that himself.  In view of the time that has elapsed since the Town Tenants Commission presented their report to the Minister, there is no good reason why the Bill should not have been introduced and passed into law in the present session.  I think we are entitled to know when the Minister gives a definite promise here to do a certain thing why that certain thing is not done.  Otherwise we can place very little reliance on the promises made by Ministers. 
     I think we are also entitled to know from the President what steps, if any, the Government propose to take in regard to the unemployment problem or whether it proposes to take any steps.  The Minister for Local Government and Public Health might let us know when he hopes to be in a position to allot to the different county councils the money out of the Motor Taxation Fund, for road improvement work.  Usually this money is provided in the spring time when the unemployed are more likely to get work elsewhere than in the middle of winter.  I would also like to know from the Minister whether it is proposed to make any grant towards employment on this work, particularly in the rural areas where unemployment during the winter months is so acute.  I think if the Government would only speed up the work for which they have provided money they would go a long way towards meeting that problem, so far as it affects the rural areas of the country. 
     
      
       I also want to say some words on this matter of unemployment. I have never urged or advocated that the problem of unemployment could be met by continuous grants of relief sums for the purpose of providing work for limited periods for the unemployed. Undoubtedly the problem of unemployment can only be solved by increasing the production and by the revival of industry.  We must not however keep our minds too much   upon the long run solution of unemployment and neglect altogether the short run problem as well.  Even if the Government had a policy of producing a revival in industry or increasing production in agriculture, it could not provide work for those who are without work to-day, men who will need work to-morrow or next week in order to prevent themselves and their families being left without food or without the other necessities of life.  The Government can undoubtedly quote figures to show that they have done something for unemployment.  They will quote figures to show that the number of persons in insured employment is increasing and that the number of registered unemployed has decreased.  But figures of that nature are very poor consolation to the 50,000 or 60,000 or 70,000 people who are to-day without work in the Saorstat area. In Dublin the position is serious and no juggling with figures will disguise that fact.  In previous years the City Commissioners were generally able to provide a certain amount of work to meet the abnormal amount of distress prevailing at Christmas time.  This year they are not in a position to do that, and they are in fact dispensing with a number who are normally employed by them during the year.  It is only this morning that I got a letter from Commissioner Murphy to whom I wrote concerning a case of distress, and here is the reply which I got:&mdash; 
       We are now approaching the last quarter of our financial year and it has been found necessary to dispense with the services of a number of our casual labourers in order to keep expenditure within the estimates.  The result is that we have barely sufficient work for our existing staff and unless grants are forthcoming for the relief of unemployment I can see no possibility of assisting this man in the immediate future. 
     
     That is the man about whom I wrote.  I would appeal to the Government   in view of the fact than unemployment is normally more serious around the winter than in the summer, and in view of the fact that the cost of living is higher during the winter and that, consequently, distress is much more serious now than during the summer, to search every possible avenue along which they might find means of giving the City Commissioners power to give the additional work which in the past they were able to give in Dublin at this season of the year.  Unemployment and distress are serious, and though there may be, subsequent to the passage of the Poor Relief Bill through the Seanad, provision made to deal with cases of exceptional distress, nevertheless at present there are men without work who urgently need it.  The Commissioners are not in a position to give them work, until the Government will put the Commissioners in the position to do that.  I am sure if the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, and the President will seriously examine the possibility of doing that, they will be able to devise some means of doing so.  In the interests of the unemployed, I would urgently appeal to them to make some effort to do so. 
     
      
       I would like to appeal to the President to ask the various Departments during the recess to speed up works for which money has been provided already.  If they do speed up those works, especially the Land Commission, they will provide a good deal of work to relieve unemployment. There is no doubt that deplorable destitution and unemployment exist both in town and country, and this is really the only means of relieving all that.  I make that appeal in the strongest possible manner and if the President acts in that fashion he will do a good deal to remedy the prevailing distress. 
     
     
      
       I think the fact that only twenty minutes have been allocated to this important question of   unemployment is an absolute farce. I might say that it is ridiculous that this House should be called upon to adjourn for two months when there is so much poverty and unemployment prevalent.  Thousands upon thousands of unemployed are walking the streets of the cities and towns; they are walking along the by-roads looking for work.  I believe that more especially in this session sufficient time has not been given to this problem.  Instead of the House adjourning for two months it would be much better if it met for another week in order to try to hammer out a solution for this question.  The solution can, with a little effort, be found.  The works are there but the money is not provided. Money is provided for other purposes which, to my mind, and to the mind of the unemployed man, are not near as important nor near as deep as this problem. 
     
     It is generally realised that three of the poorest counties are Galway, Mayo and Donegal.  We find that as far as the expenditure by the Land Commission in County Galway is concerned it amounts to £21,275; the amount expended in Mayo was £13,779, and the amount expended in Donegal was £5,072.  That is not treating Donegal fairly, as compared with the other counties.  We find that the Forestry Branch of the Department of Agriculture which, during this financial year, expended £21,387, has not expended one halfpenny of that in County Donegal. Is it any reason that Deputies should protest against the state of things that exists, especially in view of the poverty that is prevalent?  Is it any wonder there should be protests when we see the Minister for Finance introducing an Estimate for £3,000 to subsidise motor racing in the Phoenix Park while so many people are walking about the cities and towns looking for work?  It is a farce that only twenty or twentyfive minutes are allowed to discuss this all-important question.  Deputies have not anything like adequate time to deal with the matter.  There are large numbers anxious to speak   on this subject and I fear they will not get time. 
     
      
       It is, I think, typical of the way in which some Deputies here approach the subject of unemployment that they leave it to the very last moment of the last day of the session and then they bring it out in the way in which it is now brought. 
     
     
      
       Not at all.  I was very anxious to have it raised here on other occasions, but the Government would not give us time. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is responsible for that. 
     
     
      
       Deputies can deal systematically with the question of unemployment at any time at which they wish to deal with it. There is no intention on the part of this side of the House to prevent the matter being thoroughly and systematically gone into.  What is the position?  The position is that Deputies are not prepared to go into this matter thoroughly and systematically. We have had samples of that already. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is not making much effort to relieve unemployment in Cork.  His pets are creating unemployment there. 
     
     
      
       Shove in a few more tyrants into the county councils. 
     
     
      
       We have had to-day and at other times samples of the way in which this question of unemployment is approached.  In other places it is approached at this particular time of the year by the bringing in of numbers of unemployed into the county council meetings to make representations to the county council and to be present while the members of the county council are discussing the matter. We have had a typical example in the case of Drogheda where the Urban District Council has full   authority to go ahead with two housing schemes. 
     
     
      
       Where the Minister brought one of his pets from.  The Minister is placing his tetrarchs all over the country.  He has one at Cork. 
     
     
      
       It was not the Minister who brought him there. 
     
     
      
       We know who brought him there. 
     
     
      
       As I say, they have full authority in Drogheda to proceed with two housing schemes. What do they want to do?  They want men to be put on relief labour for the purpose of clearing sites&mdash; work which ought to be put into the contract.  The work could be entered into right away in order to get the housing in Drogheda properly and systematically done. 
     
     
      
       Not necessarily. 
     
     
      
       That is a sample of the way in which things are done. It is the same with regard to road work in other places.  As far as the general conditions of the policy of the Government are concerned, such moneys as are available are going to be put into the systematic doing of work, whether it is housing, roads or drainage.  If we are so poor as some county councils lead us to believe, if we are so poor that they have not money for usefully and systematically doing work, I submit we are too poor to throw money uselessly into unplanned schemes for relief labour, particularly when there is a system of relief available for assisting those in want.  There is no use in crying down our morale by pretending that things are really worse than they are.  The unemployment situation is better at this time this year than it was last year. 
     
     
      
       In Dublin? 
     
     
      
       Yes, in Dublin. 
     
     
      
       What is your Bill for, then? 
     
     
     
      
       I defy contradiction on that point.  We have an expression here used by the Superintendent Home Assistance Officer in Limerick County which might be repeated with regard to nearly every other county, including the county for which Deputy Shaw speaks.  He says: &ldquo;Economic conditions are good, regardless of statements that are sometimes made that the people are starving.&rdquo;  There is not a county in the West of Ireland in which agricultural wages have not gone up since this time last year.  I submit that that alone shows there is absorption of the unemployed into the agricultural industry. 
     
     
      
       Can you give us figures? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Quote them. 
     
     
      
       I can tell Deputies this, that if you draw a line from Bundoran to Tramore there is not a single county to the west of that line in which agricultural wages have not gone up. 
     
     
      
       What about the north? 
     
     
      
       I maintain that agricultural wages in those areas have gone up since 1927. 
     
     
      
       Quote the figures. 
     
     
      
       I will indicate the increases in the average weekly earnings of permanent male agricultural workers:&mdash;Sligo, 1/3; Mayo, 9d.; Roscommon, 9d.; Galway, 1/-; Clare, 1/9; Limerick, 1/-; Kerry, 3d.; Cork, 6d.; Tipperary, 9d.; and Waterford, 3d. 
     
     
      
       There will not be many hungry after all that. 
     
     
      
       That represents the increases in the wages of agricultural labourers.  I know   that Deputy Lemass says the wages are a discredit to the country, but that is an economic thing that you can only get over in time.  Since last year there has been in all these counties an increase in agricultural wages.  That shows that as far as the rural districts are concerned there is not an increase in unemployment. 
     
     
      
       What is happening is that the people are deserting the plough and going to Ford's.  That is the case in Cork, anyway. 
     
     
      
       I have been asked by Deputy Morrissey about roads.  I have been in communication with the county councils to let me know their road plans for next year.  You are merely throwing away money on roads if you do not see that as far as improvement work is concerned there will be properly detailed plans.  I do not know how much money I can give for improvement until I can get a fairly definite figure as to what will be spent on maintenance work.  At the earliest possible moment, when I know what the programme for the roads will be, I will give the county councils information as to the amount of money that will be granted.  It is the business of the county councils to systematise their road work, if it can be systematised, so as to have the work carried out economically, if it can be done economically, at a time when there is the most labour available. 
     
     
      
       What is your pet going to do for the unemployment problem in Cork? 
     
     
      
       That is a matter entirely for the Cork Borough Council. 
     
     
      
       They are powerless, and the Minister saw that they were powerless. 
     
     
      
       Did I? 
     
     
      
       You did&mdash;the Brigadier-General again. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy ought to give some fair play. 
     
     
      
       We will get none from that quarter, anyhow. 
     
     
      
       It would be well if Deputies indicated on what particular class of work local bodies can give employment. 
     
     
      
       What about the interference of Government Departments? 
     
     
      
       It would be well if they indicated work other than housing, roads, and, in the rural areas, drainage.  I will be very glad, and the Executive Council will be very glad, to examine any other particular class of work that they indicate. 
     
     
      
       Roads and drainage work in Cork? 
     
     
      
       There are other places besides Cork. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony does not agree with that. 
     
     
      
       These are the backbone of the things upon which local bodies can give employment. We are systematising completely as far as housing is concerned&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You are militarising it. 
     
     
      
       If that means doing things systematically, economically and efficiently, yes. 
     
     
      
       Sack the lot&mdash;that is your policy. 
     
     
      
       We are doing the same things with the roads.  We want to get good value for our money.  Wasted money is only going to further impoverish the country and add to the number of the unemployed. In so far as drainage is concerned,   you have the county councils so far as minor works are concerned, and the Board of Works and the county councils in so far as the bigger schemes are concerned. 
     
     
      
       What about the unexpended money in the Minister's own Department? 
     
     
      
       Unemployment must be systematically dealt with.  It cannot be dealt with in the way that Deputies have attempted to do. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Justice did not reply to the question I asked about the Town Tenants Bill. 
     
     
      
       I stated before that I had hoped that the Bill would be completed before this, and would have been introduced before this adjournment.  I have found that it is not practicable to do that, but I can assure the Deputy that the matter is receiving my closest attention, and that there is no avoidable delay in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister give me the approximate date on which he hopes to introduce the Bill? 
     
     
      
       If I were to give an approximate date it would be said to be a definite clear promise. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say within six months 
     
     
      
       I will not mention any specific date. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies' Business. - New Bridge Over the Foyle at Derry. 
     
      
       I gave notice that I would raise on the motion for the adjournment what I regard as the unsatisfactory reply of the Minister to the question I addressed to him yesterday on this subject.  The question was in the following terms:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether any steps were taken by him in connection with the Bill introduced in the Parliament of Northern   Ireland to make a new fixed bridge over the Foyle at Derry; and if he will state the result of such steps or action in the matter.&rdquo; 
     The reply I received was as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;The Bill referred to by the Deputy is a Private Bill, and it was open to persons affected by its proposals to lodge objections against it if they so desired. 
     &ldquo;The provision of a movable span adds considerably to the cost of erection of a bridge, and the intention to replace the existing bridge which contains such a span by a fixed bridge was doubtless dictated by this consideration. 
     &ldquo;As the bridge is wholly within the territory of Northern Ireland, the matter is of interest to this State only in so far as the replacement may have an adverse effect upon the interests of our citizens.  I have, as the Deputy knows, had this aspect of the matter examined, and I have been informed that no practical use of the opening span in the present bridge has been made for over 20 years.  I have been unable to obtain any evidence that in the present conditions the proposed replacement will impose hardships on citizens of the Irish Free State &mdash;of such an extent, at any rate, as to justify a demand for the largely increased expenditure which a movable span would involve. Nevertheless, in view of what in present circumstances seems to be a rather remote possibility, that developments might occur which would at some date in the future render the provision of an opening span desirable, representations have been made to the Government of Northern Ireland that they should undertake, in the event of such a possibility arising,, that the necessary steps would then be taken. The matter rests there for the moment.&rdquo; 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
     
      
       In so far as the construction of this bridge is concerned when, in its initial stages it came before the Londonderry Corporation for discussion, the Donegal County Council at a very early date took the matter up. They saw that the construction of a bridge across the Foyle at Derry would, without provision being made for an opening span, be detrimental to the free passage of seafaring vessels to that part of Donegal known as Carrigans, St. Johnston, and Porthall.  The county council passed a resolution which they forwarded to the Minister for Industry and Commerce demanding that he would take the necessary steps to prevent the construction of such a bridge.  I do not know that at the time the Minister troubled himself very much about that resolution. 
       Later on, when the proposed Bill was going through the Northern Parliament a letter dated 4th March, 1929, from the Department of the President was read at a meeting of the Donegal County Council held on 26th March.  That letter stated that if the council decided to take legal action in the matter of the proposed Londonderry Corporation Bridge Bill introduced in the Northern Parliament no specific authorisation from the Executive Council was necessary for the purpose. At that meeting of the county council, on the motion of Councillor Scott, seconded by Councillor Hamilton, it was unanimously decided to forward to the Executive Council an emphatic protest against their attitude in the matter, and calling on them to take such steps at once as would protect the rights of county Donegal and the Saorstat in the matter. 
     
     So far as I understand very little steps have been taken except to the extent that they made representations that if at some future date developments, which they do not now see, arose in Donegal, provision would be made for the free passage of seafaring vessels.  The question rests there at the moment.  The bridge is estimated to cost £325,000.   If the Bill is to go through the Northern Parliament without such a provision being put into it now, it would to my mind be useless, after the bridge had been constructed at that cost to seek to have it demolished for the purpose of making a provision for an opening span. Again might I point out to the Minister and the House the importance of preserving the rights of the people in this part of Donegal to the territorial waters and the free passage of seafaring vessels.  The bridge in question is at present an open span bridge.  It is the third of three such bridges.  The first, a wooden bridge, was erected in 1794. The second one was reconstructed in 1814.  The third bridge, an iron one, which is the present structure, was erected about 1837.  All three were provided with an open span for the free passage on the river Foyle above Carlisle Bridge. 
     The Foyle is a wide, navigable and lordly river, and laps our shores from Greencastle to Lifford.  Nature never surely intended that it should be &ldquo;cribbed and cabined&rdquo; by the construction of a fixed bridge at Derry.  At Carrigans it is 22 feet deep and half a mile wide.  If you look at a map of Donegal and draw a line from Malin Head to Ballyshannon, 75 miles, and another from Glencolumbkille to Carrigans, 60 miles, the point of intersection is half way between Convoy and Oldtown. The centre of the county is there, and Carrigans is only 17 miles away, while Fahan is 20 miles, Donegal 20 miles, Buncrana 25 miles, Burtonport 25 miles, Ballyshannon and Killybegs 35 miles each, and Moville 40 miles. 
     Carrigans would be the nearest and principal part to the centre of the county from the east.  It is only four and a half miles above Derry, and entered through (as far as the Carlisle Bridge) one of the best lighted and buoyed loughs in Great Britain or Ireland.  I need hardly add that the further inland sea-borne traffic is taken the cheaper the freight.  A good part of the traffic from Donegal would be made up of   agricultural produce, such as oats, potatoes, etc.  At Carrigans up to a few years ago there was a flourishing corn-mill.  It got accidentally burnt down, but as there was no rebuilding clause in the insurance claim, it has not been so far rebuilt, but could at any time. 
     That is one of the points with regard to the importance of leaving a free passage for seafaring boats, so far as Donegal is concerned.  These are some of the principal reasons why the people of Donegal are interested in the matter.  An important point in connection with the question is that the Executive Government have the right to protect their citizens in so far as any rights they held before the Treaty, which was signed in 1921, are concerned.  The right of a free passage to the boats has always been there.  Provision was made in the three bridges erected for that.  We hold it is the right of the Executive to take the necessary steps to preserve our right-of-way in territorial waters.  It is for that reason that the Donegal County Council have taken up the attitude they have in the matter.  I feel it my duty to raise the question here, and to urge upon the Minister that it is his duty to see that our rights are not interfered with.  The Minister, in his reply yesterday, said:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;I have been unable to obtain any evidence that in the present conditions the proposed replacement will impose hardships on citizens of the Irish Free State.&rdquo; 
     He further said: 
     &ldquo;As the bridge is wholly within the territory of Northern Ireland, the matter is of interest to this State only in so far as the replacement may have an adverse effect upon the interests of our citizens. I have, as the Deputy knows, had this aspect of the matter examined, and I have been informed that no practical use of the opening span in the present bridge has been made for over 20 years.&rdquo; 
     I have information to the effect that the Carlisle Bridge was opened   in 1887 to permit the passage of a schooner, &ldquo;The Swift,&rdquo; with a cargo of sixty tons of slates for Strabane, and in 1889 for the schooner &ldquo;Lily,&rdquo; from Maryport, with 100 tons of coal for Strabane. Both were to the order of S. O'Donnell &amp; Co., Strabane.  Later in 1910 and 1920 it was opened to permit the passage of the Harbour Board's dredger to dredge the mouth of the Strabane Canal.  That would go to show that within very recent times the bridge has been opened, and the fact that provision had been made in the past for that goes to show the right of the people of Donegal to a free passage for seafaring vessels to the territorial waters. 
     
      
       For some reason, which probably I could divine if it were within my province to do it, the Northern Parliament made, or purported to make, a grant to the Derry Corporation for the purpose of building a bridge to replace the existing Carlisle Bridge connecting Waterside, as it is called, with the Derry side, or what should be the Donegal side.  At present Carlisle Bridge contains an opening span which may or may not be used. For our purpose it does not matter whether it has been used or whether it would be used or not.  We hold that from Inishowen Head to Lifford the people of Donegal are concerned. 
     
     Nobody can visualise what is going to happen within the next five, ten, or twenty years.  If a development should take place in this country whereby it was essential for the purpose of central distribution in Donegal to have a port situated at the village of Carrigans, if we allow this proposed bridge to be built we would be placing ourselves in the position of blocking the people of Donegal from the right-of-way to the seaboard.  If we have rights we should stand over them.  It is not our province to look all the time at the other fellow's side of the question. The main consideration should   be our own particular interests, our own particular point of view, giving in fairness a due proportion to the other man's point of view. 
     The Minister might say that if we wanted to interfere in the building of this bridge, if we, for example, said to the Derry Corporation, or to the Government of the Six Counties, that we are opposed to the erection of a bridge without a movable span, the Minister might ask what are we prepared to do in regard to meeting the costs.  That is not our business. It is our business to protect whatever little rights we may be entitled to under the Treaty.  Recently when the diplomatic luminaries of the Free State were blazing the path across the Continent making trade treaties with Continental countries there was a more important question here at home.  Seven years ago to this day these rights which we hold we are entitled to were implemented, and until the present day, although seven years have elapsed, there has been no definition as to what we are entitled in regard to our property, not alone in the Twenty-Six Counties, but in the territorial waters surrounding the Twenty-Six Counties.  It has often been held in regard to territorial waters surrounding the Six Counties that the Free State is entitled to them.  Whether that is so or not I do not know.  The point I am concerned with is that as regards the Foyle, which the Minister probably knows far better than I do, from the fairway of Inishowen Head to Lifford that there has been no line of demarcation as to what the Six Counties or the Twenty-Six Counties are entitled to.  No indication has been given as to whether the Six Counties have any rights, not alone from the fairway of Inishowen Head to Lifford, but around the Six Counties as a whole in regard to territorial waters. 
     
      
       That does not arise on the question of a new bridge. 
     
     
      
       It should arise for this reason&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy is confined strictly to what arises out of Deputy Blaney's question of yesterday. 
     
     
      
       Exactly.  There is a bridge to be built in the Six Counties&mdash;which, without a movable span would block our ingress and egress to waters in our territory in Donegal to which we hold we are entitled. Nobody twenty or forty years ago could have visualised that there would be a development in the Shannon such as the Minister has been responsible for, nor can we visualise now what may happen in ten or twenty years' time with regard to places like Carrigans.  It is possible that we have not vision enough.  It may be thought that I am an optimist with regard to Carrigans.  The same would have applied with regard to the Shannon scheme or to aeroplanes a hundred years ago.  No one can say what may take place with regard to Carrigans twenty years hence.  I hope the same state of affairs will not exist then, but if the Six Counties still remain separated from the Twenty-Six Counties we will be in the position in the event of the development of a port at Carrigans that we cannot get out to the deep sea.  Therefore, if you have the rights you hold you are entitled to now they should be protected, and for that reason the case was put up by Deputy Blaney that we were entitled to these rights under the Treaty, and that the people of Donegal are entitled to have a free passage to the deep sea when they want it, and the Minister should protect their rights. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the question yesterday expressed the inability of certain people to obtain evidence &ldquo;that in the present conditions the proposed replacement will impose hardships on citizens of the Irish Free State&mdash;of such an extent, at any rate, as to justify a demand for the largely-increased expenditure which a movable span would involve.  Nevertheless, in view of what in present circumstances   seems to be rather a remote possibility, that developments might occur which would at some date in the future render the provision of an opening span desirable, representations have been made,&rdquo; and the matter rests there for the moment. Deputy Blaney asserts that he is not satisfied with that answer, and he brings forward this case to-day.  I feel, after listening to Deputy Blaney to-day, that it was a pity that somebody more competent to deal with this matter had not been entrusted with it from the beginning. Many months ago I interviewed Deputy Blaney.  I told him then, not the contention that was accepted, but the contention that had been made in regard to this bridge, and I asked the Deputy to get me information, of he could, from the Donegal County Council, or on his own part, to rebut the case made.  Is there a case in the present circumstances to warrant us asking for an opening span to be made at the moment?  I am leaving the rights out for the moment.  I told him then that, as it was represented to me, the traffic that came from above the bridge was carried in barges or in lighters known as the Strabane fleet, that drew only a few feet of water, that there was about 10,000 tons carried by the Strabane fleet and that a certain amount of general cargo was carried in that way.  There was, in addition, a certain amount of sand and other building materials brought down, mainly sand, from two sandbanks on the river, at New Buildings and at St. Johnston.  I told him, further, that it was represented that, although the river at full tide appeared to be very wide and navigable, in fact&mdash;and one could see it at low tide&mdash;it is twisted, tortuous and shallow, or little better than a canal, and could only be used by a type of flat-bottomed boat or barge that would only draw a few feet of water. 
     
     
      
       That is your contention. 
     
     
      
       It is not my contention. I did not accept the contention.   I put these points to the Deputy in the conversations I had with him.  The Deputy must give me two or three minutes now.  He had ten minutes. 
     
     
      
       That was the contention of those who are working against this. 
     
     
      
       It may be.  I opposed that contention, and I asked Deputy Blaney to get me certain information.  With his permission I am going to read the letter he sent me.  I told him further, that it was represented that the river was not wide and was only for a very short part above the bridge dredged on one occasion when the dredger was let go through.  I told him, further, that the representation was that there was no port at Carrigans, or at St. Johnston, or Lifford, or at any other portion of the Free State littoral and no river traffic at the moment.  I told him that the representation was that for forty years past the bridge had been opened three times, once to let the dredger up, secondly to let the dredger down, and thirdly to test whether the span would open or not, and I asked him to get me information on these points. 
     
     
      
       What is the information? 
     
     
      
       I do not know if the Deputy considers that the letter he wrote to me is confidential or if I can read it. 
     
     
      
       You can read it as far as I am concerned. 
     
     
      
       The information I got from him then was a letter stating: &ldquo;It is understood that the old bridge has only been opened on a few occasions.  However, in the event of developments taking place in county Donegal it might possibly become necessary to have the proposed new bridge opened on frequent occasions.&rdquo;  On the question of the alteration of the course of the   channel, which was a question that was also put up&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That was a question you wanted answered. 
     
     
      
       It was not. 
     
     
      
       It was a particular question you asked. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said &ldquo;it is believed that the channel alters its course every few years, but it is learned on reliable authority that this would not present an insurmountable engineering difficulty of having the new bridge erected with an opening span to permit the passage of steamers.&rdquo;  The rest of it is about objections that were taken to the Bill when it came before a Committee of both Houses of the Northern Parliament and has no relation to what I asked him about. If the Deputy thinks it has relevance I will read the whole letter.  That is the information the Deputy gave me, and I took that as meaning that the contentions made by these people, with the facts and in the present circumstances, are to be allowed to go unanswered as far as Deputy Blaney is concerned, because if that is the only evidence which I can get from Deputy Blaney on which to ask people to spend £35,000 extra on a movable span&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Why is the Minister so concerned about the expense? 
     
     
      
       I have another point of view.  If I had only that view, and if I was only going to rely on what Deputy Blaney has put up I could not go anywhere and make representations to anybody.  I want to have that point made clear.  However, the Deputy comes along to-day and says that it is a wide and navigable river.  He says that he has some figures showing that it is twenty-two feet deep at Carrigans and a certain width.  I would like to know at what state of the tide the twenty-two feet depth was taken.  I am not sure&mdash;it was introduced into the context but I do not know whether it applied to the river&mdash;but he talked about it being well lit and   well buoyed.  Does the Deputy believe that the river above the bridge is well lit and well buoyed? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say that it is at present, but if the Derry Harbour Board were doing their duty it would be. 
     
     
      
       This is a question of what is.  Again, I got information about two boats, the &ldquo;Lily&rdquo; and the &ldquo;Swift,&rdquo; that went up, incidentally one in 1887 and the other in 1889, to Strabane.  That is to say, in so far as there is any proof at all it is proof that the Northern Government, by not putting in a movable span is blocking the movements of ships to its own nationals. 
     
     
      
       I saw from an issue of the &ldquo;Sentinel&rdquo; some time ago that the Moville steamer went as far as Castlefin some years ago.  I want to say that that is not the point at all.  The point is our rights. 
     
     
      
       I would come to the rights if the Deputy would only keep quiet. 
     
     
      
       The rights of the Free State. 
     
     
      
       Whether we use them or not. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has less than two minutes left to him to reply. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy was asked to provide certain information on certain concrete points that had been urged with regard to how far the present circumstances warranted the contention that here and now a movable span should be made in the bridge.  There is his letter.  If he has got further information to-day it is vague stuff that he saw in the &ldquo;Sentinel.&rdquo; That is to prove my point that it would have been better if this had   been handled by somebody more competent to deal with it.  On the other hand, there is the question of what might be called legal right. How far that goes is a matter to be hereafter determined. 
     
     
      
       After seven years! 
     
     
      
       I stated that representations had been made, and the matter rests there for the moment.  Does the Deputy want me to state the contentions I have made?  Does he want me to state the case that can be made for the bridge as opposed to the case which we put up?  In other words, does he want me, while the case is at hearing, on the naked legal right, to expose here what I know of the case that was made to me by the Donegal County Council or by Deputy Blaney? 
     
     
      
       Where is it being heard? 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy understand that representations have been made, and that the matter rests there at the moment? 
     
     
      
       There is the representation that the Northern Government would make provision at a future date. 
     
     
      
       Representations have been made that they should undertake, in the event of such a possibility arising, that the necessary steps for a movable span would then be taken. 
     
     
      
       That the bridge might be constructed now, and in six, ten, or twelve years hence a movable span might be required by the people in that part of Donegal? 
     
     
      
       And, therefore, that it would be legitimate to ask that the matter would be done now. Deputy Carney's analogy about the Shannon was that fifty or a hundred years ago people might have objected   when some bridge was being put across an inland part of the Shannon because of the possibility that an electricity scheme would be started there and that that would entail the demolishing of the bridge&mdash;the pulling down of a lot of property. 
     
     
     
      
       But the Minister would have had control over that property.  He has no control over the bridge that is being erected now. 
       The Dail adjourned at 3 p.m. until Wednesday, February 12th, 1930, pursuant to the resolution of the House of this day. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Men's and Boys' Readymade Overcoats. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is prepared to make arrangements that the numbers and values of men's and boys' ready-made overcoats be returned separately in the Trade and Shipping Statistics in order to be better able to follow the effect of the tariff on ready-made clothing. 
     
     
      
       Arrangements will be made for the compilation as from the 1st proximo and for the periodical publication of the information referred to in the question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Claims of Connaught Rangers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he has decided to re-open for investigation any or all of the claims of the Connaught Rangers who mutinied in India in 1920, with a view to granting pension or gratuity to those members who have, and are still, suffering severe hardships since their discharge from the British Army. 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy is no doubt aware, the claims put forward on behalf of certain ex-members of the Connaught Rangers were very carefully considered by a Committee which was specially appointed for the purpose.  The Committee reported that no claim for compensation arising out of the mutiny was sustainable.  I have reviewed the position on several occasions since the Committee reported, but no facts   which were not available to the Committee have been brought to my notice.  In the circumstances, while I would be ready to examine any new considerations, there would appear at present to be no advantage in re-opening the case. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Registered Moneylenders. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance to state the number of moneylenders registered during the last five years (a) in Dublin, (b) in the rest of the country, and the total amount of income tax paid by such registered moneylenders for each year during the same period; and, further, whether the Revenue Commissioners have exercised the power, by making regulations under Section 3 of the Moneylenders Act of 1900, to examine all accounts of such moneylenders; and further, to ask the Minister if he can state how many of such registered moneylenders are also registered moneylenders outside the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The number of moneylenders registered in An Saorstat during the last five years was 253. Of these 206 registered with Dublin addresses and 47 with addresses outside Dublin.  Fourteen out of the 253 had also places of business in Great Britain or Northern Ireland. 
       The powers of the Revenue Commissioners under Section 3 of the Moneylenders Act, 1900, are restricted to the making of regulations respecting the registration of moneylenders, the form of the register and the particulars to be entered therein, the fees to be paid on registration and renewal of registration, and respecting the inspection of the register and the fees payable therefor. No power is given under that section as regards making regulations for the examination of accounts of moneylenders.  Regulations made by the Commissioners under the section are subject to my approval. 
     
     To obtain figures of income tax paid by registered moneylenders would necessitate communicating with Inspectors of Taxes in regard   to each of the 253 cases, and I am of opinion that the information thus obtained would not justify the considerable labour that would be involved. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Dail Eireann Loan. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when the following subscribers to the Dail Eireann Loan, 1919-20, will be repaid:&mdash;Thomas McGann, Lasvalley, Ower P.O., Headford, Co. Galway, £1; Michael Sweeney, Ravenhill, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2; Patrick Conroy, Mohara, Woodpark, Shrule, £2; Mary Biggins, Mohara, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2; John Varley, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2; James Feeney, Ballinahina, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2; John Gaynard, Ballinahina, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2; Michael Daly, Ballinahina, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2; John Flynn, Ballinalty, Ower, Headford, Co. Galway, £2; and Thomas Mohan, Ballinahina, Shrule, Co. Mayo, £2. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to previous replies given by me to similar questions.  The claim of every subscriber who applied in writing for the repayment of his subscription within the prescribed period will be dealt with in my Department in due course. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Arrests at Carrick-on-Shannon. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that Michael Kelleher, Meera, Carrick-on-Shannon, and Thomas Gilroy, Cortober, Carrick-on-Shannon, have within the last six months been repeatedly arrested and taken to Carrick-on-Shannon barracks by the detective division of the Garda Siochana; whether he is further aware that at an identification parade on 10th October, 1929, at Carrick-on-Shannon, Thomas Carr was identified by Joseph Feely in connection with certain incidents at Mantua, Co. Roscommon, and if he will state the reason why Gilroy was charged, and Carr was not charged though identified in connection with these incidents, and whether he is prepared to give an assurance that   this persecution of prominent Republicans in this area will cease forthwith. 
     
     
      
       I have called for a report in this matter, and when the information is available I will communicate with the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - The Moneylenders Acts 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice to state the number of prosecutions and how many convictions during the last five years have been obtained for offences against the Moneylenders Acts, 1900 and 1911; and, further, to ask the Minister to state how many petitions in bankruptcy have been filed by moneylenders, and what percentage these constitute of the total number of cases in bankruptcy during the past three years. 
     
     
      
       I have caused inquiries to be made as to the number of prosecutions and convictions during the last five years for offences against the Moneylenders Acts, 1900 and 1911, and when replies have been received the Deputy will be furnished with the statistics he requires.  As regards the latter part of the question, I have ascertained that during the past three years six petitions in bankruptcy were filed by moneylenders.  As the total number of petitions was 204, the percentage of moneylenders seeking the protection of the Bankruptcy Court works out at less than 3 per cent. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Teistimearachta na gColaisti Gaedhilge. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais an bhfeudfadh se innsint cad fath gur eirigh an Roinn as glacadh le teistimearachta na gColaisti Gaedhilge, agus os rud e go bhfuil a lan muinteoiri fos nach bhfuil oilte ar an nGaedhilg do mhuineadh na ar adhbhair leighinn do mhuineadh trid an nGaedhilg, an ndeunfaidh se an sceul a bhreithniu aris feuchaint an feidir slighe a cheapadh chun glacadh le cabhair os na Colaisti aris chun na muinteoiri do chur in oiriunt d'obair na sgol. 
     
     
     
      
       The decision of my Department is directed to securing a necessary uniform standard of qualification for the award of certificates in Irish to teachers, and applies, to all colleges, the principle which has been in operation for some years past in respect of colleges holding summer courses in Irish. 
       It is open to the colleges to continue to aid in the important service of fitting the teachers for the work of the teaching in and through Irish in the schools, and it is observed that they have continued to do so. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Clondalkin Paper Mills. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state whether any efforts are at present being made to have the paper mills at Clondalkin reopened. 
     
     
      
       According to my information efforts to secure the reopening of these mills have not been abandoned. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Balbriggan Hosiery Workers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that many skilled hosiery workers who had been employed in the Balbriggan Hosiery Factory that was destroyed by the British Forces have been forced to emigrate, and that many others who have been unemployed for a very long period also contemplate leaving the country; and further, if he will state whether any special efforts are being made to have the destroyed factory rebuilt, or if it is his intention to do anything to try and retain these skilled workers in the country. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the remaining hosiery factory in Balbriggan is now giving increased employment and has absorbed some of the workers unemployed by the destruction of the factory referred to. 
     
     I am prepared to consider any sound proposition for the reopening of this factory and to assist such a proposition by any means within my   powers.  More than one proposal has already been laid before me in this connection, but I have not been satisfied that any of them were commercially feasible. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Chief Roads Inspector. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the date of the appointment of the present Chief Roads Inspector; whether the appointment was made on the recommendation of the Civil Service Commissioners; and, if not, on whose recommendation and by whom was the appointment made, and what were his academic qualifications at the date of his appointment. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Quigley was appointed Chief Roads Engineer on the 30th July, 1923.  The appointment was not made by the Civil Service Commissioners, as that body did not then exist.  Mr. Quigley was appointed by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health because of his fitness for the position.  He had been for sixteen years previously County Surveyor of Meath and had passed the Civil Service examination for County Surveyorships.  I do not know anything about his academic qualifications, and do not see that it is necessary to inform myself on the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Cavan County Council Appointment. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if it is a fact that he has refused sanction to the appointment of Miss Sheila F. O'Dowd to the position of junior clerk to Cavan County Council, who obtained second place at the qualifying examination, she being only one per cent. all round below the highest on the list; and that he also refused sanction to the temporary appointment of Miss Maggie Kelly, who was placed fifth at said examination; and if before refusing his sanction he had given due consideration to the merits of the candidates as disclosed   by the examiner's report, and in particular, if he had adverted to the fact that the two candidates appointed by the County Council, whilst being reasonably proficient in all other subjects, scored the highest marks in Irish. 
     
     
      
       The facts are as stated, except that the appointments to be filled were shorthand typists, not clerks.  Neither of the candidates mentioned in the question qualified in or showed any proficiency in shorthand and typewriting. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - The Potato Crop-Drying Plant. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture to state whether he is aware that there are established and operating in Germany, washing, cutting and drying plants for raw potatoes and general agricultural produce; whether, with a view of enabling the potato-growers in the Cooley area, Co. Louth, to dispose of the very large quantities of potatoes grown in that area and for which there is at present no market, the Minister will consider the question of erecting similar plant in the said area. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that there are in operation in Germany plants of the nature mentioned, and I am considering, in the light of reports which I arranged should be furnished to the Department of Agriculture, whether the erection of such a plant is an undertaking which could be recommended to potato growers in Cooley or elsewhere in this country. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Cost of Forestry Operations. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether he will state the total expenditure of the Forestry Branch of the Department of Agriculture in each county during the present financial year. 
     
     
      
       The expenditure of the Forestry division of the Department is not made on a county basis; but the appended table, which gives   the expenditure on forestry operations at the Department's Forestry Centres from 1st April to 31st October last (exclusive of Headquarters charges), indicates in each case the county or counties in which the Forestry Centre is situated. 
       Expenditure on Forestry Operations at the Department's Forestry Centres from 1st April to 31st October, 1929, exclusive of Headquarters Charges. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Centre. 
             County in which situated. 
             Expenditure. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             
             
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             Aherlow 
             Tipperary 
             408 
             8 
             2 
           
           
             Aughrim 
             Wicklow 
             1,557 
             17 
             2 
           
           
             Bailieboro 
             Cavan 
             138 
             8 
             1 
           
           
             Ballygar 
             Galway 
             1,702 
             10 
             0 
           
           
             Ballyhoura 
             Cork 
             287 
             1 
             2 
           
           
             Blessington 
             Wicklow 
             286 
             4 
             2 
           
           
             Bree 
             Wexford 
             415 
             14 
             0 
           
           
             Camolin 
             Wexford 
             247 
             14 
             5 
           
           
             Clogheen 
             Tipperary 
             804 
             18 
             4 
           
           
             Coolgreaney 
             Wexford 
             15 
             19 
             9 
           
           
             Dundalk 
             Louth 
             757 
             10 
             8 
           
           
             Dundrum 
             Tipperary 
             1,767 
             12 
             6 
           
           
             Glencree 
             Wicklow 
             453 
             7 
             1 
           
           
             Glendalough 
             Wicklow 
             271 
             5 
             8 
           
           
             Glen Imaal 
             Wicklow 
             918 
             11 
             4 
           
           
             Glenmalure 
             Wicklow 
             567 
             5 
             11 
           
           
             Gort 
             Galway 
             1,394 
             14 
             8 
           
           
             Kilrush 
             Clare 
             340 
             5 
             6 
           
           
             Kilworth 
             Cork 
             1,099 
             13 
             3 
           
           
             Mountrath 
             Leix 
             864 
             0 
             10 
           
           
             Mountshannon 
             Clare 
             646 
             4 
             11 
           
           
             Newtownbarry 
             Wexford 
             288 
             5 
             2 
           
           
             Port Laoighise 
             Leix 
             70 
             3 
             4 
           
           
             Rathdrum 
             Wicklow 
             1,553 
             4 
             1 
           
           
             Ross 
             Galway 
             295 
             10 
             8 
           
           
             Suir Valley 
             Tipperary and Waterford. 
             2,318 
             16 
             11 
           
           
             Tallow 
             Waterford and Cork. 
             234 
             8 
             3 
           
           
             Thomastown 
             Carlow, Wex- ford and Kilkenny. 
             999 
             19 
             9 
           
           
             Tuamgraney 
             Clare 
             636 
             11 
             10 
           
           
             Woodford 
             Galway 
             44 
             13 
             9 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             21,387 
             1 
             4 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Ardgroom Harbour. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state the result of his inquiries into the necessity for a landing slip at Canafie, Ardgroom, on the Beara Peninsula, and what action he intends to take to provide the facilities required. 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied that   the need exists for a landing place at Canafie, in Ardgroom Harbour. Landing facilities exist at Cappul, which is distant from Canafie half a mile by water and a mile and a quarter by land. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Acquisition of Lands and Relief of Congestion in Mayo. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to take over the lands known as the Ardkill Farm, McCormick estate, Kilcommon district, Co. Mayo; and if he will state what steps are being taken to relieve the acute congestion existing in this area. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings have been instituted under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for the acquisition of the lands of Ardkill, containing 120a. 3r. 16p., for the relief of congestion in this area, but as the price of these lands has not yet been determined, the Land Commission are not in a position to state when they will be taken over and divided. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the lands known as the Clemens estate will be finally dealt with by the Land Commission, and if he will state what steps are being taken by the Land Commission to relieve the congestion existing in the area of this estate, Derrypark, Tourmakeady, Co. Mayo. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the lands known as the Sligo estate, Purranes district, Hollymount, Co. Mayo, will be finally settled by the Land Commission; and if he will also state what steps are being taken by the Land Commission to deal with the very acute congestion existing in this area. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will   state when the lands known as the Miss A.C.E. Brown estate will be distributed by the Land Commission, and when their holdings will become vested in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       I regret that the notice given of these questions was not sufficient to enable me to procure the desired information.  The local inspector has been communicated with in regard to the three estates and when his reply has been received I will write to the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state if the Land Commission propose to take over for the relieving of congestion the lands known as Waterford Farm, held by Mr. James O'Donnell, Waterford, Newbrook, Co. Mayo, and whether he will state what steps are being taken to relieve the acute congestion existing in the area. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have made enquiries regarding the lands of Lissaniska (known as Waterford Farm) the property of James Myles O'Donnell, and they do not propose to take any action towards acquisition, as they appear to come under the exceptions of Section 24 (2) of the Land Act 1923, being subject already to L.P.A. 
       The Land Commission have made an offer, which has been accepted, for the lands of Togher (in the same locality) the property of Mr. A.J.J. Algie, and a scheme for the distribution of these lands is in course of preparation.  It is anticipated that the division of these lands will relieve local congestion. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to take over the lands known as the Valentine Blake and Sebastian Nolan estates, for the purpose of relieving the acute congestion existing in the townland of Islandmore, the Neale, Co. Mayo, and other neighbouring townlands. 
     
     
      
       The estate referred to comprises a holding containing   285a. 2r. 36p., situate in the townlands of Illanmore and Knocknapisha, partly in the occupation of Valentine J. Blake and partly in the occupation of 18 sub-tenants.  The estate is being dealt with under the Land Act, 1923, and the question of the retention of the portion of the lands in the owner's exclusive occupation, with a view to resumption for the relief of congestion, will be considered by the Land Commission in due course. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state if any steps are being taken by the Land Commission to distribute the lands known as the G.H. `Acton estate; when will the Land Commission take steps to relieve the congestion existing on this estate, and in the Belcarra area, in which this estate is situate. 
     
     
      
       A scheme for the division and allotment of the Acton estate has been prepared.  It is expected that the distribution of the lands will take place at an early date.  The matter is receiving all possible attention. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state (a) when the Land Commission propose to take over the lands known as the Frenchgrove Farm for the relief of congestion; and (b) if he will state what steps are being taken to acquire the lands known as the estate of Francis Joseph Eager, Hollymount district, Co. Mayo. 
     
     
      
       (a) The lands of Frenchgrove referred to appear to be a holding of 212a 3r. 2p., held by James Joseph Hession and Annie Fitzpatrick (wife of Patrick Fitzpatrick) as joint tenants on the estate of Francis J.M. Eager.  This holding will be retained by the Land Commission under Section 28 (6) of the Land Act, 1923, and the Land Commission propose to apply to the Judicial Commissioner for an order authorising them to resume the lands.  (b) The proceedings in the Land Commission for the vesting of holdings on the estate of Francis J.   M. Eager, to which the question appears to refer, are being carried on as expeditiously as possible. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to complete the sale agreements of the tenants on the Ruttledge Fair estate, Hollymount district, Co. Mayo, and if he will state when the tenants will become the vested owners of their holdings. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission propose to take over the lands known as the Luke MacDermott Farm, Knox estate, Friarsquarter, Ballinrobe, for the purpose of relieving congestion in the area. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to complete the distribution of the Fitzgerald-Kenney estate, and if he will state what steps are being taken by the Land Commission to relieve the acute congestion existing in the townlands of Newtown Drum, and surrounding villages in the Clogher district, Castlebar, Co. Mayo. 
     
     
      
       These questions were received too late to enable replies to be prepared.  I shall communicate with the Deputy later. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to distribute the lands known as the O'Connor-Lease portion of the Lynch-Blosse estate, Balla district, Co. Mayo; if he will state what steps are being taken to relieve the congestion existing on this estate. 
     
     
      
       Arrangements are being made to deal with the lands referred to as rapidly as possible, but it is not at present possible to say when they will be distributed. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to take over the lands known as the Stanhope Kenny estate, Ballinrobe district, Ballinrobe, Co. Mayo. 
     
     
     
      
       It has not been possible from the particulars given in the Question to identify the particular lands referred to.  Perhaps the Deputy would supply further information to enable them to be identified. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Land Commission propose to distribute the lands known as the Morency estate, Cloongowlah, Ballinrobe, Co. Mayo; if he will state what steps are being taken by the Land Commission to relieve congestion in this area. 
     
     
      
       For the purpose of relieving the congestion on the Montmorency estate at Cloongowla the Land Commission have allotted parcels on the estate of Col. H.H.C. Knox to three tenants on the Montmorency estate in exchange for their three holdings comprising some 60 acres, but until the Land Commission are dealing with the Montmorency estate it will not be possible to complete the exchanges. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Migrations from or Enlargements of Mayo Holdings. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he has received several memorials from the tenants on the Arenmore estate, in the parish of Devlish West, Ayle, Westport, Co. Mayo, asking to be migrated or to have their holdings enlarged, and what action has been taken as a result of the receipt of these memorials. 
     
     
      
       A memorial regarding the relief of congestion has been received from the tenants in the townlands of Devlish East and West on the estate of Edward White, Trustee of Lord Avonmore, and is being inquired into.  I am not yet in a position to state the result of the investigation in the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Relief of Congestion in Headford District, Co. Galway. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if,   in view of the acute congestion existing in the Headford district of Co. Galway, and the scarcity of untenanted lands suitable for relief, he will consider the question of having the Irish Land Commission acquire for distribution the lands of Cordarragh, held by Mrs. Maria Ward (formerly Miss Annie Lydon estate). 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy has already been informed, the lands referred to appear to be 52 acres of the lands of Cordarragh, Poor Law Valuation £18 12s., occupied by Mrs. Maria Ward.  The Land Commission do not propose to take any action at present regarding the acquisition of these lands. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Addition of Land to Galway Tenant. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether it is proposed by the Irish Land Commission to give an addition of land to Mrs. Julia Allen, tenant (Rec. No. S. 3486), of the estate known formerly as that of James W. Greated, Lydacan, Co. Galway; and, if not, whether he will state the reasons. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have already allotted Mrs. Julia Allen a parcel on the estate of J.W. Greated, comprising an undivided share of 179 acres of the lands of Lydacan. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Clare-Galway Uneconomic Tenants. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what progress has been made towards acquiring and distributing among the uneconomic tenants in the district the lands known as the Malachi Kelly estate, Clare-Galway. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have had inquiry made regarding the lands of Laghtgeorge and Rooaunmore, the property of Malachi Kelly, and the question of acquisition is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Relief of Congestion and Distribution of Lands in Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Irish Land Commission propose taking over for distribution among the tenants the untenanted lands held by Mr. Michael Brannick at Kilclooney, Milltown, Co. Galway; whether negotiations have taken place in connection with these lands, and with what result. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have made inquiry regarding the lands of Kilcloony, the property of Michael Brannick, which are subject to land purchase annuity, and have decided not to acquire them. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries what steps have been taken by the Irish Land Commission towards acquiring for relief of congestion in the district the lands of Gorthnamona, Palmer estate, Headford, Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have made inquiry regarding the lands of Gorthnamona, the property of Mr. Henry Palmer and Mrs. Mary Palmer, which are subject to Land Purchase Annuity, and have decided not to acquire them. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether for the relief of congestion in the Clogher and Cregboy districts of Co. Galway, he proposes to acquire and distribute among the uneconomic landholders the farm at Kiltulla, Ballintemple, Clare-Galway, held by Mr. Wm. Burke. 
     
     
      
       The question of the acquisition of the lands referred to is under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that congestion exists in the Annaghdown portion of Co. Galway; and whether in view of that he can state if the Irish Land Commission have considered or are likely to consider the question of   acquiring the lands of the Miss Blake estate, Annaghdown, for distribution among the uneconomic holders. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are aware of the congestion existing on the Blake estate at Annaghdown, and the question of the acquisition of the untenanted lands of the owner is under consideration. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what progress has been made by the Irish Land Commission towards the distribution of the Ross estate, Killanin, Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission anticipate being in a position to divide the lands of Rosscahill East and Ross Demesne, comprising 226 acres, at an early date. 
     
   
 