 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SPORTING AMMUNITION (SYSTEM OF SALE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that great dissatisfaction exists in the Kanturk district among gun-licence holders and dealers in cartridges because the permits to buy cartridges allow purchases of tens and fifteens, while cartridges are stocked in cases of twentyfive, thus causing great inconvenience to dealers who must sell cartridges loose; and, if so, if he will issue an order to the Garda Siochana to grant permits for the purchase of cartridges only in twenty-fives, or multiples of twenty-five. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that great dissatisfaction exists in the Kanturk district because permits to buy cartridges are limited to purchases of tens and fifteens.  In fact the only registered dealer in Kanturk has been approached by the Garda Siochana and stated that he finds no inconvenience in supplying cartridges in these quantities.  The Garda Siochana have information that poaching is carried on on a large scale in the neighbourhood, and accordingly have limited the number of cartridges that may be held at one time by persons in possession   of firearm certificates which do not authorise the shooting of game. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that recently a dealer in Millstreet was summoned for issuing packets of 25 cartridges to a man who had a permit for 15; that prior to that he had been summoned on a similar count by the Inspector of the Garda Siochana of Macroom, that in the District Court the Inspector at Macroom had stated that he in future would issue permits for 25 or multiples of 25; that this particular dealer, acting on the promise of the Inspector at Macroom, sold 25 to a man who had a permit for 15; that permit was got from the Garda Siochana at Kanturk; the Garda Siochana at Kanturk summoned the man, and the Garda at Macroom were afterwards compelled to summon the dealer, and that there has been a lot of dissatisfaction as a result? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of all the Deputy has stated, but I am aware that a certain dealer at Millstreet complained of inconvenience caused by cartridges being sold in the particular quantity stated.  He was asked to send along a list of customers so that the inconvenience could be inquired into with a view to seeing if cartridges could be supplied in the numbers requested, and the list has not so far been received. 
     
     
      
       Is it news to the Minister that in the Kanturk area it is only recently a change has been made&mdash;that up to a couple of months ago permits were issued for the purchase of cartridges in twenty-fives, but recently a change was made, for what reason nobody knows? 
     
     
      
       I was not aware of how recently the change was made, but I am aware of the fact that the only dealer in Kanturk states that no-inconvenience was caused by the supply of cartridges in these particular numbers. 
     
     
      
       Does this restriction only apply to Kanturk? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say&mdash;I am afraid that question will have to be   addressed on another occasion to the Minister for Justice. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GAMING AND BETTING ACTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether evasion by a bookmaker of payment of money due to a client by pleading the Gaming Act is taken into consideration before the granting of a licence under the Betting Act, 1926, to such an applicant, and whether a licence is withheld in such a case; further, whether he is aware that it is alleged that licences in such cases have already been granted, and if such will be withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       replying: Certificates of personal fitness under the Betting Act, 1926, are issued to persons proposing to carry on the trade of bookmaking by Superintendents of the Garda Siochana.  Such certificates can only be refused on the grounds prescribed by the Act, amongst others, that the applicant is by reason of his general character or his known habits not a fit person to hold a bookmaker's licence.  Failure to pay betting debts would be taken into consideration in deciding whether the general character or the known habits of the applicant unfitted him for the trade of bookmaking. I am not aware that any certificates of personal fitness have been granted to defaulters, but if the Deputy knows of any such case I shall be glad if he will send me particulars. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask the Minister if he is aware that there was one case in Cork where a constituent of mine won £120 and the bookmaker refused to pay; he brought the bookmaker before Judge Wyse-Power in the Cork Circuit Court on June 1st, 1922, and the bookmaker pleaded the Gaming Act and escaped scot-free; this constituent lodged a complaint on that ground with the Inspector of the Garda in Cork recently, but in spite of that the bookmaker in question got a certificate of personal fitness from the Inspector? 
     
     
      
       I wonder if the case referred to is the same case in   which the complainant in one instance was afterwards the defendant in a case for trying to extort money by threats? 
     
     
      
       I have not the faintest idea.  I do not want to mention the name of the bookmaker in public, but I will do so if the Minister wishes.  I will send him the full particulars as I have got them. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLERK ASSISTANTS&mdash;CIRCUIT COURT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice when it is proposed to pay salaries direct to Circuit Court Clerk Assistants. 
     
     
      
       replying: The Minister for Finance has recently sanctioned the payment of salaries on a temporary basis to the existing staffs of Circuit Court offices, and arrangements are being completed for the payment of these salaries direct to the officers concerned.  The permanent arrangements which it will be necessary to make for the general staffing of Circuit Court offices, as provided for by Section 42 of the Court Officers Act, 1926, are at present under consideration, but owing to the necessity for a thorough examination of the actual requirements of the various offices, it will not be possible to complete a scheme of reorganisation for some months. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister in a position to state when these people will be paid?  Is he aware that since September 1st, in consequence of the new Act, these people are in a worse position than ever, in view of the fact that Clerks of the Peace used to get a certain allowance to pay those people which they had to supplement out of their own pocket, but that since the passing of the Act they have discontinued that practice and the persons concerned are now in a worse condition than before? 
     
     
      
       That is correct. There has been a certain amount of delay in this matter.  I cannot say exactly when the salaries will be paid direct, but I do not think there will be any appreciable delay. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the Minister undertake to have the matter speeded up? 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYED STATISTICS (HOME AND ABROAD). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce the number of registered unemployed in the Saorstat at the present time, and if he could give similar figures for Australia, Canada and New Zealand, and also the number of unemployed per 1,000 of the population in these countries. 
     
     
      
       The number of persons registered for employment at the Employment Exchanges and Branch Employment Offices in the Saorstat on 22nd November, 1926, was 23,072.  This figure includes all those persons who attended personally at the Employment Offices during the previous two weeks and a few persons who registered by post during the previous three weeks. 
       Comparable figures are not available in respect of Australia, Canada and New Zealand.  In October, 1926, the issue of the &ldquo;International Labour Review,&rdquo; published by the International Labour Office, Geneva, certain figures are given for these countries showing the respective numbers of unemployed therein who are Trade Unionists.  The latest figures are as follows:-- 
       
         Australia &mdash;27,846 unemployed Trade Unionists, representing 6.7% of all Trade Unionists and 5.1 per 1,000 of the total population (1921). 
       
         Canada &mdash;5,695 unemployed Trade Unionists, representing 4.1% of all Trade Unionists and 0.5 per 1,000 of the total population (1921). 
       
         New Zealand &mdash;3,996 unemployed Trade Unionists, representing 8.6% of all Trade Unionists and 3.3 per 1,000 of the total population (1921). 
     
     The figure 23,072 includes workers in the Saorstat registered as unemployed, whether Trade Unionists or not, and represents 8.7% of all insured   workers and 7.6 per 1,000 of the total population (1926). 
     The greatest care should be exercised in making international comparisons, as employment in many countries is seasonal, and the winter months in Canada and the Saorstat are the summer months in Australia and New Zealand, and vice versa. 
     
      
       I should like to call the Minister's attention to the publication of figures in the &ldquo;Journal of the Empire Parliamentary Association&rdquo; giving the unemployed in the different States of Australia per 1,000 of the population without any reference to Trade Unionists.  It seems to me that if those figures are available for the States the combined figure must be available for the whole Commonwealth. Those figures were contained in the latest publication of the &ldquo;Journal of the Empire Parliamentary Association.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       When is it proposed to resume the publication of the weekly returns from the Unemployment Exchanges? 
     
     
      
       It is not proposed to resume them at all. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister tell us what reason now prevails for not resuming publication? 
     
     
      
       The reason that operated when publication was discontinued. 
     
     
      
       That is, that the figures were not reliable. 
     
     
      
       No, that they were being misconstrued. 
     
     
      
       That they were not reliable as an index. 
     
     
      
       Not reliable as an index as taken by certain people. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TARIFFS AND EMPLOYMENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state the comparative figures showing the number employed in each industry which has received   the advantage of the protective tariffs in the Saorstat (a) in the year 1914, (b) at the date of the introduction of the tariff, and (c) at the present time. 
     
     
      
       I will circulate with the Official Report a table giving particulars, so far as the information   is available, of the number of persons employed in the protected industries on the dates when Protection was instituted and on a recent date. 
       I regret that there are no figures available to me showing the state of employment in these industries in the year 1914. 
       PROTECTED INDUSTRIES. 
       Return based on the available information, at the date of the institution of protection and at a recent date. 
       FINANCE ACT, 1926. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY. 
             Persons employed on 1st April, 1926. 
             Persons employed on 1st September, 1926. 
             Increase. 
           
         
         
           
             Oatmeal Milling 
             250 (e) 
             500 (e) 
             250 
           
         
       
     
     (e) Estimated. 
     FINANCE ACT, 1925. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY. 
             Persons employed on 1st April, 1925 (mainly working part-time). 
             Persons employed on 1st Sept., 1926 (working full time). 
             Increase. 
             Increase calculated on basis of full time employment. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             (1). 
             (2). 
             (3). 
             (4). 
           
           
             1.  Wholesale Clothing (i.e. Men's and Boys' factory made Clothing) 
             845 
             1950 
             1105 
             1350 
           
           
             2.  Shirtmaking 
             810 
             1572 
             762 
             1162 
           
           
             3.  Hosiery 
             988 
             1310 
             322 
             810 
           
           
             4.  Hats and Caps 
             89 
             169 
             80 
             110 
           
           
             5.  Umbrellas 
             45 
             49 
             4 
             4 
           
           
             6.  Tie-Making 
             101 
             122 
             21 
             21 
           
           
             7.  Blanket-Making 
             229 
             548 
             319 
             418 
           
           
             8.  Furniture 
             482 
             850 
             368 
             550 
           
           
             9.  Metallic Bedsteads 
             24 
             91 
             67 
             67 
           
           
             10.  Brush-Making 
             195 
             333 
             138 
             213 
           
           
             11.  Handicraft Tailors, Dressmakers, Milliners, Making-up of Women's Light Clothing 
             Not available. 
             Not available. 
             
             
             400 a)&mdash; 
           
           
             12.  Corset-Making 
             Nil 
             83 
             83 
             83 
           
         
       
     
     Total 5,188. 
     (a) Estimated.  These trades are carried on in so many establishments, large and small, that comprehensive figures cannot easily be obtained. 
     
       
        FINANCE ACT, 1924. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY. 
             Persons employed on 1st April, 1924 (mainly working part-time). 
             Persons employed on 1st Sept., 1926 (mainly working full-time). 
             Increase or Decrease. 
             Increase or Decrease calculated on basis of full time employment. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             (1). 
             (2). 
             (3). 
             (4). 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Increase. 
             Decrease. 
           
           
             Bootmaking 
             359 
             973 
             614 
             723 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Glass Bottles 
             25 
             127 
             102 
             102 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Soap and Candles 
             263 
             338 
             75 
             108 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Motor Bodies 
             249 
             157 
             92 
             &mdash; 
             92 
           
           
             Confectionery (including Jam) 
             3,878 
             5,051 
             1,173 
             1,651 
             &mdash; 
           
         
       
     
     Decrease.  Net Increase, 2,492. 
     FINANCE ACT, 1922. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY. 
             Persons employed on 1st April, 1922, (mainly working part time). 
             Persons employed on 1st January, 1926. 
             Increase. 
           
         
         
           
             Tobacco 
             (500 (e) 
             1,650 
             1,150 
           
         
       
     
     
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             (e) Estimated. 
           
         
         
           
             Total,  1922 &mdash; 
             1,150. 
             
             
           
           
             ,,1924 &mdash; 
             2,492. 
             
             
           
           
             ,,1925 &mdash; 
             5,188. 
             
             
           
           
             ,,1926 &mdash; 
             250. 
             
             
           
           
             Grand Total, 
             9,080. 
             
             
           
         
       
     
     The total of 9,080 represents increased employment in the protected industries only.  It takes no account of increased employment in the building trade or in other trades connected with the protected industries, consequent on their expansion. 
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that figures have been published showing the employment in the protected industries at the date of the introduction of Protection and at other dates since that, but that no figures have been supplied in regard to previous dates?  Is the Minister aware that at the time of the introduction of Protection there was unusual unemployment in these industries owing to other conditions altogether apart from the necessity for Protection?  For that reason I ask if it is not necessary to get reliable figures in regard to which comparisons can be made? 
     
     
      
       It is very desirable, but the Deputy asked particulars as to the year 1914. 
     
     
      
       I will take another date&mdash;1916? 
     
     
      
       I told the Deputy I have no figures showing employment in 1914, and I am pretty certain there are no figures available for 1916 either. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister try to get them at the earliest date? 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy raise this matter by a further question giving the date which he desires information for? 
     
     
     
      
       If I did that, I would have to put a question for every year.  Will the Minister try to get the information at the earliest date available? 
     
     
      
       I will try to get something. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister tell us the effect on prices created by the extension of the Merchandise Marks Act? 
     
     
      
       In 1914? 
     
     
      
       Arising out of that point&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Arising out of what point? 
     
     
      
       Arising out of what we have just heard. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Merchandise Marks Act? 
     
     
      
       No. But I would point out that the necessity for something in the nature of accurate comparable figures. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy in order in pointing out anything? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CUSTOMS CLEARANCE AT CORK. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that a large consignment of biscuits from Messrs.  MacFarlane, Lang &amp; Co., for Cork City merchants, which arrived at the port of Cork on 10th November, 1926, had not been cleared by the Customs Authorities a week later, although, it is stated, the Clyde Shipping Company guaranteed to pay any extra Customs duty which might be imposed by the Customs Authorities; whether any other complaints regarding delays in Customs clearances at this port have been reported to him, and whether he will investigate this matter and issue instructions that clearances be expedited. 
     
     
      
       I have had inquiries made, and I find that any delay that occurred in the clearances of the consignment in question was due in the first place to the fact that the importer's   agents made incorrect entry of the goods which involved an underpayment of duty, and in the second place to the fact that the agents were not prepared to make the deposit necessary to cover the shortage in the duty paid, pending the production of corrected documents.  The required deposit was made on the 18th instant and the goods were released on the same day. 
       A few complaints have been received as to delay in the clearance of imported goods at Cork.  These were fully investigated, and in no case could any delay be attributed to the Customs Officers. The necessity for issuing instructions on this matter does not therefore arise. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say whether there has been any complaint in regard to delay in the delivery of Irish-made biscuits? 
     
     
      
       I have not heard of any. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LOCAL BODIES AND UNEMPLOYMENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether any proposals have been submitted to his Department by the Local Bodies throughout the Saorstat for the relief of unemployment; and, if so, the nature of the proposals and those sanctioned by him, and the number likely to be employed at an early date. 
     
     
      
       Many proposals of this nature reach my Department from time to time.  I have no funds at my disposal primarily applicable to the relief of unemployment.  Every effort is made to achieve that object by the acceleration of, and the promotion of, schemes concerning road construction and repair, housing and other public works. On the general question I would refer the Deputy to the recent very full debate on unemployment. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that at this time of the year it is customary for the local bodies to   provide money for the relief of unemployment by either distress work or distress grants, and will he say whether it is likely that within the next month work of the nature I describe will be given to the Dublin unemployed? 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say what is the total amount represented by the schemes submitted by the local authorities?  Does he agree that the local authorities cannot be reasonably expected to carry out these schemes, in view of the financial liability involved, and if so, has he made any representation to the Department of Finance regarding the necessity of providing money to have these schemes carried out without further delay? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the head of the Roads Department has issued instructions to at least one County Council telling it not to proceed with this work until the Spring? 
     
     
      
       It is very difficult to draw a line of demarcation between relief works and ordinary public works. In fact, it would be impossible to do it, and for that reason it is also impossible to answer questions as to what is the total amount proposed by the various local authorities for the hundreds of different kinds of schemes that are being continually submitted to my Department in different stages of development. Some of them are more in the nature of relief schemes than others. It would be very difficult to decide which were unemployment schemes and which were not.  I would want to issue a regular pamphlet to deal with all the different schemes carried out by local authorities with our sanction.  As regards Deputy Davin's question about the financial straits of certain local authorities, I do not think that is any justification why we should bring further pressure on our own Exchequer. I have put up various proposals to the Minister for Finance, some of which are receiving consideration at the present time. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know the total amount roughly of the schemes approved by the Minister for Local Government and submitted to the   Minister for Finance, and whether the Minister for Local Government can hold out any hope that the Minister for Finance will respond to the demands put forward, if any have been put forward, by the Department for Local Government. 
     
     
      
       I would require notice of that question.  I do not know exactly what the Deputy has in mind, whether he means all the money at present being expended on road works, under the Housing Acts and under the various public works, or whether he has in view some particular kind of relief measures, because there is no such thing as relief measures, as such, being carried out at the present time-that is, primarily as relief work. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister answer my question? 
     
     
      
       I will require notice of that question. 
     
     
      
       I think we are entitled to have an answer to the question put bluntly by Deputy Byrne: whether the Minister has submitted to the Department of Finance such schemes as have been sent into his Department by the different local authorities in which they put forward estimates showing the actual amount that could be usefully spent to relieve unemployment. 
     
     
      
       Schemes of that kind are being continually submitted to my Department and to the Minister for Finance. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister answer the point that I put to him in a supplementary question: whether the Dublin local authorities have submitted to him any scheme for the temporary relief of unemployed during the Christmas season.  It has been customary for practically the last 20 years to have this temporary relief work carried out about the Christmas season. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say why not? 
     
     
      
       I am not the local authority. 
     
     
     
      
       Perhaps if the Minister were to ask Deputy P.S. Doyle, who sits behind him, he would be able to give him some information on the matter? 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister to try and do something in regard to the North Lotts main drainage. That is a matter that would give considerable employment.  It has been promised for the last three or four years, and is a matter for the local authorities. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LANDLORDS' LIABILITY FOR RATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is yet in a position to state when he will introduce legislation to make landlords liable for the collection of rates from town tenants. 
     
     
      
       Owing to pressure of other more urgent measures it will not be possible to bring forward this Bill until the New Year Session. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister giving a definite assurance that it will be done then? 
     
     
      
       I do not think I could do that. 
     
     
      
       It was promised during two or three sessions.  Is the Minister not aware that both himself and the President promised it at the beginning of this session? 
     
     
      
       I would like to be reminded of my part of the promise. 
     
     
      
       Well, you did. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF KILDARE LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what progress has been made by the Land Commission in the acquisition of the lands of Parsonstown, Carbury, Co. Kildare, comprising about 400 acres, recently held on the eleven months' system by the late Mr. B. I. Eivers; further, whether the Department received a list of the names of local congest-applicants from the   Secretary of the Carbury Branch of the Back to the Land Association about twelve months ago, and, if so, whether he will state the reason for not sending an acknowledgment to the secretary. 
     
     
      
       The question of the acquisition of the lands on the Eivers Estate is at present under consideration. 
       A communication regarding this estate was received in February, 1925, with a list of 40 names and was noted for consideration.  There was nothing in the communication to show by whom it was sent, and it was therefore not possible to issue an acknowledgment. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that on the 19th February, 1925, he stated in a reply to me that the Land Commission were having the lands inspected, and would he now explain the reason for the delay in acquiring this land&mdash;a delay of nearly two years? 
     
     
      
       It is simply that you cannot acquire all the land of the country in two years. 
     
     
      
       This is very suitable land for acquisition, and it has been lying there idle. 
     
     
      
       He received representations from the Landlords' Association. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what progress has been made by the Land Commission in acquiring the lands of Killmalum, Kennycourt, Horsepasstown, and Tulfaris, comprising about one thousand three hundred acres, on the estate of Mr. Edward Hornidge, in the Ballymore-Eustace area, Co. Kildare; and whether those lands will be ready for allotment amongst the local congest-applicants early in the new year, so that they can make timely arrangements for sowing their crops. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to have been inspected and the question of their acquisition is at present under consideration. 
     
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commission propose to acquire for the relief of congestion the lands of Nurney Demesne, in the electoral division of Nurney, Co. Kildare, comprising about two hundred and sixty-six acres, on the estate of Mr. William Hanley, and whether he can expedite acquisition and division of those lands. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are making inquiries as to the suitability of the lands referred to for acquisition under the provisions of the Land Act. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commissioners have yet given judgment respecting the owner's objection to the acquisition of the lands of Morristown-Billar, on the Taylor Estate, near Newbridge, Co. Kildare, for the relief of congestion, and whether he will expedite division of those untenanted lands amongst the numerous congests in the locality. 
     
     
      
       The owner's objection to the acquisition by the Land Commission of the lands of Morristown-Billar as untenanted land was allowed by the Judicial Commissioner on appeal. 
     
     
      
       The ranchers win again every time. 
     
     
      
       Might I point out to the Deputy that even though the Judicial Commissioner allowed the objection that, nevertheless, the lands are now gazetted as tenanted land for acquisition, and were gazetted previously as untenanted land. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REPORT OF LIVE STOCK TRANSIT COMMITTEE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if it is intended to publish the Report of the Live Stock Transit Committee; and, if so, when the publication of this Report may be expected. 
     
     
      
       I do not consider that, under all the circumstances, the expenditure which would be entailed by the official publication of the Report in   question would be justified.  I might remind the Deputy that the Report was published in full in two issues of the &ldquo;Meat Trades' Journal&rdquo; in July, 1925, and in considerable detail in the daily Press.  In addition, copies of the Report were supplied to each member of the committee and to others connected with the live stock industry in this country. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if the report published was the official report?  The report published in the papers was not the official report. I would like if the Minister could say whether the report published in the &ldquo;Meat Trades Journal&rdquo; was the official report? 
     
     
      
       The report published in the &ldquo;Meat Trades' Journal&rdquo; was full and complete. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONFERENCE ON HOURS OF FAIRS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that at the Conference on Hours of Fairs which was held in his Department some considerable time ago, a recommendation was made that a minute of the proceedings of the Conference should be circulated to the different bodies interested; whether he will state if the recommendation of the Conference in this regard has been carried out; and, if not, whether he will take immediate steps to see that this is done. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is, I think, under a slight misapprehension.  At the Conference held on 17th June, it was agreed that another Conference on the subject should be convened later, and that the views of the first Conference should be conveyed in advance to that second Conference.  Further inquiries which the Department have initiated are not yet completed, and accordingly it has not been considered desirable to summon the second Conference as yet. 
       I may point out that changes in the hours of fairs for the country at large would entail legislation.  The whole matter is receiving the Department's careful consideration. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister does not definitely state that the minutes of the original Conference were circulated since that Conference. 
     
     
      
       The agreement was that the minutes of that Conference should be sent forward to the second Conferences. 
     
     
      
       My understanding was that the minutes of that Conference were to be sent forward to the different bodies interested, and I suppose they would be the parties that would be represented at the Second Conference.  I understand that these minutes have not been sent. 
     
     
      
       The Second Conference has not been called yet. 
     
     
      
       But the bodies represented at the Second Conference might like to have the minutes of this Conference before then&mdash;I want just to point that out&mdash;so as to be able to form an opinion on the matters that would come up at the next Conference. 
     
     
      
       I daresay the members of the Second Conference will have these minutes before them, but that Conference has not yet met, and so far nothing has happened to preclude the Department from honouring the agreement they came to, to circulate these minutes in advance to the Second Conference. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF TEMPLEMORE LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what steps, if any, have been taken by the Land Commission towards the acquisition of the farm known as the Fortesque Farm, in the parish of Killough, Templemore, Co. Tipperary. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to were gazetted for acquisition by the Land Commission.  The owner objected to acquisition.  The objection was heard by the Commissioners and allowed. 
     
   
   
     QUESTION ON THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
     
      
       I desire to give notice that on the adjournment I will raise a question relating to the action of the Suck Drainage Board in issuing civil bills and having decrees executed for arrears of maintenance tax. 
     
     
      
       Is there any Minister responsible for this matter? 
     
     
      
       There is lack of responsibility for this on the part of the Department of Finance, but I presume it arises out of the fact that the Board of Works has entered this district and is doing some works there.  So it does affect the Board of Works. 
     
   
   
     GIFT TO THE DAIL. 
     
      
       A gift of a set of Malton's Views of Dublin, framed, has been made to the Dail, through the President.  The donor does not desire to have his name disclosed, and I have conveyed the thanks of the Dail to him through the President. 
     
   
   
     CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT NO. 2) BILL, 1926&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I move the Second Reading of this Bill, the object of which is to provide for the automatic return at a General Election of the member of Dail Eireann who held the office of Ceann Comhairle prior to the dissolution, unless he himself chooses to the contrary.  The member of the Dail occupying the Chair of this House is entrusted with a task of great importance and of some delicacy.  His decision in regard to the conduct of the House must be accepted implicitly, and his rulings must be beyond question. For that reason, I should think it would be generally agreed that it is desirable that he should be bound by no Party affiliations or allegiances whatsoever, and that he should be immune from any necessity to participate in controversial political activities of any kind.  As the Constitution stands he has to offer himself for re-election if he desires to be   returned as a member of the Dail.  In these circumstances his isolation from Party ties would be bound to militate seriously against his prospects of re-election. Under Proportional Representation, in fact&mdash;even assuming the good will of all Parties in the House&mdash; it might easily happen that he would not be returned.  The amendment which it is proposed to move to Article 21 of the Constitution by which the Chairman of the Dail would be automatically returned as a Deputy to the next Dail would make his services available for the new House.  But it would not impose upon the new House any obligation to re-appoint him to the Chair.  As a corollary to the fact that the member so elected would not represent any constituency, the Bill provides that his death, resignation or disqualification would not create a vacancy in the membership of Dail Eireann.  The second section of the Bill deals merely with a consequential amendment to Article 26 of the Constitution, necessitated by the proposed change in Article 21. 
     
     The view underlying the proposal embodied in the Bill is that when the Dail selects a person from amongst its members to act as Ceann Comhairle, the Dail becomes that person's constituency. He represents it.  He presides over its deliberations.  He is expected as from that date to hold himself aloof from the active cut and thrust of Party politics, and we think it a proper proposal to make to the Dail that the person who has acted in that capacity for a period&mdash;long or short&mdash;of years, as often as not, ought not be under the necessity of presenting himself for re-election to the next Dail to an ordinary Parliamentary constituency; that he should be returned automatically to the next Dail, leaving the next Dail quite free to decide whether or not it would call upon him once more to occupy the Chair of the House.  But Deputies, thinking it over and remembering that a system of Proportional Representation is in operation in the country, will realise how seriously it conflicts with one's conception of the duties of the Speaker and one's conception of the limitations which we feel he should   impose upon himself as from the date of assuming that office, to be expected to compete in the following General Election with members who throughout the period of the lifetime of the preceding Parliament have been free to court the favour of any particular constituency in a way in which the Ceann Comhairle quite obviously cannot.  The principle underlying the Bill is that the Dail becomes the constituency of the Ceann Comhairle as from the date of his assuming that office.  I move the Second Reading of the Bill and trust that the object aimed at by the Bill will appeal to the commonsense and fair play of all Parties in the House. 
     
      
       I think the Dail might have expected to have presented to it a case in favour of a constitutional amendment to meet the difficulty which the Minister presumes to exist.  So far the Dail has had no arguments adduced which would justify a change in the Constitution.  One would imagine that the Constitution of this State was equivalent to the rules of procedure of a debating society, altered easily, without much argument, without much sign of necessity, but simply a matter of the officers of the society coming forward and making a case for a change in the rules, putting it to the meeting, and the meeting carrying it, and that is enough.  I want to make the case before the Dail that the Constitution ought not be amended lightly and easily, and not at all without a very definite and compelling reason.  This proposed amendment to the Constitution is put to the Dail by the Minister because a certain difficulty appears to him to exist regarding the future representation of a constituency, and the somewhat peculiar position that the Ceann Comhairle of the Dail is placed in.  But surely we ought to have some justification for dealing with the Constitution to meet the difficulty, presuming a difficulty of that character did exist.  What I have to say about the constitutional changes applies not only to this Bill, but to the other Bills that are now presented to us.  I think the House ought to take the view that constitutional changes ought not be made easily.  As a matter of fact, the Constitution   itself assumes that changes will not be made in the Constitution without very strong reason, and that after the eighth year of the Constitution there will be very great difficulty in changing it.  The view of the Ministry seems to be that, having regard to the difficulty of future changes, we must go to the other extreme in the interim and make changes now as lightly and easily as possible.  So much is that the case that the Minister satisfies himself by presenting the other easy and simple proposition, without any concern, that these constitutional amendments are merely a matter of procedure affecting the House.  I think the House ought not to take that view. This matter was discussed in the Committee which was appointed a fortnight ago, but even there, to my mind, there was no presentation of a case which would justify any changes in the Constitution at the present time.  I propose to place on record the views I submitted to the committee, which views, of course, were not accepted, in this form: 
       &ldquo;The Committee is of opinion that alterations in the Constitution ought not to be made unless compelling reasons are-adduced, and that proposals for change should be preceded by a full and close inquiry by a joint committee of the Dail and Seanad, and public discussion of the reasons for change.  The reasons put forward for any of the present proposals are insufficient to justify the proposed changes at this stage.  There is general agreement of the Committee that amendment of the Constitution is required.  It is our view that such amendments as are now proposed ought to be the subject of an inquiry by a joint committee for the revision of the Constitution, whose duty it would be to review the Constitution generally for the purpose of removing minor faults which have become apparent in the light of experience, and to whom would be referred for examination and report any proposals of major importance affecting the relations between the citizen and the State.&rdquo; 
       That proposition was submitted to the Committee, but was not accepted. 
     
     
        I want to have it on record that that is a view I put forward.  I think the House ought to take the view that Constitutional changes ought not to be made merely on the initiative of a Minister. The part of the Constitution which deals with the Legislature undoubtedly affects the Seanad as it does the Dail, and changes of the Constitution respecting the Legislature must inevitably alter the balance which was presumed to have been arrived at when the Constitution was being drawn up. I submit it is not right or proper that such Constitutional changes should be made affecting the Legislature and its composition, without reference to a committee on which the Seanad would be represented, prior to a Bill being introduced. I think, too, that such changes as are required in the Constitution, and as seem to be desirable in the light of experience, ought not to be dealt with piecemeal, one at a time, or even four at a time. 
     I think it is quite well known that numerous other proposals are under consideration regarding the Constitution and its amendment.  I think it is a reasonable case to make that all such proposals ought to be considered together so that one would be related to the other, and the effect upon the whole scheme should be understood before we make any single change.  The case for this particular Bill is necessarily somewhat different from that for the other Bills, and the objection, to my mind, is greater, inasmuch as we are proposing now to add something to the Constitution of an entirely new character.  In the other cases there were minor alterations and deletions, but in this particular case we are adding something which is entirely foreign to the Constitution as we know it.  It is proposed to make a new type of representative in the Dail, in fact to alter the character of the Dail and to do that by a change in the Constitution.  At present the Dail represents constituencies, and every member of the Dail has been elected and is subject to re-election. What is proposed now is that one member in succeeding assemblies will not have to undergo that test, will not have submitted to the test of a new election,   and may or may not have given satisfaction to those by whom he was originally elected. 
     The Minister, in presenting the Bill, said in effect that the House becomes the Ceann Comhairle's constituency under the new arrangement, but that is not a full statement of the case.  It is proposed that the House should elect a Ceann Comhairle to preside over its activities, but it does not make it obligatory, as the Minister has pointed out, that the person who occupied the Chair before a dissolution must necessarily occupy the Chair in a new Assembly. That is to be left to the option of the House, but what is the result supposing the new House does not elect the person who has come in from the previous Chair?  You have then a member of the House with all the rights and privileges of every other member, who has not a constituency behind him, and who does not represent anybody, a foreign person within the community or, as I have heard it suggested, a distinguished stranger.  That is a perfectly proper appellation&mdash;distinguished because the previous Dail allowed him to preside over their deliberations, but a stranger because he has not gone through the mill of election, and does not represent any constituency, and may not be said to be in that assembly in a representative capacity.  That is a serious change to be proposed, and in my view an entirely unnecessary one. 
     The case is made that on the proportional system the occupant of the Chair loses some of his chances of re-election because it is expected of him that during his occupancy he will not take an active part in political or controversial affairs.  Presumably it is intended that if he shall occupy the Chair in the succeeding chambers he will not be a violent partisan in the election.  That is the theory.  Therefore, some special provision should be made to allow an occupant of the Chair to enter the new chamber by an easy road.  I have said that the entry by that easy road alters the character of the House, in so far as one member of it is concerned.  That, I say, is quite a serious proposition, inasmuch as you are assuring him of   all the rights and privileges of a member&mdash;that by the way is considered to be a necessity.  It is believed by those putting this Bill forward that it is desirable, if not necessary&mdash;I think essential is the word which would apply accurately&mdash;that the occupant of the Chair should have the rights and privileges of membership of the House before he is elected a member of the House.  The fact that he has come into the House by a method which is not common to every other member of the House undoubtedly places him in an anomalous position. 
     Supposing it is necessary, and I understand and believe it is, that the occupant of the Chair shall be appointed by the House, and selected to speak for the House, and that it is thought unnecessary, or rather undesirable, that he should have to go through the gamut of a test from the electors, there is really nothing to prevent the House electing a person, whomsoever they please, to preside over their meetings, whether that person is a member of the House or not.  That is not the proposition in the Bill.  The proposition is to create a new type of member, but only affecting one person.  I think there is something to be said for the proposition that the occupant of the Chair is placed at a disadvantage, in some respects, compared with other members who have to go to the electorate. 
     I think the disadvantages that are said to accrue owing to the system of proportional representation by the single-transferable vote are really very small, and so far, at any rate, have not shown themselves.  Until we see the defects, and until there is some experience of evils, I think we ought not to assume that these evils will exist.  I think it is an aspersion on the character of the electors to say that they would not elect as one of three, five, seven or nine representatives of a constituency, that person who has occupied a chair in the previous Parliament to the satisfaction of the parties who constituted it.  I think it is an aspersion on the characters of the electors to say that they would not choose such a person in the future.  It is said that the constituency is deprived of a member.  So it is under the new proposals.  Equally   that particular member, who has gone over into the new House by the kangaroo method, docs not represent any person or any constituency.  Whatever defect there is in the present system on that score is equally applicable to the new proposal. 
     The case is made that it is desirable that the system of having an impartial Chairman, who is not subject to the activities and sometimes the violences of political controversy, should be the rule.  It is pointed out that the British system has led more or less to a general understanding between conflicting parties, and that the ex-Speaker is almost invariably re-elected without opposition; that a tradition has grown up in that respect.  I do not think it is a bad thing to suggest that we should begin traditions of decency in political controversy, but, if we are afraid of making traditions and have to make these changes by constitutional amendments, it seems to me to evince a complete lack of faith in the development of public and political opinion in the country. 
     
      
       You are forgetting P.R. 
     
     
      
       No, I am not.  In this discussion one cannot refer to personalities or to the present occupant of the Chair.  I am dealing with the matter entirely apart from the present occupant of the Chair.  Under P.R., as I said, if you have a three, five, seven, or nine member constituency, I think there could be an assurance, and I believe a greater assurance of success, than under the single member constituency system.  I think it is not at all an unreasonable expectation that, where the occupant of the Chair in a Parliament has given general satisfaction, parties would advise their supporters in a particular constituency to give first preference to that nominee.  I have not the slightest doubt, notwithstanding all the assertions to the contrary, that the result of an election under these circumstances would ensure the return of that nominee.  But the Minister said, &ldquo;You are forgetting P.R." We have had hints of possible changes in the electoral system of P.R. We provided in the Constitution the   obligation that the Dail shall be elected according to the principles of P.R. 
       We have a system of proportional representation, known as the single transferable vote in electoral law, but there may be changes when the Constitution is being revised, and when the electoral law is being altered there may be changes in the method of electing. I am quite certain that the object sought to be achieved by this amendment to the Constitution can be provided, even easier, under a revision of the electoral system than by this method of changing the Constitution. I am not forgetting P.R., and though I were, and if P.R. were an insuperable obstacle to the re-election of the retiring Speaker, I say it is an undesirable procedure to amend the Constitution for the purpose of fitting the case to suit the circumstances of a particular individual, and a particular individual member of this House.  I lay particular stress on the position of the re-elected member, or rather the member who has come out of the Chair into the new House without election, by an automatic process, and who then is not re-elected as Ceann Comhairle. You are going to give that representative&mdash;we will give him that name for the present&mdash;four or five years occupancy of a seat in the House representing nobody, not responsible to anybody, and the essence of this Constitutional arrangement is responsibility. We are all responsible to our constituents, but this particular member is not going to be responsible to anybody.  The constituency which elected him in the first instance may be said to have a right to call him to account at the end of his period of service, but we are depriving it of the right to call him to account, and we say, &ldquo;You may now re-elect an additional member, because the man, or woman, elected by you and occupying the Chair, goes automatically into the new House.  He does not represent you.  He represents nobody but himself.&rdquo; I say that it is entirely an anomalous position, and one not at all warranted by the difficulties that have been put forward, and quite unnecessary to meet any difficulty we have so far experienced. 
     
     
     
      
       I take largely the view of Deputy Johnson.  This proposal infringes on the principle of democratic representation, and, while we admit that it would be most desirable in the present case, we can visualise that it would be most undesirable in future cases.  I can conceive parties coming in here of equal, or almost equal, strength in the new Dail, and the first thing that would happen, apart from considerations of ability, would be that each party would try to elect to the Chair one of its particular members, knowing that at the next Dail that particular member would have an extra vote, whether elected to the Chair or not.  I do not think that that is right. As Deputy Johnson said, the Chairman of the present Dail, coming in to the next Dail, might not be elected to the Chair, and you would then have the anomalous position of a member representing nobody.  If parties come in here of equal strength you would have them lobbying and canvassing around the Dail trying to get one of their own men into the Chair, knowing that it would give them an extra vote.  I think that the principle is wrong and that there is a good deal more to be said against it than for it. 
     
     
      
       As a member of the Committee which considered this matter I would like to say a word.  It has been brought pretty clearly under our notice that the question of the Speaker in Parliaments in different countries has created difficulties of various kinds.  We see the extent to which they go in the British Parliament for the purpose of getting a Speaker about whom the House is satisfied as to his capability to conduct the business. They disfranchise the constituency. With the large constituencies that we have and with proportional representation worked in the way it has worked up to the present, I feel that as long as that system of representation continues it is unfair to the constituency and certainly unfair to the person elected by the constituency.  To say that this proposal provides a means for dishonest tactics and for carrying through a member from one Parliament to another is in my opinion making a mountain out   of a thing in which there is very little. If a person who has acted as Chairman for one particular Dail has not, in listening to all the different sides of cases put up by different parties, the corners of the party mind taken off during his period of office, it is not to the credit of the different exponents in different parts of the House.  A point to be faced is that under present circumstances if you ask him to take the Chair you definitely prejudice him as regards re-election.  I would ask Deputy Johnson to consider whether a representative, say, from his own constituency, County Dublin, could be expected to run the gauntlet of re-election there among the different parties represented in that constituency.  I do not think that he could say that the Labour people, the Independent people, or any other party in that constituency could be relied on to say: &ldquo;Give No. 1 to the person who has acted and who, it is proposed, should continue to act as chairman.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Enough in each party would, in order to insure his election. 
     
     
      
       During this year at any rate one constituency has been deprived of one of its members whereas under the new arrangement it will not, and when Deputy Johnson says that under the new arrangement the constituency would still be deprived of one of its representatives&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is some misunderstanding.  Under the new arrangement a constituency which in the first Parliament returned, say, seven members would continue to send seven, not including the person who has been elected without election. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson says now that the constituency is deprived of a member under the new position.  There is also, I think, contained in what Deputy Johnson says a suggestion that when a Deputy enters the House, he is simply tied to his own constituency and that, as it were, he cannot take a national or a wide interest in any matter except in so far as he is a representative of that constituency. It seems to me that when members enter the Dail they have to   take the widest national view of things consistent with the interests of their constituents, and that the person who occupies the Chair for a term here and who is returned by the Dail to the subsequent Parliament, should not be regarded as anything like a foreign person or as a distinguished stranger here. Considering the numerous national interests we have to look after and the great ascendancy that national interests invariably do take, over the interests of our own constituencies, I think that a very abnormal view of the position. 
     
     
      
       I would like to bring Deputies back to the day on which the Dail met after the last General Election and to turn their minds to what actually happened on that day.  A member of the Dail was called by the Dail as a whole from the service of his constituency to the service of the Dail in the capacity of Chairman.  That is essentially what happened. 
     
     
      
       Is there anything to prevent that happening in the new Dail? 
     
     
      
       Just let me develop the point.  A member of the Dail was called from the services of his constituency to the service of the Dail collectively.  I put it to Deputies that the person who acts as Chairman cannot in fact as from the date of his appointment adequately represent the constituency which elected him, adequately cater for its requirements, adequately expound its requirements either to the Dail or to Ministers and Departments of the State, so that when the Dail chooses from its midst a Chairman, it calls that person from any real active service to the constituency which elected him.  That is the basis of this Bill.  The Bill purports to recognise that fact. 
     
     
      
       Is that not the position of a Minister of State? 
     
     
      
       It is, exactly. 
     
     
      
       Not quite. 
     
     
      
       Very nearly. 
     
     
      
       Not very nearly   either.  A Minister of State speaks perhaps more often in the Dail than any private member&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       For his constituency? 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;with the exception of the leader of the opposition. He speaks frequently in the country from party platforms; he expounds the policy of the Government and the policy which his Party supports.  There is, as Deputy Wilson knows, no real analogy between the position of a Minister in this House and the position of the Ceann Comhairle.  The Ceann Comhairle is divorced from party politics as from the date of his appointment. He is also by the very nature of his position debarred from adequate representation of his constituents. He must leave that task to others. When matters arise of the most vital interest to his constituents, he sits in the Chair holding the balance between conflicting parties, simply presiding over the debates of the House. 
     
     
      
       Might I draw the Minister's attention to this peculiar fact&mdash; that you elect at the beginning of the Dail a Speaker.  He may be elected, as he has been elected in the past, by the vote of the constituency, but by electing him here you disfranchise that constituency.  What remedy would that constituency have in the next Dail?  The point I want to make is that, although you give the present occupant of the Chair a seat in the next Dail, the next Dail may not elect him to the Chair.  Although you give him representation in the next Dail, he may not be able to get elected to the Chair in that Dail. 
     
     
      
       You leave him where you got him. 
     
     
      
       If I might interrupt Deputy Gorey, I was making the point that in fact the Bill is simply a recognition of the fact that the Dail takes its Chairman from the active representation of a constituency, debars him from further part in active controversial politics, debars him from being in any true or effective sense the spokesman of his constituents and the guardian of the interests of his constituents.   The Dail itself becomes his constituency as from the date of his appointment.  In Great Britain, where Proportional Representation is not operative, the position arising out of these facts is met by a general agreement not to contest the Speaker's seat, to leave to the Speaker an unopposed return.  Obviously here, with Proportional Representation in operation, that course is not open.  In any constituency returning five or six members you cannot say the Speaker's seat will not be contested.  You cannot arrange by agreement between the parties to have an unopposed return of the Speaker. It will not work out.  It is not a matter that lies simply with the leaders of three or four parties.  It is a matter that will be determined ultimately by the electorate of that constituency and may not be determined as the leaders of the parties might wish, assuming there is agreement amongst them as to the desirability of the return of the Speaker.  This proposal is that the person who is selected by one Parliament to act as their Chairman, and who is thereby divorced from active participation in politics and active guardianship of the interests of the constituency which elected him, shall be returned automatically as a member of the next Dail.  It is open to that next Parliament to appoint him to the Chair; equally it is open to them to appoint another. 
       Deputy Johnson asked us to dwell on the possibility, as it is a possibility, of another person being appointed, and he went into the fine points as to whom then this ex-Speaker represents.  It is true he has no particular constituency. It is true, in another sense, that he must advert to every constituency, if he has an intention of contesting any at the following general election.  The country is his constituency, and if he intends to remain in political life he must select from the country some one constituency, at any rate, in which he will offer himself for election at the following general election. 
       The Deputy said the Constitution should not be lightly altered.  The Constitution assumes that changes will not be made without very strong reason. 
     
     
        The Constitution is an important document. But let us not read more into it than it in fact contains.  The Constitution was drafted by a number of persons who candidly recognised that not one amongst them had any very close experience either of Parliamentary life or of departmental administration. From the very nature of the position of this country it was not easy to get those who had.  And so this Constitution Committee itself, recognising the limitation of its members, inserted a provision that for eight years after the Constitution would come into operation it would be possible to alter it by ordinary legislation.  It was recognised that inevitably there would be sins of omission and sins of commission; certain matters passed over inadvertently, certain other matters that were not passed over, but that were dealt with in a manner which actual practical experience of the operations of the Constitution might show to be imperfect.  And so the greatest possible elasticity was provided for.  An Article in the Constitution provides that for eight years after its coming into operation it may be altered in any respect by the ordinary processes of legislation. 
     This is a matter which was not dealt with in the Constitution, but which now, in the light of further experience, it seems desirable to deal with.  You cannot do here, with our system of election, what is done in England with regard to the Speaker.  You cannot leave him an unopposed seat, even by agreement between the heads of parties, and some other method, some other system. is desirable, unless you want the Speaker of the Dail to be campaigning the country on public platforms, taking active part in the cut and thrust of the political life of the country, calling a Deputy-Speaker to the Chair, and coming down to participate in, perhaps, the most controversial discussions in the House, and generally losing that non-party complexion which seems so natural and so essential to the holder of his office. 
     The Bill seems to us an eminently sound and proper one.  It is not brought forward with advertence to particular persons or particular situations, but it   seems to embody a principle which always, at all times, utterly regardless of the personality of the Speaker, is a sound and proper principle, and one to   which the Dail should give favourable consideration. 
     Question put&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time.&rdquo; 
     The Dail divided: Ta, 46; Nil, 21. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan Altun. Padraig Baxter. Earnan de Blaghd. Thomas Bolger. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. Sir James Craig. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. James Dwyer. Michael Egan. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Patrick Leonard. Seosamh Mac a' Bhrighde. Liam Mac Cosgair. Sean MacCurtain. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. 
             James Sproule Myles. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean O Bruadair. Risteard O Conaill. Parthalan O Conchubhair. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Micheal O hIfearnain. Sean O Laidhin. Aindriu O Laimhin. Risteard O Maolchatha. Seamus O Murchadha. Mairtin O Rodaigh. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhall. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             John Conlan. Seamus Eabhroid. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Patrick McKenna. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam Mag Aonghusa. William Norton. Ailfrid O Broin. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Tadhg O Donnabhain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Donnchadh O Guaire. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Padraig O hOgain (Luimneach). Nicholas Wall.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers.&mdash;Ta: Deputies Dolan and Tierney.  Nil: Deputies Corish and Wilson. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     Committee Stage ordered for Tuesday next. 
   
   
     CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT No. 3) BILL, 1926.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I move the Second Reading of the Constitution (Amendment No. 3) Bill, the purport of which is to provide for the removal, from Article 28 of the Constitution, of the requirement that the polling day of a general election must be proclaimed a public holiday.  The intention, I believe, of this provision was to secure that every elector should be free on that day to record his vote.  But in practice its operation has resulted in a general dislocation of business and consequent economic loss to the State, as well as a considerable hardship to individuals, through loss either of the day's wages in the case of workers, or of the day's work in the case of employers. 
     
     We do not consider that there is any reason to anticipate that as a result of the passing of this Bill persons will find   themselves unable to record their votes. If a situation of that nature were to arise, it could be dealt with, if necessary, by legislation.  The polling booths, as we know, are open for a sufficient time to enable any voter who for good reason cannot vote during his working-hours, to exercise the franchise either before or after the ordinary work of his day.  Any inconvenience that may be caused to individual voters in these circumstances is less than the inconvenience which the loss of a day's work or of a day's pay would entail upon the employer or the employee.  There seems to be a strong case for the removal of this particular provision from the Constitution, and this Bill has been drafted, and is put to the Dail, with that object. 
     
      
       My objections to amending the Constitution in this easy fashion still apply.  But I want to ask the Dail to support me in this proposition: that if the Constitution is to be amended, to remove a provision which proclaimed the polling day to be a public holiday, it should be on the understanding that the electoral law will be altered to extend the hours of polling from those at present fixed. On the understanding that the polling day at the general election would be a public holiday, the hours were fixed from nine to seven.  If you remove the holiday obligation then you must extend the hours of polling.  I think it is worth testing the members of the Dail who have had experience of electioneering, as to whether the necessity exists for having the very early hour of seven or eight or nine o'clock, in the morning, or whether all the requirements would not be better fulfilled if the hours were from about mid-day until ten o'clock at night.  In any case, whether that is accepted or not.  I think there should be an undertaking, before this Bill is passed, that the electoral law will be altered before a general election takes place, so that there may be opportunities given to men employed in the daytime to record their votes after their day's work is over. 
     
     
      
       I thoroughly concur with the object of this Bill.  Whatever   the original idea was in proclaiming a public holiday for elections, the practice has proved it to be illusory and entirely detrimental in its results. 
       I would like also to support what Deputy Johnson has said as regards the hours of polling.  I think that at least we ought to have the morning free to carry on our business without interruption. In any case, polling day is a day in which business is bound to be greatly dislocated.  I think if the polling booths were not opened until, say, mid-day, that nobody would be inconvenienced, and certainly the business world would be greatly facilitated.  We would be sure, at all events, of getting our morning's work done before the actual dislocation, caused by the polling, occurred. I would also like to emphasise and support what Deputy Johnson said as to the uselessness of having the polling-booths open for the general public in the early hours of the morning.  That early opening imposes a strain on the people engaged in the booths without any reasonable return whatever in the way of facilities to the people who come to the booths to vote. 
     
     
      
       When this particular clause, declaring a general holiday on election day, was inserted in the Constitution, I understood at the time that employees who lost the day as a result of this legislation would be paid either by the State or their employer.  We find, however, that it is the employee who is the direct sufferer under that clause in the Constitution.  For that reason I am prepared to support the Second Reading of this Bill.  I would like to stress the point that the hours of polling are not sufficient.  Hundreds of people have been turned away at 7 o'clock in the evening from the polling booths.  This occurred in different parts of the country as well as in many small towns.  Agricultural labourers suffered a great deal in that respect.  They were at their work until 6 or 6.30 in the evening, and many of them had to walk a mile or two miles to the polling booths.  When they arrived there they found the doors closed against them. 
     
     It is well known to Deputies that if factory workers lose a day that the day's pay is deducted from them, and   that if they lose an hour there is a &ldquo;quarter&rdquo; deducted from them. Therefore, I think that legislation of this kind is necessary.  It was thought when this legislation was being passed that either the employer or the State would pay workers for this general holiday.  I know that at the General Election of 1923, when all firms were closed down, the employees were left walking around the streets all day.  The result was that these people lost their day's pay, and that was a very serious matter for them.  I think, for the reasons I have stated, that legislation of this kind is very necessary. I would suggest to the Minister for Justice that the hours for polling might be extended, say, from eight o'clock in the morning until 8 or 9 o'clock in the evening, so as to give people engaged in industrial and other work an opportunity of voting.  We all know that at the last Seanad election a very small number voted.  I think that was because the hours of voting were not long enough.  I think that the same will occur in the coming General Election unless twelve hours at least are allowed for voting.  That is not too much to ask from the sheriff and his well-paid staff.  I hope that that point will be considered. 
     
      
       I think the Minister will be well advised to allow an extra hour for polling in the evening.  I agree that it is desirable that this general holiday should end.  As a matter of fact it was the employers who took advantage of it.  They went away to the sea-side, thinking themselves too good to come down with the general body of the people to the polling booths to vote.  It was these people who were the non-voters at all the elections. They will not have that excuse now, as without the holiday they will have to be at their business.  I do think it would be eminently desirable that the hours for voting should be extended in the evening for at least one hour more, even though it be the class of people whom Deputy Lyons and Deputy Johnson say will be voting. 
     
     
      
       I am in favour of the Second Reading of this Bill.  With   regard to the alteration in the hours of voting, I yield to no man in the desire of having all electors record their vote and of their getting the fullest facilities for so doing.  If the hours for voting are going to be changed and that we are to have voting from 12 noon to 10 in the night, as Deputy Johnson suggests, and that this is to go on in the winter time, then, speaking from past experience, I am going to protest and object to that. Speaking from experience, I know the kind of electors who would vote during those hours, particularly if the polling booths are any way convenient to a graveyard.  I think if we had voting during the dark hours of the night that you would have many " dead " voters coming to the booth.  It would be all right to have those hours during the summer time, but certainly in the winter the polling booths should not be open after eight o'clock.  I do not object to the booths being open until 10 o'clock in the summer time. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would be able to promise that we would only have elections in the summer time. 
     
     
      
       Deputies have that largely in their own hands.  It does not seem necessary to add very much to what I have already said.  I see that there seems to be something approximating to general agreement with regard to the principle of the Bill.  The reactions of the passing of this Bill on the general electoral law is a matter for future consideration.  It may be that, in view of the provisions of this Bill, the question of the hours of voting would need to be reviewed.  Deputy Egan, of course, touched reality when he said that one cannot carry on voting late into the darkness: that to do so gives rise to the probability of abuse. If the hours were to be changed and extended there would need to be differentiation between the late spring and summer months and the winter months when you have darkness early. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister will send for ex-Deputy Dan McCarthy he will probably tell him that the evils occurred in the morning hours. 
     
     
     
      
       Well, there are other specialists. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage fixed for Tuesday. 7th December. 
     
   
   
     CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT No. 4) BILL, 1926.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       This Bill deals with the maximum term of office of Dail Eireann.  It is at present fixed by the Constitution at four years.  The proposal is to increase that to a maximum term of five years.  It is not proposed, of course, that the amendment, if carried, will affect the lifetime of the present Dail.  It is generally recognised to be undesirable and undemocratic that Parliament should, by its legislation, prolong its own lifetime, so that this Bill will apply, not to the Oireachtas now sitting, but to the Parliaments of the future.  As to the case for a five years' term rather than a four years' term, that is a matter that the Deputies will probably have thought out for themselves.  Members of a Government newly appointed may very often be men who have had no previous experience of office and no previous experience of administration as Ministers.  It would take them several months, possibly five or six months, to get accustomed to the routine administration of their offices, and to get to grips with matters of policy that would arise in the various departments. Now, a four years' term, even assuming that the Government runs out the full span of the lifetime of the Parliament without a dissolution, gives little enough time, rather too little time for a Government to develop fully to the Dail and to the country the policies at which it may have arrived in respect of the various departments.  It is, of course, a factor, too, that very often parliaments do not run out their full time.  Up to a period of, say, three or four months before the statutory lifetime of the Parliament, it will have come to an end, and four years, therefore, might work out in practice as being something very little over three years and three months, or three years and six months.  If you have new Ministers at the beginning of that term,   taking, perhaps, five or six months to get accustomed to the work of their departments and to give that consideration to matters of policy which it is highly desirable they should give, then you have quite a short interval in which that policy may be worked out in legislation and administration, and placed before the Parliament and before the country.  We have come to the conclusion that the proper term is a five years' term, which obtains, I think, now in Great Britain, and we propose this extension for the consideration of the Dail&mdash;an extension from four years as the maximum to five years as the maximum. 
     
     
      
       I think this Bill will also be very acceptable to most members of the Dail.  I think we must all recognise, as the Minister has said, that a period of four years, with the subtractions that you have to make in connection with the effective time available within the four years, is too short.  I think we all remember when we were elected to this Dail.  It does not seem very long ago since we were, and we all recognise that the amount of things that are still outside our grasp in parliamentary procedure is very considerable.  The amendment of the Constitution, as outlined in this Bill, is in the interest of the country generally and in the interests of good government. 
     
     
      
       I think it is necessary for somebody at least to draw attention to the consideration that is referred to in the Committee's report&mdash; to the effect that the constitutional provision ought to be longer for a Parliament than the electoral law.  That is to say, that it would be desirable that the provision regarding the maximum duration of Parliament which is contained in the Constitution should be longer than that provided for in the electoral law regarding the normal life of the Parliament.  The point is that if, as is always a possibility, at the end of the statutory limit of Parliament, there arises simultaneously a very critical situation of a warlike kind in the country, where an election would be impossible, then you have   got to break your Constitution; have your election, or do without a Parliament. 
     
     
      
       Of course that might apply to the longer term. 
     
     
      
       It might, but there is ten thousand to one against.  If you have a normal provision of four years in your electoral law, it is possible, in a very great stress of circumstances, to alter the law without a referendum. You can alter the electoral law without a referendum, but you cannot, under the present Constitution, alter the Constitution without a referendum after a given period.  It is, therefore, obviously desirable that the constitutional maximum should be greater than the statutory maximum life of Parliament. 
     
     
      
       If we agree to the principle of the desirability of an extension I would be prepared to deal on the Committee Stage of the Bill with the question of the amount of that extension. It does occur to me that Deputy Johnson's argument might arise whatever the constitutional maximum term we fix.  If you make it seven years, and the electoral law five years, then one could have, at the approach of the close of the maximum term, a crisis of one kind or another that might make it desirable, or apparently desirable, that Parliament should remain in session.  That is a question of weighing probabilities.  In the Committee Stage we can decide whether a more liberal extension of the maximum within the Constitution is desirable on the assumption that the electoral law itself will not take full advantage of that extension. 
     
     
      
       I am accepting the proposition that the Constitution shall be five years with a proviso that the electoral law shall remain at four years. 
     
     
      
       That is not our outlook. We consider that the ordinary span of a Parliament ought to be a five years' lifetime.  We are prepared to consider the case for a greater extension than that in the Constitution on the basis that the ex-electoral law will provide for five years. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
        Committee Stage ordered for Tuesday, 7th December. 
   
   
     CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT No. 5) BILL, 1926&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       This is a Bill dealing with the question of extern Ministers, and the proposal is to provide greater elasticity for the President of the Executive Council than now exists in the matter of the selection of colleagues who will share with him responsibility for policy and for administration generally to the Dail and to the electorate.  I take the view that on the day the Dail elects the President of the Executive Council there is vested in him executive responsibility for the various departments.  He proceeds to share and apportion out that responsibility amongst colleagues of his own selection, whose names he submits for approval to the Dail.  At present he is limited to the number of persons whom he can call into the political group, and which has collective responsibility before the Dail and before the electorate.  It is sought in this Bill to increase the maximum membership of the Executive Council from 7, at which it now stands, up to a possible 12.  That leaves it open to the President to take into the Executive Council, to call into collective responsibility, as many as 11 Ministers.  He is not bound to call in that number.  He may leave certain departments unfilled by himself to be filled by the act of the Dail and to be administered as a matter of single responsibility in the way that four departments are now administered.  But what is sought is latitude, elasticity, so that the newly-elected President of the Executive Council may base his decision on the circumstances which he finds confronting him after he has been elected to that position.  It may be, too, that our experience of the working of the extern Minister idea has led us to think that it is not as valuable a constitutional idea as we once thought it would be. 
     
     It would be the ideal thing in Deputy Johnson's ideal State which is run without money.  Where it breaks down is that every Department radiates into   the Department of Finance, and that while theoretically one may say this Minister has single responsibility to the Dail and to the country for his Department he does not share responsibility with the Executive Council nor they with him.  Still, inasmuch as every one of them has to turn to the Minister for Finance for the funds to implement&mdash; if I may use that horrible word&mdash;his policy, collective responsibility comes in there.  All Departments radiate into the Department, which must necessarily be within the Executive Council&mdash;the Department of Finance&mdash;so that this single responsibility of extern Ministers is, I will not say entirely, but largely theoretical, and this aloofness of such Ministers from the Executive Council and its works and pomps is largely theoretical.  They have to turn to the Finance Department, and there is collective responsibility for that Department. At any rate, we feel that each succeeding President of the Executive Council, facing the position as he finds it on the day of his own election, should have a free hand to decide how much of the administration of the country, how many of the Departments of State he will make the subject of collective responsibility, to be shared by him and his colleagues of the Executive Council, and how much, if any, he will leave outside that Executive Council as Departments to be administered in single responsibility way by the Ministers whom we have come to call extern Ministers. 
     At present there are outside the Executive Council some very important Departments&mdash;the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Local Government, the Department of Fisheries and the Department of Posts and Telegraphs&mdash;and it may be thought it scarcely a wise thing that in a country so predominantly agricultural as this the Department of Agriculture should be administered without collective responsibility on the part of the Government as a whole.  Local Government is a very important phase of the life of the country, and there might be much to be said for collective responsibility in that respect, but we are not attempting here to draw straight lines,   to say this shall be so or this shall not be so.  What we do recommend to the Dail is a free hand for the President of the Executive Council to decide how large his Council shall be, and for how many Departments he, together with his colleagues, shall assume political responsibility.  We recommend that, if he thought fit, he should be free to take collective responsibility within the Executive Council for all the Departments of State, or facing his political exigencies to leave one or two or three Departments outside the Executive Council.  We consider that it is a matter the President ought not to be hampered in, and we seek a freer hand for him within the Constitution than he is allowed as it stands. 
     
      
       Would the Minister make a case for the figure 12 as against 11? 
     
     
      
       12 is the maximum number of Ministers, I think. 
     
     
      
       You have only 11. 
     
     
      
       And the President. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister might have given us some simple reason why there is a necessity for this change at the present time.  Did I hear somebody use certain initials as the explanation? I had the curiosity this morning to read the Minister's speech when introducing this provision for extern Ministers, and I felt after reading it that this experiment, confessedly an experiment, has not been tried, and whatever value was in it has not had a chance of finding expression.  The Minister, in proposing the device of extern Ministers, persuaded the Dail that the extern Minister would make his proposition in regard to a matter of departmental policy to the Executive Council.  The Executive Council might be divided upon it, and the views of the Executive Council, majority or minority, would be presented to the Dail by that department and the Dail would decide on the proposal.  But we have had no occasion that I can remember   where a Minister or head of a department has fulfilled the duties, which were presupposed in the Constitutional provision, to come to the House and make a proposal which was not already agreed to by the Executive Council. I am quite at a loss to understand why we should appoint, why we must expect even the head of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs, not the present head but any other head, to be a member of the Executive Council.  It is a departmental office, a purely administrative office, whose head might be the best administrator in the world and yet not the best man for consultation as a member of the Executive Council. There is a difference between the pure administrator and the political statesman. I really feel that sufficient time has not been given to the experiment, and that we ought to have had a real trial of the proposal which was submitted so eloquently by the Minister for Justice to the Dail when we passed the Constitution. 
     
     The question whether the Executive Council should consist of more than seven touches a somewhat different aspect.  If you have an Executive Council of twelve you are almost certainly going to have a much smaller number as the real acting Executive. You are going to have a Cabinet within a Ministry.  That was intended by constitutional provision as a thing to be avoided, that you should have a small acting cabinet of five or seven men, with collective responsibility, each equally responsible and powerful, presided over by the President.  Now we are proposing to make it possible to have twelve Ministers of equal responsibility, equally powerful theoretically, but inevitably leading to the development within that larger Ministry of a small Executive.  There are people who are ungenerous enough to think that, even with an Executive Council of seven, you have a small Executive which acts irrespective of the views of the outer circle.  This proposition is going to make that method of conducting the business of the State a certainty in the future.  I think it would have been very much better if we had allowed the extern Minister proposals to have a trial before we made any   change.  I will admit the case the Minister makes, that this is not a mandatory proposal at all, but one which will give elasticity, and allow the minor Ministers to become members of the Executive Council according to the wishes of the President of the time.  In stating the case, the Minister told us that that is the intention of the present Ministry if they have the opportunity again of forming an Executive Council. 
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       I would much prefer to have given a fair trial to the proposals of the Ministry of 1922.  I think it is too soon to turn down the proposals of that Ministry and that Dail.  They were fairly well considered, and.  I think, very well considered by the Constitutional Committee. Undoubtedly they were well considered by the Provisional Government, and more or less considered by the Provisional Parliament.  They have excited a good deal of attention, but the extern Ministers have forgotten the conditions of their appointment and have preferred to be responsible to the Executive Council rather than to the Dail.  I think it is a pity.  We would have done well, I think, to have had, say, the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, or the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, who was not a member of the Executive Council, directly answerable to the Dail for the conduct of his affairs.  While nominally Ministers are in that position, in fact that has not been so.  To suggest now that all these Ministers, the Minister for Fisheries, or the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, must always be in the same position as political leaders at the will of the President is, I think, retrogressive. It is an undesirable change, until we have had more experience.  I recognise that it is quite experimental, and I am not at all dogmatic about the value of it.  I think the experiment should have been tried before we changed it. 
     
     
      
       This Bill, further amending the Constitution, comes up with a recommendation to alter the basis on which the Executive Council has been formed.  I think I can only say in its favour, that the provision   embodied in the Bill and recommended by the Government, gives latitude.  If the problem to be considered was: Is it going to take twelve Executive Ministers to run the country, it would be necessary to recall the old complaint, that there are too many Departments of State.  The Government, I presume, are best able to judge of that. They have had experience of what in practice has been found best as regards the Government benches.  Deputies who are not on the Government benches do not appreciate, possibly, the difficulties that have confronted the Executive Council in the administration of affairs. 
       It seems to me that it is an exaggeration of the responsibilities that rest on the Executive Council to say that twelve good and true men are required to run the country.  The Bill does not indicate that the Executive Council is to consist of twelve, but simply gives the President latitude, so that he can nominate eleven others to take responsibility within the Council.  I agree with Deputy Johnson when he criticises the results that are likely to ensue following a decision of twelve as compared with a smaller number of Ministers. We have seen from time to time in the past that there was not agreement in the Executive Council when it consisted of a lesser number. 
     
     A considerable increase in the number seems to me to extend the likelihood of differences among themselves which would react on the administration of affairs.  In considering this Bill we, on benches other than Government benches, feel considerable difficulty as to our criticism of it.  After all, we are a new legislature, with very little experience, and we have to gain our experience, presumably, as we go along.  On this particular subject we can only form a general opinion as to what is taking place towards establishing the Constitution and legislature. This proposal alters the present state of things in the direction of bringing into the Executive Council departments which, perhaps, some of us think would be better outside it.  It is not, on the other hand, mandatory that they   should be brought in, and therein lies the discretion which is in the hands of the President.  I remember when I came to this House first, the general construction sought to be placed on the appointment of extern Ministers was that they were to be appointed by the House, and I think I remember various occasions when the President was inclined not to take personal responsibility for these appointments. 
     Now, in explanation of this Bill, the Minister for Justice formulates the idea that the President is the one and only person who is responsible for the formation of the Ministry.  I think that is right, and that the ultimate responsibility must rest on one individual.  In the case of the Executive Council I think it must rest on a smaller number than twelve members, and I think it will work out in that way in practice. As to the inwardness of this proposal I do not understand the position.  Undoubtedly the Government has very good reason for bringing in this Bill which is going to alter the Constitution in a certain direction, and my only criticism is that that alteration increases the area of distribution of responsibility.  That, I think, is wrong, especially if the latitude given to increase the number were exercised. 
     
      
       To a certain extent, this Bill meets with my approval. I have always felt that this situation of having an extern Minister responsible to the Dail was always unreal.  It is only a pretence at having in existence a state of government which really does not exist and that, in fact, extern Ministers were not responsible to the Dail, and, so far as I am aware, have not shown in any way that they were responsible directly to it.  It seems to me that undoubtedly in practice extern Ministers must have been all the time responsible to the Executive Council, and must have received authority from the Executive before they took any independent action in regard to policies concerning their Department.  I take it that that is what happened in all cases.  What is the use of pretending to have in existence a state of affairs which does not exist?  Like Deputy Hewat, I see that there is a difficulty in   regard to the size of the Executive Council, if all extern Ministers are to be included in it in future.  I recognise there is a possibility of a small cabal having the real power and really controlling policy.  In order to reconcile the two ideas the only way out of the difficulty, so far as I can see, is the abolition of certain Ministries. 
       I believe that we have too many Ministers.  In a State of the size of ours the work of administering the different Departments cannot be as great as similar work would be in States of much larger size.  There is reasonable ground for asking that consideration be given to the question of amalgamating certain Ministries.  There are many people who will say that we have not yet had any real cause for this change, and there are many people who will say that there are reasons other than those given by the Minister for Justice for this change.  There is one aspect of the matter that appeals to me and it is this: I believe that all Ministers should belong to the Executive Council so that they may have a collective and an individual responsibility for the policy of the Government. I think it is reasonable that people should expect that they shall get from the Government in power some indication of a unified policy.  There are some matters of vital policy upon which Ministers have shown distinct differences of opinion.  I think that that is a state of affairs that should not exist. 
     
     If the Government has a policy it should be the policy of all its Ministers. It is unfair to the people and, in fact, ridiculous to have one Minister expounding one policy and another Minister, perhaps in another place, expounding a totally different policy. For that reason I think we should have collective responsibility for policy and also individual responsibility.  I would like to hear something said about one aspect of this question, concerning which I do not know a great deal.  My idea of extern Ministers was that there was an intention, when the Constitution was drawn up, that certain extern Ministers should not necessarily be members of the Dail but heads of Vocational Councils, that we should build up gradually certain Vocational   Councils and that their nominees should be extern Ministers.  I do not know whether that idea has been completely dropped or whether there was any intention of carrying it out.  Personally, it is an idea which I view with a great deal of doubt myself, as to its expediency, but I think there was some intention in that regard.  However, I would think that the intention of the Bill as it stands of leaving it optional to the President to appoint or not to appoint certain members on this Council is not sound.  I believe myself that all Ministers should be members of the Council with the proviso, which I wish to put forward, that the number of Ministers in existence at the present time is excessive. 
     
      
       I do not know, that, arising out of the discussion, I have to add very much to what I said in moving the Second Reading.  Deputies spoke of the failure&mdash;Deputy Johnson in particular spoke of the failure&mdash;of extern Ministers to envisage their position as being responsible only to the Dail.  I wonder was there failure anywhere else?  Would the Deputy not agree that amongst the electorate and, to some extent, amongst members of the Dail also, there was a definite refusal to discriminate in the matter of Government responsibility for affairs that came definitely within the purview of the Executive Council, and affairs which were outside the scope of the Executive Council and within that administered by the extern Ministers? It seems to me that the popular mind never adjusted itself to the conception that what is called the Government should not be responsible for the entire sphere of legislation and administration. Whether that would come in time or not, I do not know.  I doubt it very much.  If people objected to something, say, in the sphere of local government, that was a sin to be borne by the Government. Similarly in the matter of agriculture, whether it was the refusal of a certificate to a scrub bull or delays in the administration of the Land Purchase Act of 1923, it was the Government too, and I feel certain that much the same applies to the Post Office. 
     
     The Deputy did not deal with my point that in fact all Departments impinge   on the Executive Council in the very important matter of finance, and that consequently you cannot effect a watertight division between the responsibility of an extern Minister and the collective responsibility of the Executive Council as a whole. Almost all policies require funds to carry them out.  If the Minister for Fisheries has a far-reaching scheme calculated to benefit areas in fishery districts, he must look to the Minister for Finance for the necessary funds; the Minister for Lands and Agriculture likewise; the Minister for Local Government and Public Health likewise. You cannot divorce the Executive Council from the extern Minister in such a way that the extern Minister can be entirely free to go before the Dail and the electorate, claiming that he could make the country blossom like a rose only for Mr. Blythe.  He would not put up the sinews of war, so to speak; he would not put up the necessary funds to enable them to do that. 
     
      
       Now it is out. 
     
     
      
       In any case there is that radiation of all the Departments into the Executive Council, and that fact pretty well obtruded itself on our attention during the course of the last four or five years, so that we saw that the responsibility of the extern Minister was more theoretical than practical.  This Bill does not necessarily mean that there is going to be an Executive Council of twelve&mdash;there might not be an Executive Council of more than eight or nine&mdash;but it asks for latitude for each succeeding President of the Executive Council to take his own course, based on his own political exigencies.  We have proportional representation in this country.  That may lead to numerous groups in the Dail, to forced amalgamations, coalitions of one kind or another. and the circumstances will vary after each General Election.  We feel that no President of the Executive Council should find himself with his hands tied, with one body of Ministers who are called into collective responsibility, and with another body of Ministers administering Departments which the   State has to finance, but for whom the Executive Council has no responsibility. It may suit him better to have an Executive Council of seven or eight members and to leave other posts for the Dail itself to fill.  I think it is not necessary, in considering this matter, for people to burrow down and in their quest for some secret, unstated reasons for the Bill, to try to attribute the introduction of this Bill to the personality of this or that existing Minister. The arguments can be advanced quite in the abstract, and I think the arguments are sound. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage fixed for Tuesday, 7th December. 
     
   
   
     LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILL, 1926.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       When it was arranged to take the Second Reading of this Bill to-day I was under the impression that I could have it circulated amongst Deputies much earlier than, in fact, has been the case.  There was an unavoidable delay at the printers.  Before proceeding with the statement I would like to say that I have done everything possible in this Bill to eliminate all controversial matters, and, accordingly, although the Bill is an extremely urgent one&mdash;as it will amongst other things insure considerable economies in the preparation of local budgets if passed in time&mdash;I am quite prepared, if Deputies are anxious or apprehensive, to postpone the Second Reading for another day or two.  However, I do not think that will be necessary, so if nobody has any objection, I had better go ahead with the statement on the Bill. 
     
     The Local Government Act of 1925 made changes in the machinery and practice of local government so far-reaching and fundamental as in fact to amount to a new system.  Every day its advantages, both as regards simplification of procedure and economy, are becoming clearer.  Like all such comprehensive measures, when put into operation, it is found to require amending. Formulæ suited to one particular district or one particular set of circumstances,   are found not to be suited to others; legal phraseology is found to be construed in some cases more, in others less, widely than was originally intended; measures thought to be perfect at the time have turned out to be capable of improvement when put to the test of application. 
     It would be possible, if all these points were to be dealt with, to bring in a Bill of considerable importance to deal with them.  However, as the time of the Oireachtas is limited, and there are a great number of urgent measures ready for submission to the Dail, I have decided to confine myself in this Bill to matters which I expect will be noncontroversial, raising no new principles, and merely improving the working of the legal machinery which has already secured the sanction of the Oireachtas. 
     The most important amendments in the new Bill are those comprised in Sections 6 and 7.  They deal with the question of rating and demand notes. Sub-section (1) (e) of Section 27 of the Principal Act was inserted at a late stage to give effect to the views expressed by a Senator that for purposes of control ratepayers should be given an opportunity of knowing the amount of their expenditure on the upkeep of roads as compared with the cost of other services.  In the attempt to meet his wishes the sub-section was drafted which, when put into operation, was found to entail much more work on the rating authorities than was originally anticipated.  Under Section 27 (1) (e) of the Principal Act the actual amount required from each ratepayer for roads must be shown on the demand note. This causes greatly increased applotment expenses, while its purpose will be met equally well by showing the rate in the pound for roads as a separate item.  Moreover, in order to show the rate in the pound on agricultural land for any purpose an apportionment of the agricultural grant must be made which is purely mathematical and has no foundation in fact. 
     The Bill provides that only the rate in the pound for roads on &ldquo;other hereditaments&rdquo; need be shown, and prescribes a new method of rate-estimating which will best enable this   to be done.  It contemplates an extension of the system whereby rates for other special services will be shown separately as well as the rate for roads. As the matter is complicated and does not lend itself to explanation except by way of examples involving numerous arithmetical calculations, I am circulating amongst Deputies a paper demonstrating in this way the working of the old rating system and that proposed under the Bill. 
     In order that a saving in time, trouble and money may be effected next year it is necessary that this Bill should become law before the applotment of the rate for that year is begun, and for that reason I have done my best to avoid all controversial matters or anything likely to delay the Bill in its passage through the Oireachtas. 
     The following other matters are dealt with in the Bill:&mdash;(I.) Uncertainty in the distribution of duties between the Board of Health and the County Council (Sections 10 and 15); (II.) Difficulties caused by the prohibition on borrowing by Boards of Health (Section II., 1); (III.) Possible injustice arising out of the areas of charge for labourers cottages expenses (Schedule 1); (IV.) Amending of section giving partial remission of rates.  The Bill deals with these matters as follows:&mdash;(1) The Board of Health is to have two sets of duties administered in different areas&mdash; (a) In the county health district it is to have all the functions of the rural district councils except such as relate to roads or other public works; (b) in the county health district and adjoining urban districts it is to administer the following enactments:&mdash;The Public Health (Prevention and Treatment of Disease) (Ireland) Act, 1917; The Midwives (Ireland) Act, 1918; The Public Health (Medical Treatment of School Children) (Ireland) Act, 1919; The Blind Persons Act, 1920; (c) Tuberculosis prevention will be administered in the same way as the enactments mentioned under (b) unless the Minister otherwise directs.  Such a direction might be necessary where a joint scheme is required. 
     Section II.  of the Principal Act prohibited borrowing by the Board of Health.  It was intended that borrowing   for Board of Health purposes should be done by the County Council, who would themselves repay the loan and hand over the borrowed moneys to the Board when required.  This system has proved unworkable for the following reasons:&mdash;(1) It is difficult to provide the lender with legal security. Borrowing by a rural sanitary authority under Section 237 of the Act of 1878 is on the security of the &ldquo;District Fund.&rdquo;  The county council borrowing is on the security of rates.  (2) Where some of the revenue from an undertaking has to be applied in relief of loan repayment the revenue receipt and repayment must be made by the same body or the accounting becomes complicated. (3) The demand of the Board on the county council does not give a correct idea of the cost of administration. (4) Loans accounts must be kept by both bodies, thus duplicating work. The Bill, therefore, enables borrowing for Board of Health purposes directly by the Board, while preserving county council control by requiring a consenting resolution. 
     At present the repayment of loans for existing rural district schemes under the Labourers Acts is charged on the rural district.  All other Labourers Act expenses are charged on the health district.  Thus, a rural district ratepayer may be required to pay, not only the cost of an existing scheme in his district, but also a share of a new scheme.  The Bill makes these expenses &ldquo;special expenses,&rdquo; for which particular areas of charge can be fixed in each case.  Sections 8 and 9 deal with minor points of difficulty arising from the new superannuation code in Part IV.  of the Principal Act. Section 10 makes the county the area of charge for the pensions of the ex-union and rural district officials.  This is already the case (under Section 82 (3) of the Principal Act for rural district county officials removed from office on the abolition of the rural district councils.  It is obviously right that the same rule should apply to officials of boards of guardians who were removed on amalgamation.  It is thought advisable for simplification   that the rule should also apply to the few pensions of officials of these bodies who were removed prior to the abolition. 
     Section 11 extends the exemption from rates on new buildings to buildings completed after 1st April, 1927, but before 1st April, 1930.  However, the valuation, instead of being reduced by two-thirds, is not to be reduced under the section to an amount less than that in force immediately prior to erection, or structural alteration of the building.  This section also introduces general amendments to Section 69 of the Principal Act, which have been found necessary in practice. 
     The principles behind these amendments are shortly as follows:&mdash;(1) The valuation of the new building is to be separated from the remainder of the hereditament by the Commissioner of Valuation.  (2) In future a rating authority is not to have power to decide whether a building is or is not a new building.  That power has been abused, and it is considered that the Commissioner is the proper deciding authority. The decision can be given when a revaluation is made.  Existing decisions of rating authorities are to stand.  The section works these principles out in detail.  That briefly covers the whole ground of the amending Bill.  As I say, it is limited in scope, and it will be necessary to keep it limited if we are to get it through the Oireachtas in time for the striking of next year's rate. 
     
      
       I take advantage of the Second Reading of this Bill to criticise the methods of the Department of Local Government.  In this Bill we have headings dealing with boards of health and county councils, etc., on which this matter can be raised.  In the Constitution provision was made for the appointment by Ministers of advisory councils to consult with them with regard to administration and to new departures.  I want to know if these councils have ever been called into existence and, if so, have they been consulted.  At present county councils are being called upon to appoint a new class of officer&mdash;a county medical officer of health&mdash;for which there was no demand from the county councils. 
     
     
     
      
       The Dail passed the Act last year. 
     
     
      
       That does not arise under this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I know it does not.  I was trying to get it in somehow. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will hear more about it later on. 
     
     
      
       We have the old superannuated officers to be paid and we have an ever-increasing body of new ones.  Is there any urgent reason why this should be rushed at this time when the country is least able to bear it? 
     
     
      
       Is it the amending Bill? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I refer you to the different sub-sections.  I would ask the Minister to take into consideration the circumstances of the country and not run the councils into any unnecessary appointments. 
     
     
      
       I think it is a well-known fact that at the present time there is very little waste of money or of the rates collected by the present elected representatives of the people. 
     
     
      
       They are going to be sacked. 
     
     
      
       Surely a Bill like this could wait over for a couple of days more so that Deputies might have an opportunity of reading it before being asked to pass its Second Reading.  It is not a question of urgency.  There is plenty of time, between this and April, when the new rates will be struck, to have this Bill considered.  The Bill means a large amendment of the principal Acts, which certainly should involve a great deal of consideration by Deputies, and particularly by the men elected on the county councils or the boards of health. 
       In the Third Schedule there is set out the different sections of the Principal Act that are to be amended, and in some cases questions of superannuations and such matters arise, and I hold that these things could not be fairly or adequately dealt with at the present. 
     
     
     
      
       What about the Committee Stage? 
     
     
      
       On Second Reading debates we are told that we should reserve our speeches for the Committee Stage, and in the Committee we are told that we should make our speeches on the Second Reading Stage.  There are many amendments proposed by this Bill which should not be allowed to pass without criticism.  The Minister for Local Government has a whole organisation behind him, but the men representing the people have to act in accordance with the legislation as it exists.  It is necessary that the people should know the class of legislation that is being forced down their necks. They should be given an opportunity of approving or disapproving by resolution of the different bodies.  If the Act of 1925, which did away with district councils, was first put to the country, it would not have got the reception in this House that it did get. The poor are suffering to-day owing to the amalgamation of unions that took place under that Act.  We are asked now to accept something else that will entail more suffering on the part of the poor.  Deputy Gorey was right in taking advantage of the provisions of this Bill to criticise the action of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.  You have county hospitals, but very often over twenty or thirty miles of district, you have no convenience for taking patients to hospital. There are no district hospitals, and the result is that very often a patient may be lying suffering for three, four or five days before being sent to hospital.  If an amendment were introduced into this Bill to the effect that an advisory committee should be appointed in the different districts where a district hospital does not exist, with a view to providing proper treatment for the poor in those districts, I think the House would appreciate such action.  To my mind this Bill will only go a little further in causing more suffering to the poor who can least bear it.  The Minister claims that this Bill was one of urgency.  That claim is made for every Bill that the Government wishes to rush through. 
     
     
     
      
       The Pensions Amendment Bill apparently is not urgent. 
     
     
      
       Surely we should be given until some day next week to consider this Bill so as to have an opportunity of reading it properly and then the Minister might get the good wishes of the House much quicker than if he insists on the Second Reading this evening.  I certainly shall object to a Second Reading this evening if only on the ground that I had not time to read the Bill through.  The Minister himself said at the opening of his statement that he was prepared to postpone the Second Reading for a time if it was desired.  I hope he may do so, and I desire to make it clear that my speech now is not to be taken as my speech on Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       There does not appear to be any great opposition to the Bill. Deputy Gorey has availed of it to get in a kind of side-blow at a provision that was enacted in the Principal Act. I suppose such a discussion is out of order, but as you, sir, have listened to him in patience I suppose you will tolerate me just making a brief reply. I consider that the provision for county medical officers of health was probably the most valuable one in the Act of 1925, as at the present time there are thousands of pounds, I might say, going to waste on public health services on the preventive side owing to the fact that there is no co-ordinating centre to get the best results out of the money that is being expended.  Until we have this officer in the various counties, that money will be money badly spent, and for that reason alone county councils, in the interests of economy and of the public health of their various districts, should be vieing with one another to have this officer appointed.  His salary will not amount to a fraction of a penny in the £.  I do not think it is necessary to deal with any of the points raised by Deputy Lyons.  I think it is scarcely treating the matter seriously. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
     
      
       I presume I am in order in speaking on each section of the Bill. There is something I want to say in regard to the last statement of the Minister. 
     
     
      
       When speaking, was the Minister concluding the debate? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has concluded the debate. 
     
     
      
       It is well understood that the mover of a motion on the Reading of a Bill will conclude the debate. 
     
     
      
       Then I presume I am not in order in moving that the Bill be not read a second time. 
     
     
      
       As the Minister has concluded the debate, I am afraid that you are too late. 
     
     
      
       The point I wanted to make was that I wanted to ask the Minister to postpone the Second Reading to give Deputies an opportunity of reading the Bill. 
     
     
      
       That should have been raised early in the discussion and not at the end. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry that you did not occupy the Chair at the time. 
     
     
      
       I am sure the Chair was well occupied at the time. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put and declared carried. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister to give plenty of time before the Committee Stage of this Bill, which is really a complicated one, is taken. 
     
     
      
       Would Thursday week suit? 
     
     
      
       I object to Thursday week.  Thursday is the day on which meetings of the county council are held, and for that reason some Deputies could not be present.  I would ask the Minister to make it Friday week. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Thursday, 9th December. 
     
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT DEBATE&mdash;THE SUCK DRAINAGE BOARD. 
     
     
      
       I move the adjournment of the Dail until 3 o'clock on Tuesday next. 
     
     
      
       I gave notice to-day that, on the motion for the adjournment, I would raise a question relating to the action of the Suck Drainage Board in issuing civil bills and in having decrees executed for arrears of maintenance tax.  I desire to state briefly the position as it is at present in reference to the Suck drainage area.  For a number of years past no maintenance work was done by the Board, and as a result no maintenance tax was paid.  The people were willing to pay, but they refused to do so because no work was being done.  Year after year the condition of affairs was getting worse and worse as a result of the flooding of the lands, and great damage was done to the crops.  When the Drainage Act of 1924 was put into operation, the Suck Drainage Board, after years of apathy and negligence, suddenly awakened to a realisation of their responsibilities and got to work.  Their efforts were not directed towards relieving the distress that was prevailing in the area as a result of their negligence in the years past, but they got their solicitor to issue civil bills for the arrears of maintenance tax over the whole period during which no work was done. 
     
     The decrees are now being executed by the Board, and the unfortunate people whose lands have been flooded and whose crops have been destroyed are now being decreed.  Their lands are being cleared of stock and cattle to pay arrears of maintenance tax over a period when no work was done.  The Board of Works is at present engaged in carrying out restoration work in the Suck drainage area.  Representations and appeals have been made to the Suck Drainage Board in connection with the matter, but all to no purpose. The Board of Works, I understand, has asked for a conference to discuss the situation, but they have been ignored by the Suck Drainage Board, who are determined to carry on their work of devastation on the farmers whose lands   have been ruined by their negligence during years past.  I understand that the total liabilities of the Suck Drainage Board at present amounts to roughly about £1,000.  I understand that nearly half that amount is due to the solicitor for issuing civil bills for the remainder.  The total amount of arrears to be collected is approximately £5,000.  The people are asked to pay all that, but they are unable to do so.  They are willing to pay any liabilities that the Board may have to meet at the present time but all appeals for consideration and all appeals for discussion have been turned down by the Suck Drainage Board.  I want to ask the Minister for Finance to put a definite stop to the action of the Suck Drainage Board.  As I have said, the Board of Works is carrying out restoration work, and no further work can be done by the Suck Drainage Board, no matter how much money they collect&mdash; even if they collected the £5,000 due in respect of the years when no work was done.  There is no purpose to be served by gathering in that money by the decrees that are being executed at the present time except to lodge it to the credit of a Board that will automatically go out of existence as soon as the drainage work is completed by the Board of Works. 
     Owing to the unwarrantable hardship and injustice that are being inflicted upon the people, I want to submit to the Minister for Finance that it is absolutely necessary for him to promote legislation, and to promote it immediately&mdash;legislation that will relieve of all responsibility this Board that has utterly failed to discharge its duties during the past years; that has refused to listen to any appeals for consideration; that has ignored the representations made by the Board of Works for a conference; that is determined to carry on its work of devastation, if I may call it so, and to go on full steam ahead with decrees that will utterly ruin the people whose interests the Board have neglected during the last seven or eight years. 
     I submit that it is but a very small Bill that is necessary.  I have the greatest sympathy for the official draughtsman in the onerous work that   is being done by him, but I suggest that a short Bill amending the Drainage Act of 1924 is all that is necessary to apply to the Suck Drainage Board.  It is absolutely necessary, and it is a matter of urgency, and I suggest to the Minister for Finance or the Minister for Justice to take some steps to prevent any further execution of decrees being carried out by that Drainage Board. 
     
      
       I quite agree with what Deputy Lavin has said on this subject.  As regards the Suck catchment area in Galway, representations have been made to me by ratepayers of that area.  The same complaint is general in portions of Galway as in Roscommon.  It is not because these people refuse to pay drainage rates, but when they pay they want to see work done.  It may be argued by the Drainage Board: &ldquo;How can we do the work unless the rates are paid?&rdquo; Well, they did no work whatsoever in the area of the Suck Drainage Board for the past five years, and up to the present they are even assessing rates on these people.  In addition to that, as Deputy Lavin has stated, owing to the carelessness of the Suck Drainage Board, the Board of Works had to take a scheme in hand itself to the tune of about £16,000.  I believe that if the Suck Drainage Board did their work as they should have done it during the past five years, the ratepayers in the catchment area would not have to pay for this scheme, which amounts to in or about 1s. 3d. per acre for a period of 20 years.  The Drainage Board, I believe, will remain in existence until the Suck Drainage is completed, which probably may be at the end of next season. 
     
     As an instance of a drainage board that has done its work well, I might mention the Lough Corrib Drainage Board, in which some work has been done and the rates paid.  The same thing would apply to the Suck Drainage Board if throughout the Board did their work properly.  I think it is necessary that the Suck Drainage Board should be put out of existence, or, if not, the landowners in that area cannot pay two rates, one on the   £16,000 scheme, and another rate to this Board, which is doing nothing. 
     
      
       I would wish to endorse the appeal that has been made to the Minister for Finance or to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Board of Works by Deputies Lavin and Broderick.  This flooding of the Suck also caused considerable damage to the County Galway, and, as Deputy Broderick stated, the ratepayers of the Suck catchment area feel that they have a decided grievance because more effective work has not been done in carrying out a proper drainage system.  Many of those people against whom decrees have been got at the moment, have lost stock owing to the flooding of their lands by the River Suck.  That, along with everything else, has left many of the people there in an impoverished state at the present moment.  I think it would be well if the Minister could see his way to hold up those decrees until such time as the Suck is properly drained.  Of course, we expect that under the Shannon scheme a large improvement will take place in the drainage of the Suck.  That is likely to happen in the next couple of years.  Those people have a decided grievance considering that very little relief has been afforded to them by the drainage board up to the present, and also that they have lost a considerable amount of stock in that area owing to the flooding of their land.  Under these circumstances it would be a very decided hardship if the people are decreed for a rate from which they receive little or no benefit. 
     
     
      
       I wish to associate myself with what has been said by Deputies Lavin, Broderick and O Maille.  I am sure that the Dail will agree, in view of the hardship that has been inflicted on the people in the Suck area, that Deputy Lavin has been justified in bringing the matter before them.  In a short period of time, at any rate, this Suck Drainage Board will go out of existence.  This is its dying kick now against the people.  They are putting these heavy costs on the people when they are at the end of their existence.  I submit that the Dail will   be justified in introducing a short Bill to put an end to this Board and transfer its operations to the County Council.  Eventually that will take place, and I think it would not be very difficult to have that matter attended to.  I think it is a rather sad state of affairs that the forces of the State should be placed at the disposal of the Board to inflict hardships such as have been described at the present time.  I would appeal to the Minister for Justice to see that the forces of the State are not placed at the disposal of the Board to inflict further hardships on these people.  This is a matter of urgency for the people concerned, and I appeal to the Government to deal with it as quickly as possible. 
     
     
      
       The facts in regard to this question have been fairly accurately stated by the Deputies who have spoken.  I rather anticipated the point they would make was that the Board of Works or the Minister for Finance would intervene to put an end to the proceedings taken by the Drainage Board.  The reply to that, of course, would be that neither the Board of Works nor any Department of Government has any control whatever over the Drainage Boards.  They are statutory bodies with statutory functions.  In this instance they are proceeding to collect arrears of rent due, which amount to about £5,000, but I believe that the actual amount of money they have expended on drainage work is only about £1,000.  A deputation came to me some time ago, and they having stated the facts, I felt that it would be a reasonable thing to suggest to the Drainage Board that they should meet the representatives of the ratepayers and endeavour to come to an effective compromise by which the ratepayers would pay to the Board the amount actually expended, and that the Board should not proceed with respect to the balance, that is £4,000. 
     
     
        The Board of Works got into communication with the Drainage Board, and suggested that a conference should be held, and further suggested that, if they agreed, a representative of the Board would attend it.  The Drainage Board, in reply, point blank refused to agree to any such conference.  That ended my functions in the matter, because there is no legal power whatever to interfere with them.  They have a perfect right to proceed and collect the arrears due, but I quite agree with Deputies that I think it is unreasonable for the Suck Drainage Board to proceed to collect arrears amounting to £5,000 in view of the fact that their actual expenditure was only about £1,000.  The real difficulty is that there is no legal power to interfere with them in the collection of the arrears.  If the proceedings are to be stayed, that can only be done by legislation in this House.  In so far as Deputies have made that suggestion, I can only reply that, in view of the obvious unfairness of the action of the Drainage Board in this matter, I think it is worthy of the consideration of the Government, and I am sure it will have that consideration. I might also mention that a new Drainage Board will be elected in January, and I hope the ratepayers will take a greater interest in that election than, possibly, they may have taken in the past. 
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that ratepayers owing arrears of rates are not allowed to vote, and that consequently practically the whole body of the ratepayers will be deprived of an opportunity of taking part in the election? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I could not answer that question right off. 
       The Dail adjourned at 6.30 p.m. until Tuesday, 7th December, 1926. 
     
   
 