 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh An Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CLAIMS (CO. WEXFORD). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why unemployment benefit was refused to John Sinnott, Ballyrielly, Kilrane, Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit made on the 15th February last by John Sinnott, of Ballyrielly, Kilrane, Co. Wexford, was disallowed on the ground that the claimant had exhausted his right to benefit.  The claimant was duly notified of this decision and of his right of appeal to the Court of Referees, but he has not lodged an appeal. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why unemployment benefit is not being paid to Michael Doyle, 32 William St., Gorey, Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       Michael Doyle, of 32 William Street, Gorey, has been paid all the unemployment benefit to which he was entitled in respect of the contributions to his credit.  Unemployment benefit is not being paid to him now because he has exhausted his right to such benefit. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that a claim by John Bolger under the Military Service   Pensions Act, 1924, was submitted to the Board of Assessors on November 16th, 1924, and heard on 23rd October, 1925; and if he will state the cause of delay in arriving at a decision in this case. 
     
     
      
       There is a difficulty in coming to a final decision on Mr. Bolger's claim owing to the fact that he did not hold any of the ranks specified in the second schedule to the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924.  I regret the delay, and am hastening my consideration of the matter as much as possible. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SIGNPOST IN CO. MEATH. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether his attention has been called to the action of the Chairman of the Navan Urban District Council, Co. Meath, in removing the direction signs in Irish within the town administration area without, as is stated, having first obtained the sanction of the said council; whether the Department has sanctioned the cost of the removal, and, if not, if it is intended to take any action in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Beyond Press references I have no information on this matter. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister received a copy of the minutes of the proceedings of the urban council in regard to the matter? 
     
     
      
       So far, I have not. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister cause inquiries to be made in the matter? 
     
     
      
       If the matter is referred to in the minutes, presumably it would come before me. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the chairman refused to take a motion, a fact which ordinarily would appear on the minutes, would the Minister make inquiries? 
     
     
      
       Very well. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. MEATH PENSION CLAIM. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state why the full pension of £45 16s. 8d. stated to have been granted by the County Meath Board of Health to Jane Clarke, ex-maternity nurse, Forge House, Stamullen, Co. Meath, is not being paid; if he is aware that the arrears of pension for the past three years amount to £22 10s. 0d., and whether he will direct that this amount be paid. 
     
     
      
       On the 28th of November, 1923, the Meath County Board of Health voted a superannuation allowance in this case of £45 16s. 8d.  My consent was accorded under seal on the 19th of December, 1923, and a copy of it was forwarded to the County Board of Health on the 22nd of that month.  I have no information that the allowance is not being paid or that any arrear is outstanding. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MEATH COUNTY HOME AND HOSPITAL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the number of inmates and patients maintained and treated in the Meath County Home and Meath County Hospital, respectively, for the last audited period; if he will also state the maintenance cost per head irrespective of establishment charges and the respective establishment charges in these institutions. 
     
     
      
       The number of persons maintained in the Meath County Home during the last audited period, viz., the half-year ended the 31st of March, 1923, was 435.  The number of persons treated in the Meath County Hospital during the same period was 247.  The average weekly costs per head in respect of maintenance, irrespective of establishment charges, were:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             s. 
             d. 
           
         
         
           
             In the County Home 
             9 
             73⁄4 
           
           
             In the County Hospital 
             17 
             113⁄4 
           
         
       
     
     and in respect of establishment charges:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             s. 
             d. 
           
         
         
           
             In the County Home 
             4 
             41⁄2 
           
           
             In the County Hospital 
             25 
             41⁄4 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TELEPHONE SERVICE IN COUNTY MEATH. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will state what is the cause of the delay in establishing a public telephone call office in the villages of Dunshaughlin and Ratoath, Co. Meath, and if he is now prepared to give this matter immediate attention. 
     
     
      
       A call office was opened at Dunshaughlin on the 7th instant, and the Ratoath call office is due to be opened to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF TRIM LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the lands of P.J. Kennedy, comprising the townlands of Black Friary, Whitehall, Newtown, Clonbun, Trim, Co. Meath, have been inspected by the Land Commission with a view to acquisition for distribution, and if he will state when this estate will be taken over by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have had inquiries made with regard to the lands referred to and have decided to take no action. They have, however, made the owner an offer for the purchase of the lands of Ardanew, comprising 268 acres, which he has accepted. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INCOME TAX REFUND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that Mr. John O'Driscoll, Clonbanin, Banteer, has been charged and has paid income tax in respect of an official income of £490, which he has never received; and, if so, whether he will see that this income tax is refunded. 
     
     
      
       Mr. O'Driscoll was assessed to income tax on an estimated sum in respect of his remuneration as rate and tax collector.  The actual remuneration applicable to the work performed by Mr. O'Driscoll as tax collector has only recently been determined, and the Revenue Commissioners are entering into communication with Mr. O'Driscoll as   regards the question of the adjustment of his income tax liability and the repayment of any amount overpaid. 
     
   
   
     OIREACHTAS MEMBERSHIP. - MOTION BY THE PRESIDENT. 
     
      
       I beg to move the following motion:&mdash; 
       Go bhfuil se oiriunach Co-Choiste de dha Thigh an Oireachtais codheanta de thriur ball den Dail agus de thriur ball den tSeanad agus comhacht acu chun fios do chur ar dhaoine, ar phaipeiri agus ar bhreacachain, do chur ar bun chun a fhiosru agus a thuairisciu, an michumas a cuirtar ar aicmi airithe daoine le hAltanna 51 agus 57 den Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923 (Uimh. 12 de 1923), agus na leigeann go dtoghfi iad chun aon Tighe den Oireachtas na go suidhfidis mar bhaill den Tigh sin, ar cheart an mi-chumas san do chur ar aon aicme no aicmi eile daoine ata i seilbh bhuan no dhiombuan ar bhearta 'na dtagann a sochar direach as airgead a sholathruionn an tOireachtas no ata i seilbh bhuan no dhiombuan ar phostanna fe Choluchtai Aitiula agus, mas ceart cade an aicme no cadiad na haicmi eile ar ar cheart an michumas san do chur. 
     
     
        That it is expedient that a Joint Committee of both Houses of the Oireachtas consisting of three members of the Dail and three members of the Seanad, with power to send for persons, papers and records, be set up to enquire and report whether the incapacity to be elected to, or to sit as a member of either House of the Oireachtas imposed as regards certain classes of persons by Sections 51 and 57 of the Electoral Act, 1923 (No. 12 of 1923), should be extended to include any other class or classes of persons, who hold either temporarily or permanently situations of which the emoluments are derived directly from moneys provided by the Oireachtas or who hold either temporarily or permanently positions under Local Bodies, and, if so, to what class or classes should the incapacity extend. 
     The purpose of the motion is to get an inquiry by a Joint Committee of both Houses of the Oireachtas into the question as to whether there should not be some extension, other than that which is laid down in Sections 51 and 57 of the Electoral Act, in relation to membership of the Oireachtas, that is whether or not the list should be extended. In one case which has come before a Minister exception has been taken by an organisation in the country which is entitled to express an opinion on the subject as to membership of the Oireachtas by a member of one particular organisation or, rather, a person having a certain calling.  It is possible that complications might arise in connection with membership of the Oireachtas by persons who are employed by local authorities.  In that connection the Executive Council two years ago approached the Committee on Privileges on the matter, and they did not feel called upon to express any opinion, and it is now thought that the most desirable way of dealing with the matter is by way of Joint Committee. 
     In the case of membership of local authorities, it may not be known&mdash;I do not know that it is definitely laid down &mdash;that questions may arise in the case of persons holding pensionable offices as to whether or not membership of the Oireachtas would   seriously interfere with their pensions, that is, counting the time that membership of the Oireachtas would run with the holding of a particular office.  If a complication of that sort were to arise and that the persons concerned were unaware of it, I think that the situation with which they would be confronted would mean a considerable loss of money.  I think it is desirable that such information should be available to them, if the Minister in question thought it desirable to make provision in law for such a case, and if the Committee reported that it was desirable that employment under a local authority would disqualify them from membership of the Oireachtas. 
     In any case, where an outside organisation, which I have mentioned, has taken up this matter, it may be that in certain cases special steps should be taken to deal with an occasion of the kind, if membership of the Oireachtas were to interfere with the ordinary duties of a person by reason of his membership of the Oireachtas.  Under the circumstances, I think it would be advisable to have a Joint Committee to inquire into and report on this matter and see what the combined wisdom of the Joint Committee would be. 
     
      
       I move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       To insert after the word &ldquo;persons,&rdquo; line 15, the words&mdash;&ldquo;who are in receipt of pensions or of fees for professional services out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas or who are financially interested, either as shareholders or proprietors in any business or undertaking which is in receipt otherwise than by way of compensation, of moneys provided by the Oireachtas or.&rdquo; 
       I honestly expected a much more convincing statement from the President as to the reasons why he put forward this motion.  He has referred to possible complications and to an organisation. Let us be quite blunt about it.  He has referred to the teachers of the country.  I take it that I am right in that. 
     
     
      
       The organisation which I mentioned was the Catholic Managers' Association. 
     
     
     
      
       The Catholic Managers' Association in respect to teachers? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Presumably the President has no views on this matter as to whether teachers should remain teachers while they are also members of the Dail or the Senate.  I think the question raised is a question whether you are going to deprive a large number of persons of their rights as citizens because of their particular employment. If any question of that kind has to be raised in respect of teachers, or any class of local employees, it is a matter which should be raised as between employee and employer.  When the present limitations were under discussion in the Electoral Act I took the view, which I take now, that the restriction should not appear in the Act, even in respect to police or soldiers, and that it should be rather from the point of view of employer and employee that any regulation should be made.  The proposal in the present motion suggests that there is need for an inquiry, and it desires to set up a committee to report in respect to persons who hold, either temporarily or permanently, situations of which the emoluments are derived directly from moneys provided by the Oireachtas, or who hold, either temporarily or permanently, positions under local bodies. 
     
     There is, at any rate, an implication there that in the minds of the Government it is questionable whether persons in these categories should be allowed to be elected by the people to represent them in the Oireachtas.  I have the view that in any matter of a restriction of this kind we ought not to select groups of people  ad hoc  and without regard to any general principle, and that if an inquiry of this kind is to be initiated it should be an inquiry into the whole question of whether any person in receipt of payment from Government funds should be entitled to sit in the Dail or in the Seanad.  I am entirely against the principle of restriction, and even if my amendment is passed I will vote against the motion as amended.  But if there is to be an inquiry, I say it should be an inquiry   into the principles involved, the including of persons in receipt of pay from Government funds, that it should not be restricted to teachers, university professors and employees of local authorities, but should extend to those who are in receipt of Government pensions or of fees for professional services, or to owners or part-owners of businesses who receive money by way of services rendered or goods supplied. 
     If there is to be an inquiry I think it must be an inquiry based upon the general principle of the desirability or otherwise of persons in receipt of money from Government funds having representation in the authority which votes the money.  I do not think it is possible, with due regard to the needs and to the equities of the case, to make such restrictions.  But if there is to be an inquiry into the desirability of such restrictions, it should be an all-round inquiry, and the committee should not be precluded from inquiring into the larger question, as will be done if the President's motion in its present form is carried.  I therefore move the amendment. 
     I do not think that anything more I could say would strengthen the argument, that it would entail a very narrow inquiry and, as I think, a useless inquiry, if it were confined to the particular classes referred to in the President's motion.  It would be an inquiry by a committee, which, in effect, would have got a direction that the Dail is at least favourably disposed towards this proposition that there should be restrictions.  If we pass the motion in its present form it will be practically an indication to the committee that the Dail thinks there should be restrictions with regard to employees of local authorities, school teachers and university professors.  I think that we should not pass the motion, but if it is to be passed, if there is to be such an inquiry, it should embrace the general question and not merely these classes of people. 
     
      
       In his closing remarks Deputy Johnson said he did not think that anything more he could say would strengthen his argument, and I quite agree that had he gone into his   amendment in greater detail it would inevitably have weakened his argument. If Deputy Johnson desires, as his speech suggested, to have a general inquiry he could quite easily have moved an amendment to omit all the words after &ldquo;class or classes of persons,&rdquo; which would have given the Committee a free hand, assuming that it is possible to find a Committee, at this stage of the session, of three members of the Dail and three members of the Seanad who are prepared to consider what classes of people can or cannot be disqualified from sitting in the Oireachtas. 
       But Deputy Johnson did not do that. He has put forward a positive amendment, and I think that before we go into his amendment in detail we ought to realise its implications.  Deputy Johnson's amendment suggests to the Committee that they should consider the disqualification of an enormously large number of citizens.  He would disqualify any person who was in receipt of a pension for service in the National Army; he would not disqualify any person in receipt of a pension from the British Army&mdash;I am not in that fortunate position&mdash;but he would disqualify Deputy Mulcahy.  I do not know if that is a serious proposition that could be argued before a Committee.  Then again he would disqualify any person who holds shares in any of the railways in the Saorstat, because those railways receive payment for the carriage of mails from moneys provided by the Oireachtas, that is, assuming that Deputy Johnson wishes to have the claims of these people examined with a view to their disqualification. 
     
     
      
       I desire to have the whole question examined, including that as a possibility. 
     
     
      
       Then it would be much better to have these words deleted and to give the Committee a general commission rather than to single out individuals.  Every railway shareholder would be excluded, but it would be possible for any railway shareholder who wished to become a member of the Oireachtas to evade that exclusion by having his shares   held in the name of someone else.  I thought that I might be disqualified, because I have shares in a railway company which, I think, receives some money from the Government for the carriage of mails, but my shares are not in my own name; I am a tenant for life; the dividends are paid to me, but the shares are in the name of trustees. Therefore I am not actually in a legal sense a shareholder, and I should not be disqualified.  The whole thing is full of loopholes for evasion. 
     
     
      
       I want to confine this discussion.  Does the Deputy maintain that the Committee would be debarred from inquiring into such a case as he has mentioned because of the loophole? 
     
     
      
       I think so, on Deputy Johnson's own amendment, which says &ldquo;either shareholders or proprietors&rdquo;; it does not say &ldquo;receivers of dividends.&rdquo;  I do not think that Deputy Johnson has realised the full implication of his proposal.  I marvelled when I saw it; I never knew Deputy Johnson to be so unguarded before.  But the amendment goes much further than the two cases I have mentioned. Not only might it disqualify every recipient of a National Army pension, not only might it disqualify every railway shareholder, but it might disqualify every person who has shares in an agricultural credit society, if that agricultural credit society is in receipt of a grant from the State under the provisions made in our Estimates. People do not join agricultural credit societies in the hope of making an immediate profit.  They join largely out of public spirit, out of the desire to get machinery by which people can be insured against losses of their stock, and so on, and agricultural credit societies would be very unsuccessful unless they had some of the larger and more representative farmers in their districts as members. 
     
     But it would be open to this Committee, if Deputy Johnson's amendment is carried, to recommend the disqualification of every member of these societies, and&mdash;the final case I want to make&mdash;it might also disqualify a shareholder in a public utility building   society.  These public utility building societies are established for the purpose of building houses, with strictly limited dividends; it is not possible to obtain enormous profits out of them, and they are established in order to take advantage of the grants provided by the Oireachtas.  Yet it would be open, under Deputy Johnson's amendment, for the committee to recommend the disqualification of anybody&mdash;not only a director&mdash;who took a share in such a society, and who took it because he wanted to see houses built.  Nobody takes shares in a public utility building society with a view to obtaining enormous profits.  You could obtain as good a profit in gilt-edged securities. 
     But public utility building societies do receive money provided by the Oireachtas, and my construction&mdash;I am no more a lawyer than Deputy Johnson&mdash;is that if we carry his amendment it would be open to this committee, a very small committee, a committee that cannot, with its limited number of members, be representative of every party of the House, to recommend the disqualification of all the classes I have mentioned; in other words, to recommend the disqualification of something like twenty per cent. of the citizens of the State.  I suggest that that is a mistake. I suggest that either we ought to have a very limited inquiry or that we ought to have a general inquiry, affecting not only those particular classes, but also secretaries of trades unions and farmers' unions, and everybody who is not to be considered a strictly independent citizen, so that by that means you might confine the Dail and the Seanad exclusively to those people who either possess private means or devote themselves strictly to making profits in their own particular businesses. In other words, you will enfranchise the gombeen man. 
     
      
       Or the people who have no means. 
     
     
      
       Or the people who have no means at all, if they can find the £100 deposit necessary for their election.  I do not know if Deputy Morrissey is going to provide that.  I do want to make one plea to the President, who did not deal in any great   detail with this motion when he moved it.  Does he propose to deprive the Dail of its professors?  They are to be found on the Benches of almost every party.  They have been a very valuable element in our debates, and have filled the gap that in other Parliaments is filled by members of the legal profession, and before I vote for the motion I would like to know if the professors are to be driven out.  I presume that ex-professors will be safe, so that we shall not have to mourn the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  But is the President going to drive out all the other professors?  We ought to know where we are in regard to that, because I for one should be deeply sorry to see the Dail deprived of that element of learning, wisdom and humour. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Cooper has made, as usual, an interesting, humourous and ingenious contribution to the debate.  His contention that Deputy Johnson's purpose would have been better served by moving to omit all the words after &ldquo;classes of persons&rdquo; does sound plausible.  But does Deputy Cooper not realise that the same results which he deplores as likely to accrue from the passing of Deputy Johnson's amendment would follow just as probably from his own? 
     
     
      
       No, no. 
     
     
      
       I suggest, with all respect, &ldquo;Yes, yes,&rdquo; to the Deputy's &ldquo;No, no.&rdquo;  All those people, the disqualification of whom he views in imagination, could be disqualified under a roving commission to inquire into the extension of further bars or disqualifications for membership of the Oireachtas. 
     
     
      
       Everybody could be disqualified, if necessary, but they would not be singled out. 
     
     
      
       Quite so. Everybody would be liable to a bar sinister attaching to him by the finding of the committee.  The fact that Deputy Johnson gives more specific indication of the class of person that it is desired to bar adds, to my mind, to the value and effectiveness of his amendment as showing up the real   character of the original resolution. The resolution opens with the formula &mdash;and consequently the formula is retained in so far as Deputy Johnson's amendment is technically a constructive amendment or addition&mdash;&ldquo;That it is expedient.&rdquo;  That is not an empty formula.  There are many empty formulas in the service of Parliaments, but this is not one.  &ldquo;It is expedient&rdquo; must mean that in the circumstances, in view of the present conditions, it is wise, it is advisable, or it is desirable to do the thing proposed. 
       I take it that Deputy Johnson's amendment means that if an inquiry is to be set going to discover what other classes of persons besides those already debarred from membership of the Oireachtas should be disqualified, then it is well to indicate other classes more or less of the same type as those embraced within the scope of the President's motion.  What Deputy Cooper overlooks altogether is that there is a basis of classification in the President's motion, and that is the basis of classification preserved in Deputy Johnson's amendment, namely, that the persons in view are in receipt of moneys voted by the Parliament.  They derive their income, or portion of their income&mdash;I think emolument is the word used&mdash; from moneys voted by the Parliament, and that is the justification of Deputy Johnson's addition.  If the original motion singles out a limited number of classes of persons in receipt of income from voted moneys, then it is by exclusion suggested to the committee that they are not to consider those other cases, though there are obviously other cases of persons equally in receipt of moneys as contributions to their income from moneys voted by the Parliament. 
     
     Deputy Cooper has mentioned the professors.  I might have thought it indecent to intrude professors upon the notice of the House were it not that I have been given the lead.  There is only one university in the country that is affected by this motion.  Trinity College, or the University of Dublin, is not affected in the least by it, and those who framed the resolution knew that very well, and so obviously did Deputy Johnson in making his addendum. Every professor of the National   University is in the same position as the contractor, say, who receives a contract from the Department of Posts and Telegraphs, or from the Office of Public Works, for the rebuilding of a post office, and if a professor of the National University, because he belongs to the people's university, the new foundation set up to meet the wants of the people, is to be precluded from membership of the Oireachtas, Deputy Johnson's amendment asks upon what principle, with what justification, is a contractor who does work in return for moneys voted by the Parliament, to be regarded as on a different basis altogether.  The money is the basis&mdash;the receipt of money voted by the Parliament. 
     Now, the national school teachers and the professors of the National University both come under the same category. Every penny that they receive in the capacity named is money voted by the Parliament.  It is not so in the case of Dublin University, whose income is derived from forfeited estates or from the contributions of rich benefactors who mark their gratitude to their Alma Mater by rich bequests. 
     
      
       Trinity College, Dublin, received £3,000 a year under the Land Act.  Would not that have the same implication?  Has it escaped the notice of Deputy Magennis? 
     
     
      
       No, it has not; nor the fact that quite recently a huge sum was granted, in addition, to Trinity College.  Neither of these facts has escaped my attention.  But Deputy Wilson ought to be aware that the salaries are not traceable to those sources. 
     
     
      
       Would Deputy Magennis mind correcting the statement he has made and making it quite accurate? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy will correct me, because he is better able to correct me than I am to correct myself. 
     
     
      
       I think if the Deputy considers the words he used he will be prepared to amend them.  He said that a huge sum was granted to   Trinity College.  What really happened was that a sum that had been put to the credit of Trinity College was put within its own control together with that of the Minister for Finance. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the arguments in connection with this particular matter, and I shall not allow it to continue.  I know the two sides of the question very well; they were once presented to me at great length by both sides when I was in another capacity. 
     
     
      
       I accept the correction of my friend, Deputy Thrift, but it is very noteworthy that he does not correct my statement that the income of the teaching staff of his university is not traceable to those sources, and that is the vital part of my contention.  Trinity College is exempt from the operation of any result that may issue from the findings of this committee.  Deputy Cooper said it would be a small committee.  I wonder did he mean, when he said it would not contain the representatives of all the Parties in this House, that it would be in the nature of a packed jury?  The finding already provided for it in the resolution setting it up and directing its inquiries&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Will Deputy Magennis not judge my mind by his own? 
     
     
      
       Very well, then; we form our inferences.  I take it that Deputy Johnson's amendment was intended as in chemical laboratories the addition of certain chemicals to mixtures is intended; they have the effect of precipitating the solids in the liquids to which they are added.  Deputy Johnson realises that the public are not as a rule accustomed to inquire too closely or too nicely into the significance of resolutions that are passed in this House and in the Seanad, and that instead of allowing this to have what in racing language is called a walk-over, it would be well to concentrate attention upon its significance. I daresay I should not be in order to follow out the significance further, inasmuch as it would be speaking on   the resolution rather than on the amendment; but the significance of Deputy Johnson's amendment can be fully appreciated only by reading it in the context of the resolution. 
     
     
      
       Both the resolution and the amendment are in order for discussion now. 
     
     
      
       I take it then that &ldquo;it is expedient&rdquo; refers to the coming election.  Read in full it would be: &ldquo;Whereas the period of the Dail is coming to an end, and whereas the coming elections are in the consideration of all men, and whereas it is desirable to exclude from candidature thereat certain opponents of the Government, it would be well to pack a jury that would find the desirability of excluding them from being candidates and from being elected to membership of the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       On what basis is the disqualification to proceed?  On the highly plausible basis that they are in receipt of public moneys.  Who else, besides imbeciles, lunatics, adjudicated bankrupts, or convicted felons are disqualified? Why, members of the Civil Service and members of the Army.  And why are they excluded?  Oh, do you not say it is because they are paid by the State; they are in receipt of income from public moneys.  Why not, then, treat all others that are in receipt of public moneys on the same plane and in the same fashion? 
     
     Now, that is what is so plausible about the proposal, because, as a matter of fact, your man in the street does not think twice about these things to consider that it is not because the civil servant is paid out of public moneys that he is debarred.  True, he is paid his salary out of public moneys, but that is not the reason why he is not permitted membership of either House.  It is because he is, as his name informs us, a servant of the State.  I need not expound that doctrine.  It was expounded by the Ministers themselves, notably by the present Minister for Finance, when, as Minister for Local Government, he was in charge of the Electoral Act.  It is not, I repeat, because the   civil servant or the member of the Army is in receipt of public moneys by way of emolument or remuneration for his work but because the Army is the servant of the people and because the civil servant is the servant of the people.  How often was it necessary, in a great emergency of State, to insist on that doctrine?  The crisis is so recent that none of us could have forgotten it. The Army is not the master but the servant of Parliament.  The civil servant is one of the most useful, one of the most valuable, and one of the most meritorious agencies of Government. Ministers would be worthless without their civil servants, worse than worthless&mdash;an expensive incumbrance in many cases&mdash;were it not for the valuable aid that the trained civil servant is able to afford.  They are instruments of administration.  The great public services are discharged through their agency.  That is not the case with the national school teacher or professor.  He is not a servant of State, and that is more particularly the case with the professor. Again, I take the case of the National University professor, for he is the only professor that we have to consider. The institution to which he belongs is not under any Ministry by way of control.  It was proposed in the Ministers and Secretaries Bill that it should be so, but such a reactionary movement and such a designed attempt against the liberties of the universities was frustrated.  You will find that the Minister for Finance answers for the universities as he did yesterday in this House, and not the Minister for Education. The Minister for Education answered for secondary schools, for public education and for technical education, but not for the universities, because the autonomy of the university is one of the great principles sacred to anyone who knows what education means, or how it must function for the betterment of the citizen.  Yet it is proposed to assume here by the formula &ldquo;that it is expedient&rdquo; that a professor of the National University, or the teacher, is, in spite of all that, to be regarded as exactly in the same relation to the people, his paymaster, as a civil servant or a member of the Army. 
     
      
       No. 
     
     
     
      
       Does the President disclaim that? 
     
     
      
       I said &ldquo;no.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I do not understand what &ldquo;no&rdquo; means in that context. 
     
     
      
       Does the motion, as drafted, include professors of the universities? 
     
     
      
       Not to my knowledge. The Deputy has tried to prove it for a long time, but he has not convinced me. 
     
     
      
       Now we know where we stand.  The President does not contemplate the inclusion of a professor of the National University in this. 
     
     
      
       I do not. 
     
     
      
       Then either the brain that conceived it, or the draftsman who worded it, is at fault. 
     
     
      
       You have not proved that yet. 
     
     
      
       With your permission, sir, I will proceed to prove it&mdash;&ldquo;should be extended to include any other class or classes of persons who hold either temporarily or permanently situations of which the emoluments are derived directly from moneys provided by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; The only loophole open for the President is the word &ldquo;directly.&rdquo;  I take it he bases his present position upon that.  Now, there are many things of which the President is aware and of which I am wholly ignorant, but there is one thing I may, without vanity, claim to be familiar with, even more than the President, and that is the method of payment to a professor in the National University.  If there was no grant under the Estimates of this House the chest of University College, Dublin, would be empty, and Professor MacNeill, Professor Tierney, and Professor O'Sullivan, and all the rest of them, would go penniless as regards their Chairs.  The money is paid to the bursar of the University, who thereupon issues cheques.  Does that result in their not being paid directly out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas?   Surely we are not pettifogging attorneys in a quarter sessions court. If so, to what class does the first portion of the resolution apply? 
       Who are the individuals who are paid directly?  Is there a paymaster of some force, like the paymaster of the forces, who ought to be imagined as not intervening but as being the direct instrument or hand of the Oireachtas distributing the money? Now, it may be thought that I have only in view the professors I named, my distinguished colleagues and, I am glad to be able to add also, my friends.  As I mentioned only them, let me say that I have in view not merely these professors but the students they will raise up to succeed them in years to come.  Every professor worthy of the name looks to producing men to supplant him in the course of time, who will be better fitted for the work than he.  I am aware of that anyhow.  Not only is that the professor's desire, but he often lives to see it realised.  If it be not irregular to say this: Suppose by some turn of the political wheel the Minister who was mentioned by Deputy Cooper should go back again to University College and find himself once more an assistant to the professor of Latin and hoped to come back into the Dail and be Minister again, this would preclude him. 
     
     
      
       What? 
     
     
      
       The finding of a packed jury and the enactment of it as law by a tyrannous majority. That is &ldquo;what.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has not told us whether or not the cheques he has spoken about are upon the Paymaster-General. 
     
     
      
       In order to shorten this debate, could we not have a definite statement as to whether this particular motion is intended to give as a term of reference to the proposed Joint Committee the position of members of the staff of the Colleges of the National University?  If it is not, then I presume that can be stated, and if amendments are necessary they can be put in, and we need have no more debate about this question.  If it is intended that can be plainly stated. 
     
     
     
      
       It is not intended, and never was. 
     
     
      
       Then I take it, sir, that in conformity with your excellent suggestion there will be a Government amendment proposed making that exclusion. 
     
     
      
       It is not necessary. 
     
     
      
       I did not make any such suggestion.  I made the suggestion that it could be made plain whether or not it was intended to include in the terms of reference to the proposed Joint Committee the position of members of the staff of Colleges of the National University. 
     
     
      
       Would the President go further and say that the actual class or classes of person intended to be inquired into should be stated in the motion? 
     
     
      
       I do not think it is necessary.  Of course, I do not think that Deputy Johnson subscribes to the view that three members of the Dail and three members of the Seanad constitute a packed jury.  I presume a jury of that sort will take reasonable views with regard to this matter. 
     
     
      
       Am I not at liberty to range over the possible application of this thing and to consider as one among many possibilities a selection committee of three from one House and three from the other House, which would be amenable to the influences of the President?  If I call a spade a spade, the situation is not in the least different.  If I were to substitute for packed jury a committee who, without too much trouble to themselves and their inquisition, would be inclined to fall into line with the views of the President&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On the question of committees, a number of committees have been appointed by this House, either as special committees or as parts of joint committees, and I think it only right to say, speaking for the whole House, that not one of these committees could ever have been regarded, with any degree of truth, as a   packed jury.  I take it the Deputy agrees with that? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       If the Dail and the Seanad pass this motion, the Joint Committee will be appointed in this way: Three members will be selected by this House and three by the other.  The decision of this House should not be referred to in the way that the Deputy is now referring to it. 
     
     
      
       I have been myself a member of too many committees not to know that a more wholesome tribunal than a committee of this House or a joint committee of both Houses could not possibly be got together. But, as I said, I am exhausting the possibilities. If, however, the committee is appointed as hitherto, my view of it would be quite different.  In any case it is not essential to my argument.  We have got at any rate from the President an assurance that the class of person that most minds turned to as included are not included.  The speculations of the two morning papers were notable. Deputy Johnson himself, in moving his amendment, referred to university professors, and also Deputy Cooper. Therefore, my particular malice.  It is not the malignancy of my mentality, as the President would imagine, that read into this thing&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has no right to assume what I would imagine.  He knows what my opinion of him is. 
     
     
      
       The President's opinion of me has no more to do with this question than my opinion of him.  May I then ask are the national school teachers intended to be included? Surely it would have been wiser on the whole, and less provocative of suspicion and bad feeling to have said why it is expedient, and why it is deemed expedient, to make this inquiry, and what particular class of person is aimed at. Then we should know where we were, and without heat and without confusion at all we could have discussed the proposal.  It seems to me that a resolution saying: &ldquo;It is expedient that a Joint Committee of both Houses   be appointed to inquire,&rdquo; etc., and with no more reference than the reference in Deputy Johnson's amendment would be wise and good and very useful.  Then we should not have any need to confuse the issue and to imagine, as I have explained, that to be in receipt of salary is different in any way from being in receipt of moneys paid in return for services rendered.  We hear a lot of talk about metaphysics and metaphysicians from time to time.  Surely there is a lot of apropos metaphysics in the attempt to draw a distinction between a salary and the receipt of moneys paid in return for services rendered. Contractors and members of companies that enter into contracts with Departments of Government are surely all bound.  I hold it would be advisable to inquire into the wisdom and expediency of creating that bond. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that the motion that is before us and the amendment ask for a committee to be set up by both Houses to inquire into this matter of disqualification to sit in either House.  Deputy Magennis, I think, in connection with his criticism, was prejudging the results of the committee's work.  In so far as a resolution is necessary at all, I think the very wide powers that are proposed to be given to the Committee are very necessary to enable them to present to both Houses some formula on which will be based a question of disqualification to sit.  I think that is very desirable, more particularly following the amendment which has been put forward by Deputy Johnson.  Deputy Johnson's amendment would seem to wish to carry the disqualification into a very large and varied circle.  If it is the wish of the Dail that that should operate, and if they consider that it is in the interests of the country that it should operate, well and good. 
     
     I hope none of us here has tried to override any decision that might be come to in any direction.  Deputy Johnson in his amendment would seem to go so far as to say that a person holding shares in a company&mdash;and after all a good many people hold shares in various companies of a commercial character&mdash;must either get rid of his shares in so far as that company   may have any transactions with the Government or incidentally that he must retire from any activities in connection with this Dail or in connection with the Seanad.  That may be good. I think myself that sort of a restriction is an impossible restriction. 
     
      
       So do I. 
     
     
      
       I think we would want some proof that a very considerable amount of latitude in this matter was detrimental to the carrying on of the business of the State before we enter into any such restrictive legislation. Speaking for myself, I would be only anxious to know what are the wishes of the Dail in the matter.  So far as I am concerned I do not desire to sit here five minutes longer than both my constituents and members of this Dail consider that I can fulfil the obligations which brought me here. While I agree that the matter is in a state that the setting up of a committee to go into the whole matter is very desirable, I would not go any further towards prejudging decisions that the committee might come to than to say that I agree that the fullest possible powers of inquiry should be given to them, so as to come to a definite decision not only for the guidance of this House as a whole but for the guidance of individual members. 
     
     
      
       It seems to be quite clear now, both from what the President said in his opening statement and what he said afterwards, by way of explanation, in reply to some questions of Deputy Magennis, that the one body which it was definitely intended to include in this resolution is the national teachers. 
     
     
      
       The second part of the motion is equally important. 
     
     
      
       I will come to that in a moment.  It is definitely intended to include national teachers in this resolution.  When this motion was put down first my objection to it was not as strong as it is now, consequent on what the President has stated.  He has given to us the origin of the motion.  It is down here, we are to   gather from his statement, because the managers of associations made certain representations, which we hear of now for the first time, to the Executive Council and to the Government. 
     
     
      
       As far as I know they adopted a resolution.  I will read the communication we received:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Catholic Clerical Managers' Association, at a meeting held in the Shelbourne Hotel on the 26th June, 1924, adopted a resolution endorsing the first sentence of Rule 88 in the Code relating to national schools, viz.: &lsquo;Teachers are not permitted to carry on or engage in any business or occupation or to be members of any association or to undertake any office or function tending to impair their usefulness as teachers.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
       The resolution declared that the above expressed the principle of elementary justice and added:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Having most carefully considered this question, we are decidedly of opinion that the duties of a primary teacher and a member of either branch of the Oireachtas are obviously incompatible; we consider, therefore, that any departure from this principle would be detrimental to the best interests of primary education.  In particular, the proposal to allow a teacher who becomes a member of the Oireachtas to retain the teachership, a substitute being appointed, is open to so many objections in respect of the efficient conduct of the school and otherwise that they cannot regard it as advisable even as a temporary expedient.&rdquo; 
       That is a matter, of course, when brought under our notice that we had got to take notice of. 
     
     
      
       Speaking in this particular capacity, the managers are speaking as an organised body of employers, nothing more or nothing less. The teachers are employed by them, though not paid by them.  They express a certain view, and the Government is bound to take notice of it.  It will be also bound to take notice if we have a similar resolution from any other organised body of employers.  The Railway   Institution, for instance, will say that men working on the railway are not competent to represent a constituency when it elects them.  I am rather surprised at the Government that they should have taken up this attitude in this particular instance.  If it was shown that there was any abuse or any likelihood of abuse in the election of teachers to either branch of the Oireachtas I could quite understand the necessity for an examination, but no attempt has been made in that resolution or otherwise to show that there has been any such abuse. 
     
     
      
       This motion is put down asking a body to inquire into it.  It is utterly and entirely impartial, and it is a matter that ought to be left to that body.  I am sure the Deputy does not want me to make a case against what he has said, in other words to prove what the committee is asked to inquire into. 
     
     
      
       I am objecting&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       To any inquiry? 
     
     
      
       Not to any inquiry.  I am objecting to action being taken by the Government because of this resolution, because it is taking it for granted that there has been abuse, that there has been something wrong.  I read it that way.  It is assuming beforehand that there is something wrong in the practice that is there already.  It is because of that I am objecting to the Government acting on representations of that kind.  It is on that I base my objection, because it seems to me to be quite clear that it was the origin of the whole motion put down by the Government.  As far as I could see from the second clause, and as far as I could follow the President's argument, and he will correct me if I am wrong, it was rather intended to inquire in the interests of the particular people who would be elected. 
     
     
      
       That is only one side of it. 
     
     
      
       That is one side of it.  I am sorry if I did not follow the arguments of the President very clearly.  I think it only right to say that I believe that the intention of the   motion is the possibility of excluding these people.  It is an intention to put, as it were, a restriction on the liberty of a certain class of people, to restrict their rights in the community, and to humiliate them as a body in the community, and I do not think, knowing as I do what the position is, that it would be accepted otherwise by that particular class than as an attempt by the Government at the instigation of an organised body of employers to humiliate them, and it will not be to the best interests of the service in which these particular people are engaged. 
     
     
      
       If my interpretation is correct, Deputy Johnson's amendment, if it were passed, would bring in university professors who are not brought in under the motion which I have moved.  It brings in, in addition, many other classes who do not affect the issue.  There is a particular issue here. 
     
     
      
       That is what we want to find out: what is the issue. 
     
     
      
       In the first place, let us take the case of a national teacher.  A national teacher is paid his salary by the Government.  He is paid x pounds for x quantity of duties.  If he takes up membership of the Oireachtas in Mayo, Donegal, Cork, or a place of that sort, obviously a substitute will require to be appointed. 
     
     
      
       Not obviously.  I would like to say this, lest there should be any misunderstanding as to my attitude in the matter, that I do not suggest, if the work of the teachers is interfered with in any way, that he should be a member of the Oireachtas. 
     
     
      
       Obviously that is a matter the committee ought to inquire into and report on. 
     
     
      
       That is a matter for the Government. 
     
     
      
       Not necessarily. 
     
     
      
       If the Government pays him they should see that he does his duty. 
     
     
      
       We are in this position.  A teacher who becomes a   member of the Oireachtas gets a certain amount of money from Government sources.  If the persons who have some control over him report to the Government that it is an unsatisfactory fulfilment of his duties then I suppose the Government must act. 
     
     
      
       Has that been reported in the case of any individual member of the Oireachtas? 
     
     
      
       I believe it has. 
     
     
      
       There was no ground for it. 
     
     
      
       That will be for the committee to judge.  We are asking a committee to go into it, to examine and report on it.  I do say there is responsibility on us in connection with those salaries to be satisfied, where salaries are paid, that work is performed. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear. There is no objection to that. 
     
     
      
       Apparently, there is general agreement on that. 
     
     
      
       There is no need for inquiry. 
     
     
      
       If there was no need for inquiry, we would not have put down this resolution.  The case occurred and it was brought to our notice.  Almost immediately we took action.  Many things occurred in the meantime and we proposed to have one method of inquiry.  That did not materialise and now we are having another method of inquiry. 
     
     
      
       rose. 
     
     
      
       I must ask that I shall not be interrupted by Deputy Magennis.  I am dealing with a particular point and I object to being interrupted. 
     
     
      
       Does Deputy Magennis desire to raise a point of order? 
     
     
      
       No, sir. 
     
     
      
       Then the President cannot be interrupted if   he objects.  The President will please proceed. 
     
     
      
       I think it was in 1923 that we got the first intimation of an objection of this sort.  It is rather unfortunate it was not taken into account at the time the Electoral Act was passed.  I will admit at once&mdash;if the Deputy wants the admission from me&mdash;that national teachers would be excellent representatives.  But I am not going to admit that if the Dail were constituted of national teachers from Donegal, or Mayo or Cork, or far-distant places, who would have to suspend service in their schools, it would be good for the schools.  I think the Deputy agrees with me there. 
     
     
      
       I am not arguing that. 
     
     
      
       That is agreed. Where there is no interruption of school work, let the Committee make a recommendation and we will be satisfied with it.  If a teacher by being a member of the Oireachtas has to be absent from school, some sort of regulation must be brought in.  At present Rule 88 states that teachers are not permitted to carry on or engage in any business or occupation. 
     
     
      
       Is not that sufficient?  Has not the Minister for Education power to enforce that rule? 
     
     
      
       That is precisely the case.  In the ordinary course, if the Minister for Education thought that the usefulness of the teacher was being interfered with, then, of course, he would have to take action.  He did not take action in this case for many reasons.  I have given some of them. 
     
     
      
       If the President does not mind my interrupting, I should like to point out that it is well known that there is only one case involved.  This charge, which has been made for the first time, is a rather serious charge. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it is a charge. 
     
     
      
       It is a charge of neglect of duty. 
     
     
     
      
       There is no charge against any teacher.  There is no charge, even in respect of the whole body, if they were all members of the Oireachtas.  The case is that, by reason of membership of the Oireachtas, attendance at school is restricted by whatever extent attendance in the Oireachtas cuts across it.  That is the only point. 
     
     
      
       That is not correct. 
     
     
      
       The only objection is as regards the absence that might be incurred through attendance at the Oireachtas.  That fact being brought to the notice of the Minister for Education, two courses are open to him.  He can introduce some rule dealing with a case of that sort, which rule might be objected to.  Alternatively, he can have the matter inquired into and reported on by a body in full possession of all the facts and, furthermore, in possession of the knowledge that there is more than one teacher in the Oireachtas.  In any case, the fact that those moneys are paid direct to teachers is a consideration which cannot be overlooked. 
       As regards the second case, I do not think it is necessary to enter very largely into the situation which would arise in the event of an official of a local authority becoming a member of the Dail and the local authority, at some time or other, taking exception to that.  No case of that sort has arisen, but recently I was informed that a whole-time pensionable officer, if he were elected to the Seanad, would lose his pensionable rights.  That case also ought to be inquired into by a joint committee such as I have indicated. Many complications might arise.  It might happen that one local authority would object to one of their officials acting as a member of the Oireachtas and other local authorities might not so object.  In a case of that sort, if representation was made to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, his position would be rather invidious.  I think the time has now arrived when we should have some sort of regularity with regard to these matters. 
     
     
        As regards Deputy Johnson's point as to persons in receipt of pensions, no case arises in any conceivable form.  I have never heard of a case in which receipt of pension would conflict in any way with membership of the House.  The Deputy did not mention any cases he had in mind.  If there were such cases, he ought to have mentioned them.  I have never heard of any. 
     The other points referred to by Deputy Cooper I had also in mind.  It might possibly be argued that persons in receipt of the advantages of the Agricultural Grant might be debarred. The resolution is framed so broadly that it might be capable of such interpretation and might exclude a large number of people.  If Deputy Johnson thought fit, I was prepared to exclude the words from &ldquo;persons&rdquo; down to &ldquo;bodies,&rdquo; but I understood from him that he intended making this resolution a joke.  I was prepared to agree to that, but, in view of what the Deputy said, I suppose there is no use in offering that. 
     
      
       rose. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy rising on a point of explanation? 
     
     
      
       No.  Will I have an opportunity of speaking later? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot make a second speech on the amendment.  When the amendment has been disposed of, he will be at liberty to speak on the main question. If the Deputy thinks that he could shorten the discussion by a statement now, I would be prepared, with the consent of the Dail, to hear him. I do not think I would have any difficulty in getting that consent. 
     
     
      
       I do not think I could give that promise. 
     
     
      
       Is the President satisfied that the terms of reference are wide enough for this Committee?  What the Committee have got to examine under the resolution is whether this incapacity is to be extended or not, and, if so, to what class or classes it is to extend.  Judging by what the President   has just said, this Committee is to investigate the whole position, particularly with regard to these teachers. Possibly the Committee might desire to recommend some regulation, or other method of dealing with the matter, instead of simply extending the incapacity. I wonder if the President is satisfied that these terms of reference are sufficient for the Committee. 
     
     
      
       Following your suggestion, A Chinn Comhairle, might I say that if the resolution is to be passed at all, I am certainly in favour of its not being confined to the two classes referred to specifically. 
     
     
      
       What two classes are specifically referred to? 
     
     
      
       The two classes specifically referred to are the national teachers and persons who hold either temporary or permanent positions under local bodies.  I assumed that there was some principle at work in the minds of the Ministry.  Because of that, I wanted the principle to be applied generally.  If there is to be an inquiry, and if the Minister is prepared to rule out these two specific classes, I am prepared to withdraw my amendment. 
     
     
      
       What two specific classes? 
     
     
      
       The national teachers and persons employed by public bodies.  What I suggest is that the President delete the words after &ldquo;persons&rdquo; down to the word &ldquo;bodies&rdquo; inclusive. 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied with that. 
     
     
      
       Then, I withdraw my amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       The proposal now is to alter the main question, so that it will be put to the House in the following form:&mdash; 
     
     That it is expedient that a Joint Committee of both Houses of the Oireachtas consisting of three members of the Dail and three members of the Seanad, with power to send for persons, papers and records, be set   up to enquire and report whether the incapacity to be elected to, or to sit as a member of either House of the Oireachtas imposed as regards certain classes of persons by Sections 51 and 57 of the Electoral Act, 1923 (No. 12 of 1923), should be extended to include any other class or classes of persons, and, if so, to what class or classes should the incapacity extend. 
     Motion altered accordingly. 
     
      
       I would like to point out that this is done in good faith.  I want those two classes dealt with, if possible, at the earliest date by the Committee. 
     
     
      
       Can we bind the Committee? 
     
     
      
       No.  I merely want to make that clear. 
     
     
      
       As a matter of explanation, in view of the way this point has been raised and the stress laid on this particular class, I should like to say that the rule that has been read by the President is an effective rule under the Department of Education. There is nothing that I can see which would debar the Minister for Education from seeing that that rule was carried out in each case.  I cannot understand why it should be necessary to incapacitate a whole class, in regard to representation, because a possible abuse might arise in one particular case.  I have no objection to that rule being carried out fully.  That is the view I have always taken.  I do not see why the Minister for Education should be trying to shelter behind this kind of inquiry and should seek to have a whole class debarred. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the Cumann na nGaedheal Party and the Labour Party will both be represented on this Joint Committee.  It will be open to the Cumann na nGaedheal representative to bring forward any case he thinks of special urgency, and it will be open to the representative of the Labour Party to put forward their views.  Therefore, I think we cannot   gain anything by discussing the matter further here. 
       Motion, as amended, proposed. 
     
     
      
       Before the motion is put, I desire to say that no case whatever has been made in favour of extending the classes of incapacity beyond those already incorporated in the Electoral Act, 1923, and I cannot see that there is any reason why a committee of this kind should be set up.  It is a most undesirable thing to extend the incapacity, and particularly if the proposal to extend that capacity is made without any reasons given.  I will, therefore, vote against the motion to set up this Committee of Inquiry. 
     
     
      
       Is it not obvious that a case should have been made that it is expedient?  What is at issue is the extension of the bar which already excludes members of the Civil Service and the Army from membership of either House of the Oireachtas. It is not democratic.  It certainly is not in the spirit of democracy to make more exclusion than public policy actually demands.  Has there been any demand from any large body of people whose interests are injuriously affected to have certain other classes added to this black list, if I may so call it for convenience?  I was not aware until just now that there had been any external pressure put upon the President or the Executive Council in this matter. The question that I desire to put to the President, but which he refused to permit me, is: Why should there be one rule for dealing with one set of persons and quite another rule for another set?  Does he not remember the case of Deputy MacNeill?  When that distinguished member of this House was made Minister for Education, the Governing Body of University College relieved him from all his duties as professor, and during the entire period of his tenure as Minister he drew no salary and was not called on to discharge any professional duty in the college.  When he resigned his Ministerial position he came back to the college and resumed his work. 
     
     Why should there be one law for   professors and another for national teachers?  We are all teachers, and, if it is not against public policy, as now the President declares in answer to me, to allow a professor of a university to be a member of the Dail, and even to be a member of the Ministry, is it not conceivable that a teacher might offer himself as a candidate in the community where he resides, become elected a member of this House, attend debates on some important measure, and then be at liberty to resume his work as teacher, regarding that only as a temporary break?  Yet, because of that break or whatever it may be called, pressure has been brought to bear, and this Dail is asked to vote and to add other classes to those debarred from membership of the Oireachtas&mdash;to add classes, not individuals.  Deputy O'Connell has made an unanswerable case that, so far as the national teachers are concerned, there is no need for this comprehensive and all embracing motion. 
     
      
       The Deputy is going into the very matter which the Committee (if appointed) will inquire into. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of that, but it is not by way of prejudging their findings but to test the value of the formula, &ldquo;it is expedient.&rdquo; The formula is in the nature of a preamble to an Act, and, precisely what a preamble to a Bill is, this formula is. We are always at liberty to debate the preamble to any measure.  Where is the expediency, when Deputy O'Connell has shown that the kind of case which the President has in view is already adequately met by the rules?  Let us not forget that though the State pays the salary of national teachers, the State is not the employer.  The manager employs, dictates the duties, and dismisses. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot go into this matter now. 
     
     
      
       I am at liberty, I assume, to discuss the question of expediency. 
     
     
      
       The   motion has been amended to exclude any reference to any particular class of persons.  The motion is to the effect that it is expedient to appoint a Joint Committee to inquire and report as to the extension of the incapacity to any further class.  If a Deputy is in order in discussing whether any particular class should be included in the classes not capable of being members of the Oireachtas, it follows that we are in a position to discuss the case of every class of person, and that would lead us nowhere.  The Deputy is out of order. 
     
     
      
       No doubt it would be as you say, but I am trying to confine my criticism to the question that it is expedient. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has not succeeded. 
     
     
      
       I shall make a further attempt, with your permission, to show that it is expedient. 
     
     
      
       To inquire and report. 
     
     
      
       To inquire and report.  It does not matter what other words or old time formula you add.  What we have to be satisfied about is that it is expedient.  Why is it to be deemed expedient?  What has happened, what new circumstances have come to our knowledge, since we passed the electoral law?  Something must have arisen.  What is that something, which, in the view of the President, has made it urgent to have the matter settled?  It is very difficult, as I think you, sir, will admit, to consider the case without considering all that has gone before the opening of the debate. If the President's case is a sound one, that it is expedient to inquire, he should show some evidence to the Dail of what is in his mind.  There should be some danger to the public weal.  There should be some possibility of something going wrong in the forthcoming elections because the Statute Book does not contain legislation of this type.  That has not been done, and, therefore, I hold that it is not expedient. 
       Motion, as amended, put.  The Dail divided: Ta, 53; Nil, 16. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Padraig Baxter. Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. John Conlan. Bryan R. Cooper. James Dwyer. Michael Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Sean de Faoite. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Connor Hogan. Patrick Leonard. Seosamh Mac a' Bhrighde. Liam Mac Cosgair. Sean MacCurtain. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Padraig Mac Fadain. Risteard Mac Liam. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. 
             
               Padraig Mag Ualghairg. Patrick J. Mulvany. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Sean O Bruadair. Parthalan O Conchubhair. Mairtin O Conallain. Seamus O Dolain. Tadhg O Donnabhain. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Sean O Duinnin. Donnchadh O Guaire. Fionan O Loingsigh. Risteard O Maolchatha. Seamus O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (Gaillimh). Mairtin O Rodaigh. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Patrick W. Shaw. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seamus Eabhroid. David Hall. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Tomas de Nogla. William Norton. 
             Ailfrid O Broin. Criostoir O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Padraic O Maille. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers.&mdash;Ta: Deputies Dolan and Sears.  Nil: Deputies Magennis and T. O'Connell. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     
      
       Will a Message be sent to the Seanad? 
     
     
      
       I assume it will, but I also assume that the representatives of the Dail will be selected by the Committee of Selection. 
     
     
      
       Yes, a Message will have to be sent to the Seanad asking their concurrence.  When they have concurred a committee will be ordered to be set up presumably by means of the machinery of the Committee of Selection.  But the order will not be made until the Seanad concurs. 
     
     
      
       If the Seanad does not concur with us, what will happen? 
     
     
      
       If the Seanad does not concur, the joint committee cannot possibly come into being. 
     
   
   
     OIREACHTAS MEMBERSHIP. - BILLS FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       The Unemployment Insurance Bill and the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Bill have been passed by the Seanad without amendment. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
   
   
     ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. - VOTE 14&mdash;PROPERTY LOSSES COMPENSATION. 
     The Dail, according to order, resumed consideration of the Estimates, in Committee on Finance. 
     Motion made:&mdash; 
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £1,447,000 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1927, chun iocaiochtan na i   dtaobh mille no diobhail do mhaoin a dineadh i rith na treimhse 21 Eanair, 1919, go 12 Bealtaine, 1923, go huile, fe sna hAchtanna um Dhiobhail do Mhaoin (Cuiteamh), 1923 go 1926, agus ar shlite eile; agus mar gheall ar dhamaiste do mhaoin, no cailliuint maoine, agus iocaiochtanna tre shlanu no tre aisioc fen Acht Slanaiochta, 1924, agus chun deontaisi d'ioc a socruiodh a ioc de bharr mola an  Property Losses (Ireland) Committee,  1916, mar chuiteamh i bhfoirginti a milleadh i mBaile Atha Cliath i rith Seachtain na Casca, 1916. 
     That a sum not exceeding £1,447,000 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1927, for payments in respect of destruction of, or injuries to, property within the period 21st January, 1919, to 12th May, 1923, inclusive, under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923 to 1926, and otherwise; and in respect of damage to, or loss of property and payments by way of indemnification or recoupment under the Indemnity Act, 1924, and for payment of grants awarded on the recommendation of the Property Losses (Ireland) Committee, 1916, as compensation for buildings destroyed in Dublin during Easter Week, 1916. 
     Debate resumed. 
     
      
       In connection with sub-head E, complaints are made in different parts of the country&mdash;I have heard them in more than one district and in more than one county&mdash;that payments are still due to valuers and others who were engaged by the Government to make valuations of destroyed property when compensation claims were made.  Individuals have informed me that they sent in their accounts over two years ago and have heard nothing about the matter.  The Minister should see that these accounts are paid as soon as possible.  In connection with the Indemnity Act, the last day for making claims was the 29th September, 1925. I think that many claims, because of the dates on which they were received in the Department of Finance, were   ruled out, so that no compensation can be awarded. 
       A few of these claims have been brought directly under my notice.  One individual states that he was an officer in a certain battalion from 1920 to 1922.  In the early part of the year 1922 he was instructed by the O.C. of the Brigade to have all claims for damage to property in his battalion area sent in, as they were to be forwarded to G.H.Q.  The first one he sent in is one to which I wish to refer.  He was aware that the claim was genuine, and he can give evidence on oath with regard to it if necessary.  I have made inquiries, and my information is that the claim was not received in the office before the closing date.  In another claim brought under my notice the story is the same.  Two motor cars were held up for forty weeks by the Black-and-Tans.  The owner put in his claim to the local Volunteers, who undertook to look after it for him. They did not do so, with the result that he has been jockeyed into his present position, wherein it appears that the authorities are not willing to compensate. A few other similar claims have also been brought to my notice. 
     
     I would point out to the Minister, even at this late day, that there are undoubtedly people excluded from getting compensation through no fault of theirs, because they were certain that Volunteer officers and others through whom the claims were made would discharge their responsibilities, and put in their claims in proper order and in time.  Believing that that had been done, they took no further steps.  The result is that a good many people are excluded from the benefits of the Act. I think that the Minister should reconsider the attitude of the Compensation Commission with regard to these cases.  When you come up against a case, as I have, with unmistakable evidence of a just claim for compensation, and when you know that justice has not been done because of neglect on the part of some Volunteer officer or other, and often owing to the incapacity of some of the people making claims, in not having them in proper order, there is a very strong   case undoubtedly for reopening the consideration of a number of cases.  I do not think these cases are very numerous, or that the amounts are very large, but £40 or £50 means as much to some people as £4,000 or £5,000 would mean to others, and to exclude people from compensation owing to some mistake, oversight or negligence of some person who undertook to discharge the obligation can scarcely be said to be fair dealing. 
     The Minister can make the case that advertisements were issued and that the last day for receiving claims was published and was definitely known, but injustice still exists, and I believe that the intentions of the Act will not be fully carried out until these people get the compensation to which they are entitled under the Act but which is being refused to them because of some flaw in the applications.  I gave the Minister notice of specific cases.  I intimated to him yesterday that I intended to raise the case of John Shiels, Drumgore, Loughduff, Co. Cavan, who made a claim for parts of rifles supplied to nine companies of the Volunteers in, I think, 1920.  He procured and paid for the parts himself and did the work of putting the rifles in order. Officers of various companies are prepared to supply any evidence on oath, affidavits or anything else, that is required to prove that this work was done.  The claim was lodged with the Minister for Defence and it was passed on to the Minister for Finance.  The final communication of January 13th, 1926, informed John Shiels that his claim could not be dealt with under the Indemnity Act, 1924. 
     I raise this matter because I think it is a disability that a good many people who made claims labour under.  I want to know on what grounds the Minister justifies a decision like this.  The facts are not denied, and I have gone to considerable trouble to satisfy myself that they are as stated.  The claim in this case amounted to £90, and the work done extended over a period of.  I think, two years.  I know the man; he is a farmer in a very small way and, at a very critical period in the country's history, he did useful work.  It   was very difficult to find men anywhere prepared to do that work.  Those who were able to do it were not particularly anxious.  A lot of compensation cases have been passed and great sums have been paid, yet a man like that is left high and dry; he is informed that his claim cannot be dealt with under the Act.  I think the Minister must admit that, in view of the large amount that has been paid to different types of individuals who suffered loss, it is hard lines on this man to be told that his case does not come within the Act, and that, legally, his claim cannot be considered. There is no doubt that men placed in that category are treated very harshly and unjustly. 
     There is another case I would like to refer to, that of Michael Dowd, Corhoogan, Cavan.  He made a claim for cabbage seed that was either taken away or destroyed on the 17th July, 1921.  He got a report from the Circuit Court for £40.  The final decision of the Minister was that no compensation would be paid.  In this case it was conclusively proved that armed men raided the man's house, smashed certain items of his furniture, and did other damage.  He was a very small farmer, but was very thrifty and very industrious, and he had developed this branch of his farming to such an extent that it meant a considerable revenue to him.  He had his cabbage seeds prepared for the next season and these seeds were taken away or destroyed. I recognise the point made that if they were taken outside there would be no power under the Act to compensate the individual.  If they were destroyed in the house I believe the man could be compensated.  The position is that once the seeds were touched they were destroyed because the farmer could not give any guarantee of germination with the seeds after they had been interfered with.  It is a very peculiar position that compensation can be awarded for something destroyed in the house but that it is not possible to give compensation for an article taken outside the house. 
     In these cases it seems to me that the policy of the Department is not fair.  The Minister should reconsider these cases.  I ask, in regard to cases   that have been ruled outside the operations of the Indemnity Act because for certain reasons they were not lodged in time, that some reconsideration should be given to them. Where there is evidence forthcoming that the individuals concerned were satisfied that somebody on their behalf was lodging the claims, those cases should be re-opened, and, if an award can be justified, that award should be made. 
     
      
       With reference to the cases of valuers, sometimes difficulties arise in establishing the amounts due.  Travelling expenses have to be checked and in certain cases a good deal of scrutiny is necessary. Claims, for instance, have been submitted which seemed to be excessive and time was taken up examining them.  In some cases matters about which disputes might genuinely arise were involved.  One or two such cases have been submitted to me.  There may have been a certain amount of delay in a good number of cases, but I do not really know whether there has been undue delay or delay that would create a great hardship on individuals. If the Deputy will supply me later with the names of cases where he thinks there has been undue delay, I will have them examined. 
     
     With regard to cases coming under the Indemnity Act of 1924, there is, of course, a time-limit fixed in that Act. A claim should be made not later than three months after the passing of the Act, Of course it would not be possible, without amending legislation, to revert to any claims received later. With regard to old pre-Truce claims, the position is that the Compensation (Ireland) Commission has been working for a very long time.  There was every opportunity given to people to put in their claims and to make sure they had got acknowledgments.  The Commission has now completed its work and has been disbanded.  I think it would be very difficult to deal with any pre-Truce claims at the present time.  We could not reconstitute the body that has been disbanded; we could not have cases dealt with by the people who dealt with previous claims. There is also an objection to dealing   with these very late claims by reason of the difficulty of proper investigation. People's memories fail, and while the person making the claim has reason to remember the circumstances and will remember them all, and perhaps more, it is not so easy for the State to get counter-evidence or checking evidence.  I have seen enough to convince me that that is so in actual practice as well as in theory. 
     Old claims are very difficult to investigate. People who may be called upon to corroborate, deny, or explain, probably have ceased to remember the details.  Witnesses have ceased to be available and it becomes increasingly difficult to have claims investigated properly.  I do not think it would be possible to hold out hope of admitting claims which for some reason, were not received in time. 
     With regard to the specific cases that the Deputy mentioned, the case of John Shiels was, of course, received in time and it was not turned down departmentally.  It was submitted to the Indemnity Act Committee, the chairman of which is a District Justice and is quite independent.  Special arrangements were made to secure a judicial chairman, somebody who had no touch with the Executive and who was not dependent on the Executive in any way.  The Indemnity Act Committee unanimously turned down this claim as not being within their terms of reference. 
     The Indemnity Act deals principally with applications of persons claiming to have suffered any direct loss or damage or interference with property by a person holding office under the First or Second Dail Eireann.  I think the case in question does not come within the Act.  We never accepted the position that Volunteer debts were due to be paid out of the Exchequer of the Free State because the pre-Truce position was that the Volunteers in each area really met their own debts.  While in certain exceptional cases later on&mdash; in some border-line types of cases&mdash; debts were paid, the general position was that responsibility was not taken for those debts.  That was done advisedly and a good deal of consideration was given to it. 
     
        I think this Mr. Shiels suffered no more, perhaps, than many people suffered who gave subscription and made sacrifices and did work for their local brigade or battalion.  I have before me a statement of the claim of Mr. Shiels, and I say that a good deal of it is for labour in one form or another. Some of it is actually set down. There is one item of £24 3s. for labour. Then I see there is an item relative to the making of stocks for guns which, I presume, was labour.  I am not sure whether he actually paid for all the parts&mdash;the springs and so forth. 
     
      
       He did, and got nothing. 
     
     
      
       If he did pay out a fairly substantial sum for these articles it, perhaps, is hard on him that he does not come within the Indemnity Act.  I have come across cases myself where people who did things with no expectation of payment during the struggle, or people who even gave subscriptions during the struggle, have lately felt that they wanted to get paid for the things they did freely, or they wanted to have the subscriptions regarded as loans.  I have known of people who refused payment during the struggle&mdash;who were offered payment and refused it from the old Dail&mdash;and who recently have said they wanted the salary which was offered to them.  I had to say to them that we could not go back; that they were willing to do the work voluntarily at the time and that that position must be accepted. 
     
     In the same way a few people who gave very big subscriptions have said they meant them as loans, or that they might be regarded as loans.  Again I ought to say we cannot go back. It is possible that this case has some of the elements that were found in the sort of case I have just quoted. The point is this, that there is no provision made in the Vote by which a claim like this could be paid.  It has been turned down by the Indemnity Act Committee.  They refused to make an award, and that stops me from making any payment under sub-head F of this Vote.  The admission of such claims would certainly be a very big decision.   I think Deputies will see that it would involve us in almost endless claims. Everyone who ever had a Volunteer stopping in his house could say that he could not afford it; that he expected some time to be paid and must be given a billeting allowance, and so on.  We could have numerous claims of that kind, some of which might very well be substantiated, some of which might be doubtful, and which could hardly be disproved. 
     I do not think that we could admit that any expenditure incurred on behalf of Volunteers during the struggle must be paid for.  It would certainly open up a frightful prospect, worse than anything we have had to do in the way of compensation and more difficult of investigation.  With regard to Michael O'Dowd, it may be, as it seems to be from what the Deputy says, a hard case, but as the Deputy is aware, I, as Minister for Finance, have a certain discretion in respect to report cases.  I think there was a report by the judge. 
     
      
       Yes, for £40. 
     
     
      
       I have not only the right but the duty to revise these cases. As a matter of fact, I know that judges are quite aware that there is a revisory power.  It has been known for judges to say: &ldquo;Well, I will make it so much because the Minister for Finance will cut it down.&rdquo;  In any case, it is my duty to see whether it is a case that comes within the Act, and whether the amount is too great or too small.  If, after having obtained legal advice, I believe the case to be clearly outside the Act, I must disallow it.  If there was a decree in such a case I would appeal, but as there is no appeal in report cases I must only seek legal advice and try to be fairly sure and surely fair in the matter and act accordingly. 
     
     The Damage to Property (Compensation) Act prescribes that &ldquo;the wrongful act&rdquo; must have occurred within certain dates between the 11th July, 1921, and before the 20th March, 1923, The occurrence here falls within the date, but then the next sub-section of the Act says: &ldquo;The wrongful act if consisting of the taking away of chattels must have been committed by a person   or person engaged in or purporting to act or who might reasonably be presumed to have been acting in the name or on behalf of any combination or conspiracy for the overthrow of the late Provisional Government of Ireland or of the Government of Saorstat Eireann,&rdquo; and certain other things.  At the date, 17th July, 1921, or just about a week after the Truce, you may have had people behaving criminally, but you had not anybody who could be described as being engaged in a &ldquo;combination or conspiracy&rdquo; to overthrow the Provisional Government, which was not set up for months after, or the Government of Saorstat Eireann, which was not set up for eighteen months later. 
     
      
       Were not people conspiring to prevent this being set up? 
     
     
      
       In this particular case I had it twice referred for legal advice. It was examined carefully, and after getting that legal advice I was satisfied that it was not within the scope of the Act.  Consequently, as far as I was concerned, I had no option, having had clear advice on the matter, but to disallow the payment.  No matter what legislation we may have for matters like this, there will be cases somehow or another which will fall to the ground between two stools.  If there were a great number of such cases, it might be necessary to legislate, but if there is only a small number of cases it is not practicable to legislate for them.  We must try to draft our main legislation to meet the situation as justly as possible, and if an exceptional case comes to our notice we cannot legislate to help that exceptional case.  Further legislation might open a very wide door and give rise to a whole list of new grievances and cause no more satisfaction than would arise from leaving the matter alone. 
     
     I think that in the main compensation has been given reasonably to cover all the classes of cases in which loss was sustained.  Of course we definitely avoided payment for consequential loss, but apart from that I think that, generally, reasonable compensation was given.  I do not know that we could really at the present stage contemplate provision for further legislation.  So far as the case the Deputy mentions is   concerned, and so far as the administration of the Act is concerned, I have no discretion.  One case was turned down by the Committee, and that really finished this as far as I was concerned. In O'Dowd's case technically I might have a discretion, but morally I have no discretion.  I have power to review reports.  In certain cases, even when a report has been given, if I am advised and believe that the case is not within the scope of the Act, then I could not put that advice in the waste paper basket and pay.  I must act on the advice given. 
     
      
       I am very dissatisfied with the Minister's attitude on this case.  What the Minister has said makes it clear and convincing that not alone hardships but injustices are being done. As regards this particular case, I only brought it forward after making very careful investigations myself.  I satisfied myself that the facts were as represented to me.  In the case of Sheils, I am satisfied that he spent, at the lowest figure, £30 or £40 of his own money.  He is a small farmer with a place that can only support two cows, and he has a family of six or seven children.  He spent that amount of money.  He admitted to me that he did that because it was a patriotic thing to do.  He spent the money, and he hoped he would get from the area where he worked a refund of it.  He got nothing, while there are around him to-day very many people who were attached to various parties and who have all got compensation.  He stands alone in not alone spending his own money but in taking risks that very many other people would not take.  I say that in his case a very grave injustice is being done. 
     
     In the case of O'Dowd, the Minister makes the point, and evidently on that point he turned down the case that the act had to be committed by armed forces out to overthrow the Provisional Government or the Government of Saorstat Eireann.  The Minister says that he procured legal advice on the case twice.  But the judge gave a verdict, and made a report on the case. He reported on the facts presented to him, and on the law, and you must accept it that the judge was capable of   deciding whether or not the claim came within the terms of the Act.  He gave a decision after evidence was submitted to him.  I am perfectly satisfied that the raid was carried out by armed men. There are other matters in connection with it that I do not want to add to my argument, but I am satisfied that the raid was carried out by armed men. What particular Government these armed men were prepared to overthrow is another matter.  Their antagonism in this particular case was political.  It was malice that incited them.  Were it possible for these forces to overthrow the Government of Saorstat Eireann they would have done it.  In my opinion the Minister would not have arrived at the decision he has arrived at if all the facts were put fully before him, and I urge on him to permit that his decision be open to re-consideration. 
     
      
       If any further facts could be put up to show me that the case would come within the terms of the Act I am prepared to consider that. If there are any further facts available that would seem to bring it within the Act I will certainly have the matter again legally examined. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. - VOTE 15&mdash;PERSONAL INJURIES COMPENSATION. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £3,200 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1927, chun iocaiochtanna airithe Cuitimh i dtaobh Leonta Pearsanta no Bais. 
       That a sum not exceeding £3,200 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1927, for certain payments of Compensation in respect of Personal Injuries or Death. 
     
     As Deputies will see, this particular Vote is comparatively small this year. Under sub-head A provision is made almost entirely for the payment of   periodic allowances.  The Personal Injuries Committee was requested on receiving its terms of reference to recommend lump sums as a general rule, but in certain cases they did not think it was suitable to recommend lump sums, and in a certain small number of cases they recommended periodic allowances. There were other cases, of course, in which lump sums were to be made available, subject to certain conditions. In respect of sub-head B, we took over from the British Government the payment of certain  ex gratia  allowances to non-combatants who suffered injuries in Easter Week, 1916.  The actual amount required for these payments is £366 10s. 4d., but in certain cases people were supplied by the British Government at the time with artificial limbs and appliances.  I understand that as these limbs and appliances become damaged they are repaired or replaced.  It is expected that some amount may be necessary for that work during the year, so we put in a sum of £400 rather than £366 which would be required for the actual payments to individuals. 
   
   
     ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. - VOTE 11&mdash;PUBLIC WORKS AND BUILDINGS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £676,906 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1927, chun caiteachais i dtaobh Tithe Puibbnli; chun coinncail-suas Pairceanna agus Oibreacha Puibli airithe; chun deanamh agus coinneail suas Oibreacha Draeneala agus chun Ildeontaisi i gCabhair. 
       That a sum not exceeding £676,906 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1927, for expenditure in respect of Public Buildings; for the maintenance of certain Parks and Public Works; for execution and maintenance of Drainage Works; and Sundry Grants-in-Aid. 
     
     
      
       This Vote, although a large one,   does not embody any new policy which is not familiar to Deputies, and, therefore, it is not necessary for me to make a lengthy statement.  I can reply later to any particular points which may be raised.  The general position is that there is a certain average standing expenditure which is necessary and will always remain necessary for the maintenance of buildings, parks and harbours which are vested in the Government, for grants towards buildings and altering national schools, and for such new post offices, Garda Siochana barracks, revenue offices and other Government buildings as may from time to time be required; and in addition to this average continuing charge we have this year large special and exceptional expenditure for three purposes:&mdash;(1) the housing of the Garda Siochana; (2) the restoration of three great monumental buildings in Dublin, the Four Courts, the General Post Office, and the Custom House; (3) arterial drainage works.  That is the general explanation of the large size of the Vote this year. 
       I will now go briefly through the several sub-heads of the Vote. Under sub-head A&mdash;Purchase of Sites and Buildings&mdash;there is an increase of £11,000.  This increase is on account of the housing of the Garda Siochana.  The cost of building is still high in the Saorstat, though not so high as it was two years ago, and it is often cheaper to buy a house for a Garda barrack than to build.  It is also quicker, which is an important point.  When we can, we prefer to rent houses or take them on lease rather than buy.  Rents are shown under sub-head E.  But many owners of houses refuse to let and will only sell, and it is, of course, cheaper to buy at a reasonable price than to pay a high rent.  Naturally we only buy houses at those stations which the Department of Justice assure us will be permanent stations of the Garda. 
       Sub-head AA&mdash;Annuities&mdash;these annuities, as shown in the details, p. 40, of the Estimates, are partly for the site and building of the College of Science and partly for certain military barracks. The annuity for the College runs till 1933, but that for the military barracks stops at the end of 1926-27. 
     
     Under sub-head B&mdash;New Works&mdash;  there is an increase of £252,825.  This is the most important sub-head, and shows the largest increase, but as Deputy Cooper is moving reduction, I will reserve anything I have to say on the details till I reply to him.  I have already indicated the principal causes of the increase.  Under sub-head C&mdash; Maintenance and Supplies&mdash;there is an increase of £4,485.  The size of this sub-head naturally depends on two things, the number of buildings we have to maintain and the level of prices in the building trade.  At present the numbers of buildings are tending to increase, because certain departments are growing, for example, the Revenue Department, and also because landlords of rented buildings are more reluctant than they used to be to undertake the obligation of maintaining them, and therefore, the Government, as tenant, has to undertake it; this applies particularly to rented barracks of the Garda Siochana. Prices in the building trade appear to be nearly stationary, with perhaps a slight tendency to fall.  Under sub-head D&mdash;Furniture, etc.&mdash;there is a decrease of £652. 
     Under sub-head E&mdash;Rents, &amp;c.&mdash; there is an increase of £9,521.  The increase is principally due to the housing of the Garda Siochana and to rents for agricultural institutions, which are shown on this Vote for the first time&mdash; last year they were in the Department of Agriculture Vote.  Under sub-head EE&mdash;Compensation for Premises Commandeered by the Army&mdash;there is a decrease of £45,000.  This service is coming to an end, though new claims are still received from time to time, and there are considerable difficulties in coming to terms with a certain number of the claimants.  Under sub-head F&mdash; Fuel, Light, Water, &amp;c.&mdash;there is a decrease of £724.  The principal factor in the amount of this sub-head is the cost of coal, and the future cost of coal is very speculative.  But we bought considerable quantities before the present dispute in Great Britain began.  Sub-heads G, H and I are matters of detail Under sub-heads J 1, J 2, J 3 and J4&mdash; Arterial Drainage&mdash;there is a total increase of £56,190.  As the Committee are aware, these sub-heads provide for that part of the cost of arterial drainage   schemes which is provided by the Government as free grants, while the Local Loans Vote provides the rest. The general policy on which these schemes are based is familiar to Deputies, and I rather gather from the debate on the Local Loans Vote yesterday that we shall be attacked for slowness in spending rather than for spending too much. 
     I will, therefore, deal by way of reply with any points which may be raised.  Sub-head K is a matter of detail. Under sub-head L&mdash;Acquisition of a Bucket-Dredger&mdash;there is an increase of £15,000.  This is a special transaction in the nature of a capital expenditure.  The Commissioners of Public Works at present maintain three dredgers of different kinds&mdash;one bucket-dredger, one grab dredger, and one suction dredger.  All are useful for different purpose and for different kinds of sea bottom.  The bucket dredger is the most generally useful and is in most demand.  The dredgers are used first to maintain harbours vested in the Board of Works&mdash;Dun Laoghaire, Howth and Dunmore East; secondly, to be let on hire to harbour authorities in the Saorstat&mdash;this is a great benefit to harbour authorities, because the terms of hire are lower than they could obtain elsewhere; thirdly, to carry out works of dredging where the Government is aiding harbours by means of free grants.  Two such grants are being made at the present time, one at Burtonport, in County Tirconaill, and the other at Dingle, in the County Kerry. 
     The bucket-dredger will be occupied the whole of this summer, and perhaps a part of next summer, at these two places, and meantime her services are in request elsewhere.  Also, the present bucket-dredger is an old boat, and before many years it will be more economical to replace her with a new one than to continue to maintain her.  In these circumstances the Government decided to anticipate the replacement by a few years and to buy a second bucket-dredger while the first is still in active use.  Under sub-head M&mdash; Appropriations-in-Aid&mdash;there is an increase of £159,350.  This increase is   principally due to a payment estimated at £150,000 from the Property Losses Compensation Vote for the restoration of Government buildings, principally Garda Siochana barracks and the three great buildings in Dublin.  There is also an increase of £8,100 under the item Tolls and Dues for the increased dues which it is proposed to charge on passenger steamers at Dun Laoghaire. 
     
      
       On sub-head A&mdash; The Purchase of Sites and Buildings&mdash; I would like to ask the Minister if he could tell us what the Board of Works are going to do with the sites that are derelict and an eye-sore in O'Connell Street for many years.  What is their intention with regard to the two sites they own and which are almost next to the Gresham Hotel?  For many years we were complaining about private owners not making any start to rebuild in O'Connell Street.  Now, I think, with the exception of the Government, they have made some attempt to clear up the area.  I think the Minister ought to tell us also what the Government's intention is with regard to a few other sites which I understand are owned by the Board of Works and which are also an eye-sore. There is one practically opposite this building, the site of Maple's Hotel.  I believe the Government have some claim on that site, and why the rebuilding is being held up I cannot say. 
     
     I think as far as the other buildings that were formerly occupied by the Government are concerned, work on them is very slow and they are not giving sufficient employment for the amount of money involved.  I mean the Four Courts, the General Post Office and the Customs House.  I think now, at a time in which unemployment is so bad, the Government ought to speed up these buildings and give a little more work to those who are clamouring around those sites every day.  I suggest, too&mdash;although I am informed that recently there was an effort made to remedy it&mdash;that in connection with all those Government buildings there is an inclination to buy foreign materials.  Foreign material is dumped at the North Wall in such a state that it leaves very little for Irish workers to do.  I refer to dressed steel   and iron girders, bolted, riveted and almost ready for erection when they come in, leaving no work for the workmen engaged in those trades in the city. 
     
      
       I do not think that any of the matters referred to by Deputy Byrne arise under sub-head A. I am rather glad, however, that he has more or less anticipated Deputy Bryan Cooper's amendment by putting forward an argument in favour of increased expenditure this year rather than decreased expenditure.  With regard to the sites in O'Connell Street, we are willing to let them and we will be very glad if somebody will come and take them.  The question of Maple's Hotel is still under consideration. No decision has been come to about it yet. 
       So far as the question of Irish manufacture is concerned, there is an express stipulation in every one of our contracts that Irish manufacture is to be used where at all possible.  I was speaking to our principal architect yesterday and he told me that in many cases we pay a little more for materials of Irish manufacture. 
     
     
      
       I mentioned that there was an improvement in that respect. 
     
     
      
       We pay a little more for materials of Irish manufacture, but the architect is quite satisfied that that is compensated for by the increased value of the materials we get. 
     
     
      
       I would like the Parliamentary Secretary to state whether the Board of Works is using Irish slates in the buildings which they are erecting, and if they are insisting when giving contracts that Irish slates are to be used.  The Parliamentary Secretary is probably aware that most of the Irish slate quarries are in a position to deal with any orders which they receive.  That being so, I think foreign slates and composition slates, which are sometimes used, should not be brought in. I should like to hear from the Parliamentary Secretary that the Board of Works are insisting, as far as possible,   on Irish slates being used in new buildings and in repair work. 
     
     
      
       Killaloe slates are being used for the Four Courts and, wherever possible, Irish slates are being utilised.  In some cases it is not possible to get them sufficiently quickly. 
     
     
      
       I move to reduce sub-head B by £200,000.  I am somewhat disarmed, in moving this amendment, partly because the Parliamentary Secretary to the Department of Finance has not been in control of this department for any length of time, and partly because he has deferred justifying an increased expenditure of over a quarter of a million until I shall have made my speech.  I shall, therefore, ask the leave of the Dail to reply at greater length than I usually reply. 
       It is obvious to Deputies that, as we have been invited again and again to examine the Estimates, to make suggestions for economy, and to subject the figures to critical scrutiny, an increase of over £250,000 in a particular sub-head ought to be justified by the Minister or the Parliamentary Secretary in charge of it.  There is an increase of that amount in respect of this sub-head. I have, in the past, advocated the expenditure of reasonable sums by the Government on the repair of Government buildings. 
     
     I have urged that it was inconsistent for the Government to appeal to private individuals to rebuild their premises while they themselves were doing nothing.  But that is not to say that a large proportion of this expenditure should be incurred in one financial year.  Looking at the items set out in the Estimate, one finds Dublin Custom House, £30,000 this year, £4,000 required next year; Department of Justice&mdash; Four Courts, £90,000 required this year, £36,000 required last year; Department of Posts and Telegraphs&mdash;G.P.O., £116,000 required this year as against about £20,000 last year.  One realises the reason for these increases, but one is inclined to question the advisability of concentrating them all in one year. It is very desirable that the Government should proceed to reconstruct their buildings in order to give employment.   But I am very much afraid that unemployment is not a problem of this year only but that it will continue next year and the year after.  I would rather see work on these Government buildings spread over a longer period in order that there may be a steady flow of employment than that there should be a great effort this year and that then men should be turned off to look for jobs again. 
     Even admitting that it may be desirable to provide all this money this year, is it likely that it will be spent?  On this point, I look back on the past of the Board of Works, which is no discredit to the present Parliamentary Secretary.  As in the debate on Fisheries, the lightning was diverted from the head of the Minister for Fisheries to the head of the Minister for Finance, so, in this case, while not blaming the Parliamentary Secretary of the Department of Finance, I feel that, perhaps, we may educate the Minister for Education.  If we are to accept the figures that appeared in the Press at the end of the last financial year&mdash;I am sorry the Minister for Finance is not present, because I do not know why the Press should get these figures and why Deputies should not&mdash;the general Vote for public works was over-estimated by over £570,000. That is for last year.  I have no official figures to show that, but for the two previous years I have the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, which gives the figures in detail.  On this sub-head in 1923-24, there was an over-estimate of £20,000.  In 1924-25 there was an over-estimate of £67,000. In other words, the Department of Public Works have not been able to spend all the money they got for new works in the past two years.  And yet they come down demanding an increased estimate of over £250,000! 
     This raises a very important issue. I can quite understand a public department wanting to be on the safe side.  I can quite understand their saying: &ldquo;Whatever happens, we will not come down to the Dail and ask for a supplementary estimate.&rdquo;  I think that is a wrong habit of mind.  It dates from the time when the British Parliament was occupied with thousands of   matters.  There was no real opportunity for discussion, and in the case of the British Parliament, supplementary estimates were to be avoided.  But here our time at the beginning of the year&mdash;in January, February and March is not unduly congested.  It is possible to bring forward supplementary estimates at that time, and have them more carefully considered than the general estimates are considered, under the pressure we are labouring under now. Therefore, I suggest to the Dail that we should give this Department a minimum and not a maximum sum. It will be perfectly easy for the Parliamentary Secretary to come down here next Spring, with greater knowledge than he has now, and with more acquaintance with the details of his Department, and justify an additional expenditure of £100,000 or £200,000. But I do not believe that more than the amount I am suggesting&mdash;£473,000&mdash; will be spent on this Vote.  Last year £420,000 was voted and a considerable portion of that was not spent.  In the interests of careful estimating, in the interests of Parliamentary control and of public finance, I propose this amendment and I urge the Dail to accept it. 
     
      
       If Deputy Cooper's amendment were to effect a reduction in taxation, perhaps something might be said for it.  That, of course, assumes the defeat of the Government and our carrying the motion to reduce.  But the amount estimated here is capital expenditure. Hence its rejection, or its reduction by £200,000, will not affect the taxation of this year.  In order that works may be carried out properly, it is necessary, in the case of the Board of Works, that they should be mapped out eighteen months in advance. Plans and maps have to be prepared. I see nothing wrong in bringing forward this estimate, although it is increased by £250,000.  The effect will be better work on the part of the Board of Works and taxation will not be increased by this Vote on the people, who are clamouring for a reduction of taxation. 
     
     
      
       I desire to support the protest of Deputy Cooper   against loose estimating.  If we direct our attention to the Estimates for the Post Office, we find, in connection with a building commonly known as the G.P.O. in O'Connell street, &ldquo;Rebuilding Henry Street front, £56,130&rdquo;&mdash; I will read only the amounts in round numbers&mdash;&ldquo;building central block in courtyard, £39,000; reinstating front block, £50,000; rebuilding Prince's Street front, £102,000.&rdquo;  There we have an outlay of over £240,000 contemplated in respect of one building. That is not to be the G.P.O., because a very important auxiliary&mdash;the sorting office&mdash;is provided for elsewhere.  We find the item, &ldquo;New sorting office; total estimate for the work.&rdquo; 
       There, there is a reference to a foot-note. The foot-note reads: &ldquo;Estimate not yet made.&rdquo;  The estimated total expenditure in respect of this item to the 31st March, 1926, is £9,600.  We have heard of living from hand to mouth, but here we have building from hand to mouth.  We have an estimated expenditure of close on £10,000 up to March and yet no estimate is made as regards the total expenditure to be incurred. Surely that is an example of what Deputy Cooper has in mind when he speaks of &ldquo;loose estimating.&rdquo;  Deputy Wilson comes, happily, to the support of the Board of Works with the contention that even if the Vote were reduced, as Deputy Cooper proposes, it would give no relief in taxation.  The reason he gives is because it is &ldquo;capital expenditure.&rdquo;  Now, why should we come here and complain of over-taxation and at the same time complacently vote a capital expenditure exceeding that of last year by a quarter of a million of money, when it is obvious that many of the works in which this money is to be invested are to serve not our time nor the next generation, nor the generation after that, but for centuries?  This overtaxed and over-harried generation is to be made to pay for these costly buildings out of the income of the present year. 
     
     
      
       No, the Deputy is all wrong. 
     
     
      
       I almost invariably support Deputy Cooper in his amendments,   because they are put forward with the laudable object of getting the Ministry to realise that there is a considerable demand for economy and cutting down of Estimates.  In this particular case, however, I think the position is somewhat different, both as regards what Deputy Cooper refers to as over-estimating and as to the desirability of getting on with the work in hand as quickly as possible.  A large amount of the money covered by this Estimate is for the General Post Office. I think the whole city of Dublin and, in fact, the whole country are being inconvenienced to a considerable extent, and I think the Post Office is being put to considerable extra expense for the lack of the building which is now in process of being re-built.  So far from the Board of Works deferring expenditure on that building, I think that that department has been rather dilatory in getting on with the work. 
       I think it is a matter of urgent importance that the work should be pressed forward as quickly as possible, in order to give the citizens a suitable building in a convenient centre.  Considerable portion of the expenditure is in connection with the Four Courts and Custom House, and I do not think that anybody will say that the work of rebuilding these institutions should be delayed.  They are practically in the same position as the Post-Office as regards proper accommodation for carrying out the services which they render to the public.  If the works outlined here are to be pushed through during the year a considerable amount of money would be required, and if at the end of the year there is a comparatively big surplus it will mean that the work has not proceeded as rapidly as we would wish. 
     
     Reference has, on the other hand, been made to the fact that these works are of a capital nature and are being capitalised.  At this stage I would be glad to see that done in essential works of this sort, because the inflation of the national debt in that direction may at a later stage save us from inflation in other directions less desirable, and I would like to secure at this stage that the increase in the national debt through the raising of money would   be used in this way and at this time to push forward necessary works of this kind, and in the hope when the Minister is getting his money for this work he will find difficulty in getting it for other works in contemplation which may not be so desirable.  There are many things in this long list of approved plans and undertakings that I would not speak so enthusiastically about ordinarily, but as the Estimate embodies such substantial works as those to which I have referred, and as we must recognise that the Garda in the country should be properly accommodated, I would hesitate to support Deputy Cooper's amendment.  I think that the Deputy would, perhaps, be wise not to press it. 
     
      
       I find that by inadvertence I mistook the column in the estimate, so that the total is £126,000, and not £242,000. 
     
     
      
       I would like to have some definite assurance from the Parliamentary Secretary before deciding to vote for or against this amendment. Looking through, for instance, the column of the Vote required for this year, I find a number of items such as the Four Courts, etc., which constitute a very big proportion of the total Vote. I want to have some assurance whether these sums are to be spent this year, within reasonable expectation and allowing for the deduction which is taken at the end of the Vote for works which may not be carried out during the year &mdash;£50,000.  But taking all expectations, can we have something like a general assurance that this money will be spent subject to possibilities, or whether a big portion should not go into the fourth column which is devoted to the further amount required for completion of the works?  If I had an assurance that the money would be spent this year I would not be inclined to support Deputy Cooper, but if we are to vote the money with a dim hope that it may be required this year I do not think that that is sufficient. 
     
     I think we ought not to be asked to vote a large sum in this way unless we can have an assurance that it the real anticipation of the Department that   the money will be spent this year, and that they will direct their practical working so that it will be spent this year.  It will make a great difference to the general economic situation so far as workmen are concerned.  Perhaps the Parliamentary Secretary could give further information as to the character of the work at Ardnacrusha new barracks.  It is not his business to answer questions as to strategic value and so on, but perhaps we could get some information as to the character of the buildings, and the material used in construction.  From that information we might draw our own conclusions as to the strategical policy, if he has one, of the Minister for Defence.  I would like this information from the Minister as to his real anticipation of the policy of the Department regarding the expenditure of this money during the current year.  When that is answered we shall be able to make up our minds as to whether we can support the amendment or not. 
     
      
       I think some Deputies have answered Deputy Cooper's argument.  Deputy Johnson seems to have doubt as to whether it is really our intention to spend the money estimated for this year.  I can assure him that it is, for two reasons; first, it is in the interests of economy, and, secondly, it is in the interests of the efficiency of the departments now housed in temporary buildings all over the city.  It is not in the interests of economy that we should pay rent for temporary buildings for the Garda Siochana and at the same time have a site which we purchased lying idle for another year because we will not spend the money required for its reconstruction.  It is not in the interests of efficiency that the Department of the Post Office should have its officials housed in scattered buildings for which we have to pay rents and, at the same time, allow to remain unfinished one central building which would accommodate them all, and enable them to discharge their duties in a more efficient manner and under better supervision. 
     
     It is not in the interests of efficiency   that the Garda Siochana should in many places be housed in buildings which are not fit for them.  It is unfair in a great many cases that men should be asked to live in buildings which cannot accommodate them.  We all know that if you want to get the best out of men, you must provide them with proper accommodation.  We are serious in our intention to complete the buildings estimated for this year, for the reasons which I have mentioned.  The point has been made that last year we did not expend the amount of our Estimate.  We are in a totally different position this year.  So far as the Post Office and Custom House are concerned, the work is well under way.  Anyone who knows anything about building knows that in the early stages of a contract you move slowly, but when you get to a certain point you find that the increase in expenditure goes up very suddenly. We want to finish these buildings as soon as possible.  We hope to finish one of them this year.  I can assure Deputy Johnson, if he has any doubt on the matter, that, so far as the Office of Public Works is concerned, it is the intention to get through with these buildings as quickly as possible. 
     There is another reason why we should do this.  We are being pressed every day in the week by different Government Departments for accommodation, and we do not feel inclined to take further buildings in view of the fact that we know that within a certain limited period, when those buildings are finished, there will be ample office accommodation available for every Government Department.  If we were to adopt Deputy Cooper's suggestion with the buildings we are working on it would mean having to take other buildings for the accommodation of these Departments, which are really badly in need of it.  I have been present at conferences recently when the Departments concerned put up very strong arguments in support of their demands for accommodation.  We are endeavouring at present to stave them off by assuring them that when these three large buildings in Dublin are completed we will have ample accommodation for them.  Deputy Johnson   asked about the new barracks at Ardnacrusha. It is proposed to acquire about three and a half acres of land at Ardnacrusha, with a farmhouse standing thereon, as a site for a barrack to accommodate 250 troops of all ranks as the protective force for the power station, and to acquire a house in a commanding position convenient to the weir which can be adapted to house a detachment of 50 troops.  The cost of Ardnacrusha barracks is estimated at £40,000 and of the alterations, etc., to the weir protection post at £1,000 provisionally.  Portion of the proposed site for the barracks has already been occupied in connection with the Shannon scheme.  It is expected that the land and property required can be acquired by negotiation. 
     
      
       There is one point that I think has been overlooked by every Deputy who spoke, except the Parliamentary Secretary, who knew it and naturally did not refer to it.  My amendment proposes to allow the Department of Public Works every penny that they had last year, including the amount that they did not spend, and £50,000 over.  The whole provision for barracks for the Garda Siochana is less than £50,000.  I am not seeking to hamper them in that direction in any way whatever.  A sum of £50,000 would pay for the provision for the Garda Siochana and leave, roughly speaking, about £10,000 over. 
     
     Deputy Johnson asked if we were to vote money in the hope that it may be required this year.  The Parliamentary Secretary has that hope, but I suggest to Deputy Johnson that, as in the past, it would be well to get some evidence as to the fulfilment of that hope.  Deputy Johnson has argued in the past more than once on Votes of this kind that it is desirable to make sure of the expenditure of the money by making the Minister come for a Supplementary Estimate.  I am not opposing a Supplementary Estimate, but I do say that this Department has consistently over-estimated.  It is a case, steadily over three years, of serious over-estimating.  Deputy Wilson says that that does not matter.   Deputy Wilson has been on the Public Accounts Committee for three years now, and he says that this does not matter.  Looking into Deputy Wilson's mind I can now realise why the farmers of this country are in such a distressed condition.  It does not matter what you spend if it is not coming out of current income; it does not matter how big your overdraft is; it does not matter how big your debt is if only it does not come out of your current income!  The interest on this £200,000 would be £10,000 a year, and supporters of Deputy Wilson&mdash;not in the Dail; the Farmers' Party in the Dail have too much sense&mdash;&ldquo;go mad and cut themselves with knives and lances and cry to Heaven&rdquo; because £500 a year is allowed for the President's motor car.  And yet £10,000 a year is a bagatelle and nothing, and the amendment cannot be supported. 
     Deputy Hewat referred to a subject that the Parliamentary Secretary was too wise to refer to&mdash;the Four Courts. There is some strength in the argument as regards the Post Office; there is none with regard to the Four Courts. The Courts of Justice are housed in Dublin Castle; they are housed there at no considerable expense to the State. Considerable sums of money have been spent in converting Dublin Castle into a home for the courts, and while a certain amount of inconvenience is felt, no substantial inconvenience is felt. There is no strike of solicitors, no barristers parading the streets to protest against the intolerable conditions of their employment. 
     
      
       There was a stay-in strike of solicitors. 
     
     
      
       At any rate, in the existing financial situation the Courts might well remain in Dublin Castle for three or four years more at no expense to the State and at a considerable saving to the taxpayer.  If I can get one Deputy to tell with me I am going to force this amendment to a Division, because it is a touchstone to humbug. It is the last of a number of amendments which I put down to these Estimates, and it is the biggest.  I put them down because there was great talk of   economy, and because my belief is that everyone is in favour of economy in the abstract and very few people will support it in the concrete, and that belief has been more or less justified.  I hope that my example will be followed by other Deputies.  It has been followed by Deputy Baxter and Deputy Heffernan, and I presume they acted on behalf of their Party.  It is also rather belatedly followed by Deputy Johnson, but still I welcome the last convert. But where are those Deputies whom I hoped to have supporting me on this amendment?  Where is Deputy O'Mara?  Where is the  alter ego  of the Minister for Finance, the other Deputy from Monaghan?  Where are the people who talk about economy in the country and have nothing to do with economy in this House? 
     
     
      
       The Chamber of Commerce. 
     
     
      
       They are all over the country, in the Chambers of Commerce, on the Farmers' platforms, and elsewhere.  A lot of people are talking about economy who have not even read the Estimates.  I believe that this is an economy that could be made without serious injury to the public service. I do not believe that all this money will be spent.  I believe that progress will be slower than the Department of Works anticipates.  It has been so in the past.  I also believe that a Supplementary Estimate might well be brought in should progress prove quicker than I anticipate.  It is a fair question to put, and it is a touchstone to sincerity.  I do not know if Deputy Johnson is satisfied with the Parliamentary Secretary's answer, but at any rate the Labour Party will be perfectly consistent.  They have never talked about economy; they have always wanted more money spent.  I am not arraigning them, but I am arraigning those Deputies who think it popular to talk about economy outside, but who do not do a hand's turn for economy in the Dail. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is utterly mistaken.  The Labour Party has always talked about economy, and   economy is the be-all and the end-all of its existence. 
     
     
      
       Then I apologise. 
     
     
      
       But it means economy; it does not mean merely the saving of expenditure.  It means wise expenditure and plenty of it, plenty of expenditure if you get good and valuable service for the expenditure in the upbuilding of the country, and in the creation of wealth.  So that there is real economy in the Labour Party's programme, and it is the only economy. Deputy Cooper says that the money will not be spent, and he has challenged me to say whether I am satisfied with the Parliamentary Secretary's assurance. I am in this position: I have got an assurance, which is noted by every Deputy in the House, that it is intended that this money shall be spent in this year and that every effort will be made to spend it.  But supposing we refuse to grant the money now and it is not spent this year, when we call the Parliamentary Secretary to account his answer will be: &ldquo;You refused to give us an assurance that you would allow us this money.  How could we prepare our plans, how could we continue to carry on our preparatory work, if we did not know whether or not we would get the money that was necessary to do the work throughout the year?&rdquo; Having got the assurance I am prepared to vote the money that the Parliamentary Secretary says is required, and I will do my best to keep him up to the mark and to see that the money is spent this year. 
     
     
      
       I wonder could Deputy Cooper explain to us when he talks about economy what specific buildings provided for in the Estimate he advises should not be built.  It is not economy to propose that a building should be built next year and not this year.  According to the Parliamentary Secretary, that is the very opposite to economy.  But Deputy Cooper, as far as I heard him, did not recommend that any one particular building for which provision is made in this Estimate should not be built at some time or other.  His only contention was that a certain amount of this expenditure   should not take place this year, or, if it took place this year, that a Supplementary Estimate should be brought in.  I do not see what that has to do with economy. 
       Deputy Cooper referred to the fact that if this sum of £200,000 was not spent this year there would be a saving of £10,000 interest on debt.  We have to compare that saving of £10,000 with the loss which would be incurred by the State, the loss which was pointed out by the Parliamentary Secretary, in connection with the renting or purchase of temporary premises in order to accommodate Departments for one, two, or possibly more years, until such time as these permanent buildings had been erected. Even on the figure of £10,000 which Deputy Cooper gave as the sum total of the real economy to the State, I doubt if there will be much of it left if extra expenditure, by not having these permanent buildings, was incurred. So that when Deputy Cooper made his eloquent plea for sincerity on the part of those who advocate economy outside the Dail and in general, and who also advocated it in particular cases.  I do not think it exactly fitted in with the concrete proposal which he put before the Dail to postpone for one year, or possibly two years, the building of some of these Government structures. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Parliamentary Secretary if all this expenditure under the heading of Department of Defence is necessary. There is something like £105,000 under that heading.  It seems to me the major portion of this is for the reconstruction of a lot of military barracks. Is the reconstruction of all these military barracks necessary to accommodate our present forces?  If not, what are those barracks to be turned into?  Are they really necessary to accommodate military at the moment? There are amounts varying from ten to twenty thousand pounds for the reconstruction of certain military barracks in the country.  I was of the opinion that with the present strength of the military organisation we had ample accommodation without any of   the reconstructed buildings.  If they are being reconstructed for other purposes&mdash;if they can be turned into any useful purpose apart from accommodating military&mdash;it is quite all right. I cannot see that there is any necessity for spending up to £100,000 for works that may never be necessary at all. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I would be permitted, as a matter of courtesy, to recapitulate my main argument for Deputy Esmonde, who did not hear it? I do not believe the Board of Works will be able to spend the whole of the money in the present financial year. I do not believe they have the machinery to do it.  They always have over-estimated; I believe they always will over-estimate, and I think the Dail ought to stop it. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Esmonde takes a very peculiar view of this Estimate.  He forgets that we have the high authority of the President for the statement that the country is taxed up to the furthest limit that it can bear.  Many of us believe it is taxed further than it can bear.  We were invited from the Ministerial Benches to point out in what respect any service provided by the Free State could be cut down, diminished or have in connection with it a saving effected. Deputy Cooper and I drew attention this evening to expenditure that in its princely character is wholly unnecessary, and we are told from the Farmers' benches that it would not amount to anything in the diminution of the country's taxation to put a stop to these fine æsthetic performances. 
       Not to-day nor yesterday did I raise my voice in this House against the wanton conduct of the Board of Works, in conjunction with the Department of Posts and Telegraphs.  A Commission was set up to inquire into the public services in the city of Dublin and to see, amongst other things, what utilisation might profitably be made of the public buildings in the city, and almost before that Commission had time to consider its terms of reference, the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs had got consent from the Executive Council&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot discuss the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs now. 
     
     
      
       Pardon me. I am not discussing the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs; I am discussing the Vote of £30,000 for the rebuilding&mdash; the reinstatement&mdash;of the Custom House this year, and the money being spent upon the G.P.O.  I am merely reciting the history.  I am responding to the appeal that Deputy Cooper made just now that all the men who are sincere in their protestations against extravagance should speak. 
     
     
      
       And put down amendments. 
     
     
      
       Putting down amendments is worthless. 
     
     
      
       Then vote. 
     
     
      
       I do not at all mean to attack Deputy Cooper's policy of putting down amendments, but when one has been put down it is merely eye-wash for the public to pretend great activity by putting down additional amendments.  I am not to be diverted from my purpose in exposing this thing.  We are a population of 31⁄4 millions and we are engaged in erecting public buildings for the housing of a Post Office, for the housing of a Civil Service; that would be admirable from the point of view of fine art and an enrichment of the municipality if our income were ten times what it is and if our prospects of future income were ten times what they are.  We are not going to be fooled by replies to the effect that civil servants are scattered all over the city in various houses.  We know that is so; we regret it is so. We know that itself is an evil and diminishes the rateable value of houses in the city.  But is the remedy to expend £30,000 upon the rebuilding or the reinstatement of the old Custom House under the heading of the Department of Finance?  Remember that it is the Custom House that is being restored.  I hope that contemplates the adoption of a policy in which the Custom House will be very active, indeed.  If you are going to have tariffs you may as well build yourselves   a Custom House for the working of them. 
       Look at the partly-reconstructed G.P.O. in Henry Street or Prince's Street.  There you will find magnificent shops are being built.  I agree that to make a source of revenue out of this is an excellent thing; but there are useful purposes to which these buildings could have been devoted, and for these purposes necessary money would have been forthcoming, and it would be quite possible to provide accommodation for the civil servants without building palaces. 
     
     I wonder if the country Deputies have taken the trouble to inspect the rebuilt Four Courts.  That is reproduced with minute fidelity in all its earlier magnificence, and the work was done at once.  It is not, remember, a temporary structure to keep the interior from further decay nor roofing to prevent the spoiling of what already survived, but the entire reinstatement in all its splendour of the Four Courts. And for what?  To return the lawyers there who do not want to go.  The city has so grown that the housing of the law courts in that district has become altogether a thing which neither lawyers nor clients desire.  Everyone, litigant, lawyer and judge, is satisfied   with the present accommodation in the Castle; yet the re-building has gone on. 
     Now, it would have been possible to provide a magnificent home for the G.P.O. in all its various branches and departments in the reconstructed Custom House.  That has not been done.  The result is you are building a sorting-office in another quarter of the city, and, as I have already pointed out this evening, there is no estimate for what it is to cost, except this, that the estimated outlay upon it up to 31st March was a sum of £9,000.  Is that a picture that pleases the contemplative farmer&mdash;a little agricultural nation of some 31⁄4 millions of a population building palaces in the city?  There was a time of prosperity centuries ago when these buildings could be afforded and when the high artistic sense of the population in the city in those days could gratify itself with them.  Are we cutting our coat according to our cloth?  Who are we that can afford those luxuries or spend the money of the citizens on them?  Deputy Cooper is right to demand that every man sincere in his protestations against Governmental extravagance should vote with him on this. 
     Amendment put. 
     The Committee divided: Ta, 12; Nil, 47. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig Baxter. John J. Cole. John Conlan. Bryan R. Cooper. Connor Hogan. Seamus Mac Cosgair. 
             Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick J. Mulvany. Criostoir O Broin. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Padraig O hOgain (Luimneach). 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Proinsias Bulfin. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. James Dwyer. Seamus Eabhroid. Michael Egan. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. David Hall. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Donnchadh Mac Con Uladh. Liam Mac Cosgair. Sean Mac Curtain.
 Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fadain. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Patrick McGilligan. Seoirse Mas Niocaill. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. 
             Martin M. Nally. Tomas de Nogla. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Ailfrid O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Tomas O Conaill. Parthalan O Conchubhair. Mairtin O Conallain. Aodh O Culachain. Seamus O Dolain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Domhnall O Muirgheasa.
 Tadhg O Murchadha. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean O Raghallaigh. Mairtin O Rodaigh. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Cooper and Magennis.  Nil: Deputies Dolan and Tierney.  Amendment declared lost. 
     Sitting suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 7.45 p.m.,  AN CEANN COMHAIRLE  in the Chair. 
     
      
       There is one point I wish to raise on sub-head B.  I would like to know from the Parliamentary Secretary what he proposes to do with the burned-out and ruined coastguard stations on the sea coast in the Western area.  Does he propose to have these ruined buildings reconstructed, or is it his policy to allow them to remain in their present condition&mdash;a perpetual eyesore to the public?  Some of these sites, I imagine, could be sold at fancy prices for the erection of summer residences for shopkeepers in the Western towns.  Some of them would be very suitable as building sites.  I know very well that the Board of Works has a difficulty with regard to the letting of these sites, and that the Parliamentary Secretary is not entirely a free agent with regard to their disposal. I think it, is time he should be in a position to say what his policy is with regard to the future of these buildings. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know from the Parliamentary Secretary what he proposes to do with regard to the burned-out military barracks at Ballinrobe. There is a great want of housing accommodation in Ballinrobe, and these buildings might be capable of being converted into dwellings. There is also a large field of about six acres of land.  The people of the town are anxious to get possession of this land for use as a public park.  The townspeople have no proper park, and they are anxious to get possession of this land, which is within reach of them.  I would like to know from the Parliamentary Secretary if he could think of any way of meeting them in the matter. 
     
     
      
       In reply to Deputy Roddy's question, we generally endeavour to find out first whether the coastguard stations are required for Government purposes.  If not, we endeavour to let them on the most favourable terms.  With regard to the question of Deputy Sears, I would have to look into that matter, as I am not sure that we have Ballinrobe barracks at all. 
     
     
      
       On several occasions I have approached the Board of Works with regard to unoccupied coastguard houses in my area.  There is a large coastguard station at Malin Head. One or two houses are occupied by the Civic Guard, but I think there are four houses vacant.  About two years ago I approached the Department to get one of these houses for an operator at the Marconi Wireless Station at Malin Head.  An engine attendant named MacDermott sent in an application for one of these cottages about a year and a half ago.  A wireless operator named Long, a County Cork man, also applied for one of them.  I asked questions in the House on different occasions about this, and was answered most courteously by the Minister for Finance, who stated that the applications were still under consideration.  I suppose they are still under consideration.  I do not think it should take one and a half years to arrive at a decision as to whether you are going to give possession of two unoccupied coastguard stations to two deserving employees in the Post Office Department.  MacDermott is a married man with a small family, and Long is in the same position. Housing accommodation in the area is very scarce.  I put it seriously to the Parliamentary Secretary that the applications of these men should be considered at once, and that the houses should be given to them without any further delay.  I am not taking any   exception to the Parliamentary Secretary's predecessor, because any time I approached him he was most courteous. He was courteous even when he did not give me anything. 
     
     
      
       On sub-head J (1), 1 gave notice to the Parliamentary Secretary yesterday that I intended to raise the question of the drainage of outer Lough Erne and of the constructional works in the Lough Erne area. Under the 1924 Act the drainage boards in that district have been given certain promises, and as in the case mentioned by Deputy White, on another sub-head, that is as far as they have gone, I think it right to say that more than twelve months ago a deputation approached the Department, and through the intervention of Deputy Cole, certain promises were made as to what would be done by the Board of Works in that district. Undoubtedly the works on the River Erne demand immediate attention.  As a result of the floods over a very large area very considerable losses indeed have been sustained by the people in that district.  The flooding was to a great extent responsible for the cattle losses through fluke in the winter of 1924. It was intimated to me in this House more than six months ago that an effort would be made to start work on the Erne before the month of May. Certain matters in connection with the carrying out of work have gone before the County Council of Cavan. I think the initial steps lie with the Board of Works. 
     
     I want to impress on the Parliamentary Secretary the fact that thousands of acres of land in that part of Cavan are, year after year, very seriously damaged by these floods.  The expenditure of money on the improvement of that drainage district is an urgent need. Promises have been made that certain sums would be forthcoming, but nothing has yet been done.  As far as I can see no preparations have been made so far to start work.  Several meetings of the drainage boards have discussed the possibility of work being carried out.  I suggest to the Parliamentary Secretary that if anything   is to be done this year it ought to be started now.  Over that whole constituency, as far as I know, no work has been done, nor have any grants been given for the improvement of the existing drainage works.  There is not in the Saorstat an area more deserving of consideration than this one.  Engineers have gone there and reported on the condition of the works.  If anything is going to be done I suggest that a definite statement ought to be made as to what is to be done, and when it is likely the work will start. If nothing is going to be done, then it would be well to let us know that, as then we need not expect anything. 
     
      
       I raised a question on the Local Loans Fund last night, but was told it was not in order. Perhaps I can raise it on this sub-head.  It deals with the case of farmers who apply for loans for drainage in which a reservation has been imposed by the Board of Works that a loan will not be granted to any holder whose valuation is under £7.  I contend that is an impossible reservation as far as the County of Tirconaill is concerned.  The average valuation in that county is £8, and of course such a reservation rules out that county altogether with regard to any assistance that it could receive in that way.  We contend that in the County of Tirconaill a holding of something like £5 valuation is as economic as it is possible for it to be. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, I do not think this arises on this Vote, which deals with arterial drainage.  What the Deputy is referring to is thorough drainage&mdash;that is the drainage of fields. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister let me know on what Vote I can raise the question? 
     
     
      
       It would arise, I think, on the Local Loans Fund Vote which was dealt with yesterday, or I think it could be raised on the Board of Works Vote.  It certainly does not arise on this Vote. 
     
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary for the Board of Works responsible in any way for the matter that is being raised? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       For convenience we will allow Deputy McGoldrick to raise it here. 
     
     
      
       The argument is that there should not be any money spent on these holdings because they are uneconomic.  As regards the difficulty they are going to have in the office in relation to this matter, I think if the needs of the country are going to wait the office convenience, we are finished altogether.  These small-holders are entitled to the same advantages as the owners of holdings of high valuation.  The security on a holding of £5 valuation is as good as the security on a holding of £50 valuation proportionate to the amounts that these people will require for improving their holdings.  I feel that the sum of £7 that has been arbitrarily fixed must come down to at least £5, and that the benefits of this loan must be given to those who have holdings valued at from £5 upwards.  I hope the Parliamentary Secretary will see that that particular reservation is wiped out, and that the benefits of the scheme will be given to these small-holders. 
     
     With regard to sub-head J. 2, I feel very strongly with regard to the easygoing pace at which the Board of Works is proceeding, in connection with the Arterial Drainage Act.  They appear to be bound up in red tape, and they have got to burst these shackles. It was intended that the Act should come into operation at once.  Schemes have been sent forward by the county councils, but they have been held up. We were told, in answer to a question some time ago, that it was not expected that any money will be expended this year.  Why is this?  The law has been passed, the works are urgent and unemployment is acute.  Why will not these men, sitting behind files in Government offices, get a move on and try to give the people of the country the benefits that this House intended that they should get from these schemes? In my own county fourteen schemes   are held up at the present time.  For years before the Bill was passed various committees in the counties were working for these schemes, and it was largely through their energy that the Bill was forced through this House. Now it is held up, and why it is held up I do not know.  It seems to be only because of some official formality or technicality.  If legislation that is passed by this House to provide advantages for the people is not going to be given effect to until Tibb's Eve, there seems to be some ground for the amendment moved by Deputy Cooper. Why should we be passing money if Ministers are going to come back and say that the money we voted had not been spent?  We have an assurance from the Parliamentary Secretary that the money will be expended this year. Let us hope that that will be the case. Let us hope that the money provided by us will be expended, and that the Board of Works will take steps to get rid of formalities as far as possible, and get on with the works, because they are most urgent.  There is nothing more important in an agricultural area than arterial drainage.  We have little holdings of land bordering on each other that are constantly being flooded by a common river.  The people on these holdings are prepared to co-operate in getting the work done to protect their crops from flooding.  There is no return for the labour that is expended on these little bits of land, because of flooding.  The Board of Works should do what they can to speed up the work of this Arterial Drainage Act, and get rid of the delays which are altogether intolerable. 
     
      
       I wish to support the remarks of Deputy McGoldrick.  In County Westmeath a considerable number of schemes have been prepared in connection with drainage.  They have been approved by the County Surveyor; they have been forwarded to the Board of Works in the past six months.  It will be very interesting to me and, I am sure, to the House, to know what is the cause of all these schemes being held up.  We have been told that nothing is going to be done on them until next year.  It would be very interesting to know what is the   trouble.  Everyone agrees that there is no work that could be provided in the country that would be as beneficial as the reclamation of thousands of acres that are under water at the present time.  There never was a time when the work was as much needed as at present, in order to give employment to the persons who cannot obtain it otherwise.  The money that will be spent will be saved a thousand times over by the benefits that will be obtained in the reclaiming of the land It will be very interesting to know why the schemes are lying in the Board of Works office for the past six months without any sign of their being put into operation. 
     
     
      
       Last March twelvemonths a deputation interviewed the then Parliamentary Secretary and his engineer in connection with the Lough Oughter drainage scheme.  It was understood that this work of drainage was to be proceeded with immediately. I had several conversations during last summer with the Board of Works, and each time I was told that there would be something done before the end of the year.  The end of the year came; the beginning of this year came, and yet nothing has been done.  Now the prospects of it, according to a letter that I received from the Board of Works last week, are practically nil. We were told last year that the scheme would cost £60,000.  For some reason or other that Estimate has been cast aside and now it is maintained that it will cost a great deal more.  These people are paying to the present Drainage Board over £1,000 a year for nothing, while they see their crops being washed away season after season.  They are not getting any value whatever for that money.  We cannot afford to spend £60,000 but we are spending a lot of money in connection with unemployment.  We are giving doles out and encouraging men to idle. We have been trying to start credit societies and to do several things to relieve the farmers of the losses caused by fluke.  The only way to get rid of fluke is to drain the land.  Until we do that we can never get rid of the disease.  If the work is to be done at all it should be started immediately.   We ought to be told plainly whether it is going to be done or not.  If not, we must try some other means. 
     
     
      
       The Deputies who have spoken on this subject up to the present have all found fault with the Board of Works for not doing work that was publicly required.  I have to complain of the Board of Works for Engaging in work carried out on the quired&mdash;the work carried out on the river Lir, a tributary of that notorious river, the Barrow.  This river, some thirty-five or perhaps forty years ago, was subjected to an improvement scheme under the Board of Works.  I must say that they did a very good job on it.  When the county council came into operation the management of this river was given over to a special committee called the Lir Committee.  They met from time to time.  They had an engineer specially engaged to see that the river was maintained in good order and they voted annually a sum necessary to keep it in good order.  I do not know what representation was made to the Board of Works, but anyhow at the meeting of the Kildare County Council in July, 1925, a letter, dated the 4th July, was read from the Local Government Department saying that the Board of Works were about to carry out a scheme of improvements on the river Lir at an estimated cost of £4,300 and that the expenditure of that sum would entail a charge of 4/9 an acre on lands in the drainage district. Several members who were very well acquainted with the river expressed the opinion that this work was altogether unnecessary.  As I have said, the drainage of the river has been well maintained during the time it had been under the management of this committee of the county council.  No damage by flooding was being done by this stream.  I had personal knowledge of that myself because I farmed a considerable tract of land adjoining the river for eighteen or nineteen years and during that whole time I never saw my land invaded by floods except once and then the flooding only lasted twenty-four hours.  The county council at that meeting referred the matter to the Lir Drainage Committee, who came to the same conclusion&mdash;that the work   was unnecessary&mdash;in which opinion they were fortified by their engineer. At that time, as my friend Deputy Colohan will agree, there was considerable unemployment in the country as there is to-day and an Unemployment Committee was set up, composed partly of members of the council and of some people outside the council, for the purpose of trying to devise means of relieving unemployment.  A meeting was held on the 5th August, 1925, and the following resolution was agreed to: 
       Referring to the letter of the Commissioners of Public Works relative to the work proposed in the River Lir, suggesting that a contribution towards the cost of same should be made by the County Council of Kildare&mdash; 
       The Board of Works said they were about to advance thirty per cent. of the cost, and they asked the county council to make a contribution also&mdash; 
       we would point out that the work has been undertaken without the opinion of the county council as to the necessity or value of it as a reproductive work being obtained.  In view of this fact, we are not at present in a position to agree to consider that matter, and we have referred it to the Lir Drainage Committee, asking for their opinion and advice. 
       Amongst those present were John Conlan, Hugh Colohan, and George Wolfe, so that we had every section represented by its Parliamentary representative. At the same time, they went over other drainage works that might be carried out in the county. 
     
     The work was initiated on the 22nd July, and the county council had not had time or opportunity to give a considered opinion on the subject in the interval.  The imposition of a 4/9 rate per acre has caused the greatest dissatisfaction among the landholders concerned.  A deputation representing them has appeared before the county council to protest against this imposition being placed upon them without any benefit accruing.  They positively assrt that no benefit whatever will   accrue to them on account of this work. I should certainly like to have an explanation, and the people whom I represent would like to have an explanation, as to the reasons which actuated the Board of Works in going ahead so precipitately with this work, without any demand whatever being made by the county council or by the people affected.  Deputy Colohan said some time ago that a good job had been done in this connection.  I cannot contest that statement from personal knowledge, but the landholders hold an opposite opinion.  They say that a bad job has been done, and some of them assert that their land, which never had been flooded, is flooded now. 
     
      
       I desire to call the attention of the Parliamentary Secretary to the condition of the River Robe in South Mayo.  The Mayo County Council have complied with all the necessary formalities.  They have lodged the necessary petitions, maps and guarantees which are required under the Arterial Drainage Act, but nothing has been done since they were sent to the Board of Works Office.  In the Robe district over 4,000 acres of land are flooded from October to March, owing to the overflowing of the River Robe.  Last year, in this district, there were 38 houses flooded, and the inhabitants had to leave.  In addition, the Parish Church at Crossboyne has been flooded time and again.  I hope the Parliamentary Secretary will see that the necessary steps are taken by the Board of Works to have the drainage of the River Robe, the Westport River, and the River Moy carried out this season. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Conlan has spoken of the drainage of the River Lir.  He said that I asserted that the work was well done.  I have no personal knowledge of the work, but I have heard several responsible men say that it was a good drainage job.  It is only yesterday that I handed in a Parliamentary question calling the attention of the Minister for Finance to a resolution passed on the 4th of the present month by a Cumann na nGaedheal branch in the neighbourhood.   This resolution calls on the Minister to carry out further works on the Lir so as to relieve flooding.  If the river requires no improvement, I wonder why are these men sending a copy of this resolution to me and to the Minister for Finance.  Very few people heard of this river until it was brought up in this House.  It is 221⁄2 miles long.  I myself am of opinion that Deputy Conlan is altogether wrong when he contests the statement that good work has been done on this river. 
     
     
      
       I did not contest it at all. 
     
     
      
       I would like to call Deputy Conlan's attention to the fact that there was a deputation from the Board of Health with the Minister for Local Government sometimes early last year.  Many schemes were put up to relieve unemployment and to improve these drainage districts.  The Board of Works sent out their engineers to inspect and report.  As they have complete power to go in on any drainage district and to improve the drainage of any river where they consider it necessary, they were not bound to get the consent of the County Council. Although the farmers were clamouring for drainage schemes all over the County Kildare, when this scheme was started by the Board of Works, they kicked up their heels against the rate imposed.  It is the same way with all the drainage schemes.  They want the drainage schemes, but they are not inclined to pay for them.  I think we should speak out straight on this matter. We have more important drainage schemes than the Lir.  I think it is the duty of the farmers of the three counties&mdash;Kildare, Offaly and Leix&mdash;to come together and do their part in getting the Barrow drainage scheme into operation. 
     
     
      
       I wish to call the attention of the Parliamentary Secretary to the drainage of the Awbeg River.  For two years this work has been contemplated, but nothing has been done.  The County Council has done its part in advancing this scheme, but the Board of Works has done practically   nothing.  They had their engineers down there nearly twelve months ago and they made some pretence at going on with the scheme.  Now it has been held up, because they say they want a land valuer.  There are over 5,000 acres flooded there year after year, and many people are losing their cattle. The land would be an asset if it were properly drained.  The farmers there are prepared to pay for the cost of the scheme, but I am sorry to say that the Board of Works are taking no active steps in advancing the scheme.  I hope now that there is a change of Parliamentary Secretaries something will be done. 
     
     
      
       I should like to refer to the point dealt with by Deputy McGoldrick yesterday with regard to the valuation of these small holdings. It raises an important point for constituencies which contain a large number of small holders.  I would ask the Parliamentary Secretary if something could not be done to have the valuation limit reduced in cases where there are a large number of holdings with a valuation of about £5 and £7. 
     
     In regard to arterial drainage I think it is only fair to say&mdash;I have taken the trouble to make inquiries&mdash;that if there is delay we are ourselves responsible. We framed an Act of Parliament that provided for all sorts of inquiries and formalities.  The Board of Works, so far as I know, are making every effort to comply without delay with the provisions of the Act.  The procedure is necessarily slow, and that is the fault of the law more than of any thing else.  I would be glad if drainage work could be speeded up in any way, but I am satisfied that there is no undue delay on the part of the Board of Works.  There is, however, undue delay on the part of other bodies.  I should like to draw the attention of the Parliamentary Secretary to the fact&mdash;he has, of course, no control in the matter&mdash;that in some cases the county councils who have to take the first step are very slow.  I know of a county council to which a number of schemes were submitted six months ago.  The majority of these schemes are still pigeon-holed in the   county council office.  In the case of one scheme submitted to the Board of Works from Cork and sent back last November to the county council for amendment, it has not since been returned.  I dare say that the Board of Works have no control in these matters, but at all events they are not contributing to the delay. 
     In regard to the restoration of drainage districts, I have had experience of one scheme which the Board of Works carried out in the County Cork. The work was extremely well done. The Board came to the people's assistance when employment was very badly needed there.  The scheme improved hundreds of acres of land and it was generally conceded that the work was well carried out.  We have a number of other existing drainage areas and while the charge for restoration might be high on the occupiers, from what I know of the farmers there, they are willing and anxious to bear any reasonable charge imposed upon them.  I mention that point in order to urge on the Parliamentary Secretary the need for further work of the very useful and desirable kind his Department has already carried out in regard to the restoration of existing drainage areas in Cork County. 
     
      
       I do not think it is sufficient reason to urge for the Board of Works or any other authority going into a district and carrying out works of this description, that unemployment is rife and something must be done to relieve it.  It is not good enough to tax people for work that is not necessary.  I do not know personally or in detail the merits of the case from Kildare.  I listened to a deputation who came up to explain the position here and I was struck by what was said by a number of men who seemed to know what they were talking about.  If the land has benefited to the extent that is suggested, I am quite satisfied, but if it has not benefited and if it was not needed nothing would justify it. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, may I remind Deputy Gorey that at the head of this river   the lands are flooded.  These lands are in the Deputy's own constituency, and some of his constituents have written to me asking me to use my influence with the Board of Works to get them to complete the scheme. 
     
     
      
       That is quite true. Except it is done in the lower regions, there is no use doing it in the upper regions.  That is what we complain about.  There is no use in dealing with the source of the stream and regulating the flow and fall of the water unless it is done right down along.  I have a report here of a meeting at which Deputy Colohan was present and I see that he agreed to the resolution which was passed. 
     
     
      
       What resolution was passed? 
     
     
      
       This resolution which was proposed by Mr. Connor and seconded by Mr. Carroll. 
     
     
      
       That man is dead. 
     
     
      
       I understand that Mr. Carroll was a member of Mr. Colohan's party. 
     
     
      
       I would rather hear criticism of this Vote. 
     
     
      
       The great thing is that this work should be necessary for the sake of improving the land.  I would ask the Board of Works and the Minister not to be led away by the representations made to them.  They should not listen to people who come and object to these lands being drained. These people come up and tell you that if a certain area is drained all the water will be let down on their land. We have several of that class of people in the country and I hope that the Board of Works will pay no attention to them.  The water is flowing away. 
     
     
      
       I can tell the Deputy that the water is flowing the other way. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy is able to convince me that the water can flow against the hill he is a genius.  I am not referring to Kildare in this connection, but I am referring to the objection that is made to several schemes all over   the country by people in the lower reaches who object to the upper reaches being drained.  I have no sympathy with people in any area where real benefit is conferred upon them, where their area is drained and the value of their land improved.  I have no sympathy with people who say that the State must pay all the expenses and who refuse to contribute anything. They should be made to contribute their fair share.  They should realise that that class of land has been valued low because of its low-lying condition, whereas the people who are being asked to pay for the improvement of those lands are paying on a higher valuation and are paying larger annuities.  Anyone who is not prepared to pay his share for the improvement of his farm does not deserve to get any improvement. While we heard a lot about these schemes twelve months ago we now hear very little about them.  It is a question of going slowly and doing very little.  I do not know what is holding them up.  Though schemes have been approved by the county councils nothing seems to have been done.  I hope, however, that that state of affairs will be remedied and that a start will be made now, instead of waiting until 1927 when the elections come on, and when the spades will go hand-in-hand with the voting papers. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know what the intentions of the Department are in regard to the boards of trustees that existed in past years. In Galway the moneys are being collected year after year.  On the river Suck, for the past five years, no maintenance work has been done.  I do not know whether the moneys are being collected to pay the few officials in connection with the trustee board, but the moneys are being collected and people are being processed though no work is being done.  In the Corrib area, year after year, hundreds of acres are flooded.  Year after year there are surveyors' reports and levels are taken, but apparently we get no further. Though their lands are flooded the owners are being asked to pay annuities by the Land Commission.  The Corrib area affects nearly all North Galway   but, so far, we have heard nothing about work being done there. 
     
     
      
       I intended to deal with one matter, but I forgot to do so.  I intended to refer to the fact that in the 1923 Land Act, owing to representations made by us, authority is provided for the maintenance of waterways.  Previous Land Acts omitted those waterways, with the result that vast tracts of country have suffered.  What was everybody's business became nobody's business, and nothing was done.  On several estates which have been purchased within the last twenty or thirty years, the water system has been neglected, with the result that the land has deteriorated.  Considerable damage has been done, and it will need this new scheme to put things right.  I am not sure that it is not desirable that powers should be taken to make the maintenance of these waterways compulsory, even if we have to amend previous Land Acts.  This has been the cause of a great national loss for many years.  Deputy Colohan and Deputy Conlan know the condition of Barbawn, which was good land when I was coursing there thirty years ago. Now it is absolute waste, and there are two or three feet of water where, when I was a boy, there was no water.  The same thing applies to nearly all the estates that were purchased for the last thirty years.  I think legal power should be taken to deal with the problem, and that the Minister should pay particular attention to it. 
     
     
      
       There is a question which I have several times attempted to raise, and which can be brought in under this sub-head with the same propriety as under Vote 10. It refers to the Fergus drainage.  In connection with the supervision of the work at Ennis last year, there was a sum of £16,000 granted by the Board of Works, part of which was a grant, the balance being a loan raised, with some contribution from the county council, for the purpose of carrying out this drainage scheme.  Difficulties subsequently took place at Ennis.  Men could not be got to work for the wages which were offered, and the scheme   was held up for a considerable time.  It eventually proceeded.  Wages are one thing, but return is another thing, and the real criterion must be value.  I contend, and submit, that we got no value or, at least, the farmers whose lands were affected did not get value for the expenditure.  The wages were reasonable, but what was the output of work?  You had troops of men, numbering from 150 to 200, engaged in cleaning the stream, but I believe it would be hard to find a parallel for their slow rate of progress.  The proverbial worm is fast when compared to them.  It would be hard to analyse the cause of the slow rate of progress, but I think it was due to the men's hopes of getting high wages and finding themselves working for wages which, while not over-generous, were reasonable. 
     
     
      
       What were they? 
     
     
      
       35/- a week. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy live on that? 
     
     
      
       I have lived on less. 
     
     
      
       You do not show it. 
     
     
      
       The game apparently was to spread the work over an indefinite period, and it was a case of saying to the riparian owners, &ldquo;heads we win, tails you lose.&rdquo;  There was no return.  The men were there for weeks and weeks, and you would almost want a microscope to see what they achieved during that time.  It was to me a source of amusement, mingled with shame, to observe their activities on that river.  Nothing was doing.  You should have evidence of your eyesight before you could realise what they were doing.  It was the game of ca'canny reduced to a fine art. It was evidently intended to work in this way, namely, that more money would have to be put up if the scheme were to be completed.  Otherwise, without money on hand, the scheme would be left far from complete, with disastrous results to the riparian owners, and eventually the State would have to make a further grant.  It was   not desirable, taking all considerations into account, that the subvention should be increased for such work.  I cast around for a simile to describe the appearance of those reputed workers, willing workers as they are termed, and I could only find it in the slow motion pictures in a cinema.  They gave us a  tableau vivant.  
     
     
      
       As a number of rivers have been mentioned, I would ask the Parliamentary Secretary if the Government have made any arrangements with regard to the Barrow this year? 
     
     
      
       So much has been said about the slow motion of the Board of Works in this drainage business that I have very little to add.  I think that we in Co. Wexford had the fourth scheme with regard to arterial drainage on the books of the Board of Works.  It is about ten months since it was put on their books, and as far as I know, no move has been made yet. I believe an engineer did visit the district, but nothing whatever has been done.  The scheme is for a place where drainage is very badly required: several roads are flooded every winter owing to the fact that the rivers are not cleaned, and I would like the Parliamentary Secretary to urge on those who are to carry out this business the need for proceeding with it as soon as possible.  The fine weather is passing, and nothing has been done.  A few days ago I had occasion to ask a question with regard to the procedure with regard to a slobland in my county.  I was informed that it is the same, but if it is to be as slow as the one already on the books I am afraid that the slobland banks will be washed away before anything is done. 
     
     
      
       I would like to add my voice to that of Deputy Dwyer in urging that something should be done immediately in connection with the drainage of that hardy annual, the Barrow. 
     
     
      
       I think we ought to get the other things finished first.  I am anticipating a compact discussion on the Barrow drainage by itself.  We will take it separately. 
     
     
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary give us any idea as to how far the Department expects to get with the work under the Arterial Drainage Act this year?  Will it be possible for the Department to have the preliminary work, with regard to inspection and so on, in the case of most of the schemes which have been submitted by the county councils, carried out this summer?  If this work is not done this summer it will mean that the schemes will be put back for about two years, because in many cases inspections cannot be carried out in winter when the areas are flooded.  It seems to me that as only £15,000 is set down for the work, the Department does not expect to be able to do much, if any, actual work this year, but I would like to know what preliminary work they will be able to get done. 
     
     
      
       The Office of Works has been accused on the one hand of insisting on doing unnecessary work, and on the other hand of refusing to do very necessary and urgent work. With regard to the point that most Deputies have spoken on, the question of the amount of work likely to be done this year under the Arterial Drainage Act, the position is that we have actually received to date about 400 petitions. The procedure in respect to each one of these is shortly this: The first step after all the preliminaries have been complied with and the petition lodged in the Office of Public Works is that an engineer has to be sent down to inspect.  The number of engineers is limited.  We have 400 schemes, and we cannot send down an engineer on the same day to inspect each one of the 400.  For that we would require 400 engineers.  The number of these schemes actually ripe for dealing with up to the present is very limited.  I think only about twenty-eight have been inspected.  The engineer then makes his report, and a land valuer has to be sent down to estimate the value of the improvements on each holding affected by the scheme. The scheme is then drawn up and published and the occupants of the lands affected must vote on it.  Any objections must be heard, and a certain time   must be allowed in order to bring the scheme into operation. 
     
     
      
       When the Parliamentary Secretary says that twenty-eight schemes have been inspected, does he mean that in the case of twentyeight schemes the engineers have taken levels and made reports? 
     
     
      
       No, they make preliminary inspections and report as to whether the scheme is one that is likely to be carried out.  There is no reason for the Office of Public Works to delay this matter.  I suppose that most Deputies have got this little pamphlet issued by the Office of Public Works explaining the procedure under the Act. The Act was passed by this House; if the procedure is more round-about than it should be that is not the fault of the Department.  Another thing that it would be well to recollect is this, that most of these schemes did not come in until quite recently, and the engineers could not make their inspections while the rivers were in flood.  They were only able to start that work about two months ago. 
     
     Deputy Nally inquired about the rivers Robe and Moyle.  I am glad to be able to tell him that we have arranged to have these inspected almost immediately.  I think the question raised by Deputy Conlan was more or less satisfactorily answered by Deputy Colohan.  Deputy Noonan enquired about the Awbeg.  The drainage of that river is actually under consideration by the Department.  With regard to the question raised by Deputy Gorey, I understand that the Land Commission have the matter under consideration and that it is likely that legislation will be introduced to deal with it.  Deputy Baxter inquired about the Erne drainage. I have had enquiries made with regard to that and I find that the position is this, that in order to do any effective drainage work there the cost would be so very heavy that it is doubtful if the scheme would be a remunerative one.  We have had the matter under consideration again recently.  We have had it further inspected, and the chairman actually went down to inspect the place himself.  He is in consultation   at the moment with the chief engineer as to whether it is possible to do any work at all there, but I am not hopeful that it is. 
     Deputy Broderick asked about the River Suck Drainage Board proceeding for arrears.  I understand the position in that regard is that we have no control over that matter.  The Drainage Board themselves are responsible.  The Commissioners have advised the Drainage Board to endeavour to collect the arrears of rates, for the reason that unless they do it would be impossible for the work to be carried out as it should be.  The Deputy also asked a question as to the river Corrib.  I am afraid that at the moment there is not very much prospect of any work being carried out in that district during the present year.  Deputy McGoldrick repeated the question that he raised last night, when I think he was ruled out of order, as to the minimum amount of loans.  The minimum is £35.  The trouble about very small loans is this, that there is the same amount of expense in making the preliminary inquiries for a small loan as there is for a big loan.  After all, £35 is a small amount, and I think that if you were to make the minimum any lower than that you might eventually reach a state when you would be asked for a loan of 2/6, repayable in 35 years. 
     
      
       Why should the minimum be confined to £35 when the goodwill of the owner of the holding is worth at least 60 years' purchase of the valuation? 
     
     
      
       Because the relative cost of these very small loans means that it is an unfair burden on the taxpayer generally to have to make provisions for them. 
     
     
      
       I realise that, but I do not see why a £7 holding should be confined to a £35 minimum. 
     
     
      
       You must remember that the security is the security of the holding and not of the individual.  That is the only security we have.  The owner may die. 
     
     
      
       What would the annual charge be on a loan of £35? 
     
     
     
      
       About £6 10s. per cent. per annum if the loan is for about 30 to 35 years.  It would be between £6 10s. and £7. 
     
     
      
       Fifty pounds would work out at £3 5s. 0d.? 
     
     
      
       About that. 
     
     
      
       A valuation of £7 would be good security for an addition of £3 5s. 0d.  Land of that valuation that needed drainage might represent ten or fifteen acres, and the good that would be done to a farm of that description would be considerably in excess of a £3 5s. annual charge in value. 
     
     
      
       Five times the valuation is not enough to advance on a farm of that sort.  You could give a good deal more than that.  You could lower it to a £5 valuation and still give £35, which would be seven times the valuation. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary not be in favour of supporting the policy suggested by Mr. McGoldrick?  If the tenant recognised his liabilities in connection with any other debt to the State I would support him, because it would be money well spent. 
     
     
      
       The explanation of the Parliamentary Secretary with regard to the River Lir is most unsatisfactory. I think the only conclusion that the House can come to is that he has no satisfactory explanation to give. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Parliamentary Secretary&mdash;I do not know whether he thinks the matter worth replying to&mdash;to say whether the allegations made by Deputy Connor Hogan with regard to the work carried out under the supervision of the Board of Works on the River Fergus are true? 
     
     
      
       This is the only place where any complaint was made about the work done on the drainage schemes last year.  I can say that excellent work was done elsewhere. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that the reason why that was the only county from which a complaint   was made was because of the fact that Deputy Connor Hogan represents that county? 
     
     
      
       The Minister intimated that the work at Ennis was unsatisfactory. 
     
     
      
       There were some complaints from Ennis, and I must say that Deputy Connor Hogan was the principal complainant. 
     
     
      
       Have the complaints been investigated?  Are they found to be justifiable? 
     
     
      
       I would be slow to agree, but so far as my recollection goes there was bad work.  I am sorry to agree to such a statement.  The work was, possibly, not up to the standard of work done elsewhere; it was not good work. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the question was altogether one of bad work.  Was the Minister satisfied with the output? 
     
     
      
       That is what I mean by bad work; it is in that connection I mean that the work was bad.  I did not mean that from the engineering point of view the work was bad.  The output was bad. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that the output was not good enough? 
     
     
      
       Was the output all right in connection with the Lir drainage? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       It was all wrong and there should be no output at all there. 
     
     
      
       Had the Minister anything to say to the supervisor if he considered the output was defective? Is the bad output blamed upon the men or upon the supervision? 
     
     
      
       It is the business of the supervisor to see that the men give a proper output. 
     
     
      
       I want to refer to one   important point.  Does the Minister contend that where work is carried out it can be so carried out that the cost involved will not, in justice, be charged back on the land?  Does the Minister realise that land is worth only a certain amount, and will he agree that work can be carried out in such a slow way that the improvement will be made expensive and that, in justice to the occupier, the charge should not be placed on the land? 
     
     
      
       That is precisely one of the factors that is always taken into account&mdash;whether the land can bear the improvement. Hence the delays that Deputies are complaining of and hence the application of the arterial drainage scheme. That is the point that was made by the Parliamentary Secretary&mdash;that you cannot cast aside or tear away the red tape and get on with the work.  You first have to investigate whether the land will bear the proposed improvement. There is no suggestion that the land in any of the cases mentioned cannot, as far as we can judge, bear the extra charge.  It is usual in these matters first to say that the land can bear the extra charge; then when the work starts complaints are made that the land cannot bear the extra charge. That is almost the universal experience. 
       The River Lir was investigated and that was one of the relevant factors taken into account&mdash;whether the improvement there was a fair charge upon the land.  It must be remembered that all the improvement charge did not go on the farmers, or what Deputy Connor Hogan would call the riparian owners; fully 30 per cent. of the cost of the Lir improvement was borne by the State.  Deputy Conlan did not mention that.  It is quite possible Deputy Conlan has a holding beside the River Lir and it is not flooded.  That happens with every river.  There are certain areas that are never flooded, but it does not follow that there is not severe flooding elsewhere. 
     
     
      
       I have a thorough knowledge of the whole river and I never knew flooding of a serious nature to take place. 
     
     
     
      
       The only solution of this problem that I can see is that there should be a plebiscite of all the people of the district.  That was not provided for in the Act of 1924. but it seems to be the only way out of the matter. 
     
     
      
       The work that has been carried out on the River Lir will bring no improvement to the land. 
     
     
      
       That is always said after the work is done and when the time for payment comes on. 
     
     
      
       Why were the people not consulted before the work was undertaken? 
     
     
      
       They could not be consulted under the 1924 Act. 
     
     
      
       You ought to take some heed of the probable result of your work. 
     
     
      
       With reference to the reply of the Minister, which I did not consider at all satisfactory, is it not a fact that I drew his attention to the conditions existing there about nine months ago? 
     
     
      
       So I have said. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister order an inquiry to be made? Did he have any confidential report transmitted from the area?  Will he give that report to the Committee? 
     
     
      
       I have not charge of that report.  We inquired whether there was any justification for the Deputy's complaint. 
     
     
      
       Was there? 
     
     
      
       We allowed the work to go on. 
     
     
      
       Did you not change your overseer? 
     
     
      
       We did not consider there was justification for what the Deputy stated. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister at this stage have an inquiry instituted into the matter?  I will be prepared to produce ample evidence in   support of my contention that the money was wasted and that there was no return for the money spent.  There was deliberate idleness prevailing. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state whether the alleged idleness and slackness on the part of the workers in Clare were in any way responsible for the election of Deputy Connor Hogan? 
     
     
      
       That is irrelevant. 
     
     
      
       The Parliamentary Secretary has thrown a lot of the blame for the delay that has occurred on the Act as it stands.  I understand it was drafted by the Board of Works or by the Parliamentary Secretary himself. If it is cumbersome and hard to make operative, he should not throw any responsibility on the county councils or on the people concerned.  I suppose the Dail should have more carefully examined this measure and not have left it as cumbersome as the Parliamentary Secretary says it is.  I believe the Act was hatched by the Board of Works, and, in the circumstances, they have no reason to complain if it is cumbersome. 
     
     
      
       There is no complaint to the effect that the Act is cumbersome.  It was, in fact, necessary that it should be cumbersome. Otherwise you would have complaints made by Deputy Gorey that people were being charged for benefits which they had not received and which they had no possibility of receiving.  As to the delay on the part of the county councils, the Parliamentary Secretary has pointed out that most of last summer was allowed to go by, and it was only, in fact, at the beginning of winter that any schemes began to come in from the county councils.  Inspection at that time of the year was out of the question. 
     
     
      
       I regret to have to contradict the Minister.  The scheme from Wexford was in long before the winter. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me, from what knowledge I have been able to glean since this Act was passed, that   very few Deputies can gauge how long it will take before work on one of these schemes will start.  There should be some definite information given on that point.  It seems to me that the starting of drainage work under the Act even next year is a remote possibility.  The Parliamentary Secretary told us that several hundred schemes have been received and that twenty-one of these have been subjected to preliminary inspection. We gather that inspection means the visit of an inspector to see whether drainage is required.  Following a decision as to whether drainage is required, if the decision is in favour of a scheme an engineer has to take levels over the whole area.  All that has to be done effectively if the drainage scheme is to be a sound proposition. 
       Unless the Board of Works are prepared to increase their staffs by, perhaps, five times, the possibilities of having drainage works carried out even next year, under the present policy of the Board of Works, is remote.  There should be some definite statement regarding the policy of the Department in this matter.  It is not sufficient to pass it over this evening with the sort of understanding that if we are not going to have drainage schemes this year we will next year.  There should be a definite statement as to whether there is a possibility of starting these drainage schemes this year. 
     
     
      
       It does not really lie with the Office of Public Works to decide when it will be possible to start a drainage scheme.  The people concerned have to make some move in the matter.  Preliminary investigations have to be carried out before any scheme arrives at the stage when we can deal with it.  If any schemes are decided upon between now and the end of the autumn, it is our intention to have work started, but the starting of schemes does not depend entirely on the Department. 
     
     
      
       With the present staff, and in view of the very tedious work of taking levels and carrying out other preliminaries, is the Parliamentary Secretary prepared to tell us that work will be started this autumn? 
     
     
     
      
       I cannot give any undertaking at all.  If the other persons concerned in particular schemes carry out their part of the preliminaries, we will do our best to have work started on some of the schemes this year. 
     
     
      
       In regard to sub-head J. 4, I want to have an explanation of how the sum of £20,000 arises in the Estimates in connection with the cost of preliminary works.  Has that been expended in the way of making surveys, taking levels and making plans, etc., or has any consideration been given to any less expensive scheme than that outlined by the eminent Swiss engineer who made a report on the river some two years ago? I regret that Deputy Davin, who is a noted protagonist of the Barrow Drainage Scheme, is not present.  I do not know if there is any use in going very fully into the matter, because I am afraid the scheme is getting more shadowy every day, and I do not know that there is any great prospect of the matter being dealt with this session. Probably it will be relegated to 1927. 
     
     
      
       On this question, there is in this Estimate&mdash; Vote 11&mdash;a sum under J. 4 of £20,000 for the cost of preliminary works.  In Vote No. 10, which is for the Public Works Office, there is also provision for a Barrow drainage staff and, I think, if it meets the views of the Committee, it would be simpler to have the whole discussion, in so far as it would relate to the Barrow, on this Vote, allowing the latitude it has become customary to allow on this particular matter of the Barrow drainage. 
     
     
      
       There are so many queries of a peculiar kind being put to the Parliamentary Secretary that I desire to add my quota.  Would he explain what are &ldquo;bothy women&rdquo; and &ldquo;propagators?&rdquo; He will find the reference to them on page 57. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Conlan asked whether the sum of £20,000 was for preliminary engineering expenses. It is not.  These engineering expenses are provided for in the other Vote. This sum of £20,000 is for preliminary   work in clearing the channel of the river Barrow, and we hope to be able to expend that amount this year.  The position, generally, with regard to the Barrow scheme is this: Professor Meyer-Peter in his report on page 39, paragraph 6, stated:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Daily observations exist for the water surface at the gauges on the navigation locks.  At a suitable place the connection between any one of the gauges and the volume of flow should be determined by current metre.  By this means it will be possible to determine the water conditions of the Barrow for all years for which water gauge readings are available.  This investigation will take more than a year.  From now on the water gauges in general should be observed by the State. The author considers this provision absolutely essential in order to check later the results of the proposed regulation.&rdquo; 
     
     The observations which he directed to be made have been made by the engineering staff of the Office of Public Works.  In the month of February last there was a record flood.  All during that period measurements were taken which provided us with data that we never previously had.  A great many people talk about the Barrow.  They talk about it on the basis that for the last hundred years it has been said that it is going to be drained and they believe it is never going to be drained. But no one ever took the trouble before of taking these particular measurements. They have had one very important result, which is this, that we have got a figure somewhat lower than the figures that were the basis upon which Professor Meyer-Peter prepared his report.  That being so, Professor Meyer-Peter was invited by the Government shortly before Whitsuntide to come across to Dublin.  He arrived here during the past week and is at present in consultation with the engineering staff of the Office of Public Works with a view to advising us as to whether these new measurements that we have got would result in any modification of the scheme he put forward. I think he is actually down in   the Barrow area to-day, and will certainly be here for some days to come. 
     
      
       Would the Minister say on what particular reaches of the river Barrow it is intended to spend money this year? 
     
     
      
       I think the statement made by the Parliamentary Secretary is very satisfactory inasmuch as he tells us that it may be possible to modify the scheme of Professor Meyer-Peter. The people who are interested in this matter, those in the three counties, will have to bear a 50-50 contribution if the Government persist in asking that.  On an estimated expenditure of £1,150,000 it would be impossible to expect the people to pay half that sum.  Men who have given a life-study to this question, engineers amongst them, consider that the drainage should be carried out satisfactorily for a much less sum. 
     
     
      
       Men who have made a life-study of the question have not, I take it, any measurements.  They just do not want to pay. 
     
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary say on what particular reaches of the river they are going to spend money? 
     
     
      
       I am sorry, I could not.  With regard to Deputy Johnson's question about &ldquo;bothy women.&rdquo;  I understand &ldquo;bothy&rdquo; is a word of Scotch origin, and that these ladies look after the houses in the Phoenix Park in which the gardeners live. 
       Vote 11 put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. - VOTE 10&mdash;PUBLIC WORKS OFFICE. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £73,600 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun iochta an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1927, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na nOibreacha Puibli. (1 agus 2 Will. 4, c. 33, a. 5 agus 6; 5 agus 6 Vict., c. 89, a. 1 agus 2; 9 agus 10 Vict., c.86, a. 2, 7 agus 9; 10 Vict., c.32. a.3; 33 agus 34 Vict., c.46, a.42; 40 agus 41 Vict., c.27; 44 agus 45 Vict., c. 49, a. 31, etc.). 
     
     
        That a sum not exceeding £73,600 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1927, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of Public Works.  (1 and 2 Will. 4, c. 33, ss. 5 and 6; 5 and 6 Vict., c.89, ss. 1 and 2; 9 and 10 Vict., c. 86, ss. 2, 7 and 9; 10 Vict., c.32, s. 3; 33 and 34 Vict., c. 46, s. 42; 40 and 41 Vict., c. 27; 44 and 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 31, etc.). 
     
      
       This Estimate shows a net increase of £5,375 over last year. The increase of £11,628 on Sub-head A is made up in this way: There is a sum of £3,059 for the staff of engineers working on the Barrow scheme, which is a new service.  There is a sum of £5,640 for 12 senior temporary engineers, and £1,500 for fees to land valuers for arterial drainage work. These are also new items.  There is an increase of 6, from 4 to 10, in the staff of temporary architectural assistants, and an increase of three, 9 to 12, in the staff of temporary clerks of works to deal with the large new building works in Dublin and of Garda Siochana barracks throughout the country.  These two increases account for £2,385.  There is £600 for an inspector of agricultural buildings taken over from the Department of Agriculture.  These items make a total of £13,182, and there are other casual increases and decreases on the sub-head which account for the difference between £13,182 and the net increase of £11,628. 
     
     
      
       I desire to ask the Parliamentary Secretary if he is satisfied with the staff of the Board of Works for the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925.  I can see that a question like this from me suggests that there should be an increase of staff, but I want to know what the point of view of the Parliamentary Secretary is as to the capacity of the present staff to deal with the work that is before them and will come before them under the 1925 Drainage Act.  If the position be, as it is likely to be, that the number of competent engineers in the Department is few and that the work they will have to face in the next few years is greater than any work they had to face in this   country in our time, I think the Parliamentary Secretary should take steps to see that the Department is equipped in such a way as to ensure that these drainage works generally will be started and carried on as a whole over the country, and that we will not be in the position we are likely to be in if these arrangements are not made of having one particular district or county catered for to an extent out of all proportion to what the people in another district or county feel they are entitled to. 
       I hope we will not have the position, say, in a county of having schemes carried through in one part of it while other parts in an equally bad way are left entirely neglected.  The Parliamentary Secretary can, I am sure, appreciate the position that will be created if anything such as I have suggested takes place.  If there is to be general satisfaction in the manner in which these drainage schemes are carried out, I suggest that the Office of Public Works should be equipped in such a manner as to leave as little ground as possible for complaint.  I recognise that even with the best of good will and the best effort possible it will be difficult for the Department, in facing these big problems under the Drainage Acts, to give satisfaction.  Undoubtedly if we find that certain parts of a county are getting a preference over other parts in the carrying out of works, then there is going to be general dissatisfaction, and the possibilities are that in order to compensate people for the disappointments they will experience if such a thing happens, there will be demands on the finances of the State I urge on the Parliamentary Secretary that that is an aspect of the problem that deserves his very special consideration, because undoubtedly the administrative work as regards the carrying out of schemes under this Act is going to be a very big problem indeed. 
     
     
      
       I desire to ask the Parliamentary Secretary a question with reference to the provision in the Estimates for two Commissioners.  I want to know when we had two Commissioners, or whether it is or is not a fact that the office of one Commissioner   has been vacant for quite a considerable time past.  I want to know whether it is the intention of the Government to fill this office.  If it is not the intention of the Government to do so, I suggest that the provision of £1.200 in the Estimate for the office inflates the Vote, and I contend that should not be.  There is a further point I want to make with reference to the previous Vote.  I do not know whether it is worth while renewing it or not. 
     
     
      
       Surely no point can be renewed. 
     
     
      
       This is with reference to the river Fergus.  I submit it affects the whole policy of the Board of Works.  Were they or were they not aware of the conditions that did exist, and still are alleged to exist, at Ennis? 
     
     
      
       It is out of all reason and without any regard for order, that after the discussion we have had on Vote 11, the Deputy should, on another Vote twenty minutes later calmly say that he is going to renew the matter.  It is purely unreasonable to do that. 
     
     
      
       I submit that the policy of the Department is under discussion on this Vote as well as on the previous one. 
     
     
      
       I have no doubt in my mind that a question which was adequately discussed on Vote 11 is not going to be discussed on Vote 10.  Nothing that the Deputy can submit will alter that. 
     
     
      
       In reply to Deputy Baxter's query with regard to the number of engineers available for work on arterial drainage, it is very difficult to increase a staff of that kind.  It is not easy to get men who have the necessary qualifications for doing that class of work.  On the other hand, it must not be assumed for a moment that all the drainage in Ireland is going to be done in one year.  We are not going to work off the arrears of one hundred years in one year.  If we find, in the course of time, that the engineering staff is not able to keep up with the amount of work we think should be done we will consider the matter.  There is also this   factor: According as we get rid of the old work under the 1924 Act, there will be several engineers and inspectors available for the work under this Act. In that way we may be able to speed up matters.  Deputy Connor Hogan raised a question about the number of Commissioners.  The Board was created by statute and it was provided that there should be a Chairman and two Commissioners.  One of the Commissionerships has been vacant since the year 1923, and is still vacant.  If Deputy Connor Hogan feels any grievance about that we can remedy it by appointing a man.  I do not know whether he wants that. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Then we will leave it so, and it will be all right. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. - VOTE 3&mdash;DEPARTMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £8,846 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1927, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Roinn Uachtaran na hArd-Chomhairle. 
       That a sum not exceeding £8,846 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1927, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Department of the President of the Executive Council. 
     
     
      
       The amount of the Vote for this Department is less by £1,178 than the figure of £15,024 voted for the year 1925-26.  Sub-head A, covering salaries, wages and allowances, totals £12,446, which is £478 less than the Vote for last year.  The reduction is due to the omission of the allowance of £150 for an additional A.D.C.  This office was discontinued towards the end of last year.  It is also due to the fact that the provision for two chauffeurs no longer appears on this Vote&mdash;they are supplied now by the Defence Forces and their pay is borne on the Army   Vote&mdash;and to the fact that the charge for messengers and cleaners has been reduced by £520, due for the most part to the dissolution of the protective force employed at Government Buildings. 
     
     As against these reductions there are increases on account of ordinary annual increments which are offset by a reduction in bonus due to the fall of the cost-of-living figure.  There is included a figure of £650 for additional temporary assistance.  At the time when the Estimate was being prepared it was believed that certain additional work would arise in the Department during the year which would necessitate a temporary increase in the staff. It now appears probable that the volume of this work will not be so great as had been contemplated and it is hoped that it will be possible to effect a considerable saving under that head. Another saving on this Vote which could not be foreseen when the Estimates were being prepared is the appointment of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Executive Council to a similar post in the Department of Finance.  The Parliamentary Secretary to the Executive Council, in addition to duties arising directly out of the work of that office has been engaged on a large number of Committees and Commissions. He has been a member of the Army Pay Commission, of various committees dealing with pensions questions, and for the past six or seven months has had to devote a very large proportion of his time to the Military Service Pensions Board.  He will continue to act on that Board until it has concluded its labours.  There is a reduction under Sub-head B of £250 on the previous year's figures.  The expenditure up to 31st March was, approximately, £300, and on this basis the provision of £500 might appear to be excessive.  It should be remembered, however, that this sub-head bears the cost of the travelling expenses and subsistence allowances of any Minister or Parliamentary Secretary when he travels on the general business of the State rather than on the business of his own particular Department and that a certain amount of expenditure is likely to be incurred in connection with the   conference due to take place under Article 6 of the Treaty and the Annex thereto.  The charges under this head often arise from contingencies which it is impossible to foresee, and hence it is not possible to estimate with the same degree of accuracy as in the case of other sub-heads. 
     Incidental expenses shows a reduction of £100.  As regards telegrams and telephones, from figures supplied by the Department of Posts and Telegraphs it was ascertained that the sum to be provided for the portion falling to be borne by this Vote of the total charge of telephone services in the Government Buildings was £210.  The expenditure on telegrams to 30th November was £20 12s. 2d., and to March 31st approximately £40. Forty pounds is, accordingly, being provided for the current year.  As regards the motor-car allowance, I mentioned last year that it was proposed to have that a separate item.  In the Estimate which was submitted to the Finance Department last year it was estimated that something like 25,000 miles would be covered during the period.  As far as I can judge from the figures, it is calculated that four-fifths was either on State work, that is, on journeys of State, or work for distinguished visitors who would honour us with their presence here, and I have the use of the car.  It was calculated that allowing for depreciation a sum of something like £300, that the cost to myself would be about £150 in the year, leaving £500.  The accounts for the full year have not yet been sent in, but as far as I can judge they were approximately correct.  The only reference I have to make to it is on the basis that the depreciation was for £300, and the depreciation in the coming year would not be so great.  From an examination of the usual figures in connection with depreciation, in the case of an ordinary car covering 7,000 miles or probably 10,000 a year the depreciation in the first year is 30 per cent.  That is, the car would be worth 70 per cent. of its cost at the end of the year, but in the case of a car covering 25,000 miles, the depreciation would be much more than 30 per cent.  I think it was calculated at   40, 42 or 43 per cent., which was how the £300 was arrived at.  References have been made to this car, that it did no other than private work which the ordinary person would have engaged in.  That is not the case.  In that connection I should say that in the year 1924 there was a period of something like two or three months in which I did not see the car once, as it was engaged on other work during that period.  I think that completes the various items. 
     
      
       There is a matter that I want to raise as a preliminary. On the Vote for the Office of the Minister for External Affairs, certain questions arose touching relations between the Saorstat and the Government of Northern Ireland, and the President volunteered the statement that if any matter of that nature was to be discussed it would be better to discuss it on the Vote for the Executive Council.  I, therefore, am raising the question whether any representations are being made or have been made regarding the espionage system. the shadowing of citizens of the Saorstat when they pay visits to Northern Ireland.  I have particularly in mind the case of a one-time colleague in this House who has been subjected to a kind of shadowing that is certainly, to say the least of it, very annoying, and not at all suggestive of the good relations which it had been hoped had arisen.  I do not want to go into details, but I make the assertion as far as one can take a detailed story of one who can be trusted, that the shadowing by police of public men going from the Saorstat to their friends and relatives in the North, is steady and constant, and has the effect of perpetuating, or, shall I say, rather prolonging, the ill-will that has been complained of.  There can be no good reason whatever for the system of shadowing that has been followed, and it seems to me desirable that some public expression of opinion in this House should be made in this regard. I think I need say no more on that subject. 
     
     
      
       I had not any notice of that particular question, and   this is the first time I heard of it.  I do not know that I could be called upon to express any opinion on it.  I do not know that anything I would say on the matter would conduce towards more friendly relations.  I am not a judge of what the Northern Government ought to do in these matters.  The Northern Government has got its own business to attend to, and I am satisfied, from the experience that we had in last December and from at least one incident since that, that there is no desire on the part of the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland to do anything which would tend towards perpetuating bad feeling, and that he was equally anxious with us for much more cordial and friendly relations. 
     
     
      
       I have down a motion to reduce sub-head A by £1,000. The Minister has more or less conceded the point.  The object of the reduction is to deprive the Ministry of the power to spend £1,000 on a Parliamentary Secretary to the President, in addition to the Parliamentary Secretary to the Executive Council.  I rather gathered from the President's statement that he does not intend to have the two posts filled.  If that is the case, there is no need for any further discussion, and we will be able to agree, no doubt, to the reduction.  If I am wrong in that assumption, then I want to make the case that there is no necessity for voting a sum of £1,000 for a Parliamentary Secretary to the President, in addition to £1,200 for a Parliamentary Secretary to the Executive Council.  I do not think the circumstances justify this Vote.  We have one Parliamentary Secretary provided for, and I think that is sufficient.  I move, therefore, the reduction of this sub-head by £1,000. 
     
     
      
       As I said, it is not intended at present to fill this office. To put it even more strongly, there is no intention in anybody's mind to fill this office.  But I do not think that it is accordingly advisable to exclude this amount from the Estimate.  These Estimates were framed in January.  They were then corrected.  It might happen during the year that it would be necessary to fill this office.  That might happen through circumstances over which we would have no control.  Apart from   that, I do not think it at all likely that the post will be filled during the year. I think it is most unlikely.  I do think that it would be inadvisable to reduce the Estimate by £1,000, simply because the office is not now existent. It would mean that in respect of practically every volume of Estimates that has been issued to the public, a correction should be made, for no other purpose than simply to recite the historical fact that this office is not now filled and that there is no intention to fill it. 
     
     
      
       I am astonished at the financial doctrine preached by the President, who has had experience as Minister for Finance.  The Estimate has been printed and a motion has been put to the Dail asking for the grant of a certain sum of money, which includes £1,000 for a particular office.  It is then stated that the Estimate has been revised, that this officer is not to be appointed.  But still we are asked to make a grant for his salary.  Lest the public who buy copies of the Estimates might be disconcerted to find that there had been any change in the Estimate, it is thought undesirable to make any change in the Vote. 
       The President should realise that, if we grant this sum, it will be within the power of his Department, without any question raised, to spend that £1,000 on other offices, a saving on one sub-head being available to meet an excess upon another. 
     
     If the Dail grant this sum, it will be an indication that the Dail is satisfied to pay this sum.  The President says that it is not intended to fill the post but that circumstances may arise in the future which would warrant the filling of the post.  That exactly raises the question that we have discussed, time after time, about the inadvisability of over-estimating and seeking more than is required to meet possible contingencies. It is very much better financial policy to require the Executive Council to come again for a supplementary vote for services that are not foreseen than to make a demand at the beginning of the year for a sum to meet possibilities.  In this case it is made clear to us that there is no need for the money.  The President says &ldquo;You must vote the money, even though we do not need it.&rdquo;  I say that is very unsatisfactory financial policy and I will certainly press my amendment, so as to test the view of the House as to whether they are willing to vote sums of money which, we are told, are not required and will not be required. 
     
      
       I think the President would be well advised to take the view that Deputy Johnson has suggested. If there is one estimate more than another in which an amendment of this description is justified it is this Estimate. We have here a Parliamentary Secretary to the Executive Council at £1,200 a year, a Parliamentary Secretary to the President at £1,000 a year, a Secretary to the Executive Council at £1,200 a year and an Assistant Secretary at £794.  I think there is no justification whatsoever for the continuance of four secretaries.  An opportunity has been given the Executive Council to dispense with one of these secretaries without interference with any particular person and I do not see why this money should be provided for a position that the Executive Council might take the notion to fill within the next month or two months or ten months.  I do not see the usefulness of this procedure.  The President would, I think, be well advised to take the line Deputy Johnson has suggested. If not, I hope Deputy Johnson will put his amendment to a division.  If not.  I will certainly put it to a division, in order to find if the House has any sense of proportion and if Deputies will take the right line and go into the right Lobby. 
     
     
      
       This amendment puts one rather in a quandary.  The position is that, when the Estimates were prepared, they provided for the inclusion of a Parliamentary Secretary to the President.  At that time, the Parliamentary Secretary was operating.  The President assures us that there is no intention at present, and as far as he knows that there will be no intention in the future, of filling that position.  Deputy Johnson puts down an amendment to reduce the Vote by £1,000, that being the amount down for this position which the President says there is no intention to fill.  I thoroughly agree with what   Deputy Johnson says that the fault we have found in the past, with the Estimates, at the Committee of Public Accounts, has been estimation in excess of requirements.  The excuse for that in the past was that we were in a transition stage and that things had not settled down into a condition that would make accurate estimating possible. If the President is not prepared to accept Deputy Johnson's motion, it seems to me that a division will place Deputies in an awkward position.  To vote in favour of a reduction of the Estimate would seem to reflect on the reliability that we place on the President's word when he says that there is no intention of filling the position.  Fully recognising that the President's statement is one which the Dail ought to accept, if Deputy Johnson's motion is not accepted by the President, my position is that I would not be prepared to vote for Deputy Johnson's motion, because it would seem to imply a doubt as to the President's statement.  That is a thing I would not be prepared to do.  On the other hand, I fully appreciate Deputy Johnson's motives.  His intention in putting down this motion, I presume, was that the position ought not be filled and about that there is no disagreement, apparently, at the present time. 
     
     
      
       I should like to point out that it would be an impossible task for this Committee to revise Estimates and bring them up to date in every respect. Deputy Johnson's motion simply is that we should start in and revise this Estimate now&mdash;some five or six months after its preparation&mdash;and bring it up to date.  There is hardly an Estimate that has been passed that would be in its present form if it were prepared only last week.  The preparation of our Estimates begins in December. The different Departments are working on them through Novermber and December.  The Estimates are supposed to reach the Department of Finance on 1st January.  We have not been able to get the machinery working so satisfactorily as to succeed in getting that done.  The Estimates reach the Department of Finance some time   in January.  They are criticised there and, perhaps, sent back to the Departments for amendment.  Discussions continue on through January and February, and in March the Estimates are printed.  Changes occur in every Department before the Estimates actually come before the Dail.  If the idea is that the dropping out of an official or the death or resignation of an official is to be followed up by an alteration in the Estimates, then we will have an impossible task.  The consideration of Estimates is the consideration of policy. 
       A very detailed consideration of the Estimates is not possible for the Dail. It is really a consideration of policy. There is a great difference between accepting Estimates for the Executive Council which had no provision for a second Parliamentary Secretary and striking out any such provision.  If there were no provision for a second Parliamentary Secretary and if need were found for him, it would not be possible, but, if there were any surplus at all, it would be possible to make an appointment.  Even if there were no surplus, it would be possible to make the appointment and later come for a Supplementary Vote, but in the amendment of Deputy Johnson the provision is struck out, and in that case there would be a very different position, and I do not think it would be possible to proceed with the appointment.  The Executive Council would be absolutely precluded from making an appointment unless the Dail were invited to reverse its decision.  As the President said, there is no intention of filling the post, but a possibility might occur which would render it necessary to fill it. 
     
     
      
       That is exactly the point. 
     
     
      
       A Minister, for instance, might be ill.  There have been cases of illness of Ministers in which the President, in addition to his own duties, had to discharge the duties of two Ministers.  In such circumstances the appointment of a Parliamentary Secretary might become absolutely essential. The Executive Council should not be put in a worse position in regard to the matter, as they would be   by this amendment, than if the Estimate had come up without provision for a second Parliamentary Secretary.  I could not regard the position as being different because the position is not filled at the moment.  We cannot consider the Estimates reasonably or usefully on the basis that it is the business of the Dail to bring them up to date. That process cannot be done.  I could not consider an amendment to strike out this sum as being any different from a vote of censure on the Executive Council. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that the Minister has made a case against the amendment, and I think the President would be well advised to accept it. I cannot understand Deputy Hewat's complicated reasoning.  It is because of the fact that I am convinced that the President's undertaking will be carried out that I think this amendment should be passed.  It is no reflection on the veracity of the President that this amendment should be pressed. On the contrary, it is because of the undertaking of the President, that he does not intend to fill the post, that the amendment should be pressed and that we should not vote the money.  The Minister for Finance made the point that we cannot expect the Dail to bring the Estimates up to date.  This, however, is an exceptional case.  Already the Executive Council has one Parliamentary Secretary.  Suppose a situation arose when a Minister were ill and the President had to take over his duties; where would he get a Parliamentary Secretary for that Department, if, say, the Minister for Industry and Commerce or the Minister for Finance were ill, which I hope will not be the case?  It is not necessary to have two Parliamentary Secretaries, and, because of the fact that this post is not going to be filled, I think that the Dail in the interests of proper estimating should not vote this money. 
     
     
      
       The statement of the President on the one hand and that of the Minister for Finance on the other, seem to me to make it essential that this amendment should be pressed. The Minister has spoken about it not being possible to bring the Estimates   up to date.  Nobody expects the Estimates to be altered; nobody expects the type in this book to be altered.  The Estimates are complied for the information of the Dail and we are all aware that they are prepared months before they are discussed.  The authority for spending the money is not in this book but in the final Vote of the Appropriation Account, and the resolution here, instead of being for £13,846, less whatever sum has already been voted, would be £12,846, if this amendment were accepted.  That would be the only effect.  The question of the alteration of the Estimates does not come into the discussion. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson could discuss the particular way in which they could be reduced. 
     
     
      
       My motion is to reduce the total sum in respect of the sub-head.  The Minister for Finance has made the position clear.  He wants, at this stage and in the Appropriation Account, to prepare for the possibility that, at some later stage in the year, the Ministry may think it desirable to appoint a Parliamentary Secretary. That is exactly what we want to preclude. We want to make it clear that it is not the view of the Dail that there is any necessity for the appointment of a Parliamentary Secretary.  If new circumstances arise and if the Ministry think it desirable to appoint a Parliamentary Secretary and to pay him a salary, they can come to the Dail for consent and approval.  Surely it is not the policy of the Ministry to say that certain posts may require to be filled within the next six or twelve months, and also, to say, &ldquo;They may not be filled, but they may so let us prepare for that now.&rdquo;  That is the policy enunciated by the Minister for Finance. 
     
     
      
       The post was filled when the Estimate was prepared. 
     
     
      
       Yes, and a new policy has now been decided upon by the Executive Council, so that the obvious thing to do is to reduce the sum that was originally thought to be required but is now known not to be required. Surely, that is the obvious consequence of a change of policy.  The   Minister's suggestion, however, is that, notwithstanding the change of policy, we should go on with the original Estimate.  I think that the Minister should try to apply his reasoning to the Army Vote, for instance, or to some other big department.  If the Minister for Defence contemplated in January having an Army of 20,000 men and prepared his Estimates accordingly, but, if new circumstances arose before the Estimates were discussed in May or June, he decided to have an Army only of 10,000 men, he could say that he would, however, require a Vote for 20,000 men though he did not intend to spend it.  That is a parallel case, on a larger scale to this.  The Dail is being asked to express the view that a change of policy has taken place requiring a less sum of money and that only a less sum shall be voted. 
     
     
      
       I support the views which have been expressed on this matter.  We have heard the statement of the President and that of the Minister for Finance that there is no intention to spend the money and that there is no intention to fill the post. In no contentious spirit at all I think the Dail has expressed the view that there are strong grounds why the President should go all the way and state definitely in the Appropriations Account that there will be a reduction in the Estimates which will be in keeping with the policy of the Executive Council.  I think that the President and the Executive Council at this stage know quite well what the possibilities are with regard to the work that has to be done during the remainder of the financial year, and they can foresee what the possibilities are for an increase of work that would demand the filling of this post. I think that the President should recognise that, if there is such a demand and if there is much extra labour thrown on the Executive Council owing to unforeseen causes, he can come here and put up a case that the conditions have altered, that he has had reason to change his view, and he can ask the sanction of the House for a salary for a Parliamentary Secretary. 
     
     
        I think that the President, in accordance with his own statement that he is going to make the reduction, should accept the amendment and have the reduction appear in the Appropriations Account.  I think that is the feeling of the House on the matter. 
     
      
       The President says that there is no intention to fill the office, but the Minister for Finance says that the necessity for filling it might arise at any time, and that they want to have the money there to fill it.  To my mind they are thinking with two different views.  There should be a definite guarantee that this post will not be filled. 
     
     
      
       I did not give that. 
     
     
      
       Then we have no guarantee. 
     
     
      
       You have a good faith guarantee and no more. 
     
     
      
       That is not very definite. 
     
     
      
       A new Ministry might alter it altogether. 
     
     
      
       I do not see that there is any obstacle to acceding to this amendment, and I think the obstacle that Deputy Hewat seems to see is imaginary.  I do not see why the Executive Council should not take the view that is put forward, and as I say, it would be a guarantee to the House and to the public that the Executive Council mean to do the right thing and mean to get rid of this unnecessary office. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson, if my recollection is correct, practically repeated what he said the first time, with this difference, that he did not again say that it would be possible for us to spend more money on the other heads and use this money for the purpose.  That is not the intention. 
     
     
      
       I never suggested that there is any such intention.  I am suggesting that we should not give the power. 
     
     
     
      
       I know; but the passing of this Vote does not give the power.  It is a power that can only be taken if the Dail were in possession of the information that we were going to do it.  It is not in possession of any such information.  The Deputy, of course, is astonished.  We have not, I think, on any occasion ever gone in the direction of misleading the House in connection with any of these matters. The question is really one of misleading the House in connection with a matter of this kind, or a matter of any kind. If this amendment were passed, it certainly would leave the House in no position better than that in which it is now under the guarantee that we have given that we have no intention of filling this office.  I am not guaranteeing that we will not; circumstances might arise in which it would be necessary to appoint a Parliamentary Secretary, but that is a circumstance which we do not anticipate.  The question, then, that remains for decision is whether or not the passing of this motion will save £1,000.  It will not.  It will not save what we do not intend to spend.  The passing of this motion would mean the printing of another sheet; it would mean more expense, and there would be no greater guarantee, because if a Parliamentary Secretary were required the Contingency Vote would be required to meet the expenditure. 
     
     
      
       What does the President mean by the printing of another sheet? 
     
     
      
       The printing of another sheet in connection with this Estimate.  The Estimate would be withdrawn and another issued at more expense, in the interests of economy. 
     
     
      
       The President seems to be trying to prove that Parliamentary control of expenditure is a farce, and nothing else.  If this unanticipated situation arises, it is the duty of the President to come for a Supplementary Estimate and justify the expenditure.  If we are to take it that it is beyond the power of the Dail to alter the Estimates by any single figure because it would involve   printing another sheet, then we have no business to be here at all.  Let us set up the Executive Council on seven thrones and let them rule us, and let us not pretend that we are having any Parliamentary control at all.  This money is not needed at present.  That has been admitted.  It is not going to be spent.  That is admitted.  Then let us realise that, and let the President accept this amendment.  If he does not, if he simply insists on taking the power to have a Parliamentary Secretary, without consulting anybody, we have no business to be here at all.  I am not going to accept the President's doctrine that he might appoint officials and pay them out of the Contingency Fund. I think that that would be absolutely wrong.  The Contingency Fund is not intended for this purpose.  I would suggest that now that it is admitted that the office is not needed the President should accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       What I meant was that the Estimate of itself should be sufficient without us coming to the Dail.  I am only anticipating the possibility of an adjournment for four months, and then coming in with a proposal. A case would lie for the motion if the sum were £100,000 or £50,000, and there would be some sense in it.  Why not go a step further and say, in respect of two charwomen, that if only one were employed you would reduce the vote by £20? 
     
     
      
       That is ridiculous. 
     
     
      
       Of course it is. 
     
     
      
       There is one matter that the President has mentioned that I would like to elaborate, that is, that if the motion were not passed and this sum were voted, it could be spent under other heads without a word being said about it. Deputy Johnson knows that that is not entirely so; there would be a good deal said about it at the Public Accounts Committee, of which he is chairman, and it would be a pity for it to go to the public that a sum of this kind included in the Estimate could be spent under other heads.  I mention that because I would not like it to pass   without reference, lest the public would be under a misapprehension with regard to it. 
     
     
      
       There is no question that the virement, as it is technically called, might come under the notice of the Public Accounts Committee in two years' time, but it would not come under the notice of the Dail this year. 
     
     
      
       But it would come back to the Dail from the Public Accounts Committee. 
     
     
      
       We can discuss that matter another time. 
     
     
      
       The President's statement that to be logical one should go into the case, let us say, of two cleaners, or two charwomen, and that if one had died or found other employment the Estimate should be changed, was greeted with the cry that that was   ridiculous.  I want to put it to Deputies that it is certainly much less ridiculous than Deputy Johnson's statement that if the Minister for Defence in January contemplated an Army of 20,000, changed his mind in May and decided on 10,000, the Estimate should remain as originally made out for the larger Army.  Objection is taken to the statement that, to be logical, when there are two charwomen provided for and one finds other employment, or let us go higher up the scale of employment and let us say that two clerical officers, or two higher executive officers are provided for, that one dies or resigns, and the Estimate provides for two, the statement being made in the Dail that one has gone out of the employment and that it is hoped it will not be necessary to fill the position, the Estimate should be changed.  That is the real parallel, and not a 20,000 Army or a 10,000 Army. 
       Motion put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 19; Nil, 36. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig Baxter. John J. Cole. John Conlan. Bryan R. Cooper. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Sean de Faoite. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. William Norton. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Tadhg O Donnabhain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Donnchadh O Guaire. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (Luimneach).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Proinsias Bulfin. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. James Dwyer. Michael Egan. Patrick J. Egan. Desmond Fitzgerald. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Donnchadh Mac Con Uladh. Liam Mac Cosgair. Sean Mac Curtain. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. Martin M. Nally. 
             John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Ailfrid O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Mairtin O Conallain. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon O Dugain. Risteard O Maolchatha. Padraig O hOgain (Gaillimh). Mairtin O Rodaigh. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Patrick W. Shaw. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta, Deputies Morrissey and Corish.  Nil: Deputies Dolan and Tierney.  Motion declared lost. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Progress Reported, the Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     The Dail adjourned at 10.40 p.m. until 12 o'clock on Friday, June 11th. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWER. - INCOME TAX ON RENT ARREARS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that in some cases income tax was paid in 1923 on arrears of rent which under the Land Act of that year could not be collected, and whether, in view of the fact that claims to have the tax paid refunded have been pending since January, 1925, he will take steps to have the procedure in dealing with these claims accelerated. 
     
     
      
       The question does not give sufficient information to enable me to relate it on any particular cases or class of cases.  If the Deputy will put down questions covering specific instances, or will communicate with me regarding the general class of cases he has in mind, I will have the matter investigated. 
     
   
 