 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh An Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WATERFORD AWARDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that on the 6th December, 1924, at Kilkenny, compensation decrees amounting to the sum of £46 were granted to Peter Synott, of 50 High Street, Waterford, for damages to his motor cars; whether this sum has not yet been paid, and, if not, whether he will expedite same. 
     
     
      
       The decree for £16 was drawn up on the wrong form by the applicant's solicitor and has been returned to him for amendment.  The decree for £30 is not enforceable against the Minister for Finance. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ERECTION OF HAY AND CATTLE SHEDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether, in the granting of loans to farmers under the Landed Property Improvements Act for the erection of hay and cattle sheds, he would be prepared to stipulate that the buildings to be erected should be manufactured in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The haybarns erected under the loans referred to in the question are iron structures and are for the most part roofed with corrugated iron.  The materials are necessarily imported, but the firms who contract for buildings, with one exception, have works in Ireland, and the preparation of the materials as well as the actual erection of the buildings is therefore almost entirely done by Irish   workmen.  Some of the barns are roofed with Graves' patent roofing, which is manufactured in Ireland, but we would not feel justified in stipulating for the use of this material to the exclusion of corrugated iron.  The same remarks apply to cattle sheds constructed of iron, but such sheds are more often built of masonry and are frequently slated; in such cases we stipulate that Irish materials should be used as far as possible. 
       No change in the existing practice appears to be called for. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister had complaints of the quantity of materials which are only assembled here, as contrasted with other iron structures which are largely prepared for assembly here? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of having received any complaints in this direction. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COUNTY LIMERICK AWARD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that a compensation award made by Judge Sealy in 1923 in favour of Miss Elizabeth Benn, of Annacotty, Lisnagry, Co. Limerick, in respect of damage done to shop furniture and the seizure of goods during the taking over of Tipperary town in 1922 has not been paid, and if he will have payment expedited. 
     
     
      
       I assume the case referred to is that in which William Benn obtained a report for £116 in respect of injuries sustained at Church Street, Tipperary.  Payment of the report has been refused, as inquiries showed that the terms of Section 9 of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, were applicable to the case.  Miss Elizabeth Benn has recently made representations in the matter and they are receiving consideration. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMPENSATION AWARD (BALLYLANDERS.) 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when a compensation award (Reference No. M.0245) for £10 will be paid to   John J. Ryan, Junr., of Ballyfaskin, Ballylanders, Co. Limerick. 
     
     
      
       The award referred to by the Deputy has been discharged by the issue of a Paying Order to the claimant on Friday last, 12th instant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INDEMNITY ACT CLAIMS (CO CORK.) 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will expedite settlement of a claim under the Indemnity Act, 1924, made by Mr. S. Ross, Durrus, Co. Cork. 
     
     
      
       I am informed that the Secretary to the Indemnity Act Committee is at present in communication with the claimant and that, on receipt of certain additional information which has been asked for, the Committee will be in a position to adjudicate on the claim. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether payment of a claim under the Indemnity Act, 1924, made by Mr. C. O'Donovan, Enniskeane, Co. Cork, will be expedited. 
     
     
      
       I am informed that the Secretary to the Indemnity Act Committee is at present in communication with the claimant and that on receipt of certain additional information which has been asked for, the Committee will be in a position to adjudicate on the claim. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is now in a position to announce a definite date for the introduction of the Army Pensions Amendment Bill. 
     
     
      
       I regret that I am not in a position to mention a definite date. The main provisions of the Bill have, however, been decided on.  It is now being finally drafted and will be introduced as quickly as possible. 
     
     
     
      
       Will it be before the Easter holidays? 
     
     
      
       I am rather inclined to think it will be immediately after Easter on account of the amount of work in the draftsman's office at the present time. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state the amounts which have been paid under the Unemployment Insurance Acts to males, females, and juveniles for the twelve months ending the 31st December, 1925. 
     
     
      
       A sum of approximately £890,000 was paid out of the Unemployment Fund in benefit during the twelve months ended 31st December, 1925.  Under the existing arrangements for accounting for these payments, it is not possible to give the exact proportions paid to men, women and juveniles, respectively, without a review of all claims.  It is estimated, however, that of this amount £801,000 was paid to men, £80,000 to women and £9,000 to juveniles.  In addition, £54,956 was paid as special benefit to certain ex-members of the military forces of Saorstat Eireann during the period in question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SCHOOL ATTENDANCE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he can state the average percentage of school attendance at elementary schools in the Saorstat for the month of November, 1925, or, if figures showing this are not readily available, if he will state the attendance percentage for that month for one typical rural school in each of the following counties, viz., Wexford, Limerick, Mayo and Cavan. 
     
     
      
       The figures of average percentage of school attendance at elementary schools in the Saorstat for the month of November, 1925, are not readily available.  The selection of a typical rural school presents   some difficulty, and figures for individual schools are liable to be misleading as comparative statistics.  It may serve the purpose aimed at in the question to give for the counties named the last figures available, viz., those for the year ended 31st December, 1924. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             County 
             Average No. of pupils on Rolls. 
             Average No. of pupils in attendance. 
             Percentage of No. in attendance to No. on Rolls. 
           
         
         
           
             Wexford 
             13,812 
             9,721 
             70.4 
           
           
             Limerick 
             18,379 
             13,653 
             74.3 
           
           
             (excluding City) 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Mayo 
             34,516 
             23,564 
             68.3 
           
           
             Cavan 
             14,530 
             9,877 
             68. 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAY SECONDARY TEACHERS&mdash;AMOUNT OF SALARIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state the number of registered lay secondary teachers at present in receipt of not less than the appropriate minimum salary of the salaries scheme for secondary teachers and the number not in receipt of the appropriate minimum; and if he will state the number of registered lay secondary teachers whose salaries, as paid by the managers of the schools in which they are employed, have been (a) increased, (b) decreased, as from the commencement of the current school year. 
     
     
      
       My Department does not require any return from Secondary Schools regarding the salaries paid by them to those of their teachers who are priests or members of Religious Orders, and the figures given in this reply refer to teachers not included in the classes named. 
       1.  The number of registered teachers in receipt of salaries not less than the minimum is 393, and the number in receipt of salaries less than the minimum is 127. 
       2.  (a) The number of teachers whose salaries have been increased is 117; (b) the number whose salaries have been reduced is 11. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister tell us what is meant by less than the minimum? 
     
     
     
      
       Less than £200; that is the basic salary. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COST OF HOME HELP. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will furnish a return showing the amounts paid for home help in the various counties of the Saorstat for the past twelve months. 
     
     
      
       The information required by the Deputy is not yet available for the period mentioned.  Perhaps the following information for the twelve months ended the 31st March, 1925, which excludes expenditure on children boarded out, will suffice:&mdash; 
       BOARDS OF HEALTH. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             Carlow 
             4,441 
           
           
             Cavan 
             5,458 
           
           
             Clare 
             14,219 
           
           
             North Cork 
             9,814 
           
           
             South Cork 
             24,876 
           
           
             West Cork 
             6,402 
           
           
             Galway 
             10,569 
           
           
             Kerry 
             8,065 
           
           
             Kildare 
             23,512 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             7,195 
           
           
             Laoighis 
             8,001 
           
           
             Leitrim 
             2,675 
           
           
             Limerick 
             17,345 
           
           
             Limerick, C.B. 
             5,451 
           
           
             Longford 
             3,445 
           
           
             Louth 
             7,317 
           
           
             Mayo 
             11,822 
           
           
             Meath 
             10,244 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             2,230 
           
           
             Offaly 
             6,278 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             3,288 
           
           
             Sligo 
             4,969 
           
           
             Tipperary, N.R. 
             5,516 
           
           
             Tipperary, S.R. 
             10,313 
           
           
             Tirconaill 
             7,246 
           
           
             Waterford 
             13,011 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             8,190 
           
           
             Wexford 
             14,028 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             12,705 
           
         
       
     
     BOARDS OF GUARDIANS. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             Balrothery 
             4,690 
           
           
             Dublin 
             93,122 
           
           
             Rathdown 
             6,042 
           
         
       
     
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if will state the total amount which has been paid by way of poor law allowances or home help (other than payment during employment on relief schemes) by local authorities in the Saorstat for the twelve months ending the 31st of March, 1925. 
     
     
      
       The total expenditure in respect of home assistance for the period mentioned by the Deputy was £372,479. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NEWBRIDGE O.A.P. CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will state the grounds on which an old age pension of 9s. per week, awarded to Mrs. Anne Miley, James's Street, Newbridge, Co. Kildare, by the Naas South Pensions Committee on the 12th October, 1925, was refused; further, whether he is aware that her sister, Mrs. Mary Collatin, Thomastown, Caragh, Naas, is in receipt of an old age pension for the last five years, although it is stated she is only two years older than Mrs. Miley, and whether, in view of this fact, he will make further investigations in the case, as the claimant believes she is seventythree years old. 
     
     
      
       This claim was disallowed on appeal on the 11th ultimo, on the ground of insufficient evidence to show that the claimant had attained the age of seventy years.  Her baptismal certificate was not produced.  She was recorded as 21 years of age at her marriage on the 14th February, 1882, the husband being recorded as 22 years old.  There was a declaration from her brother-in-law to the effect that his wife was in receipt of the pension for six years and was two years older than the claimant.  A neighbour also testified that the claimant was, in her opinion, over 70 years.  The evidence was, however, held not to be sufficiently conclusive to override the marriage record. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that it is believed that the   register of births has been destroyed in Dublin lately?  In the case of the award of a pension to the sister, you had the sister's birth certificate, but in the present case the birth certificate could not be got, because it was destroyed.  Will the Minister make further investigations with a view to granting this poor woman a pension? I believe that she is over seventy years of age. 
     
     
      
       If there is any further evidence brought forward the case will be opened up again. 
     
     
      
       It is very difficult to get evidence. 
     
     
      
       What further evidence ought to be got?  Has an affidavit been submitted yet? 
     
     
      
       No affidavit, of a kind that we consider amounts to evidence, has been submitted. 
     
     
      
       What does the Minister mean by that? 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether an applicant ever becomes seventy years of age officially? 
     
     
      
       It is very difficult to say that an applicant is seventy years of age without having some proof of age submitted. 
     
     
      
       I strongly appeal to the Minister to give this case consideration, anyway. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND ANNUITY INSTALMENTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that the representative of the late John Morgan, 54/349, was threatened with legal proceedings for the recovery of eight instalments of annuities; that at least receipts for two of these have been traced as having been paid to the solicitor acting for the Land Commission in the month of August, 1923, and whether, in view of these circumstances, he will have inquiries made as to whether further instalments were forwarded to other officials of the Department. 
     
     
     
      
       A writ of summons was issued in the name of John Morgan in July last for seven half-yearly instalments, of £18 4s. 3d. each, of land purchase annuity due to 1st May, 1925.  It subsequently transpired that two of these instalments had, following the issue of a civil bill, been paid to the Land Commission local solicitor in 1923, but through error the payment had not been reported to the Land Commission.  Credit was given accordingly for these two instalments, and the remaining five instalments together with the instalments due 1st November, 1925, have been paid by Mr. Morgan's executor.  No other payments were received in the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEWIN ESTATE (CO. GALWAY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the estate of Thomas Frederick Lewin, Record No. S1929, situated at Castlegrove, Kinconly, Tuam, Co. Galway, has yet been acquired by the Land Commission, and, if so, how soon may a division of it be expected. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have issued a proposal to purchase the untenanted lands on the estate of Thomas F Lewin, Castlegrove, Co. Galway, and this proposal has been accepted by the owner.  A scheme for the division of the lands will be prepared in due course, but it is not possible to state at present when the lands will be distributed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LOADING OF CATTLE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that the Department of Lands and Agriculture has given instructions to the railway company that not more than seven fat cattle may be loaded in one of their waggons, and if he is aware that the experience of members of the cattle trade and farmers generally is that in waggons not loaded to their full capacity much more injury is likely to be caused to stock than if fully loaded; and if, in view of this, and also of the consideration that an addition to the already   high cost of transit is involved, he will direct the withdrawal of the instruction referred to. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first portion of the question is in the negative. Presumably the Deputy refers to Article 7 (1) of the Transit Order which came into force on the 15th November, a copy of which I am sending him.  This Order was made upon the unanimous recommendation of a Committee which sat last year, and upon which the cattle trade was strongly represented.  In addition, I was strongly pressed by the Irish Cattle Traders and Stockowners' Association to put these recommendations into force without delay.  Since the Order came into force I received a deputation on behalf of the cattle trade.  I told them that if, through their responsible and accredited associations, they put up an alternative clause with which they and the Farmers' Union and other associations affected were satisfied, I would review the proposal sympathetically.  No such alternative clause has been submitted to me or to the Department. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OPERATION OF LAND ACT, 1923. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that considerable irritation is felt by tenants affected by the Land Act, 1923, at the delay in fixing the appointed day, and if he will give instructions for the immediate vesting of estates where no arrears exist, and if he is now prepared to state when the legislation dealing with arrears of rent will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       Estates are dealt with by the Land Commission in their order of priority as determined by the dates on which the prescribed schedules of particulars are lodged, and when the requirements of the statutes and rules have been complied with the appointed day is fixed, provided there are no compounded arrears of rent due. 
       It would be obviously impossible to answer the latter part of the question by the procedure of question and answer. 
     
     
     
      
       Does the Minister repudiate the statement made by one member of the Government that legislation will be brought in in which the arrears of rent will be dealt with? 
     
     
      
       Was that during the General Election? 
     
     
      
       That was during election time. 
     
     
      
       Possibly as other Deputies are very ready to answer this question I am not called upon to do so. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister prepared to make arrangements by which the arrears of rent will be dealt with quickly in order to allow of vesting? That is the point; it is not a question of elections. 
     
     
      
       I have not repudiated any statement.  You asked me, in the latter portion of this question, if I am now prepared to state when legislation dealing with arrears of rent will be introduced. That is a fair enough question, and I think I owe the Deputy an apology, because I thought he asked me what were the terms of that Bill. Such legislation will be introduced within the next month. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND DIVISION IN KILDARE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he will instruct the Land Commission, when dividing the estates recently acquired in North Kildare, to reserve suitable parcels for cow-parks near the towns of Maynooth, Kilcock, etc., and also favourably to consider the applications of tenants of labourers' cottages and other suitable landless men for sufficient land to enable them to keep a cow and grow foodstuffs for their families. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission when dividing lands consider the applications received from persons mentioned in Section 31 (1) of the Land Act, 1923.  When lands within a reasonable distance of towns are acquired, the question of providing cow-parks for the inhabitants is considered by the Land Commission. 
     
     
     
      
       I daresay that the Land Commission considers the applications of tenants of labourers' cottages, but does it allot them any portions of land?  Consideration is one thing and allotting a portion of land is another.  Is the Minister aware that on the Aylmer estate in North Kildare some cottiers had grass taken on the eleven months' system, but their cattle have been driven off and they have no place to put them?  One man tells me that he holds four acres under tillage and has only half an acre to put his cows and calves on.  This man is a County Councillor and a Peace Commissioner, and is it right that people should be treated like that? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is incorrect when he states that the Land Commission stops short at promising consideration to labourers when an estate is divided.  I do not know any case in which they stopped short at consideration. They give land to labourers whose employment is interfered with by the division of an estate.  I do not know the merits of the Aylmer case. I am not prepared to state offhand who is to get land on that estate and who is not.  I can, however, promise one thing, and that is that all the people who are expecting land will not get it. 
     
     
      
       Are County Councillors and Peace Commissioners entitled to preference? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would make inquiries in regard to the driving of cattle off these lands. 
     
     
      
       I will, of course, if the Deputy gives me further particulars. 
     
     
      
       I will. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF PEBBLEHILL LAND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what progress has been made by the Land Commission in acquiring the lands of Pebblehill, No. U.2140, on the Trustees of the Duke of Leinster Estate, and if he can state when the lands will be ready for division. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission do not propose to take any action for the present regarding the acquisition of the lands referred to. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PIDGEON PARK FARM (MEATH). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that the farm known as Pidgeon Park, U.2139, containing forty-seven acres, and being part of the lands of Moyglare, in the Barony of Upper Deece, County Meath, is advertised for sale by public auction on the 25th inst; that the Maynooth Back to the Land Association requested the Land Commission to acquire this farm for the relief of congestion about eighteen months ago, and that the owner, Mr. Owen Tighe, then pleaded that he required the holding for a dairy farm; that the Land Commission admitted this plea and decided not to acquire the farm, and whether, as Mr. Tighe does not intend to carry out the conditions on which he was allowed to retain it, the Land Commission will take steps for its acquisition before the sale. 
     
     
      
       The acquisition of the lands referred to is under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this farm is being put up for sale to-morrow?  This man was allowed to retain the farm because he required it for the purposes of a dairy farm.  Now he is putting it up for sale. Surely the Department is not going to allow itself to be humbugged like that? 
     
     
      
       I have stated before that owners have a perfect right to sell their land.  I state now that if the lands are of the sort that should be acquired by the Land Commission, they will be acquired whether sold or not. Incidentally, I see that this farm is one of forty-seven acres.  I do not know enough about the special circumstances of the case to say that there might not be special reasons for taking even a small farm of forty-seven acres.  Obviously the Deputy will not expect me to give an undertaking that no farm of forty-seven acres can be sold for any reason. 
     
     
     
      
       Surely the Department could take this farm if the owner has got another farm? 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand that Back-to-the-Land Associations are not to get preferential treatment? 
     
     
      
       Associations do not get preferential treatment. 
     
     
      
       Even the Cumann na nGaedheal? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     QUESTION ON ADJOURNMENT. 
     
      
       I beg to give notice that on the motion for the adjournment I will raise the question of the facilities available for applicants for pensions to appear before a Pensions Board.  The matter is urgent inasmuch as applicants will be called up to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       For pensions under what Board? 
     
     
     
      
       Under the Army pensions scheme. 
     
     
      
       That is disablement? 
     
     
      
       Disablement and otherwise&mdash;wherever they may be called to appear before a Board. 
     
     
      
       There is a Pensions Board under the Army Pensions Act and another under the Military Service (Pensions) Act.  Better say &ldquo;Boards.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     Teachtai Nua (New Members). 
     
      
       I gco-liona Buan-Ordu a 121, ta orm a thuairisciu gur toghadh na baill seo leanas chun fonamh sa Dail i gcoir na nDailcheanntar ata luaidhte thios:&mdash; 
       In compliance with Standing Order 121, I have to report that the following members have been elected to serve in the Dail for the undermentioned constituencies:&mdash; 
       William Norton, Baile Atha Cliath (Dublin). 
       James Dwyer, Laoighis agus Ifailghe (Leix-Offaly). 
     
     
      
       Deputy Norton has complied with the provisions of Article 17 of the Constitution and may therefore take his seat. 
     
     
      
       then took his seat. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE (LEAVE TO INTRODUCE). 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       Go dugaidh an Dail cead chun go dtabharfai isteach an Meastachan Breise seo a leanas, i gcoir seirbhise na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, eadhon:&mdash; 
       37 (Oifig an Ard-Chlarathora). 
       That leave be given by the Dail to introduce the following Supplementary Estimate for the service of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, viz.:&mdash; 
       37 (General Register Office). 
     
     
        This will be the last of the Supplementary Estimates. 
     
      
       What is the amount? 
     
     
      
       Ten pounds. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       When is it proposed to take the Estimate? 
     
     
      
       It will be circulated to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     COINAGE BILL, 1926&mdash;FIFTH STAGE. 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Coinage Bill, 1926, do now pass.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister give any information as to whether any decision has been come to relative to the recommendation to perforate all nickel coins? 
     
     
      
       No decision has been come to, but I think I indicated to the Deputy that there would be no perforation, as I do not think that it will be necessary. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say when the committee to advise on design will be appointed? 
     
     
      
       No. I do not intend taking action as regards that until the Bill is passed.  I intend to get people of the highest possible standing in the artistic world to advise. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ENFORCEMENT OF COURT ORDERS BILL, 1926&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       The object of this Bill is to make provision for the execution of the judgments and orders of the courts established under the Courts of Justice Act, 1924.  Deputies are aware that up to the present orders of these courts have been executed under the code which applied to the execution of judgments of the courts of the old administration, with certain additional powers which were conferred by the Dail under temporary legislation.  The temporary Act expires on 31st March next, and the provisions of this Bill are proposals for permanent legislation which shall govern the execution of   court orders.  Broadly speaking, the scope of this Bill is to bring the old code into line with the new conditions. That is something which is necessary, whether the old code was satisfactory or not.  In the next place we recognise that the old code was not, in fact, adequate or satisfactory, and we seek not merely to modernise it, but to strengthen it as against, obstinate or fraudulent judgment debtors.  Now, a word as to the necessity for bringing the code governing the execution of court orders into line with the developments under the Courts of Justice Act, 1924.  The order for the enforcement of a judgment of the High Court of Justice&mdash;usually called a writ&mdash;was executed in the past by the under-sheriff under a code which was not so much written or statutory as traditional, based on case law.  The decrees of the County Court on the other hand were executed by the same official, the under-sheriff, but under an entirely different code which is altogether statutory.  The fees which were payable to the under-sheriff in High Court cases were fixed by a different authority and were different to the fees which were received in the County Court cases.  To take simply one illustration of the results of this dual system: if the under-sheriff travelled in the past 30 miles to effect a seizure on account of a County Court judgment, and found no chattels to seize but enough of money in possession of the debtor to satisfy the debt ten times over, he could not seize the money.  That is in the case of a County Court judgment. 
     
     Moreover, if he made a successful seizure of chattels he could not charge for the expenses of the day, such as travelling expenses in respect of himself and the bailiffs.  On the other hand, in the case of a decree of the High Court, it would be open to the under-sheriff to seize the money, and it was open to him also to charge any expenses against any seizure that might be made.  As regards the other courts, the Petty Sessions Court in the past had practically no civil jurisdiction, and such warrants as were issued from that court were executed by the police.  Under the Courts of Justice Act, 1924, we have   the High Court, Circuit Court, and District Court.  The High Court has unlimited civil jurisdiction.  The Circuit Court has a very extensive civil jurisdiction, unlimited when the parties consent, but limited by Statute in the absence of such consent; and the District Court has civil jurisdiction up to the amount of £25, which would mean that the District Court will deal with an enormous volume of business&mdash;just that kind of civil business which is most likely to lead to the under-sheriff's office, namely, debts due to shopkeepers and traders in respect of household requirements.  The principle which is incorporated in the Bill, and set out in Sections 2 and 3, is that it is immaterial so far as the execution of the court order is concerned whether the order was made in the High Court, the Circuit Court or the District Court.  In future it is proposed that every court order in civil cases is to be executed by the under-sheriff, and the powers and authority which the under-sheriff is to have are in all cases like that which he formerly had in the High Court case, reinforced by the special powers which this Bill specifically gives to him.  To that general statement there are two exceptions. The first exception is in the case of arrest.  Where the order of the court is for arrest it is to be executed by the Garda Siochana, and not by the under-sheriff.  Certain arrests in the past had to be made by the under-sheriff personally, and it was not open to the police or to anyone other than the under-sheriff to execute. That exception will be found in Section 22.  The second exception is that orders of the District Court in very small cases will also be executed by the Garda Siochana as laid down in sub-section (3) of Section 3. 
     As regards the first exception, arrests by the under-sheriff in the past were in practice very rare, and where they did take place they were troublesome and expensive.  One case came under my notice personally where the High Court ordered the arrest of a man who persistently refused to comply with the injunction of the court.  If the police could have arrested him on the order his arrest would have been effected   within a very short time.  He succeeded in evading the under-sheriff for years, and I am not sure that he was in fact ever arrested under the order of the court.  There are also some cases under the Enforcement of Law Act where the court is satisfied the debtor can pay, and accordingly issues an order that he can be imprisoned in default of payment. In these cases once a man is taken into custody he almost invariably pays.  At present the debtor has to pay the under-sheriff's fees and expenses, and before a sheriff moves to make arrest it has happened that creditors have dropped the matter and waived their claim rather than incur the expenses of paying the under-sheriff, and the debtor in these cases succeeded in defying the order of the court.  The second exception which I mentioned is that set out in sub-section (3) of Section 3.  There are certain small District Court cases in which the order of the court will continue to be carried out by the police, for the reason that we have found by administrative experience that in these small cases the machinery of the under-sheriff's office is costly, and out of proportion to the sum involved.  There is usually a Garda station within easy reach of the debtor's premises, and as a rule the debtor pays, if he can, on a visit by the Garda Siochana.  No expense is incurred by that, whereas if the under-sheriff were called on there would be fees and travelling expenses possibly amounting to many times more than the sum involved. 
     Section 4 may be considered a concession to sentiment.  It will please Deputy Davin to know that we propose to get rid of the title of &ldquo;bailiff&rdquo; and to create a corps of persons to be called court messengers for the assistance of under-sheriffs. 
     
      
       Will they be confined to delivering messages? 
     
     
      
       They will be executing the orders of the court.  The creditor's hope of getting his money from an obstinate debtor will, in many cases, depend upon the character and energy of these men, and it will be my aim, in so far as I can secure the concurrence of the Minister for Finance,   to fix a scale of remuneration which will attract a sufficiently good type of man and provide an incentive to him to do his work honestly. 
       In Part I. of the Bill, Deputies will find that Sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 are practically incorporated as they stand from the temporary Act which is in force and which will continue in force up to the 31st of next month. These sections have been before the Dail before and they have been discussed and considered by the Dail. They have been in operation for some years now.  When the last renewal of the temporary Act was before the Dail, I indicated pretty clearly to the Deputies that the permanent proposals which we would make, governing the execution of Court Orders, would not differ widely or essentially from the main provisions of the temporary legislation. 
     
     Part II. of the Bill&mdash;the portion dealing with the examination of debtors&mdash;is also a retention of the provisions which exist in the present legislation.  That is a portion of the Act which has given considerable satisfaction to the country. Practising solicitors in the country assure me that by means of the powers set out in that portion of the Act debts are recoverable which were not recoverable in the past at all.  Before these provisions were adopted it was often a matter of very considerable difficulty to recover a debt, even after the Court had given its decree.  It was very difficult to recover from a man who had a source of income but no property capable of seizure by the under-sheriff. A man could live in a hotel and contract debts, have decrees given against him by the Court, and successfully evade the payment of his judgment debt in the absence of the special powers set out in Part II of the Bill.  Under that portion of the Bill the debtor may be summoned to attend in Court for examination as to his means, and there can proceed there before the Judge or Justice a detailed cross-examination of the debtor as to his ability to pay.  If, as a result of his examination, the Court is satisfied that the judgment debtor is in a position to pay, and is fraudulently evading payment of his lawful debts, it is open to the Court to make an order that he shall pay either by way of lump sum or   by way of instalments, and that he shall proceed to clear off his liability. 
     In Section 18 Deputies will note that:&mdash; 
     If the debtor fails to pay the debt and costs, or any one or more instalments thereof at the time or times at which the same is or are made payable by an order under this Part of this Act, the Justice may, on the application of the creditor order the arrest and imprisonment of the debtor for any period not exceeding three months, and thereupon the debtor shall be arrested and imprisoned accordingly. 
     Imprisonment in that case is not imprisonment for debt.  It is imprisonment for contumacy, for failure to obey the order of the Court, after the Court has satisfied itself by examination, and on the evidence placed before it, that the debtor is, in fact, in a position to pay. 
     The other section to which I would like to direct the attention of the Deputies, because it is new, is Section 24. In the past cases have come under notice, where, under the judgment of the Courts, clear possession of a house has been given by the under-sheriff to the owner.  Very often that process of placing a man who has got his judgment from the Court in possession is one involving a certain amount of trouble and expense.  What has happened is that the owner who has secured possession in that way locks the door and goes away, and the tenant who has been ejected comes back and retakes possession.  If in the course of retaking possession he uses violence in re-entering, that would be an indictable offence.  But if he happens to have a duplicate key of the house and secures entrance I am advised, as the law stands, he commits no offence if no violence is used, and the legal owner has to commence once more to set the machinery of the law in motion to secure his ejection.  I simply put it to Deputies that that is reducing the process of the court to ridicule.  It is not a right or proper thing that, after the owner has secured possession of his house under the judgment of the Court, he should be placed in the position, simply because the other party secures   peaceful re-entry, that his judgment is so much waste paper, and that he has to proceed once more to seek redress from the courts.  Section 24 therefore is designed to cover that position, and I am trusting that the Deputies will agree with me that the owner, having secured possession of his house, ought not be put in the position where he would be compelled to stand day and night over the premises which he had just recovered possession of, possibly at considerable expense. 
     The portions of the temporary legislation which disappear in this Bill are: (1) the provision for appointing under-sheriffs (it is considered that it is not necessary to retain that power); (2) the imposition of a special levy of one shilling in the £ against defaulting debtors; (3) the protection of the under-sheriff against action in cases where he makes an unnecessarily large levy. 
     Certain provisions of the temporary legislation which were designed in favour of the bona fide debtor are incorporated in the present Bill.  Section 7, for instance, retains the increase to £15 in the value of household goods which must be left with the debtor. The figure in the past was £5, and, on representations from Deputies when the temporary Bill was going through, that amount was raised to £15.  It is considered advisable to retain that sum. 
     Section 20 of the present Bill gives the Court power to stay execution and to order payment by instalments.  That is an extensive and useful power.  If a judgment debtor comes in good faith and puts his circumstances honestly before the court, there is no reason under that section why he should ever be ordered to pay anything which he is not in fact in a position to pay.  If he puts his circumstances before the Court and manifests a genuine desire and intention to pay over a period according to his financial position, it is open to the Court while granting a decree to make an order staying execution and making provision for payment by instalments. 
     There is, perhaps, one section of the   Bill on which I should comment.  It is Section 13:&mdash; 
     No action shall lie against any under-sheriff for or on account of his having taken in execution under any execution order, any goods, animals, or other chattels found in the house or other place of residence or on the lands of the debtor and claimed or alleged (whether such claim or allegation does or does not prove to have been well-founded), to be the property of the wife or husband of the debtor, or to be the property of any parent or child of the debtor for the time being residing in the house or other place of residence of the debtor, and, in lieu of such action against the under-sheriff, the person to whom such goods, animals, or other chattels so taken in execution in fact belonged shall (if such goods, animals, or other chattels, should prove not to have been the property of the debtor) be entitled to recover from the debtor by action the value of such goods, animals, and other chattels, together with such damages as such person shall have suffered by reason of such goods, animals, or other chattels having been so taken in execution. 
     There has been comment on the proposal to incorporate that section in the permanent legislation, and I should like to say just a few words in its defence. For one thing, it has been operative law now for three years, and while I receive a great many complaints from a great many people about hardships arising, or alleged to arise under administration, I have never received a single complaint arising under that section of the existing Act&mdash;not one.  While I do not want to urge it unduly, I suggest to Deputies that if, in fact, there has been hardship&mdash;if, in fact, there have been any good grounds of complaint&mdash;complaint would reach us, because complaint reaches us even when the grounds are not particularly good. But no single case has been brought to my notice where the discretion of the under-sheriff under the provisions of the existing legislation has led to hardship. 
     
        When the temporary Act was passed a special circular was issued to the under-sheriffs as to the spirit in which that particular section should be used and administered.  They were told that the section does not mean that they were empowered to seize, or that they ought to seize, the goods of any person other than the judgment debtor's; that the spirit of the section was that, where they were satisfied, where they themselves were convinced that the third-party claim advanced in a particular case was a bogus claim, they should feel free to go ahead. 
     Deputies really ought to consider very carefully whether this is not eminently a matter which can only be satisfactorily dealt with by leaving it to the discretion of the under-sheriff to make his own decision in a particular case. The alternative to that is that, after your court machinery has worked, after your judge has given his time and thought to the hearing of a particular case, the machinery of your courts can simply be reduced to impotence and ridicule by the bogus third-party claim. &ldquo;Do not touch that, that belongs to herself; such a thing belongs to my eldest son; that was given to my daughter by an uncle.&rdquo;&ldquo;Then what property in the house is yours?&rdquo;&ldquo;Nothing; I own nothing in this house; everything in the house belongs to some one or other member of my family.&rdquo;  You cannot meet that claim; you cannot rebut it.  It is impossible to prove the ownership of a particular chattel in the house of a judgment debtor; it is impossible to disprove the assertion that a particular piece of property in the house belongs to someone other than the judgment debtor.  That is the position that you are faced with: choosing between leaving it open to the decrees of your court to be defied and set at naught by the simple expedient of advancing a third-party claim to the property that the under-sheriff casts his eye on, or leaving a certain administrative discretion to the under-sheriff, so that he will feel free to proceed in any case where he is satisfied that the third-party claim is simply bogus and designed to evade and defy the orders of the court. 
     
        When the temporary legislation was before the Dail we had very considerable discussion on that section, and the Deputies opposing the granting of such a power and discretion as that to the under-sheriff drew a very gloomy picture indeed of the consequences that would follow if the law stood as it was proposed to have it.  We were told that under-sheriffs would run amok, would seize property belonging to anyone and everyone except the judgment debtor.  We were told that the power would be abused.  The reply to the suggestion that the bogus third-party claim simply enabled the courts to be successfully defied and reduced to impotence was, that bad as that state of affairs was, the granting of this power and this discretion to the under-sheriff would be infinitely worse. 
     Now what is the position?  For three years the under-sheriff has been vested with this discretion, and in no single case has a complaint reached me, or any official of my Department, of abuse or excess by under-sheriffs in the exercise of that power.  Therefore, after mature reflection, I decided, when this permanent Bill was being drafted for the consideration of Deputies, to include this section.  I believe that it should be included, and I believe that the alternative to its inclusion is simply to re-open the possibility of wholesale defiance and evasion of the orders of your courts.  Under the Temporary Acts, considerable progress has been made in bringing the number of unexecuted decrees in the country down to something approaching a reasonable figure.  On the 31st March, 1924, there were, in the hands of the under-sheriffs, unexecuted judgments to the number of 7,022, representing a money value of £157,043.  On the 31st January of this year the position was that there were 3,434 unexecuted judgments in the offices of the under-sheriffs, representing a sum of £69,910.  That, of course, is not quite a normal position, but it represents a very considerable reduction on the state of affairs that existed two years ago.  The number of unexecuted judgments in the hands of the under-sheriffs at the moment is not quite current work; there is still there a certain proportion of arrears, but we   are almost down to current work because decrees come into the hands of the under-sheriffs at the rate of about two thousand per month, and the figure of 3,434 unexecuted decrees on hands is not very alarming. 
     If the court orders are to be executed automatically as they should be, and if the judgment creditor is to get the benefit of the decision of the courts, then I feel it is necessary to provide that that decision cannot be set aside simply by the advancement of the third-party claim&mdash;the third-party claim which no under-sheriff could hope to disprove. The mere assertion of it stays his hand. You cannot expect to be able to get officials who will be capable of disproving a claim of that kind.  He has an order of the court that he is to seize for a debt to the amount of X pounds.  He goes to the house of the judgment debtor and, surveying the property, decides: &ldquo;Well, I will take this article.&rdquo; He is met with the answer: &ldquo;Oh, but that is not mine, that belongs to my wife.  It is her separate property.&rdquo; Well, then he says: &ldquo;I will take this.&rdquo; He is told that is somebody else's, and so on.  No under-sheriff could disprove that claim.  He must simply stay his hand automatically once the claim is made.  He could not enter into a discussion there and sift the genuineness or the validity of the claim.  By what process could he hope to arrive at any result? 
     In the past, where the bogus third-party claim was an effective bar to the action of the under-sheriff, a great many of the decrees of the courts were so much waste paper.  Deputies have to decide whether that is a desirable state of affairs or not, and whether it is not better to do as I propose to them to do, to vest an official of your courts &mdash;the under-sheriff&mdash;with discretion so that in a case where he believes the third-party claim is an utterly bogus claim, he will be free to proceed without the threat, which was the position in the past, of an action&mdash;a personal liability&mdash;if by any chance he should make a mistake.  No under-sheriff will proceed to make a seizure of property with that prospect hanging over him: that if, by any chance the judgment   debtor, or any other person, is able to establish that the particular property which he seized was not the personal property of the judgment debtor he would be liable for an action.  An official ought not to be liable personally for an action in the bona fide discharge of his duty.  The situation which obtained in the past simply brought about the position that once a third-party claim was brought forward the under-sheriff went away and returned to the judgment creditor nulla bona&mdash; that there were no goods there that he could seize, and why?  Because every article of property in the house was claimed by some member of the family other than the judgment debtor.  That is the reply to the criticisms of this section.  The alternative to its incorporation in the Bill is simply to leave it open to every fraudulent judgment debtor in the country to arrange with the members of his family that each of them will claim as his or her personal property every article in the house which the under-sheriff sets his eye on. Deputies must take their choice, and if Deputies strike out that section from the Bill then there must be no complaint in the future from any quarter that the execution of the orders of the courts is not proceeding as efficiently or as satisfactorily as it ought to proceed. I warn Deputies solemnly that if that section is deleted from the Bill many and many a decree of the courts will go into the wastepaper basket, and many and many a judgment creditor, after he has gone through all the legal processes and paid his lawyer's fees, will find that he has in his hands a worthless scrap of paper.  I put it to the good sense of Deputies, to the responsibility of Deputies, that that is not a desirable position.  It is not going to make for the credit of the country generally, or for that better commercial atmosphere which we all hope to secure. If the writ of the court does not run freely throughout the area of the State, then you will have an unfavourable commercial and economic condition.  For one thing, people will not lend, people will not give credit if they do not feel that the means of redress are there for them: if they do not feel that when and if they have   to have recourse to the courts, the judgment of the Courts is going to be worth something to them. 
     On examining the merits of the case, I had no hesitation whatever in deciding to ask Deputies to accept this section as part and parcel of the permanent law of the State.  The alternative is not one that is attractive.  It is simply putting a premium on dishonesty, a premium on fraudulent bogus third-party claims, to say that wherever any such claim is advanced the under-sheriff must stay his hand or go ahead at the risk of an action where he himself would be personally liable for damages.  I do not think that there is any other section of the Bill I want to comment particularly on.  I move the Second Reading. 
     
      
       The objection I have to the Bill before us is similar to the objection I had to the previous Bill, that is to say, it approaches the whole question from the point of view of the trader who aims at getting trade by giving credit.  It is a drive at the system of cash trading, that is&mdash;it encourages the &ldquo;tick&rdquo; trader and the travelling bagman to persuade people to buy in the belief that they will not have to pay all at once, that they can pay in instalments.  He is quite prepared to persuade and almost to force a purchaser, because he knows that there is going to be a greatly enhanced chance of getting payment for goods which, even originally, have been grossly overcharged.  That is relieving the trader of the responsibility that devolves on him of seeing that the person to whom he gives credit is a person of some character.  I think the whole conception behind the Bill is that of the small shopkeeper who is anxious to extend trade and is prepared to give out credit illimitably for the purpose of getting that trade, to get people into his books.  Having got them into his books, he thinks he can charge anything he likes.  It is because I think the Bill is catering unduly for that element in the community that I think it is bad in several of its clauses and should not be passed in its present form. 
     
     The Minister has argued in favour of Section 13 and lays stress on the fact   that he has had no complaint.  Well, he may think that an important justification for including this provision in permanent legislation, but he explains that he circularised all the under-sheriffs, pointing out to them how this section was to be administered.  If he had not circularised them to that effect would there have been any complaint? If the under-sheriffs took the law as it stands and took advantage of the position laid down in the legislation without any direction from the Minister for Justice, I wonder would he have many complaints?  What is the likelihood in the future, regarding the administration of this law as permanent legislation? Bear in mind it is to be part of the permanent legislation, and under-sheriffs ought not to be liable to be directed by the Minister for Justice as to how they should carry out the decrees of the Court.  The effect in the future may be very different from the practice under the temporary legislation which is conditioned by the Minister's definite instruction.  I cannot see the justice of making the wife, the husband, the son or the daughter responsible for the debts of the father, the mother, the son or the daughter, as the case may be, simply because they happen to live in the same house. 
     I do not know, by the way, whether the word &ldquo;child&rdquo; in this section refers only to minors and will not have effect in respect of adults who happen to be sons or daughters of the debtor. That is a matter, I daresay, that will have to be considered on the Committee Stage.  But surely we ought to assume that the creditor who gives credit has had regard to the risks being run, the character of the debtor and the general likelihood of his or her paying the debt. If we say, that because Peter Murphy has gone into debt, Margaret Murphy must be responsible for paying it, that seems to me to cut against all reasonable property rights and to say that the son or the father must be liable for the father's or the son's debts, is again a further drive at what hitherto were conceived to be the rights of the father or the son as individuals.  I think that the legislation should assume that the creditor, in giving credit&mdash;and I am dealing now with the small purchaser;   in the great majority of cases this particular provision applies rather to the small purchaser and the small trader, household goods and not merchant goods&mdash;has taken into consideration all the chances of the debt being paid, and should not be encouraged to give credit by the thought that there is, in the statute, a provision which secures him by saying: &ldquo;If I cannot get the debtor's goods, I can get his wife's, his daughter's, or his son's.&rdquo; I think the House would be well advised in refusing to pass this section. 
     Then the Minister has taken credit for having retained the £15 limit, but again I say that that is still too low. The section refers to wearing apparel, the bedding of a person against whom an execution shall be levied, the necessary wearing apparel of a family, which presumably includes grown-up sons and daughters who may be in the house, and the tools, the implements of his trade.  These may include a sewing machine or joiner's tools and may be the necessary means by which the person would be able eventually to pay the debt.  Yet exemption is granted only for such articles or chattels to a total value of £15.  I think the limit is entirely too small. 
     But taking the Bill as a whole, the whole conception of it with respect to these provisions regarding the collection of debts is for the protection of the creditor and the minimising of his risks, and in so far as this has effect upon the shopkeeper, or trader, or &ldquo;tick&rdquo; draper, as he is called, or the moneylender, I think it is simply an encouragement to that kind of trade. We have far too much of it, and it would be very much better rather to create greater risks for the trader who gives credit under these conditions than to reduce these risks.  I do not know whether it is possible, but it would be very interesting to have from the Minister some return showing the number of these judgment debts which have been granted to the moneylender, the credit draper and the man who lives by giving out goods on the instalment plan.  There has been an immense increase in recent years in that particular class of trade. It is an unhealthy trade; it induces   people to get into debt for goods which are really not necessary, and very often beyond their competence, but they get into that way of purchasing, they get into the toils of these particular traders, and this Bill is designed, as the last Bill was, in effect, to assist that particular class of trader in this country.  I think that that is unhealthy, and therefore the Bill to that extent should not be encouraged. 
     
      
       The Minister's statement that debtors in the Free State will in future have to make a better attempt to discharge their liabilities than they have done in the past will be welcome news to the commercial community, because one is sorry to have to say that the view seems to have got abroad amongst creditors to-day that there is very little use in following debtors, owing to the many loopholes that they seem to have for evading their liabilities. That is a condition of affairs that should be put an end to at the earliest possible moment. 
     
     
      
       It does not exist. 
     
     
      
       I am only stating the view held by the commercial community, in view of the importance of credit to trade.  I cannot agree at all with what Deputy Johnson has said as to the importance of limiting credit. The whole foundation of business and of trade is credit as we know it to-day, and the more we attempt to limit credit the greater will be the limitation of trade.  The Minister apparently disagrees with the view of the commercial community that there is no use in throwing good money after bad in following many debtors in the Free State to-day.  Might I remind him of the figures he has given us?  He has told us that there are at the moment unexecuted judgments to the number of 3,434, representing a sum of £69,910. That appears to me to be a very alarming figure, and if I might put an ordinary interpretation on it, it bears out to the full the view that is held by the commercial community with regard to the difficulty of recovering from, and indeed of following, many debtors. 
     
     
      
       It represents current debts. 
     
     
     
      
       With regard to the proposals put forward for the purpose of making the decrees more effective, particularly the proposal put forward in Section 13, Deputy Johnson objects to our taking from the debtor's family goods that may, rightly or wrongly, belong to them.  I do not know whether the Deputy is aware of the extent to which this family interest appears to enter into goods obtained by a debtor. In a great many cases at present as soon as the sheriff's officers go in to perform their duty they are told: &ldquo;Oh, that belongs to my wife.&rdquo;  By the time they have gone through the property that belongs to the different members of the family they find that the debtor is possessed of practically no property at all. 
       One rather serious case of that kind came under our notice a very short time ago where a considerable quantity of goods had been obtained on credit. Payment was not forthcoming and when the debtor went to see how far the property had been disposed of he found that practically none of it was available at all.  Between the different members of the family and their friends the whole property had disappeared and there was practically nothing left to recover on.  That is a very serious state of affairs and by no means an uncommon one in the Free State, and steps ought to be taken, in the general interest of the commerce of the State, to see that such a condition of things should not be allowed to prevail any further&mdash;I was almost going to say &ldquo;than was necessary&rdquo; but certainly any further than was possible, because it must be within the knowledge of Deputies who travel outside the country that the credit of this State is not good.  We find in a great many cases, owing to bad credit, from causes of the kind I have mentioned, that traders have to pay with the order for a great proportion of their goods, and generally that the credit of the State is not at all so good.  I agree with the Minister, and I was glad to hear from him that that is not a desirable state of affairs from any point of view and that in the interests of the State the many loopholes that debtors have been taking advantage of should be closed at the earliest possible moment. 
     
     
        There are a great many points in connection with the Bill that I would like to deal with, but before expressing an opinion on many of the proposals I would like to consult those who are more intimately concerned.  I suggest that, in view of the importance of the Bill and of the necessity for consulting many interests in connection with these different proposals, as much time as possible should be given before taking up the Committee Stage, so that the different proposals might be carefully examined, and if it should be necessary to suggest amendments, that sufficient time might be permitted in order that these amendments might be considered and put forward. 
     
      
       I think that Deputy Good has rather exaggerated the position which the Minister has tried to convey with regard to the figures of unexecuted judgments.  He says that there are 3,434, representing a figure of £69,910.  I would like to know, if the Minister has the figures available, or if he could give them at a later stage, if he regards these figures as normal&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Not quite. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;or if he could give us some figures of unexecuted decrees previous to the coming into existence of the Free State, say for 1914, 1915, 1916, or up to 1921, so that Deputy Good might have some idea of the position prevailing previous to the Treaty as well as the position at present. 
     
     
      
       Would you make it pre-war? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       If you like.  Whatever we may think of the system under which people live in the country, where they have been or will be compelled for some time to come to get credit from the local shopkeeper, we have to realise, and I can say so from experience, that it is only in exceptional cases that people go in and incur debts having made up their mind that they have no intention of paying for the goods they take from the shop.  There is the fact that, as a result of the disturbance   in the country and the subsequent demoralisation, there may be a greater number of people so disposed to-day than there used to be in previous times but, as far as I can see, the position is improving and has improved from that point of view.  It is for that reason, in spite of what anyone else will say, that I welcome a tightening up of the existing law whether it will be to the advantage of the creditor or of the debtor.  I should like to know, from the Minister, although I do not want to put him to too much trouble with regard to figures, at a later stage, what amount of the £69,910 represents shop debts, what amount represents rates and income tax, and how, generally speaking, the figure is made up. 
       The Minister has dealt, to a great extent, with Section 13.  I should like to put this before him.  I have heard of cases where farmers and others were decreed for debts.  When the sheriff went to execute the decree the farmer concerned had his land let for grazing to some person other than a member of the family.  I am surprised to learn from the Minister that he has not had any complaints of that kind, where the cattle of people other than the family of the farmer, have been seized as satisfaction for the court judgment. 
     
     
      
       For rates, yes. 
     
     
      
       For anything at all. 
     
     
      
       No, for rates. 
     
     
      
       Will he point out how he will deal with a case of that kind? Does he propose to continue the existing law whereby an under-sheriff or, as he is now styled, a court messenger, will be held responsible for taking the property of people other than those against whom the decree is given?  In such a case I think it would be easy to disprove the claim, because the farmer who owns the land, but who does not own the cattle on the land, should be in a position to produce a receipt from the person who has the grazing rights whatever the charge for the grazing rights would be.  I know of cases&mdash; this is partly why I welcome a tightening up of those laws&mdash;where people in my own county discouraged the payment   of rates and these were people who could well afford to pay and do not.  Deputy Gorey knows all about them. 
     
     
      
       I know nothing of what the Deputy is referring to.  I disclaim all knowledge. 
     
     
      
       I was assuming he remembered previous discussions that took place in this House in connection with Bills of this kind. 
     
     
      
       I should be sorry to associate myself with anything of the kind. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask the Minister with regard to the position of court messengers what type of people he has in his mind as being suitable for such positions, whether it is people who are already in receipt of a pension, such as ex-R.I.C. men or men of that type, or ex-National Army men, or will the people appointed to this position have a pensionable office.  I think the Minister is to be congratulated upon Section 20.  I think it is fair to assume that scarcely any persons of good standing in the country or with any self-respect will go to the court to defend a claim for debts they owe unless they are unable to pay these debts.  I think it is a very fair way of meeting the case of people who are in a bankrupt position, to enable them to put the case before the courts and to try to justify a claim for payment of whatever they owe on the instalment system, no matter how we may have to regret such a system.  There are, unfortunately, hundreds of people of the small farming type in the country not able to pay what they owe.  That may be due to extravagant living during the years 1919 to 1921 or to other reasons, but it is the fact, and I think the inclusion of such a Section as 20 is a fair way of meeting a case of that kind at the present time. 
     
     
      
       It has been asserted by people who are friendly to the State that sometimes the sheriff or the under-sheriff who was called upon to execute an order of the courts from peculiar reasons has let the people on whom he is going to make a seizure know of the   fact.  When the sheriff goes there there is nothing to seize and the result is the writ is marked nulla bona.  There are no results from the court proceedings. I should like to understand how and by what means dereliction of duty on the part of under-sheriffs could be checked or what machinery exists in the Department for cases of the type I mention. 
       I am not making a definite statement. The information has been given me in connection with certain outstanding arrears of rates, and I would like to know whether there could be a remedy for that defect in the administration. I agree with the general principle of the Bill.  We all must admit that debts incurred should be paid and that the law should be carried out, so that all recoverable debts shall be recovered. Perhaps the Minister would be able to state how many writs in the past six months have been returned marked nulla bona.  He said that there were 3,434 writs, amounting to £69,000, still outstanding.  Perhaps the Minister would supplement that information by giving us the number of writs that have only served as so much waste paper. I understand that the number of nulla bona decrees is very considerable, and would indicate that Section 13 is very necessary if the State is to carry on. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson confined his criticism of the Bill almost entirely to suggesting that a Bill of this kind, designed to secure the more sure and effective execution of court decrees, is in itself evil, inasmuch as it tends to buttress up and perpetuate the system of credit in the country. 
     
     
      
       Credit to consumers &mdash;small traders' credit. 
     
     
      
       When one has decided that it is necessary to oppose a particular Bill, one can go a long way in search of a reason.  Deputy Johnson went a long way in search of his reason for opposing this particular Bill.  The decrees of the courts ought not, it is urged, to be executed, because if they are, traders will be encouraged to give credit, having more or less effective means of redress at their disposal if they are disappointed in their estimate of the character of the debtor or if they   are disappointed in their estimate of his financial prospects.  I think that is an unsound reason.  I think it is a very short-sighted reason.  I think that no worse state of affairs could arise in this State, or in any other State, than that in which the writ of your courts would be ineffective.  Credit is not simply a question of the small trader and the small purchaser.  The Deputy knows that it is part and parcel of our whole commercial civilization&mdash;that there are people who receive their income in instalments throughout the year, whether weekly or quarterly or half-yearly instalments, and who live in the period in between on credit in varying degrees.  Their word, their personal security, their integrity is accepted by the trader, who believes in their intention and ability to pay.  I submit that facilities of that kind are necessary for large numbers in the community and that they will not be forthcoming if you have not a situation in which there is redress for the trader who, for one reason or another, is disappointed in his estimate of the man whom he allows to contract debts. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest that these facilities were not forthcoming in the days before the first Bill of this kind was passed? 
     
     
      
       They have been forthcoming, but if the Deputy is referring me back to the years 1922 and 1923, I should say that there was a very considerable tendency to curtail them. 
     
     
      
       I am referring the Minister back to pre-war days or, if he chooses, to any time at which history ran normally. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy is asking me to agree with him that there may be too much credit in the country and that it can become an evil and an incubus in certain circumstances, I will agree; but the remedy does not lie in the direction of allowing an atmosphere of insecurity and uncertainty to grow up about the question of whether or not your court decrees are going to be executed. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister make the case that the situation pre-war   was such that there was necessity for this kind of legislation?  In the case of the original Bills, it was stated that this kind of legislation was demanded because of the prevailing circumstances. Does the Minister now allege that circumstances pre-war were such as required this kind of legislation? 
     
     
      
       I really think they were.  I have spoken to solicitors of very long experience and of considerable standing in their profession, and they have informed me that the writ of the County Court pre-war&mdash;as far back as the Deputy wishes to go, 1908, 1909 or 1910&mdash;was to a very large extent ineffective. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest that there was not sufficient credit given to consumers against their monthly instalments in those days? 
     
     
      
       There was, but we are not going into that.  The Deputy knows as well as I do that times have changed, that the whole financial and economic position, not merely of this country but of a great many other countries, is very different now from what it was pre-war.  If I am put the question, whether or not the execution of court decrees pre-war was satisfactory, the only possible answer is that it was not satisfactory, that it was eminently unsatisfactory, that I have been assured by men of standing and experience in their profession that the writ of the County Court at the best of times was a very limping, ineffective writ and ran badly.  However, I would like to say to Deputy Good&mdash;because I think that statements of the kind ought not in the general interests to be allowed to pass unchallenged&mdash;that the execution of court orders to-day is far and away above the execution of court orders in any year pre-war he likes to take&mdash;1912, 1913 or 1914.  It is not the testimony of one solicitor, but the testimony of a score of solicitors, that there was not in those days anything like the certainty, anything like the effectiveness in the execution of the writs of the courts as prevails to-day.  The Deputy can, between this and Committee Stage, consult any solicitor friends of   his on that matter and find whether or not I am wrong in that statement. 
       I gave the Deputy some figures.  Any figures that run to thousands, when read out, sound big.  I gave him the figure of 3,434 for unexecuted judgments in the hands of the under-sheriffs of the State.  When you remember that there are about 30 under-sheriffs in the State, the number is not surprisingly large.  The money value represented is £69,910.  I refer him back to the position on the 31st March, 1924.  There were then 7,022 unexecuted judgments in the hands of under-sheriffs, representing a sum of £157,043, so that we have made considerable progress since then.  That figure of 3,434 represents little more than normal, current work. 
       On inquiry, I think the Deputy will find that judgments come into the hands of the under-sheriffs at the rate of about two thousand per month.  It will vary, perhaps, here and there, according to when the courts are sitting, and so on, but they would come in on an average at the rate of two thousand per month.  That being so, the figure in hand at the end of a particular month, say, January&mdash;3,434&mdash;is not an alarming figure, which was the word, I think, that the Deputy made use of. It represents something a shade over the actual normal current business for these officials.  It is not in any captious way that I take the Deputy up on the general point, but because if it were allowed to go out that there is considerable difficulty, or any degree of uncertainty, in securing that the judgments of our courts are executed, it would have reactions of a kind which the Deputy would be the first to deplore. 
     
     I think Deputy Davin's point arises indirectly from Section 13, where the owner of land is a judgment debtor, and cattle grazing on that land are seized in respect of the debt.  If the Deputy will make inquiries I think he will find that that position is confined to the question of rates.  In the case of rates on land, it seems that live stock grazing on that land can be seized regardless of whether or not they are the actual property of the debtor&mdash;the defaulting ratepayer.  It   is a peculiar position, a special Local-Government-law position, and I suppose it is justifiable only on the basis that, in the absence of such a provision, it would be possible for a man to successfully evade payment of his rates, and there would be the difficulty of proving or ascertaining whether, in fact, a particular horse, cow, or bullock grazing on the land was really his property or not. 
     The statute simply provides that the land upon which the rates are due, if it is used to graze livestock, is &ldquo;dangerous land&rdquo; and the stock upon it can be seized in respect of the unpaid rates.  I know that it works out in cases of hardship, but I expect the legislators who inserted that particular provision in the law decided that the greater evil was in allowing a position in which a man could evade payment of his rates, proceed to let his land on the eleven months' system, and derive profit and benefit from it, while escaping payment of his public liabilities in respect of rates.  If &ldquo;A&rdquo; puts his cattle on &ldquo;B's&rdquo; land by the eleven months or otherwise, and if &ldquo;B&rdquo; is a defaulting ratepayer, &ldquo;A's&rdquo; cattle are in danger. Sometimes people, unaware that there are rates due on land, suffer loss by having their cattle seized in respect of the defaulter's debt.  In that case I should imagine there is a remedy against the defaulter.  They have a right against the defaulter if they proceed in the courts to recover what they have lost. 
     
      
       Does the Minister give that assurance, or is he in doubt? 
     
     
      
       I am not speaking of this present Bill.  I am speaking of a matter arising under Local Government Law under which Deputy Wilson's cattle can be seized on Deputy Gorey's land if Deputy Gorey does not pay his rates. 
     
     
      
       What I ask for in that case is protection for Deputy Wilson against Deputy Gorey. 
     
     
      
       The point can be looked into.  My own recollection of the matter is that a man whose cattle are seized in respect of rates left unpaid by another man can recover against the rate defaulter. 
     
     
     
      
       Would the Minister not take steps to make it publicly known that people who put cattle on a defaulting ratepayer's land are liable to have them seized? 
     
     
      
       I think it is generally known.  The trouble arises from the fact that a man can offer to take stock on his land under the eleven months' system and not disclose that rates are due on the land, and that stock coming in will be in danger. 
       Deputy Wilson asked me if there is a high proportion of nulla bona returns. It varies a good deal.  In some counties the proportion is low and in others it is high, but, wherever a nulla bona return is made to a judgment creditor, he receives a notice drawing his attention to that portion of the Act which enables a judgment debtor to be examined before the court.  Together with the nulla bona return, there is sent to him, or to his solicitor, a special memorandum drawing attention to the extra remedies that are available to him under the Act for the collection of his debt.  Having failed to secure seizure of property, he can proceed, if he or his solicitor thinks fit, to avail of the portion of the Act entitled the &ldquo;Examination of Debtors.&rdquo;  There is rather widespread satisfaction with that provision, and my information is that very many debts that would otherwise prove irrecoverable are found to be recoverable by the intelligent use of Part II. of the Bill, which is identical with what prevails in the existing Act. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister any information which would go to show how the sum of £69,910 is made up? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps it is as well that the Deputy raised the point. All I can tell the Deputy is that of the 3,400 decrees on hands approximately 1,000 represent decrees for Land Commission annuities.  I do not know how the remaining 2,000 would be divided. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the position of court messenger, can the Minister say if it is pensionable or not? 
     
     
      
       I think that is a   Committee point; we need not go into that now. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be read a second time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Bill read a Second Time. 
       Ordered: That the Third Stage be taken on Tuesday, 9th March. 
       The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - VOTE 25&mdash;CIRCUIT COURT OFFICERS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise, na raghaidh thar £10, chun ioctha an mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, chun Tuarastail agus Liuntaisi agus Costaisi Oifigeacha iomdha na Cuirte Cuarda, Bonus do Chleirigh na Coroineach agus na Siochana agus Costaisi Athfheachainte. 
       That a supplementary sum, not exceeding £10, be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, for the salaries, allowances and expenses of various Circuit Court Officers, bonus to Clerks of the Crown and Peace, and the expenses of revision. 
     
     This Estimate has been made necessary by the appointment of two Assistant Circuit Court Judges.  It is, perhaps, anomalous that I should be defending this.  In the coming year this particular Estimate will be accounted for by the Department of Justice and will be dealt with by the Minister for Justice.  As the original Estimate was accounted for by the Department of Finance this year, the supplementary Estimate must also be accounted for by that Department.  It was found that considerable Circuit Court arrears had accumulated in the Dublin City and County District and in the Midland District.  Accordingly, an Assistant Circuit Court Judge was appointed for the Dublin District on   the 6th June, 1925.  He will continue to act until the arrears have been cleared off.  I believe that in disposing of these arrears a great deal of progress has been made.  It is not possible yet to fix a date when the services of the Assistant Court Judge will no longer be necessary. 
     In the Midland District the Assistant Circuit Court Judge was appointed on the 19th October.  It is anticipated that in that district the arrears of work will be wiped off about the end of the financial year.  The Assistant Circuit Court Judges are being paid at the same rate as Circuit Court Judges&mdash;£1,700 a year. In one case the Assistant Circuit Court Judge is a retired County Court Judge, and the actual cost to the State is only £300, because his pension is suspended while he is acting as an Assistant Court Judge. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - VOTE 43&mdash;SECONDARY EDUCATION. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise, na raghaidh thar ocht mile agus seachto punt, chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith iniochta i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, chun Meadhon-Oideachais, maraon le Deontas Thuarastal na Muinteoiri, Deontas Ceann-tSraithe agus Meaduithe Tuarastail do Mhuinteoiri Meadhon-Scoileanna. 
       That a supplementary sum, not exceeding eight thousand and seventy pounds, be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, for Secondary Education, including the Teachers' Salaries Grant.  Capitation Grant and increments of salary to secondary school teachers. 
     
     
      
       For some years the salaries of the secondary teachers have been supplemented by annual payments which went by the name of interim   grants, and payments of this nature were made in June and July, 1924, in respect of the school year 1923-24.  The necessary provision was made in the Estimates for the financial year 1924-25.  It was decided to replace these interim grants by a system of increments on salary, and arrangements were actually made to have that system applied to the school year 1924-25.  In order to provide the payments in respect of the first two quarters of that year which were payable in the financial year 1924-25, a supplementary estimate of thirty thousand pounds odd was passed in March, 1925.  Owing to a variety of circumstances, such as the late time of the year in which the grant was passed, the short time available, the pressure of other work, especially at the end of the financial year, it was found impossible to distribute most of the amount.  Very little of that money was distributed during the remainder of the financial year.  In fact, of the actual sum voted, only £800 was distributed, plus about £8,000 coming in the way of savings from the previous year.  The result is that we have to re-vote the balance for the present year so as to distribute it.  This does not represent any additional expenditure; it is essentially in the nature of a re-vote of a non-issued balance of last year's vote.  The amount necessary has been reduced by the fact that savings occurred under some of the other sub-heads of the same vote. 
     
     
      
       With regard to this particular Vote, there are a few matters that I would like to mention dealing generally with the position of secondary education.  I do so in virtue of a promise that was given earlier in the year, that an opportunity would be afforded, in these Supplementary Estimates, for raising these matters as the opportunity was not availed of during the past year.  Now, with regard to this increment, the scheme which has been devised is not working out equitably for all the teachers concerned. One would think, when a scheme of this kind was being set up, consisting of a basic salary with increments payable for services rendered, that it would work automatically as in most other public services.  That is not   at all the case in the scheme arrived at, so far as secondary teachers are concerned. The scheme is fenced round with so many conditions and technicalities, that there have been many cases of teachers who are not eligible for increment under the conditions, although they have given services.  I think that is a matter that the Minister should look into and see whether in conjunction with the representatives of the teachers concerned some better scheme could not be devised whereby the teachers who gave good services would, as a matter of course, get the increments to which their services properly and naturally entitled them, and that payment should not depend upon circumstances over which the teacher has no control, as it depends at the present time. 
       There was a question answered to-day which shows the kind of thing that takes place.  The minimum scale of salaries has been set out.  We have, I think, 127 teachers receiving less than the minimum.  That is a state of affairs that cannot be regarded as satisfactory, and it certainly is one that should be looked into.  Then we had also the case of eleven teachers at least whose salaries were reduced as a result of the setting up of the new scale.  The minimum scale paid was reduced in the case of these eleven teachers; at least, so I understand from the answer the Minister gave this morning. 
     
     
      
       The basic salary was reduced&mdash;the salaries paid by the schools.  I hope I did not convey that eleven teachers' salaries were reduced below the minimum? 
     
     
      
       No, I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       I want to make it clear that in most of those cases, where the schools were paying salaries, the salaries were sometimes over £300 a year and sometimes over £400, and a reduction took place in them; but they were not brought down near the minimum in most of the cases to which I referred. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say was there any actual reduction in the teachers' total income in these cases? 
     
     
     
      
       I could not say that off-hand. 
     
     
      
       That would be the essential matter.  However, these are things which, I think, ought to be looked into.  Teaching in the secondary schools, if regarded as it ought to be, should be a profession in which there was some sense of security so far as the teacher is concerned.  He should know what he has got and what he is entitled to get if he gives good service during the year.  As I say, owing to the technicalities surrounding the scheme of increments, which it is unnecessary for me to go into now, that is not the case, and that is a matter that I think should be remedied. 
       I would like to make some slight references to two matters that have been raised here year after year with regard to secondary teachers.  I am anxious to know the Minister's attitude with regard to those matters.  The first of them is the insecurity of the position of secondary teachers.  A man occupying a public position of this kind ought to be given security of tenure when he is efficient.  Complaint has been made year after year&mdash;it is a matter of general knowledge&mdash;that a lay secondary teacher has no security of tenure. A man cannot settle down and give the best work possible if there is hanging over his head a dread of being without a position at the end of a few months. There are many such cases; as a matter of fact, it represents the position of practically all the lay secondary teachers.  They have no security of tenure such as other public servants have got. 
     
     The other matter I desire to refer to is one which also has been raised on many occasions here; that is, the question of awarding pensions to secondary teachers.  The claim has been made repeatedly and no satisfactory reply has ever been given with regard to it. No satisfactory argument has been advanced as to why these teachers should not be entitled to pensions.  I think it is a well defined and now generally accepted policy that a person who is employed in the position of a public servant and paid a public salary ought to have some provision made when he is no longer fit to give that service, and   should be entitled to a pension.  There is no reason that I can discover why this particular class of teacher, of whom there are not very many, should not be treated in the same way as other public servants.  In this case, as in the case of other teachers, it may be taken for granted that the pension scheme would be on a contributory basis, and that the amount of money necessary to inaugurate such a scheme would not be very large, and certainly would not be such as would overstrain the resources of the State.  These claims were made in regard to all Ireland before the Saorstat was set up.  They have been met in Northern Ireland as soon as the Government of Northern Ireland was set up.  There they recognised that these claims were just and fair, and, as I say, in their Education Act they made provision whereby a scheme of pensions was inaugurated for their secondary teachers.  I see no reason why a similar scheme could not be inaugurated here.  Those are the two outstanding points in connection with this Estimate, dealing with secondary education, which I wish to stress.  Both questions have been raised here on many occasions from all quarters of the House, but they are still outstanding and awaiting settlement.  I hope the Minister will look into these matters and be in a position to give us a satisfactory statement with regard to them. 
     
      
       I should like to make a claim for secondary teachers in regard to the matter of pensions.  I know it is not a very popular thing to suggest any extra expenditure of money at present but, at the same time, these teachers are placed in a very anomalous position.  They find their brethren in the North of Ireland with a non-contributory scheme of pensions, they find their brethren on the other side of the Channel with a contributory scheme, and they also find the teachers in the primary schools in this country with a pension scheme, while they themselves are left out in the cold. The one point that appeals to me most in regard to this question is that when a teacher reaches a certain age his Board does not ask him to retire.  He ceases to be efficient, and it is very   necessary that a teacher should be capable of imparting good teaching.  His Board is naturally slow to ask him to retire when he has no means of livelihood provided for him afterwards.  I think great stress should be laid on that point when urging the Government to provide a pension scheme for what, after all, is a comparatively small number, as Deputy O'Connell said, and who were left in an anomalous position of finding others in receipt of pensions who are perhaps less entitled to them than they are. 
     
     
      
       I will take the last, but probably the most important, point first, namely, the question of pensions.  It was only last evening that I received a deputation on behalf of secondary teachers in connection with this matter.  For obvious reasons, owing to the School Attendance Bill, I could not have given this matter serious attention so far, and I ask the House to bear that in mind.  I quite understand the desire of secondary teachers to receive pensions.  I can also understand the various reasons put forward here in support of that particular proposal, but nobody, not even Deputy O'Connell, though he suggested that this has been agitated here for a number of years, can say what the amount of such a scheme would be likely to cost the State.  The deputation which I received yesterday had no very clear ideas on that particular point.  Before I could make any definite promise on that particular subject there are a number of matters to which I would like to give greater attention than I could have given up to the present. The other point is the question of the insecurity of the teachers' position. Deputy O'Connell recognises that that is a matter inherent in the conditions of secondary education in Ireland.  It is not a matter which a Minister could settle, even with the best will in the world.  He must, I think, recognise that head masters, on the one hand, and secondary teachers on the other hand, the two parties most intimately concerned, expect, and have always expected, the Minister to find a solution, satisfying, on the one hand, the natural and, what might be called, the legitimate aspirations of secondary   teachers, and recognising, on the other hand, the fact that a secondary teacher in this country is essentially in the hands of private individuals or private concerns receiving help from the State. That is the difficulty.  I realise it. 
       Nobody will be keener than I to find a solution of that particular difficulty, but I have had no solution up to the present, and I asked various people, both before and since I became Minister, to suggest anything like a reasonable solution which would be just to the legitimate claims and the rights of both parties.  As regards another point raised by Deputy O'Connell, he seemed to suggest that it was the result of particular rules and regulations, based on certain steps taken by the Dail and worked out afterwards by the Department of Education, that there was a reduction in salaries of certain teachers. He knows perfectly well that it does not follow that because something happened after something else had happened, that it resulted because of the other happening.  In certain schools in the city and county of Dublin there were certain reductions.  In two cases the basic salary was reduced from £400 to £360.  In only two cases, as far as I can see, was the basic salary brought under what we call a minimum, a minimum, that is, for certain purposes. The rules, undoubtedly, as they exist, are somewhat complicated, but it is not so easy to draw up simple rules to meet this situation.  We try to insist upon the schools fulfilling certain conditions, namely, the employment of certain recognised registered teachers, and, in the case of lay teachers, the payment of a certain minimum salary. If a school does not fulfil these requirements, our procedure is to withdraw the capitation grant.  How are we to fit that in with the particular case of hardship to which Deputy O'Connell refers?  It may not be easy to keep a hold over the schools and, at the same time, meet Deputy O'Connell's point. I admit that the rules are complicated, and I promise to look into that particular matter with a view to seeing whether anything can be devised to meet the situation more fully. 
     
     
      
       The £260,000 which we are asked to increase by £8,000, in   addition to the sums spent on primary education, is an enormous amount for this country to bear.  I am sorry all the speeches have been made with the object of forcing the Minister to spend still more on secondary teachers.  I would like to see their position stabilised and their salaries increased, but the fact the Minister has to consider is whether the country can afford to go on paying these enormous sums for primary and secondary education.  I hope he will give that matter, and the position of the general taxpayer, a good deal of consideration before any more supplementary estimates are introduced. I am glad that the Minister has not surrendered to the demand to increase expenditure. 
     
     
      
       I think we can congratulate ourselves that we have heard Deputy O'Mara, even making such a statement as that to which we have listened.  We do not hear or see him very often.  Perhaps he is beginning to think that the result of the recent election in his neighbourhood may be such as to give him an incentive to take a greater interest in his constituency, and the interests of his constituents, and that he might consider it worth his while to appear in this House now and again, even to make such statements as he has made.  I would advise Deputy O'Mara that before venturing on such statements he should make sure of his facts, and take the opportunity of finding out what is the real position with regard to the amount of money spent in this country on education. I can promise him if he takes the trouble to do so, he will find that the amount per head spent in this country is less than in any country I know. 
     
     
      
       Does Deputy O'Connell deny that £3,400,000 is spent on primary education? 
     
     
      
       He does not. 
     
     
      
       The sums spent on primary and secondary education are very big. 
     
     
      
       They are, I agree, but they are not comparatively big. 
     
     
     
      
       The country cannot afford it. 
     
     
      
       If there were more spent on education in the past the complaint that Deputy O'Mara now makes need not be made.  It has been always the case that it is the poor country should spend most on education, and if the Deputy makes investigation along the line I have suggested, he will find that one of the things which brings a country from a state of poverty to a state of comparative prosperity is by spending, and spending generously, on its education. 
     
     
      
       It appears that the expenditure, as explained by the Minister, might have been anticipated when the estimate was prepared.  I want to be quite fair to the Minister, for as we know, he has not been for very long responsible for matters in connection with his particular department.  I would like to stress this point, because we have had occasion to draw attention to it before.  We would like that estimates put before this House should be first carefully considered.  I am afraid that a number of the estimates we are called upon to consider in the early part, or at the beginning of the financial year, are only looked upon by some of the Departments as approximate estimates, with the result that we have a very large number of supplementary estimates taking up the time of the House, and dealing with matters that should have been anticipated and dealt with before the estimates were submitted. That is a point we have stressed before. What do we find in connection with the particular estimate before us? 
     
     The original estimate of £92,500 has been increased to £121,000, and we are now called upon to approve of an additional sum of £28,500.  There is no use in referring to the Appropriation Fund, or saying that savings have been effected in other estimates.  The estimates have not been subjected to that care we would like to see given to them.  I would like an explanation from the Minister as to how it arises that 25 per cent. additional is necessary to carry out the work included in this particular estimate, and how that could not have been foreseen when the original   estimate was in course of preparation. 
     
      
       Was Deputy Good present when I made my opening statement? 
     
     
      
       I was. 
     
     
      
       The estimates were prepared in December, 1925.  I pointed out, I think, that this particular estimate was not spent in the financial year.  That is the explanation. We cannot know until the end of the financial year whether it would be spent or not. 
     
     
      
       Is not this in effect a re-vote? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I explained that. 
     
     
      
       That ought to have been pointed out when the estimate was put forward originally.  The estimate was £92,000, and there ought to have been a foot-note attached to that stating that in addition to that £28,500 which was unexpended in the previous year should be added. 
     
     
      
       If that were done it would be quite excellent, and it could be done if the Deputies would now withdraw the desire for having the estimates in their hands before the end of the financial year. You cannot have it both ways.  These estimates are printed long before the end of the financial year, and what has been suggested could not be done.  You must wait until the end of the financial year until it is found whether the amount of the estimate was spent in that financial year.  The actual estimates, as I have explained, are drawn up about December or January.  For instance, they are in course of printing at present, and it will be impossible to find out until the end of the financial year whether the amount of a particular estimate has been spent or not.  We are now re-voting a particular portion that was not spent in the last quarter of the financial year. 
     
     
      
       But what was the difficulty about attaching a foot-note to the estimate stating that a sum of £28,500   which was unexpended in the year under consideration would be necessary in addition to the £92,000? 
     
     
      
       The estimate was printed. 
     
     
      
       Yes, but the estimate was wrong.  Everything in connection with this debate shows clearly that the attention that should be given to the estimates is not given to them, and that the information which should be given is not forthcoming. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy, I think, does not appreciate the practical difficulties in the way of putting at the foot of an estimate which is printed in March a sum which cannot be foreseen until the end of the financial year.  But I go this far with Deputy Good, that when the Secondary Education Vote was being discussed on June 12th, the fact that by the 31st March a sum had not been expended which had been voted would have been known to the financial authorities, and in the course of the discussion we should have been informed that there would be an additional sum required in the way of a re-vote. That, I think, is practicable, and I hope it will be taken note of that as soon as possible after the estimates have been printed, wherever there has been a shortage in payments which must inevitably be made up, the fact will be indicated to the Dail, if possible, at the time of the discussion of the estimates. 
     
     
      
       I think there was no discussion of this particular estimate last year. 
     
     
      
       It is quite true there was no discussion, but the Vote was passed, and to that extent the Dail was misled.  That is all the more reason why the Dail should have been informed at an early stage that there was an additional sum, besides the £92,000, to the amount now required as a re-vote.  That should have been stated to the Dail at the earliest possible date. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - VOTE 52&mdash;RAILWAYS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar Suim Bhreise, na   raghaidh thar Deich bPuint, chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, chun Iocaiochtanna fe Acht na mBothar Iarainn, 1924, fen Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc., agus chun cricheanna eile a bhaineann le Boithre Iarainn in Eirinn. 
     That a Supplementary Sum, not exceeding Ten Pounds, be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, for Payments under the Railways Act, 1924, the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc., and for other purposes connected with Irish Railways. 
     This Vote is required for the Sligo and Belmullet Steamer Service.  That service has been in existence for a very considerable time&mdash;I think since 1899. There is no railway or other regular transport system between Sligo and Belmullet except this steamer service, which is very largely availed of for merchandise and live stock, and the failure or disappearance of the service would be a very great hardship on the people of the district.  In the first instance the service was worked by the Sligo Steam Navigation Co. under contract with the Board of Works.  Then, for three years ending the 31st May, 1919, the company had a subsidy from the Congested Districts Board.  From May, 1919, to January, 1920, the company continued to carry on the service without a subsidy.  Then, in order that it might be maintained, the SS.  &ldquo;Tartar,&rdquo; which is Government property, and which is at present on the service, was handed over, at the request of the then Local Government Board, for the conveyance of foodstuffs, particularly, to Belmullet.  From January, 1921, the service was continued by the company under an agreement with the Board of Works, which provided for the use of the steamer free of charge and a guarantee to the company against loss, limited to £1,000, for twelve months. Payments on that basis were made to 31st July, 1924.  Since that time the service has been carried on from month   to month on the basis that the Government accept liability for working losses.  The sum required to meet these losses from 31st July, 1924, to 31st March, 1926, is £2,150.  It is estimated that £2,140 can be provided out of savings on other sub-heads of the Railway Vote. 
     At present the channel to the Belmullet town wharf is not navigable to the ship that is used on the service and the cargo has to be loaded and discharged at Pickle Point Pier, which is one and a half miles from Belmullet. The service cannot be self-supporting unless the steamer can proceed to Belmullet, and the question of dredging the channel at an estimated cost of £6,600, or selling the SS.  &ldquo;Tartar&rdquo; and procuring a steamer of a lesser draught, is under consideration. 
     
      
       Can the Minister say what are the prospects in respect to the steamer for the period from 31st March, 1926?  Is there any anticipation that the service is likely to be a self-supporting one for any period of the year? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so.  At any rate the view is that the only chance of it becoming self-supporting would be by dredging this channel, and I do not think it is certain even then that the service would become self-supporting. But, unless that can be done and the cargo can be carried to and taken from Belmullet pier, it could not be self-supporting.  I have not the figures which would enable me to say whether it would be self-supporting for a particular few months of the year. 
     
     
      
       I am really concerned to know whether it is intended that this shall be a permanent State-carrying service, and whether the opponents of such projects are going to be loud in their protestations. 
     
     
      
       I have not any knowledge of this service, except what is contained in this document.  According to the Minister, there is a charge of £2,150 for the service.  That is not the full cost, as in addition to that the service is being carried on by a Government steamer which has been given   free of charge.  The Minister has not given a very rosy picture of the prospects of this service, and there is very little information on the paper.  This is a charge of £2,150, plus etceteras, which do not appear on the paper, and apparently it is to be carried on in perpetuity. One would naturally ask what use does it serve, is there no alternative, and what amount of cargo is carried?  Is the service indispensable, and is there no other means of carrying on the service than in this way?  It is rather illuminating to hear that under private ownership the service paid during a certain period and that the company were willing to carry it on.  What are the circumstances that now involve a State subsidy?  I am afraid my geography is not sufficiently good to criticise the matter in detail, but on the face of it the document is not convincing to me, at all events, that there is adequate value being given for the money which is asked for as a subsidy. I should like to have a more complete statement as to what we are asked to vote the money for. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid, in the absence of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who will not be available for some days, that I cannot give a great deal more of the history of this particular service than I have given. The subsidy was given&mdash;at the stage when the arrangements were entered into&mdash;solely for the purpose of preventing the service coming to an end.  If there were anybody to carry on that service without the subsidy, no subsidy would be given.  This was the best arrangement that could be made.  It is at present simply a month to month arrangement.  It can be dropped at any time.  If some other arrangement that will serve the interest of the district can be come to, there is no need to continue this particular one.  I do not know whether any other form of service would do.  We know very well that lorries are not very suitable for the transport of certain kinds of material.  You could, I suppose, transport live stock by lorry, but I do not think it would be an economic proposition. You might drive live stock a considerable distance, but whether that is a necessity that we should impose upon   the people of this particular district is a matter which would require further consideration.  This particular sum of money that is asked for now will enable the service to be carried on until the end of the present financial year.  If, as I have said, some different arrangement or some new arrangement can be come to, and if the Minister for Industry and Commerce is satisfied that the needs of this very poor district can be met in some other way, he will try to do so and will inform the Dail on the matter.  The Government has heretofore voted considerable sums for providing transport in various districts that require them.  If Deputies will turn to the volume of the estimates for the current year they will find on pages 213 and 214 that there have been sums voted for transport services.  Deputies will find that under sub-head (A) there is a payment to the Great Southern Railways Company under the Railways Act of 1924 of £48,688 in respect of the various light railways that were constructed for the poorer districts of the country.  Special grants have been given to keep the Donegal railways going.  A subsidy has been given for a steamer to the Aran Islands.  I do not say in every case in which assistance has been given that it was absolutely necessary.  I do say on the other hand that there are districts in which the only way to help the people to make the best they can of the resources at their disposal is to give them assistance in this way.  I think that a district like Belmullet, an extremely poverty-stricken district, which has no railway running through it, which is very remote from the ordinary centres for the procurement of supplies and the marketing of its own products, does on the face of it require and merit some assistance from the State. 
     
     
      
       I have been amused listening to the Minister for Finance trying to make a case for the Deputies for Mayo, who should be au fait with the varied activities of this particular steamer.  These Deputies are smiling at seeing that the Minister is all wrong. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy say that the Deputies for Mayo have said anything? 
     
     
     
      
       It is better that they should not.  It is much safer for them. 
     
     
      
       I said that they were not defending this particular service which is in their constituency, and on the necessity for which it is their duty to inform the Dail.  It is their duty to inform the Dail as to the necessity for keeping up a service to Belmullet.  I do not think I have done anything wrong in directing attention to the fact that on this matter they are dumb and that they have not attempted to explain the necessity for this service.  Why is it that from Arklow to Liverpool you can have a freight with a motor steamer at 6/- a ton, and why is it that from Sligo to Belmullet it is necessary to run this steamer, which does not go beyond Pickle Point Harbour, one and a half miles from Belmullet?  Why should it not be possible to run a motor service to supply this neighbourhood? That is one of the things that ought be explained to the Dail. 
       In regard to the matter of sending cattle from Belmullet to Sligo, it is clear that the Minister for Finance does not know the district at all, because cattle from Belmullet would be sent to Ballina, which is about 40 miles from Sligo.  They would not be sent to Sligo at all. 
     
     
      
       They would go to Glasgow from Sligo. 
     
     
      
       They would not be driven across from Belmullet to Sligo at all.  I can very well understand how, in the absence of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, the Minister for Finance is not conversant with the particular details of this matter.  That is why I say that I was expecting that the Deputies who represent Mayo would have explained to the Dail the necessity for this particular service. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson asked a question.  In reply to that question I might say that the latest period for which we have a return would be from May to July, 1925.  It was only £170.  During other periods it went to twice that amount. 
     
     
     
      
       If the Minister will turn to the Estimates for 1925-1926 he will find that this is not a new service. In page 216 he will find this footnote: &ldquo;This service, which was suspended from January to April, 1920, has been resumed by the Sligo Steam Navigation Company under a subsidy from the Local Government Board, and has been continued since the 1st February, 1921, under a guarantee to the Company against loss, limited to £1,000 in twelve months, for which the Congested Districts Board and the Board of Works have made themselves jointly responsible.&rdquo; 
       We find that the total expenditure under this, for this steamer, has been £84,758 over a series of years.  Under this Vote we are voting a sum which exceeds by, I suppose, 50 per cent., what was the arrangement up to 1925. I have no doubt that can be justified, but in the original arrangement the maximum amount of the subsidy was £1,000 per year.  The present subsidy is certainly more than £1,000 a year. The point I am making is that there has been an increase in the amount of the subsidy payable under the new scheme, compared with the sum payable under the previous arrangement. This is not a new Vote: it is a continuation of an old expenditure which was considered necessary as far back as 1876.  The conditions in parts of the country have not greatly improved from what they were in the time of the C.D.B. 
     
     
      
       I think there was a service contribution out of the Railway Acts of 1896 which was exhausted in the year 1924.  Consequently, the incidence of this particular service was much heavier after that date. 
     
     
      
       As the matter does not seem to be very urgent, I suggest that it be left over until the Minister for Industry and Commerce is present, so that he may explain the position more fully to us.  The House, I think, ought to be satisfied at an early date as to whether or not there is a need to continue this service.  Periodically we get rather voluminous documents in connection with the railways from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.   Therefore, I do not think it is unreasonable to ask that some particulars should be given to us as to the importance of the service that is being carried on under this subsidy.  I do not say that it is not a good charge, but from the documents put before us and the discussion that has taken place, I, as one opposed to Government subsidies, am not satisfied that we are justified in continuing this charge for a subsidy. 
     
     
      
       This particular service has been going on for 26 or 27 years, and has been paid for under various headings.  The payments have been made out of the public funds heretofore. As Deputy Johnson points out, it is not a new service, though we have had to provide a new sub-heading for it.  We have money under the Vote to pay for it, but as it was not in the original estimate, we had to prepare a new sub-head for it, and we thought it well to call the attention of the Dail to it. I do not think it is necessary that we should postpone the taking of this particular Vote, as well as the passing of the Fund Act in which this Vote will be incorporated, for the presence of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. If it is thought that this service ought not to be maintained, or if it is felt that it requires some special justification, I will bring that to the notice of the Minister for Industry and Commerce so that he may look into the matter before the estimates for his Department for the coming year come before the Dail.  If the service is going to be continued beyond the end of the present financial year, the estimate of the Minister for Industry and Commerce will require to show the proposed expenditure on this particular service for the next financial year.  I think that will meet sufficiently the points raised by Deputies. 
     
     
      
       I do not press for the postponement of the Vote, but I should like to give notice that at the earliest possible opportunity we ought to have information from the Minister for Industry and Commerce about this. There is a means of transport available now that was not in existence when this service was first subsidised. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - VOTE 63&mdash;REMUNERATION OF BANKS. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar Aon Mhile dheag Cheithre Chead agus Se Puint Seascad chun ioctha an mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, mar luach saothair as costas bainisti stoc Rialtais is le Saorstat Eireann. 
       That a sum, not exceeding Eleven Thousand Four Hundred and Sixty-six Pounds, be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, for the remuneration for cost of management of Government stocks of Saorstat Eireann. 
     
     The estimate covers a considerable period.  In respect of the National Loan, it covers the period from the 1st December, 1923, to the 31st March, 1926, and in the case of Compensation Stock from the 31st July, 1923.  It was originally intended to introduce a Bill fixing the rates of remuneration to the banks, but it was considered not opportune to introduce legislation of that sort pending the setting up of the banking inquiry which might perhaps result in other legislation, dealing with the banks and their position, being necessary, and that anything that was required in this respect could be included in some general Bill.  The banks, however, have been doing the work, and of course they could not be expected to wait for remuneration until the Commission had reported or until legislation perhaps was introduced following that report.  When the National Loan was issued, the Bank of Ireland agreed to accept remuneration at the rate of £425 per annum for every £1,000,000 of the National Loan inscribed in their books.  This is the rate that is prescribed in the Bank Act of 1892 as remuneration for the management of the British National Debt in the books of the Bank of Ireland. There is, however, a proviso in that Act, that the annual sum paid for remuneration shall not be less than £8,000.  That is the minimum figure.   The Bank of Ireland, in respect of the National Loan, were willing to accept it at the rate of £425 per annum for every £1,000,000 of it inscribed in their books, and to waive all question as regards the minimum.  The annual sum payable for the management of the National Loan in each financial year is calculated on the amount of unredeemed National Loan inscribed in the books of the bank on the last day of the previous financial year.  On the 31st March, 1924, the amount so inscribed in the books of the Bank of Ireland in respect of National Loan was £10,000,000.  On 31st March, 1925, it was £9,760,859 3s. 2d. 
     In respect of the Stocks managed by the National Land Bank the question of remuneration is very difficult, and it has been found impossible up to the present to fix a definite scale.  In the case of the Compensation Stock, the difficulties of management are increased by the fact that the stock is issued in series, that the stock is issued from day to day, that it is redeemed by means of annual drawings and that the Bank is responsible for the payment of the capital sum as well as of the dividends.  To some extent the same difficulties are experienced in connection with the Land Bonds, with the exception that the stock is not issued in series.  In respect of these particular Stocks we went as carefully as possible into the question of the remuneration of staffs and the cost of printing and stationery and it was decided that the Land Bank should accept for these particular services, in connection with the Compensation Stock and the Land Stock up to 31st March, 1926, a sum of £1,650.  This small sum is justifiable only because there have been no drawings of Lands Bonds up to now, and, in fact, dealings in the Bonds and the consequent work thrown on the banks as a result of the transfers have only just begun.  The unredeemed amounts of Compensation Stock outstanding were as follows on the dates mentioned: On 31st March, 1924, £47,650; on 31st March, 1925, £499.150; on 1st January, 1926, £834,950.  The amount of Land Bonds issued at the 31st March, 1925, was £362,509. and at the 31st December, 1925, £1,121,855.  I   think that the amounts provided in the Estimates for the management of our National Debt are fixed on a very reasonable scale. 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - VOTE 64&mdash;REPAYMENT TO NATIONAL LAND BANK OF ADVANCES TO WOLFHILL COLLIERIES. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £58,032, chun ioctha an mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, chun aisioc do dheanamh le Banc Naisiunta na Talmhan ar shuimeanna do roimhiocadar san le Cual-Choileir Chnocan na Mactire, Teoranta, fe urrus Rialtais. 
       That a sum, not exceeding £58,032, be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, for the repayment to the National Land Bank of sums advanced by them to the Wolfhill Collieries, Limited, under a Government guarantee. 
     
     This is the liquidation of a transaction which began immediately after the Provisional Government was set up.  I might say at once that it represents an action by the Government which could not be justified in normal times, which could not be justified at all in the present circumstances, but which, I think, was justifiable in the circumstances that existed when it arose.  I think that on the very day the Provisional Government was formed, representations were made to them that if they did not intervene in some way the Wolfhill Collieries, which had been giving employment to a considerable number of men up to that time, would be closed down.  Members of the Provisional Government felt that it would be anything but to the public interest that the setting up of that Government should be signalised by the closing down of this colliery.  As a result of conversations between the Minister for Economic Affairs in the Provisional Government, the Minister for Labour and the Colliery Company, the National   Bank, College Green, was asked to make a loan of £25,000 to the Company. 
     
      
       On what security? 
     
     
      
       I am just coming to that.  Debentures were of course issued by the Company, but the National Bank did not place any great reliance, naturally, on the debentures, and they received from the Minister for Economic Affairs, in the Provisional Government, a letter, I think dated 30th January, 1923, in which he stated:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Every member of the Provisional Government is prepared to recommend to the Government of the Free State, when elected, the taking up of a loan to the sum mentioned if your Bank will give to the Company the temporary accommodation it requires. You will understand that we are not in a position absolutely to pledge the credit of a succeeding Government, but as individuals we guarantee that and we will endeavour to secure that the loan be taken up.&rdquo; 
     
     On 2nd February, the Manager of the Bank informed the Minister that the loan of £25,000 had been sanctioned on the terms set forth by him.  That letter stated that reliance was not placed on the debentures issued by the Company in the way of collateral security, but that the directors felt assured that the undertaking given on behalf of the members of the Provisional Government would be carried out.  Perhaps it might have been better if the Company had not been assisted. Personally I happen to know a little about the Company and I never had any faith in its possibilities, but the circumstances of the time were certainly such as to make everything that would tend to continue employment and to keep people contented of the utmost importance.  There were great hopes at that time that the civil war which afterwards broke out would have been avoided or averted, and anything like the closing up of the colliery at the particular time would certainly have an effect on public opinion that would not have made it easier to do what was being attempted, to avert the very disastrous civil conflict that followed. The loan of £25,000 was made   by the National Bank to the Company. It did not suffice to do what it had been represented it might do.  It did not enable the Company to get over any difficulties.  It did not enable it to pay its way.  By June, 1924, the advance was exhausted and the Company was no nearer to working at a profit.  This, however, is attributed to various troubles that were represented as troubles that might not recur&mdash;labour troubles at the works, and so forth. 
     The circumstances connected with the working of the mines were then considered by the Government.  We were just at the end of the civil war, and I think that I might say now that no guarantee or promise of further assistance ought to have been given by the Government without coming to the Dail.  However, we were just emerging out of the initial difficulties; the ordinary procedure of government had not been brought to the point of working smoothly, and a step was taken which, as I say, I do not think could be at all justified at the present time and which, I believe, was barely justifiable then. It was decided to assist the company by way of a further advance up to £50,000.  The National Bank was willing, on the same terms as before&mdash;that the Government agreed to take all the steps they could to see that the bank was recouped in the case of the failure of the company&mdash;to advance a further £25,000.  However, after consideration the Government decided to request the National Land Bank to pay to the National Bank the £25,000 which had first been advanced, and to advance another £50,000 to the company.  The transaction was not one that the directors of the Land Bank would ordinarily have carried out; it was not a banking transaction, and they were only willing to do it on the same conditions as applied to the National Bank. 
     The company, to my mind, were really working an impossible proposition. I think the conditions underground were not such that, even with the best of management and with sufficient capital behind them, the company could have made a success of the undertaking.  I believe that very considerable sums of private money have been lost in this mine, and I think that   while there might have been circumstances which caused the company to get through the money that was advanced more quickly than otherwise would have been the case, the end was scarcely in doubt&mdash;that ultimately whatever money was available was bound to be exhausted and that the mine would have to be closed. 
     In June, 1924, the company asked for a further advance when the second £25,000 was exhausted.  They were refused this, but the bank agreed to let them draw certain small sums not exceeding £600 in order to keep them going pending certain negotiations. With a view to seeing what could be done, conferences were held between representatives of the bank, the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Finance, to discuss the position of the colliery, and Mr. Parkinson, who had been the owner of the mine, was anxious that an expert should be appointed to examine and report on it.  Mr. Parkinson himself offered to pay a certain sum for the expenses of such an expert.  In August the bank came to the decision that it was bound to appoint a receiver, and on 6th December, Mr. Smith Gordon, Secretary of the Land Bank, was appointed receiver.  Following the previous conferences with regard to the appointment of an independent expert, Mr. Foster Brown was appointed to examine and report on the collieries. He presented a detailed report and his advice was that the collieries should be closed down at the earliest possible moment, after taking out whatever machinery could be recovered.  There were then deputations to myself from the workers and people in the district to protest against the closing down of the mine, and statements were put forward by the workers that if there was better management and other conditions were fulfilled the mine could still be made to pay.  As a certain number of men&mdash;I think, a couple of hundred&mdash; would have been thrown out of work if the mine were closed down I agreed to make a certain sum available out of the Distress Grant for the purpose of keeping the pumps working until something could be done. 
     
        Meantime, attempts were made to interest people outside the country, because the expert had also reported that if a certain considerable sum&mdash;I think, £40,000 or £50,000 more&mdash;were spent it might be possible for a year or two to run the mine, make it pay, and perhaps recover the original sum, but, of course, the Government felt that to do that would be throwing good money after bad.  But in view of the opening the experts' report did give, attempts were made to interest people in the collieries and to induce them to invest money in it if they could be convinced that they could recover such money and make some reasonable profit on it.  But these attempts failed.  I consented to having the pumping operations continued until 31st January, 1925, and then it was reported that the miners themselves were working the colliery successfully and paying themselves out of the sale of coal.  We agreed then to continue further the pumping operations to 31st March, 1925, the expenditure in February not to exceed £400 and in March not to exceed £200. 
     However, the attempt to work the colliery in any way was a failure, and the mine is now abandoned.  I have said that I happen to have heard something about this mine long ago and I was personally somewhat sceptical of coal mining projects in this country. That was a view a great many people did not share.  There was a very widespread belief that there were many seams of coal in this country that could be successfully worked, and that it was really due to outside interference, either secret or open, that coal projects had not been very successful.  That belief was widespread in the country.  There was the peculiar situation that existed when the Provisional Government was formed, and part of the situation was that belief.  The Provisional Government came to the conclusion that it was in the public interests that they should take this unusual step.  It is a step that was justified, I think, in the time and circumstances; I think it would not be justified now.  I believe, moreover, one cannot look on the whole of the money spent on this mine as having been wasted because the closing down of the   mine, the further embittering of feeling in that district by having the mine closed down, and the coming into operation of the Provisional Government, and having all those men thrown out of work, might easily have led to destructive activity on the part of men who were engaged in taking coal out of an uneconomic mine.  That might have caused the State as much as the money that is now being asked for.  The sum asked for represents capital and interest. 
     
      
       Would the Minister say what sum altogether has been given to this company by way of direct grant or through guarantee? 
     
     
      
       I could not say the amount that was given out of the Relief Vote, but it would not be more than £2,000 or £3,000, perhaps less.  I have not the figures by me at the moment. It was probably a good deal less, maybe £1,500 or so.  The grants in the latter end were given not to the Colliery Company which had gone out, but to the workmen who were making an attempt to work the mine for themselves, employing themselves by getting coal, and selling it. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister has largely disarmed criticism in connection with this vote, which, on the face of it, is an extraordinary contribution to the many extraordinary transactions which took place at the time. I do not question that the Minister, in connection with this matter, has done everything in perfect good faith and with the view to meeting a situation that he thought might be helpful, but one cannot help criticising the transaction from the point of view of public funds.  In the first place, I may point out that this money was expended some time ago and a supplementary estimate now comes before the Dail when it can be no longer deferred.  But it is an expenditure which, I say, should have been sanctioned by the Dail long ago. In its essence the transaction was wrong.  In so far as the Minister admits it was wrong.  I have nothing further to say except to point out some of the lessons which I think this transaction brings to us and which may be   the means of saving the country a considerable sum of money in the future. In the first place, I criticise very strongly the negotiations which took place as between a bank and the Government whereby the bank agreed to advance money on the understanding, without the sanction of this House, that if there were a loss it would be indemnified.  Of course, on the other hand, if it had been a satisfactory transaction the bank would have gained.  It looks to me as a transaction in which the bank was in the position of &ldquo;heads I win and tails you lose.&rdquo; 
       This particular colliery was giving employment.  In so far as the money was expended to secure that employment, I have nothing to say, but this is not the only money that has gone in this colliery, and it is not the only public money that has been unwisely spent.  I do not question the Ministry or the Executive, but we all recognise we have, on our shoulders, a substantial charge on a railway up there which has never justified itself and which, before it was put there, anyone who knew anything about the case could have told you would not be justified. 
     
     
      
       Who put it there? 
     
     
      
       Ask Senator Burgess. 
     
     
      
       Quite so.  I make you a present of that.  But I was going to say that it was only one instance of many where any Government dealing with private business is almost sure to make a mess of it.  That is not a strange doctrine for me.  You have heard it before.  I emphasise it and take this instance.  As far as business transactions are concerned I think any government is incapable of taking a correct view of them. 
     
     
      
       Especially when they come in at the dead end. 
     
     
      
       I also make Deputy Johnson a present of that under his nationalisation scheme.  There has been a considerable amount of money spent on this project.  It would be of great value to the country if there were coal mines found that could be utilised for   the benefit of the community.  But, in that connection, might I suggest that the Government should confine itself to exploratory work and leave the rest to private enterprise.  Private enterprise will do its part if it is a reasonable proposition; if it is not, it will leave it to the Government. 
     
     
      
       Was it not private enterprise which made a mess of this mine? 
     
     
      
       Private enterprise lost a good deal of money in it.  With all that knowledge before them, surely it might have been realised that the Government came in to &ldquo;hold the baby.&rdquo;  The Minister comes to us today to ask us to pass this Vote, and I do not propose to go further than make the criticism which I have made of the expenditure. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Hewat has criticised the estimate in a very general way.  He seemed to assume that from the time the Government first intervened the mine was worked and administered by a Government Department. That is not the case.  The first £25,000 was given to a private company. I am not quite sure whether there is a written agreement as to the conditions on which it was advanced. I would like to know, however, if there was such an agreement, because I was given to understand, on very reliable authority, that the first £25,000 was advanced on condition that it was to be spent on the provision of plant and machinery, which was the principal requirement even then.  That would have been the only means of enabling the mine to be carried on as a paying proposition.  I join with Deputy Hewat in regretting that this estimate, or portion of it, was not brought before the Dail prior to the closing down of the mine, because if the matter had been discussed on its merits before the decision to close was taken.  Deputies might be slow to allow a mine of such resources to be definitely and finally closed.  Many things could be said about the undertaking which I do not intend to say now, because it would be like holding an inquest which had been   twelve months overdue.  We are, however, entitled to know from the Minister before the estimate is passed how much of the amount sought was spent on machinery, how much was paid out in wages and administrative charges&mdash; including the salary of the manager appointed by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and his clerical staff&mdash; and how much, if any, was let loose in other directions, not accounted for. The Minister can correct me if I am wrong in stating that a sum of £10,000 found its way to some unknown destination. I want to have that placed on record, and if it is not correct the Minister can state otherwise.  I do not want it to go forth that the money now asked for was paid out in wages to the workers. 
     
     
      
       It is a pity it was not. 
     
     
      
       If it had been set aside for that purpose, the mine could be working still.  I would like to know if the Company has been wound up, in accordance with the desire of the National Land Bank.  I understand that a receiver was appointed by the National Land Bank to wind up the concern and realise the plant and machinery available.  The reason I ask that is that a sum of £1,162 2s. 6d. is due for unemployment insurance.  The money was deducted from the workers' wages but the cards were not stamped. There has been correspondence for a long time with the Minister for Industry and Commerce on the subject, and it is my opinion that this should be a first charge on whatever is realised. Any information the Minister has to give would be valuable to the workers because they have been denied unemployment benefit as the result of the mismanagement of the Company and the money not being paid to the proper quarter.  The Minister has said that certain amounts were paid out of the Relief Grants Vote for the pumping of water from the mine to enable the colliery to be carried on.  That is so, and it may interest the House to know that the workers made a final attempt at their own expense to save this mine and enable it to be carried on under certain conditions.  I will not go into the history of the negotiations.  The   Minister did not touch upon them very much.  Finally a proposal was put up to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through the National Land Bank.  This proposal had the approval of the old directors&mdash;Mr. Parkinson and others&mdash;and was made on 11th May.  It would have saved the Government the payment of £200 per week in unemployment insurance benefit.  The proposal was: &ldquo;That the present employees purchase the undertaking for £1,000, or such smaller figure as will relieve the receiver from liability for arrears of rent, royalties and costs, as he may be disposed to accept.  The money to enable the workers to purchase the mine to be provided by the National Land Bank, as security for which they will receive an undertaking signed by the workers to pay 5/- per week out of wages until the necessary funds have been accumulated.  A credit of £1,500 to be provided by the Bank as against certified invoices for coal actually sold and delivered to Government departments, public institutions, or firms whose financial standing is beyond question.&rdquo;  That was the final effort to save the mine by the workers themselves in their own interest and in the interest of the Government, who would have saved a considerable sum of money. 
     
     Deputy Good laughs, but it was agreed that if the mine was to be carried on a certain amount of money would have to be available for repair of the partially defective machinery at once.  The Minister may point out that the Workers' Committee who were in control failed.  The reason they failed was that they were not able to secure the money to have the plant repaired when the machinery broke down.  The particular shaft which was being worked was uneconomic.  It would grow still more uneconomic as they went further into the seam.  The farther they went the more it would cost for pumping. The Minister is aware of the report of Irish and foreign mining experts, that if a shaft were sunk in another portion of the same colliery it would have a life of 35 years, turning out 200 tons of coal per day.  If the present Ministry believe in the development of the mineral resources of the   country, there should be something for them to consider in that proposition. I think the Minister is wrong when he says that £40,000 would be required to carry on this particular shaft.  The recommendation in connection with that was for the sinking of a shaft on the Wolfhill side of this particular colliery, and that about the sum named would be required to provide the necessary plant and machinery.  It would have a longer life in connection with coal production than the mine now closed up.  Thirty of the two hundred miners thrown out of work on the Wolfhill Colliery are now working in a primitive way on a shaft not far from where the mine was closed down.  I was informed last Sunday week that these thirty men were turning out sufficient coal to provide them with a profit of £1 per man per day.  I have no proof of that, but I am convinced that they are making a profit out of their labour.  That shows coal is available there. 
     
      
       I think the Deputy ought to advertise this new Klondyke. 
     
     
      
       I know it is hard for the Minister to go into this matter now, but he might have a word with the mining engineer appointed by the Government, as to what has been the result of the work that has been done by these 30 men.  I suppose the least said about the whole transaction the better.  The history of it is one that, certainly, does not reflect credit on the business activities of the Government. I suppose that certain reasons could be advanced at the time, particularly by certain Ministers, as to why they walked into this trap, so far as the tax-payers are concerned.  In connection with coal mines or anything else I think if the Government set aside a large sum of money as a subsidy they should insist on some supervisory authority over the concern to which it is advanced. As far as I can understand, a manager was appointed and was supposed to be responsible, through the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, to the National Land Bank, but the actual supervision did not amount to very much. It is better, I daresay, to close the history of this whole bad business.  At   the same time I would like to have on record, if the Minister can give the information, how much of the money was spent in plant and machinery, how much was paid in administrative charges, and if the first £25,000 advanced by the Provisional Government was advanced on the condition that it would be spent on the purchase of suitable machinery for the mine.  If that condition was laid down I would like to know if it has been carried out by the directors to whom the money was advanced. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to raise a controversy on a matter of this kind, in regard to the details of which I have not much knowledge.  At the same time I feel that I have not a right to give my vote in support of this Supplementary Estimate as it stands. For that reason I move the reduction of the estimate by £5.  As far as I can gather from the statement made by the Minister, this expense has already been incurred by the authority of the Executive Council and the Oireachtas has never been consulted.  To all intents and purposes the £58,000 has been expended, and all we have to do is to meet it.  It was a Government guarantee, and if the Dail refuses to support the Government in regard to the guarantee it is hard to see how the Government can get out of the position. The Government gave their guarantee to the Bank, and evidently it is regarded as gilt-edged security.  Having had no voice in granting the money originally, and, not being consulted since, we are confronted with an accomplished fact, and are blindly to vote this money without having any knowledge of whether it was expended economically or otherwise, or whether the proprietors of the mine themselves risked their own money and lost it in conjunction with that of the Government. Were the proprietors of the mine prepared to take risks or was it simply a case of &ldquo;Heads we win and tails you lose&rdquo;?  If money was made the proprietors apparently would get their share of the profit, but if money was not made the Government stumped up the loss. 
     
     I think political reasons were the   only justification given for this expenditure. I would like to remind the Government that there were political reasons, also, in other parts of the country, for giving money, in regard to which certain people had justifiable claims, but which the Government refused to meet.  I refer to the claim that I made here on behalf of farmers who lost money owing to the seizure of creameries in South Tipperary.  If there are political reasons for one thing there were certainly political reasons in the other case.  I do not see why one case should be considered of such importance that the Government is prepared to expend a sum such as is mentioned here for fear of political disturbances. In the other case there might, very easily, have been political disturbances, on account of the refusal of a grant, were it not that those in charge of the demand did not see their way to stir up political fury, because of such refusal. 
     As to the subsidising of mines by the Government, I have always had little confidence in statements that were published concerning the possibilities of Irish mines.  We hear a good deal about experts' reports.  Does anyone doubt that if these reports were to be relied on we would not have mine owners coming across from England&mdash;business men with capital&mdash;to take charge of the mines?  Will the men who come here and make these reports take a chance by spending their own money on the mines?  It is all very fine to get the Government to give guarantees to support private industry.  If the private industry succeeds the promoters will get their share, but if it does not, the Government will bear the loss.  Let us have nationalisation or private ownership, but do not let us have the half-way house.  That is what we are having in a great many of these cases. If we are to have nationalisation let the Government take up the mines and work them; otherwise let the private owners take the responsibility. 
     
      
       I do not think I have very much to add on the general question.  I recognise that to some extent it is a case of the white sheet of the penitent.  The   excuse for getting into this thing is the abnormal circumstances which then presented themselves.  Such a transaction could not be justified at the present time; such a transaction could never be justified in normal times.  As to bringing this matter under the notice of the Dail before, there was no occasion on which that could be done, and, any way, it would have made no difference. Of course, there was no Dail, in the present sense, and there was no financial machinery available when this matter was first entered upon.  It might have been brought to the notice of the Dail in June, 1923, and I think it was wrong not to have brought it forward then.  Once the extended guarantee had been given, there was no point in bringing the matter up until we reached the period when the guarantee had to be honoured. 
       With reference to Deputy Davin's question, as far as I can discover from records available, there was no guarantee; I can discover no written guarantee that the first fifty thousand pounds were to be used for plant and machinery. 
     
     
      
       The first £25,000. 
     
     
      
       That might have been understood; it might have been the thing that was represented, but I have not been able to find that there was any indication to the National Bank that the cheques were only issued to firms who supplied plant and machinery. 
     
     
      
       I did not mean that at all.  Is there any written agreement on record?  Is it possible that any money was advanced without a written agreement laying down certain conditions? 
     
     
      
       I have not seen any agreement; I do not think there is an agreement.  With reference to the suggestion that the amount was misappropriated, I understand there was misappropriation. Of course, unless there were precautions taken that ordinarily a Government would not take, there might be misappropriation of the funds of the company.  What happened was that the Government guaranteed to the bank, so far as they could give a guarantee&mdash;it was only a moral obligation, of course&mdash;that the bank would be repaid.   The bank advanced the money to the company.  As between certain officials of the company and the company itself something seems to have gone wrong.  The money being simply an advance to the company, it would be impossible to say how much was spent in wages and how much was spent on plant and machinery.  The money was simply advanced to the company. 
     
     
      
       Did the company render a balance sheet to the Department of Finance or to the Land Bank during the year in which the £25,000 was advanced? 
     
     
      
       I am sure the balance sheets could be got.  I have seen figures supplied by the company.  I have not them at hand this moment.  There was not a very great expenditure on plant and machinery.  With reference to the question of another shaft, if the Government were to do anything in that direction it would mean that the Government was entering on coalmining operations, a very speculative thing.  I do not think the Government's duties would extend ordinarily in that direction.  A case might be made for the Government doing something in the way of meeting the cost of borings to discover whether certain allegations were correct or not; but as to financing a mining company and exploiting a particular seam, that is not a thing the Government could enter upon.  The statement that by an expenditure of £40,000 or £45,000 something could be made of the mine, applied to the existing mine.  By the installation of ventilating machinery, new pumping machinery and other mine equipment to the extent of something like £45,000, it was alleged that the mine might be run for two or three years and might possibly be so profitable that that money could be recouped. The view taken by the Government, when that suggestion was put forward, was that it was a case of throwing good money after bad money and that the best possible thing to do was to cut the loss. 
     
     
      
       The first piece of horse-sense shown in the transaction. 
     
     
     
      
       I had not the slightest personal responsibility for entering on this thing.  I was not a member of the Provisional Government.  I had no responsibility.  I knew something about the Wolfhill colliery, and I do feel that at the time I would have been opposed to having anything to do with it.  In another connection, prior to the setting up of the Provisional Government, I did oppose the putting of money into the mine.  But when that decision was taken, with the conditions of doubt then existing, with impending civil war and other things to be taken into account, I do not know, if I then occupied a position on the Provisional Government, whether I would have opposed it, having regard to all the circumstances. 
     
     
      
       I think it is desirable that somebody should say something in order to show that the money asked for in this case was to be utilised for the purpose of reviving an industry which was not a State service but a service run by private enterprise, presumably, in the minds of quite capable business men&mdash;presumably capable business men&mdash;an enterprise which they had a reasonable expectation would become a profitable undertaking.  I find the people who were interested in asking for this money made representations to the Provisional Government. The Provisional Government, believing the money was needed to revive an industry which, presumably, to take the word of these gentlemen, had a fair prospect of being successful, granted it. 
     
     We have amongst these people a director of the National Bank, who is also a director of the Eagle, Star and British Dominion Insurance Company, Ltd.; a director of the Dublin South Eastern Railway Company and the Alliance and Dublin Consumers' Gas Company; a director of Messrs. Wallace Brothers, Limited, coal merchants, and of the Kells Gas Company; the managing director of a considerable firm of insurance brokers in Dublin; a merchant who is a member of this House; a merchant who sought to be a Senator&mdash;an auctioneer and cattle salesman; a landowner; a director of the Tramore Race Company, Limited, and of the Limerick Race Company.   All these gentlemen are interested in the development of industrial and commercial enterprises of one kind or another. They are reputable gentlemen all, and it was they that came to the Government and asked for this money to revive and save an industry which up to that they had failed to save.  Now I think Ministers were probably justified in listening to the representations of these gentlemen, and with their knowledge of the existing political situation and the political losses of the time, in acceding to the request of these gentlemen to save the company from disaster.  I think that is quite an arguable proposition.  I would like it to be understood that apart from the kind of examination which the bank saw fit to enforce in their inquiry into the bona fides or prospects of this company there is absolutely no difference in this Vote from what may conceivably come before the House in future years under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act. 
     This is the case of a company that went to a bank for a loan.  The bank was not prepared to give the loan without a guarantee, but with a Government guarantee it was prepared to give the loan, and it so happened that the company which got the loan failed and the State is called upon to fulfil the guarantees.  We hope before making any guarantee in future that inquiries will be made and that the promises will be fulfilled, so that there will not be any call on the State to pay out money in the way that has been asked for here. But there is nothing different in this proposition from any other proposition which may come before us in future years under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act. 
     
      
       Is the Deputy sure that this loan was recommended and had the support of the directors of the Land Bank? 
     
     
      
       I am assuming that the people who received the money were the people who asked for the money; that it was not thrown at their heads.  They would prefer to keep the business alive, and in trying to keep it alive they went to the bank and asked for a loan. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy is assuming a good deal. 
     
     
      
       It is impossible for me to assume that the bank would offer to a number of men an amount of money which they were not prepared to receive and did not want.  I presume the bank knew nothing about the condition of the company until the directors approached the bank for a loan. One of the directors of the bank which made the loan was a director of the company.  Perhaps that will satisfy Deputy Good? 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied that the directors approached the Land Bank at all.  I have not seen any evidence. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is under a mistake.  This is not the Land Bank. It is the National Bank.  A director of the National Bank was approached by a director of the Wolfhill Colliery, and both happened to be the same person. The National Bank lent the money on the Government guarantee, or, rather, on the guarantee of those individuals who formed the Provisional Government, and they promised to use their influence collectively with the future Free State Government. 
     
     
      
       I presume the Deputy speaks of the National Land Bank? 
     
     
      
       No.  The Deputy did not listen to the statement of the Minister for Finance.  The National Bank made the loan which was finally taken over by the National Land Bank and it is now guaranteed to the National Land Bank by the Government. But the fact remains that that is exactly the same kind of guarantee which is being made and may have to be fulfilled under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act.  Possibly, and, indeed, probably, inquiries into any applications for loans will be more strict now than then, but I want to emphasise the point that it was this company of reputable experienced industrialists, bankers, merchants, and coal merchants that brought the company to a state when it was requisite for them to go to the National Bank for this loan which was only to be lent on the guarantee of the   Government.  If it was a dying baby, as Deputy Hewat suggested, this is the doctor's bill.  But this baby died. Very often babies recover when treated by the doctor, but in this case the baby died and we are now at the funeral service. 
     
     
      
       I think it is a funeral service, and I hope Deputy Johnson does not want me to follow on the lines that he has gone on, because I think that would lead a very long way. 
     
     
      
       I have a somewhat greater measure of responsibility in this matter than the Minister for Finance.  I was a member of the Provisional Government, before whom this matter came directly, and in consultation with another Minister who was dealing with finance the decision was taken to give the guarantee.  The matter came up during the early days of the Provisional Government when we were in the City Hall and when we had less leisure than we have now to examine closely into the merits of a proposition of the kind, and incidentally, when we had less of anything in the nature of a financial organisation or staff for scrutiny.  It was in that kind of setting that the matter came up for consideration, and I think that Deputy Johnson is right when he says that essentially, and fundamentally, it was the kind of thing that is done under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act without the precautionary scrutiny of application that is provided by the Committee which functions under that Act. 
     
     It may be that to some extent we adverted to the personality and the standing of the applicants and factors of that kind, but it was the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act without its proper administrative precautionary machinery with the committee which that Act provides.  It was the collateral security idea, that rather than see this industry go to pieces in such a time, with its reactions, the Provisional Government gave the guarantee.  I was acting at that time under the title of Minister for Economic Affairs, and the late General Collins was Minister for Finance, and when this application came in, with its alleged urgency, the matter was hastily and quite inadequately   considered by whatever skeleton there was of two Departments, and it was in that atmosphere and that setting it was dealt with.  I just thought it proper to acknowledge a certain personal responsibility for the matter which the Minister for Finance has not got. 
     
      
       Will the Minister for Justice say whether there was any written agreement, or condition, on which, the money was advanced at the time? 
     
     
      
       I am very dissatisfied with the explanation that has been given, but I feel that I will not be satisfied before the matter comes to a close.  It seems to me that there was a tremendous amount of looseness with regard to giving this guarantee. 
     
     
      
       There was quite a lot of looseness in that particular period in a great many things. 
     
     
      
       I know, but in the absence of the Minister I referred to another matter in which there was a certain amount of looseness. 
     
     
      
       No, not looseness. There was tightness there. 
     
     
      
       I would say that there was looseness there in regard to keeping a promise.  I notice that Deputy Good, who is generally very militant in the interests of the taxpayers, is not as militant as usual this evening. The explanation may be that there were many business men concerned with this enterprise.  From my point of view, the fact that there were so many leading business men, men of enterprise, and promoters of interests all over the country, concerned with this matter makes it worse than it ordinarily would be.  Can anyone tell us whether these directors, these captains of industry, took any particular risk when they got this guarantee?  Having got it, did they take any personal risk by sinking in it any capital of their own?  Was the Government taking all the risk and were these men simply taking the chance of any profits that might accrue?  There is, moreover, the question   of the possibility of obtaining anything from the assets that are left.  If this mine could produce coal, even only to the extent of 1 lb. per day, I presume that even that would be an asset.  I presume that the mine has now fallen into the hands of the Government.  If not, in whose hands is it?  Is it still in the ownership of those directors of whom we have heard? 
     
     
      
       It will eventually. 
     
     
      
       Can they float a new company and again come to the Government and ask for a guarantee under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act?  In my view this has been a most unbusinesslike transaction.  I am surprised to see Independent members sitting here quietly instead of fighting tooth and nail, but I hope when this is put to a vote, as I intend to put it to a vote, we will hear from these Independent Deputies. 
     
     
      
       As regards the private money invested in this concern, I understand that a very considerable sum of private money, probably £100,000, was lost. 
     
     
      
       Since that date? 
     
     
      
       No, not at all. 
     
     
      
       The capital is £160,000. I have very good reason to think that if the Minister read the prospectus he would find that the capital was not subscribed. 
     
     
      
       It had been lost before that was issued. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to appear to be trying to flog a dead horse, but the Minister did not answer some questions which I asked.  I informed the Minister for Industry and Commerce that it was up to him to advise the Minister for Finance as to how matters stood.  I would like to know whether the sum of £1,162 2s. 6d. for unemployment insurance has been recovered from the official receiver.  Has it been secured out of the assets?  Is the Minister aware of what has been realised by the sale of plant and machinery, or any other assets which have been disposed of?  I understand that that part of the business   has been concluded, and I presume it must have been, before this Vote was brought before the House.  Would the Minister be in a position to circulate to the House at a later date the information which I have asked for, as to how the money was spent?  If the Minister says that it is impossible to get the information, I will assume that it will be impossible to circulate it at a later date.  I think that the House is entitled to a more detailed explanation from the Minister as to how the money has been spent.  I do not want it to go forth, or to have it stated later on, that this sum of £58,000 was set aside and spent for the purpose of paying wages. That is not so.  We should be told how much of it was spent on plant, machinery, administration, and wages. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to get these figures if they are available and put them in a White Paper and circulate them to Deputies.  I do not know if the figures which would give the information, which the Deputy requires, can be obtained, but I will have circulated any figures, or approximate figures, which can be got and which would show, as nearly as possible, what was spent on, say, machinery and plant, after the first guarantee was given. With reference to the £1,160 in regard to unemployment insurance, I have had a discussion with the Minister for Industry and Commerce about that, but I do not know whether there will be anything at all remaining.  There is another sum of about £1,000 owing to the National Land Bank, beyond the amount of the Government guarantee. I do not know whether any priority would attach in respect to the amount due for national health insurance.  That is a matter I am prepared to look into with the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  I recognise that it is extremely hard on these men, and very unfair, that after having had sums deducted from them for unemployment insurance, the stamps were not put on their cards, and that they are not entitled to get benefit. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the suggestion made by Deputy Davin concerning the production of accounts, surely the colliery company kept books   and there are accounts on record?  It should be within the power of the Minister to get a copy of the balance sheets showing their accounts up to 1923 until they went out of business, and submit them to the Dail.  It does not seem possible to segregate the accounts so as to show how this particular grant was spent, as it seems to have got mixed up with other moneys.  If we got a statement of the accounts up to the date on which the Company went into receivership it would give us a chance of seeing how much money was spent on capital, renewals of plant, machinery and wages, and matters of that kind. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it would be worth incurring the cost of printing to do that, as it is of no practical importance at this stage.  Whatever accounts and figures can be got I would be prepared to have typed, and copies made, but of course very little information would be got from some of the accounts the Deputy talks about. I would be prepared to have copies laid on the Table so that they would be available for Deputies, and spare copies might be handed to any Deputy who would wish to have them. 
     
     
      
       I am not pressing for the printing of the information.  Statements have been circulated by people whose names are in that document that the money has been spent on wages. Whatever information is available with regard to the matters I have spoken of should be made available in the easiest possible way, and at the lowest cost. 
     
     
      
       I am not referring to special returns that would not be ordinarily available.  Anything that is available, and that has been submitted to the Land Bank, to the Department of Industry and Commerce, or the Department of Finance will be made available to Deputies. 
     
     
      
       If there is an inquiry, I think there ought to be inquiry into a lot of matters raised.  It is doubtful whether an inquiry would serve any useful purpose.  I know nothing about this particular industry, or of any of the details in connection with it except   what has been mentioned here.  The situation is one of the most extraordinary with which I have come in contact. Deputy Johnson alleges that this particular company was functioning under a number of directors whose names he has read out.  If that is so, how could it be true that the Minister was providing moneys direct for pumping in connection with this mine, in order that certain employees should quarry coal and sell it direct?  Surely if the company were functioning that could not go on?  I do not want to follow this into detail. 
     
     There are many matters in connection with this company that would require explanation if one were to be satisfied about a lot of things one has heard.  I am not sure that what the Minister said at the outset is not the best course to adopt.  It is not a thing anyone is proud of, and the sooner we lose sight of it the better.  Possibly that is the best course, but one thing appears to be certain in connection with the transaction, and it is that the State has got to pay for this wretched mistake. If we have to pay I hope those who are responsible for the mistake will profit by the experience they have had, and if they do profit, possibly the money will not be wasted.  I cannot help thinking of the statement of a man who   is very much more experienced in connection with government than those in our Government have had the opportunity of being.  Not very long ago Mr. Bruce, Prime Minister of Australia, made a statement, from which I will read a brief extract:&mdash;&ldquo;Governments have certain things they can do reasonably well, but I can assure you, Governments are not really capable of initiating great schemes, sifting them to the bottom, and carrying them through.  It is only rather by luck that they pull off a good one.&rdquo; 
     Amendment put. 
     
      
       declared the amendment lost. 
     
     
      
       Division. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy pressing for a division? 
     
     
      
       I am. 
     
     
      
       How many Deputies are claiming a division? 
       Deputies Heffernan and Connor Hogan rose. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy still pressing for a division? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I am within my rights in pressing for a division. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 3; Nil, 33. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Connor Hogan. Risteard Mac Liam. 
             Micheal O hIfearnain.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. Maighread Ni Choileann Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Liam Mac Cosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Tomas Mac Eoin. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Tomas de Nogla. William Norton. Peadar O hAodha. Risteard O Conaill. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Parthalan O Conchubhair. Conchubhar O Conghaile. Liam O Daimhin. Seamus O Dolain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon O Dugain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Seamus O Murchadha. Mairtin O Rodaigh. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhall. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta&mdash;Deputies C. Hogan and Heffernan.  Nil&mdash;Deputies Dolan and Tierney. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - VOTE 65&mdash;REPAYMENTS CONTINGENCY FUND. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £259, chun ioctha an mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1926, chun roimh-iocanna ilghneitheacha airithe d'aisioc leis an gCiste Teangmhais. 
       That a sum, not exceeding £259, be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1926, for the repayment to the Contingency Fund of certain miscellaneous advances. 
       There are just two sub-heads.  There is first, the State bounty in respect to the birth of triplets of £6.  The remaining amount is in respect of stamp duties remitted.  For many years the practice has been in the case of documents, which if executed by private persons would have to be stamped, that the Revenue Commissioners may stamp them free if they are presented by Government Departments.  The accounts are then adjusted by paying to the Revenue Commissioners the amount of the duty which would otherwise be missing out of the Contingency Fund. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported; Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. - THE ADJOURNMENT&mdash;FACILITIES FOR PENSION APPLICANTS. 
     Motion made and question proposed: &ldquo;That the Dail do now adjourn.&rdquo; 
     
      
       The matter which I gave notice of raising on the adjournment is not of very great importance, except to the individuals concerned, but inasmuch as the men concerned have been called upon to appear at Portobello to-morrow, I wanted to safeguard their position by raising the matter in this way.  It appears that certain men who live in Belfast have made applications for pensions.  They are required to appear at Portobello to-morrow.   They are, however, out of work, have no money, and cannot appear unless they walk.  It is a long journey, and sometimes there is trouble over the Border.  In any case, it is not fair to ask the men to walk to Dublin to appear before the Board in their circumstances. What I desire to find out is whether it is possible, when the Board or any of its officers do not think fit to travel to Belfast, outside the jurisdiction, as is done in respect to other parts of the country, to have facilities provided for men in this position to travel to Dublin.  In the cases in question it may be possible that at some future date there may be an excursion when the fares may be lower, and possibly the money might be provided, but if the men are disqualified from any rights because they do not appear on the date provided, I think it would be an injustice.  I want to prevent that injustice arising.  But inasmuch, as I said before, the date is to-morrow, I would like to ask the Minister if he cannot see whether some provision is made to meet their case, either by the appearance of the Board in Belfast, or in some convenient place, or failing that, that the men themselves may be provided with the means of travelling to Dublin so that they may appear before the Board; or in the alternative that this date should not be finally fixed, but that some other date would be available&mdash;some date that would be more convenient, say when an excursion from Belfast would be coming to Dublin, or something of that kind that would make it easier for these men to travel. 
     
     
      
       I can assure the Deputy that there will be no disqualification of these men, if they do not appear to-morrow.  It is not intended that the men should be disqualified for any such cause as that.  As a matter of fact, all these men did get an opportunity of attending at Dundalk, or Clones, or at some other Border town when the Commission happened to be sitting in any one of these places.  The men did not avail of that opportunity.  Perhaps they could not avail of it.  But taking all the circumstances into consideration provision will be made that if the men appear at any time in the future before   the Board is dissolved, their cases will be heard and they will not be penalised for their inability to attend to-morrow. I do not think there is any provision in the regulations or in the Act whereby we could give these men any facilities for coming to Dublin before the Board, because the onus of proof is upon the men themselves to present any evidence they have to give before the Commission.  While I cannot hold out any hope that we will give railway warrants or money to these men to bring them up, every facility will be given to take their evidence at the most convenient place for them.  Everything   possible will be done to convenience them. 
     
     
      
       Would it be possible to hear them on a Sunday, when, as we know, there are frequent excursions to Dublin? 
     
     
      
       I do not think that would be desirable. 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied with the assurance that, at any rate, the men will not be disqualified.  We may be able to find some means of assisting them. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8 p.m. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BIRR MERCHANT'S ACCOUNT AGAINST ARMY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state why Mrs. Frances Cavanagh, fish and fruit merchant, Main Street, Birr, Offaly, was sent a Paying Order on January 12th, 1926, for £9 only, in settlement of a claim of £41 17s. 6d. for goods supplied by her to National Army troops from September, 1921, to January, 1922. 
     
     
      
       The Paying Order referred to by the Deputy represents the full amount of the recommendation received in my Department from the Indemnity Act Committee on portion of the claim for goods supplied referred to them from the Department of Defence. Of the amount of the claim as quoted by the Deputy £26 17s. 4d. is definitely stated to have been already paid by the Army Finance Officer. The residue of the claim which relates to motor hire has not yet been adjudicated upon by the Committee but will, it is expected, come before them at an early date. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CIVIL SERVICE PROMOTIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the number of promotions in the Civil Service since April 1st, 1922, of (1) writing assistants to (a) clerical officerships, (b) posts higher than clerical officerships; (2) typists (including shorthand typists) to (a) clerical officerships, (b) posts higher than clerical officerships; (3) clerical   officers to (a) Executive officerships, (b) Custom and Excise officerships, (c) posts higher than Executive, (d) staff posts; (4) Executive officers to (a) higher Executive officerships, (b) posts higher than higher Executive officerships; and (5) higher Executive officers to higher posts. 
     
     
      
       The information asked for in the question is in course of preparation.  Some time must elapse before the return is completed, but I will furnish the Deputy with complete figures as soon as they are available. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CIVIL SERVICE SALARIES COMPARISON. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will furnish a statement comparing the Saorstat salary scales in each grade of the Civil Service with the scales prior to the change of Government for the corresponding grades, having regard to the deduction of five per cent. made in the case of Civil Servants resident in Dublin. 
     
     
      
       The following statement gives the information asked for by the Deputy:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Grade. 
             British Scale, i.e., London scale, less 5 per cent. 
             Saorstat Scale. 
           
         
         
           
             Junior Administrative Class&mdash;Men 
             £190-19-228-23-15-£475. 
             £150-15-240-20-£500. 
           
           
             ,,&nbsp;,,,,&mdash;Women 
             £190-19-£380. 
             £120-£7.10-£210-£10-£380. 
           
           
             Higher Executive Officers&mdash;Men 
             £380-14.5-£475. 
             £350-15-£500. 
           
           
             ,,&nbsp;,,,,&mdash;Women 
             £285-14.5-£380. 
             £250-10-£380. 
           
           
             Junior Executive Officers&mdash;Men 
             £95-9.10-123-10-14.5-£380. 
             (a)£90-7.10-105-10-175-15-310-10-£350. 
           
           
             ,,&nbsp;,,,,&nbsp;&mdash;Women 
             £95-9.10-£285. 
             £90-7.10-210-10-£250. 
           
           
             Higher Clerical Officers&mdash;Men 
             £285-14.5-£380. 
             Staff 
             £250-10-£300 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             ,,&nbsp;,,,,&mdash;Women 
             £218-10-9.10-£285. 
             Posts 
             £180-10-£230 
           
           
             Clerical Officers&mdash;Men 
             £57-76-4.15-95-9.10-114-14.5-142-10-9.10-£237.10 
             (b)£60-70-5-80-7.10-110-10-140-7.10-£200. 
           
           
             ,,&nbsp;,,&nbsp;&mdash;Women 
             £57-76-4.15-£114-7.2.6-£171. 
             £60-70-5-£150. 
           
           
             Writing Assistants 
             17/- -18/- -2/- -34/- 
             17/- -18/- -2/- -34/- per week. 
           
           
             Superintendents of Typists 
             £142.10-7.2.6-£171. 
             £120-5-£150. 
           
           
             Shorthand Typists 
             26/- -2/- -32/- -2/6-42/- 
             24/- -2/- -38/- per week. 
           
           
             Typists 
             20/- -2/- -34/- 
             20/- -1/- -24/- -2/- -30/- per week. 
           
         
       
     
     (a) For future entrants to the Junior Executive Grade differentiated scales for women and unmarried men and for married men have been fixed as follows:&mdash; 
     Scale A&mdash;Men (unmarried) and Women.  £90 (on entry) rising by annual increments of £7 10s. to £210 per annum, and thence by annual increments of £10 to £250 per annum, with an efficiency bar at £180. 
     Scale B&mdash;Married Men.  Men, on marriage, will be placed at the appropriate point, having regard to service in the grade on the scale £90 by annual increments of £7 10s. to £105, thence by annual increments of £10 to £175, by £15 to £310 and by £10 to £350 with an efficiency bar at £250.  Thus, a successful male competitor entering the grade at the age of 19 would, on marriage at 25 years of age, be placed on Scale B   at the point £145.  Officers on entering Scale B will also receive a lump sum on marriage equivalent to twelve months' back pay of the difference between the salaries on Scales A and B. In addition, allowances (subject to a total maximum of £75) will be payable in respect of each dependent child up to 16 years, or in the case of invalid children and children still at school after 16 years up to 21 years of age. 
     (b) For future entrants to the Clerical Grade differentiated scales for women and unmarried men and for married men have been fixed as follows:&mdash; 
     Scale A&mdash;Men (unmarried) and Women, £60 (on entry), rising to £70 at 18 years of age, and thence by annual increments of £5 to £150 per annum with an efficiency bar at £120. 
     Scale B&mdash;Married Men.  Men, on marriage, will be placed at the appropriate point, having regard to service in the grade, on the scale £70, rising by annual increments of £5 to £80, thence by annual increments of £7 10s. to £110, by £10 to £140 and by £7 10s. to £200, with an efficiency bar at £155.  Thus, a successful male competitor entering the grade at the age of 18 would, on marriage at 25 years of age, be placed on Scale B at the point £120.  Officers on entering Scale B will also receive a lump sum payment on marriage equivalent to twelve months' back pay of the difference between the salaries on Scales A and B.  In addition, allowances (subject to a total maximum of £60) will be payable in respect of each dependent child up to 16 years, or in the case of invalid children and children still at school after 16 years up to 21 years of age. 
     Notes.&mdash;(1) Officers appointed or promoted since the change of Government are paid according to the Saorstat scales.  Transferred officers retain the scales they held prior to the change. 
     (2) The scales shown carry cost of living bonus. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CIVIL SERVICE CERTIFICATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance how many certificates of qualification have been issued by the Civil Service Commissioners since April Ist, 1922 (a) as a result of open   competition, (b) as a result of limited competition, (c) without competition, indicating in such cases how many certificates were issued in respect of posts with a minimum salary of not less than £50, £100, £300, £500, £700, £900, and £1,000. 
     
     
      
       The information asked for in the question is being prepared and will be furnished to the Deputy within the next few days. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SOLDIER'S DEATH. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that Volunteer Joseph Flanagan, of Pluckerstown, Kilmeague, Co. Kildare, who served for two years and eight months in the National Army, died in St. Bricin's Hospital, Dublin, on the 23rd January, 1925, as a result, it is stated, of injuries received when working at the lifting of a large boiler at Portobello Barracks, and, if so, whether he will favourably consider the awarding of a gratuity to his sister, Miss Annie Flanagan, who was entirely dependent on him. 
     
     
      
       Private Flanagan died from malignant endocarditis which was not attributable to military service and had no connection with alleged injuries.  The case accordingly does not come within the scope of the Army Pensions Act, 1923.  I regret that I have, therefore, no power to award a gratuity to Miss Flanagan who was so informed on the 16th November last. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BURNING OF GALWAY HOUSE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that a house, the property of the Congested Districts Board, occupied by Michael Kilkelly, situated at Towna, Dooris Demesne, Kinvara, Co. Galway, was burned down by British forces on December 8th, 1920; whether the compensation award, which was given for this house at Gort, Co. Galway, on January 18th, 1921, contained a rebuilding condition, and, if so, what steps have been taken by the Congested Districts Board or the Land Commission to rebuild the house. 
     
     
     
      
       The house referred to in question was built by the late Congested Districts Board on a new holding which they allotted to Michael Kilkelly, and was destroyed by fire as stated therein in 1920.  The late Board were awarded £290 compensation, and they agreed to assign the award to the White Cross Society, from whom Kilkelly had obtained a loan of £150 for rebuilding, this arrangement to be carried out when he had paid all arrears and signed the purchase agreement. When Kilkelly complies with these conditions the Land Commission, as the successors of the late Board, will be in a position to deal with the decree for compensation referred to. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF KILDARE LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the Land Commission have taken any steps to acquire the lands of Mr. H. O'C. Henchy, in the townland of Ballymore-Eustace West, consisting of two hundred and seventeen acres, the lands of Mrs. Elizabeth Langton, consisting of forty-one acres, in the townland of Broadleas Commons, and the lands of Mr. Edward Hornidge, consisting of seventy-five acres, in the townland of Silverhills, all in the Ballymore-Eustace Electoral Division of County Kildare, for the relief of congestion, and, if so, if he can state when these lands will be divided. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are making inquiries as to the suitability of the lands referred to for acquisition under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
 