 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh An Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT RELIEF GRANTS (CO. DUBLIN). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state what grants out of the moneys voted for the relief of unemployment have been made during the years 1924 and 1925 to local authorities within County Dublin (including the townships of Rathmines, Pembroke, Blackrock and Dun Laoghaire. 
     
     
      
       The following grants were made from the Relief Schemes Vote to the particular area mentioned:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1924/25 Vote. 
             Dublin County Borough 
             £80,000 
           
         
         
           
             1925/26 Vote. 
             Dublin County Borough 
             £20,000 
           
           
             ,, 
             Dublin County Council 
             £4,000 
           
           
             ,, 
             Blackrock U.D. Council 
             £1,000 
           
           
             ,, 
             Dun Laoghaire U.D. Council 
             £900 
           
           
             ,, 
             Rathdown No. 1 R.D.C. 
             £1,500 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       Will the Minister undertake&mdash;I think he promised to do so recently&mdash;to have a statement published showing how much has been given to the different counties?  Could he arrange, in so doing, to indicate how much has been provided for road material, road maintenance, and the making of roads? 
     
     
     
      
       I think the other information is ready for circulation to the Dail.  I do not know what could be done in regard to the additional information that Deputy Davin asks for; I think that would be impossible. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister tell us on what basis he arrives at a decision to apportion a certain sum to a certain county? 
     
     
      
       To do as the Deputy requests would take several hours. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister indicate it when circulating this information? 
     
     
      
       No; to do so would almost require a volume. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if the township of Dalkey and the township of Balbriggan are included in those figures? 
     
     
      
       They have not got any grant.  I have set out the grants as given.  I do not know how the Dublin County Council distributed the money it got. 
     
     
      
       It did not give any to the townships. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BALLYLONGFORD CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY COMPENSATION AWARD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state the reason for the delay in paying to the Ballylongford Co-operative Agricultural and Dairy Society, Ltd., the sum of £300 awarded to them by the Compensation (Ireland) Commission as far back as August 17th, 1925: and whether he will have this payment made at once, in view of the fact that this money is of considerable importance to this Society. 
     
     
      
       Payment of the award referred to by the Deputy was held up to enable the Society to effect adjustment of a comparatively small sum for Income Tax arrears claimed by the Revenue Commissioners.  No steps have, apparently, been taken by   the Society to clear the matter and recovery will accordingly be effected without further delay by deduction from the award, the balance being paid to the Society. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SEIZURE OF GUN (STRADBALLY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has received repeated applications from J. Colgan, Stradbally, Leix, for the return of a gun valued at £25 taken from him by members of the Irish Volunteers at Stradbally on September 26th, 1921, and if he is now in a position to trace and return it to its owner, or state what amount he is prepared to pay as compensation for loss of same. 
     
     
      
       The claim referred to by the Deputy was duly received by the Committee set up under the Indemnity Act, 1924, who have not, however, yet furnished any recommendation in the case.  Until they shall have furnished their recommendation I am not in a position to say what compensation, if any, will be payable. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INDEMNITY ACT COMMITTEE&mdash;CONSIDERATION OF CLAIMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state the number of claims submitted to the Committee set up under the Indemnity Act, 1924, the number of cases already considered and reported on, the number of claims rejected, also the number of claims admitted and the amount of compensation paid or payable in such cases. 
     
     
      
       The number of claims submitted to the Committee is approximately 5,000.  Of these nearly 2,000 have been reported upon, approximately 900 being rejected for various reasons.  In the remaining cases reported upon over £14,000 has been or is about to be paid by way of compensation. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PORTLAOIGHISE TOWN COMMISSIONERS' CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister   for Finance if the Committee set up under the Indemnity Act, 1924, has reported unfavourably on a claim submitted by the Portlaoighise Town Commissioners for the recovery of £70 legal expenses incurred in connection with proceedings taken by them in 1920; whether the Commissioners, in the case referred to, acted upon instructions issued by the Ministers for Home Affairs and Local Government of Dail Eireann in 1920, and if he can state the grounds upon which he now declines to authorise a refund of the amount. 
     
     
      
       The Committee set up under the Indemnity Act, 1924, have reported that they are unable to regard the claim made by the Portlaoighise Town Commissioners in respect of certain legal costs incurred by them as coming within the scope of either Section 5 or Section 6 of the Indemnity Act, and no payment can therefore be made by my Department. 
       The Deputy is in error in stating that the Commissioners acted on instructions issued by the Ministers for Home Affairs and Local Government in 1920.  The Early Closing Order, which was the cause of the legal proceedings in which the Commissioners became involved, was, so far as I am aware, made by the Commissioners themselves on their own initiative.  The Order was submitted to the then Minister of Local Government and approved by him on the expressed presumption that the Order represented the Commissioners' deliberate judgment after due consideration of local needs and interests.  The action of the then Minister of Home Affairs in this matter was limited to an intimation (in reply to an inquiry) that the Commissioners might proceed in the Republican Courts against any person guilty of a breach of the Order.  It is clear, therefore, that the latter portion of the Deputy's question is based on a misapprehension of the facts. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A GLASGOW REFUND CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if the Committee set up under the Indemnity Act, 1924, has dealt with the claim of Mr. David   O'Hagan, Glasgow, for refund of a sum of £415 14s. 1d., which was advanced to authorised officers of the Irish Volunteers for the purchase of arms and ammunition and for other purposes during pre-Truce period, and whether he is now in a position to state when this long overdue amount will be paid. 
     
     
      
       The Committee have considered the claim referred to by the Deputy and have forwarded a recommendation to my Department.  Payment within the amount of that recommendation will be made at an early date. 
     
     
      
       I would like to urge on the Minister the necessity for expediting the hearing of the remaining cases under the Indemnity Act. There are many people still waiting for compensation. 
     
     
      
       I do not see that there is anything I can do.  There is one Committee and it is getting through the work as fast as it can. 
     
     
      
       Is it correct to state that the Chairman of this Committee is also the Chairman of a Board set up under the Military Service Pensions Act? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LIMERICK UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that the Limerick Court of Referees have disallowed the claim of Mr. James Feeney (Book No., Limerick 13857) to unemployment benefit, and have refused him leave to appeal; whether he is aware that some dispute arose as to whether Mr. Feeney's employment as canvasser for the Limerick Steamship Company from May, 1922. until November, 1924, was an insurable one; whether, on the Department of Industry and Commerce deciding that it was an insurable one, his card was stamped by his employer, and whether he can state why, in view of the fact that Mr. Feeney had stamps to his credit, his claim was disallowed and leave to appeal refused. 
     
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit lodged by James Feeney at Newcastle West on the 23rd November, 1925, was disallowed under the first part of Section 4 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, no contributions having been paid in respect of the claimant in the four last preceding insurance years. The claimant appealed against the decision to the Court of Referees, who, in the circumstances, had no alternative but to recommend disallowance. The Court of Referees has discretionary power in the matter of allowing appeals to the Umpire which they exercised in this case, the claim being clearly one which could not be allowed. Subsequently, on the 22nd December, arrear contributions to the number of 135 were collected in respect of employment which the claimant had had with the Limerick Steamship Company between May, 1922, and November, 1924.  Those contributions have been duly placed to the credit of the claimant and the payment of them has had the effect of putting him in benefit as from the date on which they were paid, but does not create any retrospective right to benefit.  Payment of all benefit which has become due since the date of the payment of the contributions was offered to him last Friday, which he refused on the ground that he was entitled to more.  Section 24 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, provides a remedy for grievances arising from the non-payment of contributions by employers. 
     
     
      
       If I persuade this man to reconsider his attitude, would he be able to get the payment offered him? 
     
     
      
       I think so. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MOUNTRATH UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT COMPLAINT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he has received a complaint from C. Phelan, Maryboro' Road, Mountrath, Leix, regarding his refusal to pay unemployment insurance benefit on the grounds that the man concerned was   not unemployed during the period referred to; whether he is aware that Phelan can produce witnesses to prove that he was unemployed and unable to secure work, and whether, in view of this, he will reconsider his previous decision and authorise payment of the amount claimed. 
     
     
      
       Inquiroes have been made on behalf of Mr. C. Phelan, of Maryboro' Road, Mountrath, in connection with a claim to unemployment insurance benefit which he made on the 28th April, 1925.  As already explained in the letter addressed by the Department to the Deputy on the 21st September, 1925, that claim was disallowed by the Insurance Officer on the grounds that the claimant was not unemployed and not unable to obtain suitable employment.  Mr. Phelan appealed against the decision to the Court of Referees, which, having considered the matter, recommended that benefit be disallowed.  The Insurance Officer accepted the Court's recommendation. The claim accordingly remains finally disallowed, but if any more material facts which were not before the Insurance Officer and the Court of Referees when the claim was considered by them, are put forward, they have power to reconsider the matter. In the correspondence that has taken place in reference to the disallowance of this claim no new evidence has been put forward. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PAYMENT OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT (MOUNTRATH). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he has received a complaint from James Delaney, Coote Street, Mountrath, Leix, regarding non-payment of unemployment insurance benefit; whether he is now prepared to sanction payment for the amount claimed, or state the reason why he is unable to do so. 
     
     
      
       An inquiry has been received on behalf of Mr. James Delaney, Coote Street, Mountrath, in reference to the claim to unemployment benefit which he made at Portlaoighise   on the 29th June last.  On that claim Mr. Delaney received payment of benefit for 84 days, being all the benefit he was entitled to in respect of proved unemployment.  He made no further claim until the 29th December.  On this claim benefit has been authorised for 70 days, in respect of the unexhausted contributions to the claimant's credit, and he is at present in receipt of benefit.  No further benefit can be paid on the claim of the 29th June for the reason that after drawing benefit for 84 days the claimant ceased to prove that he was continuously unemployed. If he had drawn further benefit on that claim he would, of course, by exhausting a proportionate number of contributions, be entitled to less benefit on his present claim. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT IN CO. DUBLIN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state the number of men and women, respectively, on the Unemployment Register at the several Employment Exchanges within the County of Dublin (including the townships of Rathmines, Pembroke, Blackrock, and Dun Laoghaire). 
     
     
      
       The numbers of men and women registered for employment at the three Employment Exchanges situated in Co. Dublin on the 18th January&mdash;the latest date for which figures are available&mdash;are as follows:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Men &amp; 
             Women 
             
             
           
         
         
           
             
             
             Boys 
             &amp; Girls 
             Total 
           
           
             Dublin E.E. 
             6,831 
             2,261 
             9,092 
           
           
             Dun Laoghaire E.E. 
             442 
             128 
             570 
           
           
             Balbriggan E.E. 
             80 
             14 
             94 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say whether Rathmines, Pembroke and Blackrock are included in the Dublin list? 
     
     
      
       From the way the answer is framed, I presume that is so. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CLAIMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce   whether he will state the reasons for the delay in the payment at Newbridge Branch Office of unemployment insurance benefit to ex-Company Sergeant Joseph Drewett, Army No. 4117, Rathasker Road, Naas; whether he is aware that claimant lodged his card, Serial No. 7220, with eighteen stamps to his credit for 1922, on the 15th December, 1925, and that, owing to the fact that his name could not be traced in Dublin, his Serial No. was changed to 2663; that he has attended at the Branch Office every week since, a distance of fifteen miles for the double journey, without result, and whether he will expedite investigations in the case. 
     
     
      
       Joseph Drewett, of Rathasker Road, Naas, claimed unemployment benefit on the 15th December, 1925, but as no contribution had been paid for him since the 1921-22 Insurance Year he was disqualified for the receipt of benefit by the first part of Sub-section 4 of Section 8 of the Act of 1920.  It appears that he obtained exemption under Section 3 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, at the commencement of the operation of the Act, and so has not been an insured contributor.  The stamps on the book lodged for 1922 represented the employer's contributions for an exempt person.  As Joseph Drewett had not been an insured contributor prior to enlistment, he is not entitled to contributions in respect of his service with the National Army. 
     
     
      
       Could not the Minister's Department adopt some procedure whereby applicants for insurance benefit would not be kept attending six or seven weeks, walking a distance of fourteen or fifteen miles on each occasion? It is scarcely fair that a man signing on for six or seven weeks should be told at the end that he is not entitled to any benefit. 
     
     
      
       Does that arise in this case? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I will have that looked into. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he   has received a claim for unemployment insurance benefit from Edward Brophy, Clonin, Mountrath, Leix, and if he is prepared to sanction payment of the amount claimed, or state why he is unable to do so. 
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit made by Edward Brophy, Clonin, Mountrath, on the 6th April, 1925, was disallowed by the Insurance Officer under Section 7 (1) (ii.) and (iii.) of the Act of 1920, on the grounds that he was &ldquo;not unemployed&rdquo; and &ldquo;not unable to obtain suitable employment.&rdquo;  The claimant appealed against the decision to the Court of Referees, which recommended that the claim should be disallowed. The Insurance Officer agreed with this recommendation, and so the claim remains disallowed.  Mr. Brophy does not appear to have made any further claim. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he has received a claim for unemployment insurance benefit from Patrick Cooney, Gurteen, Ballickmoyler, Leix (Carlow area); whether he is prepared to sanction payment as claimed, or state the reason why he is unable to do so. 
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit made by Patrick Cooney, of Gurteen, Ballickmoyler, Leix, on the 13th of November last was disallowed by the Insurance Officer under Section 7 (1) (ii.) and (iii.) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, on the grounds that he was &ldquo;not unemployed&rdquo; and &ldquo;not unable to obtain suitable employment.&rdquo;  The complainant appealed to the Court of Referees against the decision, and the appeal was heard at Kilkenny on the 21st instant.  The Court's recommendation has not yet reached the Insurance Officer. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PAYMENT OF OFFALY OLD AGE PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he has received an application for an old age pension from James Lenehan.  Ballinagar, Darrigean,   Offaly; whether same was accompanied by a sworn statement that claimant was over seventy years, and whether he is now prepared to sanction payment of whatever amount Lenehan is entitled to, or state the reason why he is unable to do so. 
     
     
      
       Two claims to the old age pension in this case have been disallowed.  The second appeal was received in October last, and the claim disallowed on the 18th November on the ground of insufficient evidence to show that the claimant had attained the age of 70 years.  A baptismal certificate was not produced. The appeal papers on the second claim included duplicates of declarations made by two neighbours testifying that they knew from their own knowledge that the claimant was over 75 years of age, but no mention was made in either declaration of any corroborative fact. The question of means was also involved. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LOCAL ADMINISTRATION (OFFALY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if, and when, it is proposed to withdraw the Commissioner now administering the affairs of the Offaly County Council, and if any date has yet been fixed for the election of County Councillors. 
     
     
      
       I am considering the possibility of an early election for the Offaly County Council, but no date has yet been fixed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLOCATION OF ROAD FUND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state upon what basis the Road Fund Grant is allocated to the various counties in the Saorstat; if, in the case of the County Dublin, a total allocation of £241 per mile of trunk road is made, compared with £120 per mile in County Kildare; if the mileage of trunk roads, ninety-eight, is the same in both counties, and if, taking into account the fact that Kildare roads have to bear the greater part of   the motor traffic passing to and from Dublin, he will direct that a more equitable allocation of the grant be made. 
     
     
      
       The grants of £100,000, £1,000,000 and £450,000 were allocated upon the basis of population, valuation and road expenditure.  In the case of the last-mentioned grant, trunk road mileage was also taken into account. The answer to the second and third parts of the question is in the affirmative.  The basis of the next allocation will be duly considered by the Roads Advisory Committee, and they will take into account all relevant factors. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say when the next allocation will be made?  As there is considerable unemployment throughout the county, perhaps he might be able to expedite the granting of the money from the Motor Taxation Fund? 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy had better put down a question on that subject to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLASSIFICATION OF KILDARE ROADS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if the mileage of trunk roads is 98 in Co. Kildare, 110 in Carlow, 164 in Kilkenny, 119 in Leix, 134 in Offaly, 179 in Tipperary North Riding, 158 in Tipperary South Riding; if several roads in Kildare not constituted trunk roads have to bear heavy motor traffic in a great measure for places outside its borders, and if he will cause inquiry to be made as to the use of such roads by mechanically driven vehicles with a view to their being scheduled as main or trunk roads. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative if, as is presumed, the Deputy refers to County Louth and not to County Carlow.  No representations to the effect stated in the second part of the question have been made to my Department, but I will have inquiry made as requested by the Deputy. 
     
     
     
      
       In reference to the Minister's answer, I may state that I did refer to County Carlow.  Arising out of the answer, does not the Minister's Department realise that there is undue traffic over the roads in Carlow on account of their leading directly to places south, west and, in some cases, north? 
     
     
      
       I cannot answer that question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUBLIN STATION'S WAVE LENGTH. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether the wave length of the Dublin Broadcasting Station was fixed by the International Radio Bureau at Geneva, and whether any representations were made to that Bureau in order to avoid the danger of clashing with Hamburg and Bournemouth. 
     
     
      
       Presumably the Deputy's question refers to the Union Internationale de Radiophonie, a voluntary Association of European Broadcasting enterprises, having, so far as I am aware, no plenary powers. The Irish Free State broadcasting service is not at present a member of the Association. 
       The allocation of wave-lengths to radio stations is a matter for the Governments of the various countries, and unless the Governments concerned agree to enforce proposals that may reach them from the Union Internationale, difficulties are likely to arise in carrying out any changes the Union may consider advisable. 
       The wave-length of the Dublin Broadcasting Station, which was settled by this Administration in conjunction with the British Administration, does not clash with Bournemouth's wave-length.  It will be realised that if Bournemouth caused serious trouble to Dublin listeners, then equally Dublin signals, which are quite strong over the south of England, would cause serious trouble to Bournemouth listeners.  Such trouble does not exist. 
     
     As to Hamburg, I cannot speak with authority.  I understand its wave-length   is 392 metres, but I have no official information on the point.  We have received reports from different parts of Ireland that no difficulty has been experienced in tuning in Dublin free from Hamburg's signals. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUBLIN WIRELESS PROGRAMMES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether it is proposed to appoint an Advisory Committee to assist in framing the programmes of the Dublin Wireless Broadcasting Station, and, if so, whether he is in a position to give the names of such Committee. 
     
     
      
       The Bill for the control and administration of wireless and broadcasting, which it is proposed to present to the Oireachtas in the very near future, contains provision for the setting up of an Advisory Committee to advise and assist in framing suitable programmes.  Pending the passing of the Bill, however, I am not in a position to give any information as to the personnel of the proposed Committee, save that it will include members nominated by the Minister for Education and the Minister for Lands and Agriculture. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if there is any reason why this Committee should not be set up now? 
     
     
      
       It is provided for in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say if, pending the introduction and passing of this Bill, he will instruct his Department not to be sending threatening letters to people in regard to the payment of their licences? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TREE PLANTING IN CO. CORK. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether, in view of great distress and unemployment in Doneraile and Buttevant districts, he will make provisions at an early date for the granting of moneys out of the Relief Grant for tree-planting of the large holdings suitable and available for this purpose in those areas. 
     
     
      
       The funds   available to the Department for afforestation purposes in the present financial year have already been hypothecated. I may add that the Department's programme provides for the planting of 200 acres in the current season in the Ballyhoura forest area, and it is not considered advisable to extend planting operations beyond that programme.  Apart from the fact that funds are not at present available, the growth of trees on a considerable portion of the land is still a matter of uncertainty, and further observation is, accordingly, required. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF LEIX LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commission has decided not to acquire the estate of Peter G. Alley (Record S/2536), Knockaroo, Ballybrophy, Leix; whether he is aware that Mr. Alley is the owner of two other farms in the same county; if he will state the grounds upon which Mr. Alley based his opposition to the acquisition of the lands at Knockaroo and the reason why the Land Commission declined to acquire these lands for distribution amongst the large number of uneconomic holders and landless men in the district. 
     
     
      
       A provisional list of the lands of Peter G. Alley, which would, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day, was published in  Iris Oifigiuil  on the 13th February, 1925.  The lands comprised 170 statute acres of the townlands of Knockaroo and Kilcotton, County Leix.  An objection to the acquisition of the lands was lodged by the owner and the matter came before the Land Commissioners judicially on the 6th November, 1925.  They decided, on the evidence submitted in Court, to take no further action regarding the acquisition of these lands for the present. 
     
     Proceedings are pending before the Commissioners for the acquisition of other lands more suitable for their purposes in the same locality, which it   is expected will be ample to relieve the local congestion at present existing. 
     
      
       Would the Minister supply particulars of the other lands in the locality which the Commissioners propose to acquire?  Would be also say why the solicitor acting on behalf of the local uneconomic holders who made application to the Commission for portions of this land, was not advised of the hearing that took place before the Commissioners and would he say if these uneconomic holders were not entitled to be represented by their solicitor when this objection was raised by the owner of the lands? The solicitor, I understand, wrote two or three letters on the question, but got no reply. 
     
     
      
       I will certainly give the names of the other lands which the Commissioners are inquiring about, but I have not the names at the moment. With regard to the second portion of the question, the case would be between the Land Commission, on the one side, and the owner of the lands on the other.  The Land Commission represents the tenants.  A group of tenants would have no standing at the hearing.  The Land Commission is there to represent the tenants' point of view, while the owner represents his own view. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister not propose to give information regarding the grounds on which this particular individual opposed the acquisition of this portion of his lands? 
     
     
      
       That is another supplementary. 
     
     
      
       It is in the question. 
     
     
      
       The giving of that information would take a long time This case was argued for two or three days before the Commissioners, and various relevant reasons were considered by the Commissioners.  The Deputy could hardly expect me to give all these reasons.  Speaking generally, if the Deputy's point of view is that no man should have a second farm under any circumstances, then I understand his difficulty. 
     
     
     
      
       Is it the Minister's contention that I am not entitled to the general grounds on which the owner opposed the acquisition of the lands? 
     
     
      
       That is not my contention. My contention is that it is a matter of practice.  It would be very difficult for me to give by question and answer the reasons not only in this case, but in any case that comes before the Commissioners.  This is a case that took two or three days to argue. 
     
   
   
     PROCEEDINGS OF LEAGUE OF NATIONS. 
     
      
       May I call attention to the statement on the Orders of the Day that a summary of proceedings of the sixth Assembly of the League of Nations at Geneva in September, 1925, has been laid on the Table, and to ask whether it is possible to have that summary made available to Deputies.  The summary could be stencilled and circulated to Deputies. 
       Ordered:&mdash;That the document be circulated to Deputies. 
     
   
   
     VACANT MINISTRY. 
     
      
       Might I ask whether it is the intention of the Government to nominate to-day a Minister for Education? 
     
     
      
       I had intended making a statement to the Dail in that connection. The President is engaged in the Seanad at present, and he asked me to say that if the Dail wished he would be prepared to make a nomination to-day for the vacant office of Minister for Education.  If the feeling is that notice is desirable, the nomination will be made to-marrow. 
     
     As regards the Order of Business, it is regretted that it seems necessary to postpone Deputy Johnson's motion (No. 5 on the Orders of the Day) in   favour of certain other business, but it is recognised that Government time should be given for that motion, and that will be done. 
   
   
     REVISION OF THE CONSTITUTION. 
     
      
       I want to give the Dail one piece of information which it is thought desirable to impart.  A small Committee, under the chairmanship of the Ceann Comhairle, is at presenting reviewing the Constitution with a view to advising the Government on certain points where amendments might be desirable, in view of our experience of the practical working of the Constitution.  The Committee consists of the Ceann Comhairle (Chairman), the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, the Attorney-General, Professor Binchy of the National University, Senator Douglas and myself.  It has been at work for some little time&mdash; about a week or ten days.  The object of the Committee is merely to bring to the notice of the Government certain matters in the Constitution which might, in the light of our practical experience of its working, seem to call for amendment. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister able to indicate the scope of the inquiry? Is it dealing with details or with general matters of Constitutional authority and power? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy may judge the scope of the Committee by the fact that it was not thought necessary or advisable to give any terms of reference to it.  It is simply looking over the Constitution and it will bring to the notice of the Executive Council any matter to which it thinks proper to attract attention. 
     
   
   
     COURTS OFFICERS BILL. 
     
      
       Would it be possible for the Minister to give any indication as to the date on which it is proposed to introduce the Courts Officers Bill, which he would probably agree is a matter of extreme urgency, having regard to the fact that the rules of court cannot be laid on the   Table of the Dail until that Bill is introduced? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy repeats the question to-morrow I might be able to make a shot at the date.  I may say, however, that I think it will be introduced in the near future. 
     
     
      
       Would the Vice-President arrange that in the case of item No. 20, particulars of estimates which might come up for discussion will be circulated as there are two or three of such estimates not yet in the hands of Deputies. 
     
     
      
       We do not propose to take any estimates until they have been circulated. 
     
   
   
     MINISTER FOR EDUCATION. 
     
      
       As regards the question raised by the Minister in respect of the nomination, with the assent of the House, of the Minister for Education, though I may not be expressing the view of the House, my own view is that the long-continued tension and anxiety should be brought to an end as speedily as possible. 
     
     
      
       Can they get anybody to take it? 
     
     
      
       I do not know if I am to interpret that in the sense of making an immediate nomination, but I would be prepared to name to the Dail now the President's nomination. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister nominates a person now he would have to get the assent of the Dail. 
     
     
      
       The President asked me to nominate to the Dail, on his behalf, Professor John Marcus O'Sullivan, T.D., to the Ministry of Education. 
     
     
      
       Does that nomination involve a seat on the Executive Council? 
     
     
      
       Yes, and the assent of the Dail is required. 
     
     
      
       Must it be in the form of a motion? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I propose &ldquo;That the Dail assents to the nomination of Professor O'Sullivan as Minister for Education.&rdquo; 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     PRICES OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. 
     
      
       As regards Item 22, in reference to the return asked for by Deputy Johnson regarding statistics of the prices of agricultural products, I am not sure that I can meet the Deputy fully on that matter, but possibly it will satisfy him if I give him full information in respect of Ireland for each year from 1881 to 1925.  As regards the Free State the information can be given from the years 1911 to 1925. 
     
     
      
       That will satisfy me. 
     
     
      
       It will take some time to prepare, but the return will be got out as speedily as possible.  If the Deputy would indicate a date by which his purpose would be served I would meet him. 
     
     
      
       I understand the material is ready.  I am aware that it is in hands, but I am not going to press the Minister.  The desire was to have the information available as quickly as possible. 
     
     
      
       Say within a month or three weeks. 
     
     
      
       I think that will do, as I have got some of the information myself. 
       Return ordered to be presented. 
     
   
   
     PILOTAGE ORDER CONFIRMATION BILL, 1925&mdash;COMMITTEE. 
     
      
       I propose that Section 1 of the Pilotage Order Confirmation Bill, stand part of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I want to raise a question on Section 1.  It has to do with the Pilotage Order, and certain matters arising out of it in connection with pensions to old pilots.  I have been approached in respect of proposals regarding the pensions scheme   which is now proposed, and with regard to a grievance which the old pilots feel themselves under by virtue of the fact that their pensions are remaining in the very unsatisfactory state of £55, and less, a year, while under the new scheme, men who happen to be a year younger and who will go into pension within the next two or three years, will be in receipt of more than double the amount to which the older pensioners are entitled.  The matter affects only eight men, some of whom are from 75 to 80 years of age. The cost is not going to be a continuing one, and is not going to be a great burden for many years on the funds.  The practice since 1913 has been that, whereas there was a 121⁄2 per cent. increase in that year and a later increase during the war to £55, in all cases the existing pensioners got the benefit, and any pensioners coming into benefit during that period were also included. Now it is proposed to revise the scale, but to retain the old pensioners at the old and existing scale.  Most of these men have served for thirty years, and some of them for forty or fifty years, in the pilot service, and prior to the war their rates of earnings did not exceed, on an average, from 35/- to £2 a week, but they were always paying into the superannuation fund.  Some of those now in the service who will be retiring in the next year, happen to have been a little younger when they came into the service and will not retire quite as early, but, although they have been paying the same amount into the superannuation fund they will go into receipt of benefit for twice the amount paid to those recently retired.  I put in a plea to the Pilotage Board, the Docks and Harbour Board, on behalf of these seven or eight men that they might well be levelled up in order to meet the new conditions proposed under the new pensions scheme.  I am given to believe that the remaining pilots, who are contributors to the fund, are quite satisfied to assist in raising the position of these men.  The sum paid at present is, roughly, about £450 a year, and to double their pensions would be another £450 for, perhaps, two or three years for some men, and five or six years for   others.  The charge on the fund cannot be very long continued. 
       I do not know whether there is any Deputy who can speak with some authority on this matter, but, if so, I would hope that he would be able to get some clear promise that this matter would be made right and that the conditions of the men would be put on something like an equitable basis.  £55 a year is not enough for men who, by the very fact of their calling, have had a great deal of responsibility, and who ought to have a decent retiring allowance in their old age.  They are precluded by the fact that they are receiving this money from getting the old age pension, and together it seems to me to be reasonable that the Pilotage Fund administered under the auspices of the Port and Docks Board should, when it is being rearranged in favour of the existing pilots, also be rearranged in favour of those who are at present on pension.  I hope that the Bill will not be pressed for a few days until we have had an opportunity of conferring with the Board on this matter. 
     
     
      
       I would like to support Deputy Johnson's appeal.  I have been approached by some of these pilots and have gone into their case, and I think it is a sound one.  There is no doubt whatever that it is very difficult to pay post-war prices out of pre-war income.  We are finding that out every day.  Look at the farmers.  They are saying that they cannot do it, and they get 40 per cent. above pre-war prices.  Those old men are only getting their pre-war pension of a little over £1 per week.  It is very hard for men who have always lived respectably, who have had a considerable amount of technical training, who have filled a responsible position under circumstances often of hardship and sometimes of danger, to come down and live on charity practically.  That is what a pension of £1 per week means.  If they are not helped by relations or friends they can barely live on it.  It is a matter, I think, for reorganisation, possibly to give the existing pilots who are getting better fees a slightly lower pension in order to meet the claim of those old pensioners, who are few in   number, who, as Deputy Johnson says, will not live long, and who are undoubtedly in some hardship at the moment. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps Deputy Hewat, who must know something about the circumstances of these particular cases, would say whether or not he is prepared to accept the suggestion of Deputy Johnson.  In the intervening time it might be possible, as a result of conversations and negotiations, to meet the very reasonable demand put up. I happen to know a couple of the men concerned, and I can confirm what Deputy Johnson says, that they are bordering on 80 years of age and that the amount involved is not very much. I understand that the fund is more than solvent as superannuation funds go; that there is a considerable amount in hands and that increased revenue will come into the fund as a result of the reorganisation arising out of this Bill.  The case put forward seems to be justified in every respect.  I happen to be associated with a superannuation fund where cases of a similar nature were brought forward as a result of the increased prices.  I am speaking now of the railways.  Provision in all cases has been made for the increased cost of living by increasing the amounts paid to the pensioners pre-war.  I think the Dublin Port and Docks Board should be able to do what bigger corporations have done in that respect, in view of the small amount involved, owing to the age of the men and the sum that might be added to the pension. I hope Deputy Hewat will say something that will enable the matter to be placed upon a more satisfactory basis. 
     
     
      
       Will somebody say where this matter arises? 
     
     
      
       In the schedule power is given to the Board to do all kinds of things, and it is set out: &ldquo;The costs, charges and expenses of and preliminary and incidental to the election of Pilot-members shall be paid by the Authority out of the Pilot Fund.&rdquo;  The Pilot Fund is a fund which contributes to the Pensions Fund, and it is part of the order of which this schedule is a part.  This schedule seems   to be only a part of a very much extended order or by-law. 
     
     
      
       Surely the order is in full? 
     
     
      
       Quite. Might I ask Deputy Johnson to be precise and to say, if he was proposing to make an amendment, to what section of the schedule would it be, and what would the terms of it be? 
     
     
      
       I think I would be ruled out of order if I proposed to move an amendment. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid so. 
     
     
      
       This question of the Pension Fund is within the authority of the Dublin Port and Docks Board, acting under the Pilotage Act. 
     
     
      
       Is the Dublin Port and Docks Board the authority mentioned in the schedule? 
     
     
      
       The authority is the Dublin Port and Docks Board. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to stand between these old pilots and some increase in their pension, but I am not clear as to the procedure under which Deputy Hewat, as a member of the Port and Docks Board, answers here for something. 
     
     
      
       The suggestion was made merely with the object of expediting the passing of the Bill.  If the opportunity is not availed of, it may be desirable to postpone the passing of the Bill until we have some conversation with the promoters. 
     
     
      
       Could we not get this into precise order?  Pilotage orders are made, I think, in connection with the Pilotage Act of somewhere about 1913, and the object of making Orders under the Pilotage Act is to render the law of pilotage uniform as far as possible and to render it accessible. The procedure that has to be gone through is that the Order is advertised and objections are heard. Objections in this case have been heard and the objections resolved.  Then the matter is put forward in the form of   an Order to be passed.  If there was anything in this Order which gave Deputy Johnson a peg on which to hang an amendment with regard to pensions or superannuation to pilots, possibly there would be a chance of doing what he desires.  But I fail to see that there is any such peg.  I think the only thing he is driven back on is the rejection of the Bill by reason of something to which objection was not entered at the proper time and which is now being brought up rather late in the day. 
     
     
      
       As a matter of strict order, of course the Minister is quite right.  It may mean the rejection of the Bill.  But everyone does not use a sledge hammer to crack a nut, and I did not pretend that the people interested in this matter were going to object to the whole scheme because their claim could not be met. But having been approached in the matter, I think we are entitled to object to the passing of this Bill, which involves a change of the system of pilotage in Dublin Bay, and if we are forced to divide on the question of passing this section, we will have to do it, but I would prefer that the Bill should be postponed with a view to trying to come to some arrangement with the promoters. 
     
     
      
       In answer to Deputy Johnson, the Order does not change the organisation to the detriment of these pilots.  If it did, there would be very good grounds for taking up the position he has taken up.  I do not know whether his remarks as to sledge hammers were directed to me.  I have nothing to do with this and I am simply trying to make clear the circumstances.  But I think I have just as much right to answer or to make promises as Deputy Hewat.  Deputy Hewat might make promises in order to get the Bill through, and find them turned down by the Port and Docks Board.  If the Deputy in charge of the Bill likes to have it postponed to give Deputy Johnson, speaking on behalf of certain men, an opportunity of getting terms from the Dublin Port and Docks Board. that is another matter. 
     
     
     
      
       I should like to direct attention to the piecemeal way in which we are dealing with the Dublin Port and Docks Board here.  About twelve months ago a Greater Dublin Commission was appointed, and under the terms of reference they had power to deal with the Dublin Port and Docks Board.  We read a few days ago that officials of that Board had to work considerable overtime in preparing evidence for that Commission.  While the Commission were dealing with the evidence of the Port and Docks Board, the Government comes along and introduces a resolution setting up a Tribunal on ports and harbours which will also deal with the working of the Dublin Port and Docks Board.  That is two Commissions that will be dealing with the working of that Board. To-day we have another Bill dealing with the same Board, when the whole matter could be dealt with by one committee.  As this Tribunal has been set up to deal with the working of the harbours in the Saorstat, I suggest to Deputy Johnson that this matter could very well be raised before that Tribunal by some member of his party who will be on that Tribunal.  I sympathise very much with the men referred to by Deputy Johnson.  I know the hardships borne by some of these very old pilots who are living on practically a starvation pension.  I certainly think they are worthy of consideration.  But it is somewhat strange that within a few months the Dail should be called upon three times to consider matters connected with the working of this Board. 
     
     
      
       This is a Dublin Port and Docks Bill. 
     
     
      
       In view of what has been stated, if it would facilitate matters, the Committee Stage might be left over for a few days. 
     
     
      
       Until what date? 
     
     
      
       Tuesday next. 
     
     
      
       Might I say that the postponement of this Bill does not   affect the question raised by Deputy Johnson.  If it means that an opportunity is going to be given to Deputies to go to the Port and Docks Board and get them to do something that is not covered by the Bill, I suggest that that is rather unnecessary.  This Bill is a Pilotage Bill.  Of course, it concerns the Port and Docks Board, but, while it is under the auspices of the Board, pilotage is an entirely separate concern.  The question raised by Deputy Johnson is not only applicable to old pilots, but to retired civil servants and other people. The Board would be very much inclined to consider favourably any application of this sort if they had the power and the means to improve the lot of these old people.  I do, however, object to postponement of this Bill in order to raise a question that does not arise under the Bill. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Hewat is under a misapprehension with regard to civil service and other pensioners.  I know of no body of public servants that did not get some increase in their pensions.  Civil servants came under the Increase of Pensions Act of 1920, which gives an increase of 50 per cent. to those who have pensions of less than £60, and 40 per cent. over that.  If these old pilots have got no increase, I think it is a matter that ought to be considered, and if the Deputy in charge of the Bill is prepared to have it left over, I suggest that the Dail ought to agree in order to see what can be done in the matter. 
       Ordered&mdash;&ldquo;That the Committee Stage of the Bill be taken on Tuesday next.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     DAIL VACANCIES&mdash;DUBLIN AND LEIX-OFFALY. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash;That the Ceann Comhairle direct the Clerk of the Dail to issue his writ for the election of a member to fill the vacancy which has occurred in the membership of the present Dail consequent on the death of Deputy Darrell Figgis, a member for the constituency of Dublin County. 
     
     I may say, A Chinn Comhairle, I should have moved this earlier were it not for the fact that in the constituency   there is great objection to an election immediately before Christmas; they think it bad for trade.  But I do not think it right that the seat should be left vacant any longer. 
     
      
       I second the motion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Ceann Comhairle direct the Clerk of the Dail to issue his writ for the election of a member to fill the vacancy which has occurred in the membership of the present Dail consequent on the disqualification of Deputy John McGuinness from sitting as a member for the constituency of Leix-Offaly.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I second the motion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     LAND BILL, 1926&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       A Chinn Comhairle, it seems fitting in introducing this Bill to make a somewhat fuller statement than is usual on the first stage of a Bill.  There is, for one thing, the anomaly of a Bill entitled &ldquo;Land Bill, 1926,&rdquo; being introduced otherwise than by the Minister for Agriculture. The fact is that, so far as the origin and purpose of this Bill are concerned, it is very much more a matter affecting our Courts and a matter affecting our Constitution than one simply bearing on agricultural interests. 
     
     Deputies may remember that in 1922 and prior to the meeting of the Provisional Parliament in September, certain discussions took place between members of the Provisional Government and members of the British Government of the day on the proposed Constitution of this State.  The Constitution was based on and arose from the Treaty, to which there were the two parties&mdash;the British Government and those representing the people of Ireland. I was personally associated with those discussions, together with the late President Griffith and the present Chief Justice, in his capacity as legal adviser to the Provisional Government.  Certain matters arose for discussion arising   out of the Treaty and arising out of the interests, consequent on the Treaty, of the British Government in the draft Constitution, and the particular Article to which I want to direct the attention of Deputies to-day&mdash;that is Article 66&mdash;and the following specially:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;The decision of the Supreme Court shall in all cases be final and conclusive, and shall not be reviewed or capable of being reviewed by any other Court, Tribunal or Authority whatsoever. 
     And then the following: 
     &ldquo;Provided that nothing in this Constitution shall impair the right of any person to petition His Majesty for special leave to appeal from the Supreme Court to His Majesty in Council or the right of His Majesty to grant such leave.&rdquo; 
     You have there, Sir, I submit two things.  You have as definite and as emphatic a statement as it was in our power to make that the Supreme Court in this country should be the final authority, and you have inserted also an express reservation of the King's prerogative.  I want to put the view that there is clear in that Article&mdash;as clear as it could be put&mdash;the desire of the representatives of the citizens of this State that the Courts here should be the final authority.  The only exception to that consists in something which it was not within our power to alter, the bare reservation of the prerogative of the King. 
     In the discussions which took place at that time with certain British Ministers, including the Lord Chancellor of the day, there were very definite understandings and very definite assurances given that that preservation of the prerogative would be very much more a theory than a fact and a practice, that in so far as the practice was concerned it would be the practice observed in the case of South Africa rather than in the case of certain other Dominions, members of the British Commonwealth of Nations.  And this distinction was drawn that this Irish Free State, when it came into formal existence, would be a unitary State, like South Africa, and not at all resembling Canada and Australia,   which are not unitary States, and where you have matters of law arising, as between, say, the State of Quebec and the State of Ontario, and so on, which rather call for some overriding tribunal to give its final decision. 
     Since the establishment of the Union of South Africa there have been admitted to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council altogether seven or eight cases, none of them small cases, none of them petty cases, none of them cases other than ones raising important issues, affecting large numbers of people, raising issues which could scarcely be termed purely domestic. 
     As I say, there were clear assurances given that the practice that would be observed in relation to the Irish Free State would be strictly analogous to the practice observed in the case of South Africa rather than in the case of other non-unitary Dominions, Canada and Australia.  That principle was rather clearly enunciated by Lord Haldane, in the year 1923, when the first Irish petitions for leave to appeal came before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.  Lord Haldane was an ex-Lord Chancellor, and has since been Lord Chancellor of the Government of Mr. Ramsay MacDonald.  He states that before entering upon the consideration of these petitions from the Irish Free State, it might be well that something should be said about the general principle governing matters of the kind, and he proceeded to lay down what he regarded as being the general lines on which this kind of matter should be considered, and in the course of his statement, spoke as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;In Ireland, under the Constitution Act, by Section 66, the prerogative is saved and the prerogative, therefore, exists in Ireland just as it does in Canada, South Africa, India, and right through the Empire, with the single exception that I have mentioned, that it is modified in the case of the Commonwealth of Australia in reference to, but only in reference to, constitutional disputes in Australia.  That being so, the Sovereign retains the ancient prerogative of being the supreme   Tribunal of Justice.  I need not observe that the growth of the Empire and the growth particularly of the Dominions has led to very substantial restriction of the exercise of the prerogative by the Sovereign on the advice of the judicial committee. It is obviously proper that the Dominions should more and more dispose of their own cases, and in criminal cases it has been laid down so strictly that it is only in most exceptional cases that the Sovereign is advised to intervene.  In other cases the practice which has grown up, or the unwritten usage which has grown up, is that the Judicial Committee is to look closely into the nature of the case, and, if in their Lordships' opinion, the question is one that can be best determined on the spot, then the Sovereign is not, as a rule, advised to intervene, nor is he advised to intervene normally&mdash;I am not laying down precise rules now, but I am laying down the general principles&mdash;unless the case is one involving some great principle or is of some very wide public interest.  It is also necessary to keep a certain discretion, because, when you are dealing with the Dominions, you find that they differ very much.  For instance, in States that are not Unitary States, that is to say, States within themselves, questions may arise between the Central Government and the State which, when an appeal is admitted, gives rise very readily to questions which are apparently very small, but which may involve serious consideration, and there leave to appeal is given rather freely.  In Canada there are a number of cases in which leave to appeal is granted, because Canada is not a Unitary State, and because it is the desire of Canada itself that the Sovereign should retain the power of exercising his prerogative; but that does not apply to internal disputes not concerned with constitutional, questions, but relating to matters of fact.  There the rule against giving leave to appeal from the Supreme Court of Canada is strictly observed where no great constitutional question or question of law emerges. 
     
       &ldquo;In the case of South Africa, which is a Unitary State, the practice has become very strict.  We are not at all disposed to advise the Sovereign unless there is some exceptional question, such as the magnitude of the question of law involved, or it is a question of public interest in the Dominion to give leave to appeal.  It is obvious that the Dominions may differ in a certain sense among themselves. For instance, in India leave to appeal is more freely given than elsewhere, but the genesis of that is the requirements of India, and the desire of the people of India.  In South Africa we take the general sense of that Dominion into account, and restrict the cases in which we advise His Majesty to give leave to appeal.  It becomes with the Dominions more and more or less and less, as they please.  We go upon the principles of autonomy on this question of exercising the discretion as to granting leave to appeal.  It is within the Sovereign's power, but the Sovereign. looking at the matter, exercises his discretion. 
     &ldquo;We now come to Ireland.  From what I have said it is obvious that it is not expedient that we should lay down too rigidly to begin with what the principles are.  It will grow with the unwritten Constitution.  We have got a Constitution which is partly written in Ireland, but our experience is that all unwritten Constitutions develop flesh and blood within the unwritten bones, and we have to see the sort of flesh and blood you put on as regards the question of how much you dispose completely of your own judicial questions.  It may vary in different parts of the Empire, therefore we do not wish to lay down anything further than this.  In the olden days the appeal to the House of Lords was as of right, as it is from Northern Ireland to-day, but the appeal to the Privy Council is not as of right.  It is an appeal to the King's discretion, and it is founded on a petition that he should exercise his discretion.  Well, obviously what is a matter of discretion is a very different thing from what is a matter of   right and, accordingly, when you come from a new Dominion, with full Dominion status like the Irish Free State, it is not by any means as of course, even to begin with, that leave to appeal will be given.  On the contrary, the Sovereign may be advised to apply the general principle of restriction to which I have alluded. That being so, we will have to look into these petitions, one by one, and we shall bear in mind that the status of the new Irish Dominion is a status which, although it has been likened to a number of the Dominions in the Treaty Act and in the Treaty, is not strictly analogous to any one of them.  For instance, it is not analogous to non-unitary Dominions. Southern Ireland is a Unitary Dominion and is analogous, therefore, to unitary Dominions like South Africa more than it is to non-unitary Dominions like Australia and Canada, that is from the point of view of justice only, because you will observe I have said no words to suggest that there is not a complete analogy established by the terms of the Constitution between Ireland and Canada for other purposes.  I am only pointing out when we come to the exercise of the judicial discretion of this kind you must bear in mind the analogy of unitary dominions.  I think I have now said enough to show that we shall look somewhat strictly at all applications for leave to appeal, and I think I have said enough to indicate the broad principles upon which we propose to act.&rdquo; 
     That statement was made by Lord Haldane, presiding at the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, on the 25th July, 1923, when Irish petitions for leave to appeal were under consideration, and I direct the attention of Deputies to two points in that statement, the insistence on the reference to the analogy of South Africa as a unitary State, and the insistence with which the wish of the Dominion itself is referred to as a factor, and a factor of very considerable importance.  In that connection I would like to read the following extract from a judgment given in a South African case&mdash;the Whittaker case&mdash;in which there is   again a reference to the desire of the Dominion itself: 
     One cannot read Section 106 of the South African Act, 1909, without seeing that the intention was to get rid of appeals to the King in Council, except such as, in the strict exercise of the prerogative, His Majesty should say that he would allow on some great ground.  Even the Parliament has power to limit these appeals from South Africa.  No doubt the prerogative is not wholly swept away, but it is obviously intended to be exercised in a very restricted sense.  As His Majesty has been a partner to the Imperial Act we must bear that in view.  In the case of Canada it was held that the words of the Act do not touch the discretion, but in the South African Act, 1909, there is express power given to Parliament to limit the prerogative. That shows an intention that the matter was to be looked at from a South African point of view. I am only looking at Section 106. Their Lordships have taken into account the character of the question which arises here under this Act, and however important it may be it is essentially a local question&mdash;a South African question. 
     Now, I submit to Deputies that everything that is said there with reference to that Section 106 of the South African Act of 1909 applies with full force and effect to Article 66 of the Constitution of this State.  It was not left in doubt as to what the attitude was, and what the wish of the representatives of the people here was, with regard to the finality of the decisions of our own Courts.  Anything which follows the proviso in that Article was inserted at the request of the British Ministers as an express saving of the prerogative, and, having regard to the terms of the Treaty, it was considered that they were entitled to insist on that.  But take that portion of the Article which represents our own outlook and our own wish in the matter; the decision of the Supreme Court was in all cases to be final and conclusive and was not to be reviewed or be capable of being reviewed by any other court, tribunal, or authority whatsoever.  That portion   of the Article represents the desire of the people here, and the desire of their representatives, that matters of litigation arising here would be finally determined by the Supreme Court of the State.  And running through the statement of Lord Haldane on that &ldquo;Freeman's Journal&rdquo; case of 1923, and running through this extract from the judgment in the South African case, you have it laid down that the desire of the Dominion itself is a factor, a very relevant and a very real factor, in determining the attitude of the Judicial Committee in deciding whether or not they will grant leave to appeal in a particular case. 
     I now come to the actual purpose of this Bill.  A case arising under the Land Act of 1923 some time ago came before the High Court, was heard by the President of the High Court, and decided in a particular way.  An appeal was brought to the Supreme Court, which upheld the judgment that had been given by the High Court, and the matter was then carried across to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and special leave to appeal was sought by way of petition.  That petition was granted, but in our view that petition ought not to have been granted.  In our view the granting of that petition was a very clear and definite departure from the undertakings which were given to Irish Ministers at the time that the draft Constitution of this State was the subject of joint consideration and review. 
     Perhaps what I have said indicates the purpose of this Bill.  It is not a Bill for the removal of doubt, there not being, in our view, any doubt as to the point of law.  It is a Bill to declare and confirm that the law is as stated by the Supreme Court of this State.  Simply the Dail is asked, and the Seanad will be asked, to declare and confirm that the interpretation given by our High Court and by our Supreme Court to the Land Act of 1923 is and always has been the correct interpretation.  I can agree very often with people who say that, in the abstract, retrospective legislation is undesirable, but there are at times circumstances which alter that abstraction, and I think that the Executive   Council is doing rightly in the particular set of circumstances that has now arisen in asking the Dail to pass such a Bill as this.  Deputies should be quite clear in their minds that this is not a Bill to clear up any point that is considered to be obscure; it is not a Bill to remove any doubt.  It is a Bill brought in specifically so that the Dail may assert and declare that the law in this matter is as it has been determined by the High Court and the Supreme Court of our own State system. When this Bill is printed and circulated and when it comes to a Second Reading Deputies will have an opportunity of raising beyond all doubt the question as to what their attitude and their desire is on the matter of where finality should lie in our litigation, on the matter of whether or not it is their desire&mdash;and we have seen by the two extracts which I have quoted that the desire of the Dominion itself is a relevant factor before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council&mdash;that appeals should be brought, arising out of the litigation in this State, to this Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and that those appeals should be there admitted. 
     I should like to read to the Dail two further extracts bearing on this particular question.  The following is from Professor Berriedale Keith's book, &ldquo;War Government in the Dominions,&rdquo; and the reference is to pages 285 to 288: 
     Fresh importance has been attached by the development of the status of the Dominions to the question of the retention of the right to appeal from Dominion Courts to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.  That body itself has shown no anxiety to extend its jurisdiction. It has, on the contrary, affirmed the principle that only on cases of the highest importance will it hear appeals from the Union of South Africa, so that for practical purposes the appeal from the Union is a matter of mere theoretic interest.  It has similarly declined to exercise its technically valued right to hear criminal appeals from Canada, even in so interesting a case as that of the Winnipeg rioters, whose condemnation raised bitter political feelings   in the Dominion.  It has also shown great reluctance to grant leave to appeal in any Australian case not of the first importance.  It may, therefore, be held that the jurisdiction, though still in active exercise, and though still of the highest importance as regards cases on the Canadian Constitution, is in process of obsolescence, and that the way is paved for its extinction unless steps are taken to revise the basis on which it rests. 
     I take the following from &ldquo;The British Commonwealth of Nations&rdquo; (Duncan Hall), pages 263 to 270. Writing of the Imperial War Conference held in 1918, and the discussion there on this question of appeal, he goes on:&mdash; 
     The opinions expressed by the Dominion statesmen in the debate of 1918 showed that this feeling against appeals to an external court is now stronger than ever in the Dominions. Mr Hughes admitted there was no demand in Australia for an Imperial Court of Appeal.  &ldquo;But,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;one thing there is a strong demand for, and if a vote on it can be taken it would be carried overwhelmingly ...that there should be no appeal to the Privy Council or to any Imperial Court of Appeal at all.&rdquo;  Sir Robert Borden expressed the view that the tendency in Canada &ldquo;will be to restrict appeals to the Privy Council rather than to increase them,&rdquo; and one of his colleagues pointed out that there was a growing opinion in Canada &ldquo;that our own Courts should be the final authority.&rdquo;  The only representative at the Conference that expressed himself as thoroughly satisfied with the working of the system was the representative of India.  The only conclusion which it seems safe to draw from this evidence is that the Dominions will not consent to the creation of an Imperial Court of Appeal, and that Dominion appeals to the Judicial Committee are likely before long to cease altogether. There are weighty reasons for believing such a development would be an advantage rather than a disaster. 
     
        In so far as it lies in our power to speed that development, that will be done.  There is no desire here either amongst the people or their representatives that there should lie outside of this State an appeal in the litigation which arises here.  I even put it to Deputies that more and more as time goes on, that appeal would be an anomaly.  You would have men with no knowledge of the circumstances in which legislation came to be introduced and framed, with no knowledge of the problems with which it purported to deal, sitting as the final authority on the construction and interpretation of the legislation that is passed here.  I submit that even on grounds of commonsense, apart from any question of status or any question of national sensitiveness, it is not a desideratum that appeals should be admitted outside this State in the litigation which arises here. 
     I do not want to anticipate the discussion on the actual subject-matter of the Bill, but when the Bill is circulated Deputies will have an opportunity of deciding whether the issue raised in this little trumpery case of Lynham and Butler was an issue which conformed to the standards laid down, say, in the statement of Lord Haldane in 1923, as a necessary condition before a petition of that kind could be seriously considered by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.  It is not an important point; it is not a great issue affecting large numbers of people, but a mere trumpery, exceptional issue arising out of the ordinary internal domestic legislation of this State.  If that tendency were to continue, and if that line were to be allowed to develop, you simply would get back to the position, to the old House of Lords position, when appeals lay as of right or as of course from Irish litigation. 
     It is to mark our feeling that any such development is wrong, that any such development is dangerous, this Bill is introduced.  It is to give expression to the Government's feeling on that matter, and to enable expression to be given to Deputies' feelings on that matter, that this Land Bill of 1926 is introduced.  We rely on the good sense of Deputies to see that discussion   on the Bill is confined to that particular issue. 
     Question proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That leave be given to introduce the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
      
       This is usually a formal motion.  The statement the Minister has made, however, raises the matter to such a level that I think it is worthy of a little consideration even at this stage.  I realise that this raises one of the most important questions that could possibly be raised in this House.  Although it arises out of what the Minister speaks of as a trumpery case, it seems to raise a question as to whether we are prepared to assert the rights of this legislature to be the final decider as between citizens of this State or whether either of those citizens is justified and has the right to go to another court outside this country. 
       I have refreshed my memory in regard to the debates on the Constitution, and I find that on behalf of Mr. Cathal O'Shannon, who was absent at the moment.  I moved to delete the proviso in Article 65, saying I did not understand the inwardness of the arguments and was not prepared, then at least, to make a statement, but from a commonsense point of view it was clear that the proviso was antagonistic to the main body of the Article, and that one could not be sustained while the other was there.  The Minister, in explanation, said that &ldquo;as we have accepted the King, then we have to accept the special prerogative of that King, and grant, in very special cases, the right of appeal.  That is the prerogative that is attached to Kings, at least English Kings, as long as we know them.&rdquo;  The Minister went on to say that this was simply a question of &ldquo;facing the realities of a position that, under the Treaty. we have not been able to get rid of that appeal, but we have reduced it to a minimum, and we have, I feel, reduced it to a position where there will not be two or three appeals in a century, where appeals will only be granted in very special cases, raising matters other than purely Irish interests, raising international issues of the first importance.&rdquo; 
     
     Although there was a division on   that, although the minority was, as was usual in those divisions, small, the Minister appeared to have convinced the House that only in cases raising international issues would leave be granted to appeal.  Now it appears there has been leave granted to appeal. It is a reminder which, I think, it is necessary to have attention directed to, that, as Ministers have now found, undertakings given by Ministers have no validity in law, and that leave to appeal has been granted, notwithstanding the undertakings, the assurances, that such and such a thing under that particular proposal would never occur. 
     The Minister is now going to ask the House to say that a certain thing is the law, and it is going to be questioned whether we can interpret and decide what the law is or whether there is another authority which can decide what the law is, not in the law courts of this country, but in a court outside this country.  I sincerely hope that Ministers will maintain that position, whatever the decision of the Privy Council may be.  This is a matter, as has been pointed out, that does not raise international questions; it does not raise rights of citizenship between country and country; it does not raise questions of interpretation of treaties or anything which might be said to be a non-internal matter raising external questions.  There may be some doubt about such a case as that, but I hope where it is clearly a matter as between one citizen of this country and another citizen, that, in the interpretation of the statutes of the Free State, Ministers will not accept any judgment from outside this country, no matter who may pronounce that judgment. 
     
      
       I am sure that the House will agree with me when I describe the speech of the Minister for Justice as an exceedingly forcible and lucid explanation of what is now the state of affairs in regard to the petition to the British Privy Council.  This is not.  I take it, the time for making a Second Reading speech, because it happens to be the First Reading, and therefore I do not intend to do so; but   I would like to ask the Minister, if possible, to accommodate Deputies, before the Second Reading debate comes on, with something in the nature of a report of this case and of another case that has also, I think, been admitted to appeal by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.  I would like that Deputies would be in a position to see for themselves what were the grounds upon which the Judicial Committee framed their judgments, and that they should have, if possible, the text of the decision in the matter. 
       The Minister has stated some facts in connection with this case of Lynham and Butler.  I am not in a position to say whether this was a trumpery case or not.  Of course, the whole trend of the debate will turn upon the question as to whether the principle involved in these cases was of such importance that the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council should admit the appeals. I do not entirely agree with Deputy Johnson, who seems to think that it would have been possible during the debates on the Constitution, and with the acceptance of the Treaty, to have done away with the Prerogative of the Crown.  I think that would have been absolutely impossible, with the position that we occupy under the Treaty as a Dominion, and also with the recognition of the Crown.  I do not quite agree with him either when he says that it would be possible to prevent any case being brought before the Judicial Committee except a case involving some great international question.  I do agree with the Minister, and also with the Deputy, that it seems to have been the intention, judging from Article 66, that only in very special cases should these appeals be allowed.  The Minister has described accurately the position in regard to South Africa.  South Africa is a unitary State and has expressed its desire &mdash;a desire which has been taken into account by the Privy Council&mdash;that only in very special circumstances should appeals be made from that Dominion, and that Dominion is in a different position from Canada and Australia. 
     
     The facts of the two cases which have been admitted to appeal by the   Judicial Committee are very important in connection with the debate which will take place on the Second Reading, because it is on these facts we shall have to determine whether the principles involved were of such importance that the Judicial Committee were constrained to admit an appeal or whether the principles involved were, as has been said here, trumpery, and such as might lead to further admissions hereafter and tend to a practice which does not seem to be desired by the people of this country.  I think this is a matter of the gravest Constitutional importance, and I trust that the Minister may be in a position to give Deputies the information that I asked for, and, if possible, the text of the judgement of the Privy Council, showing the grounds on which these decisions were formed.  I trust that when the Bill does come on for discussion the question, as the Minister himself said, with regard to the Land Act, shall not be the question before the House, but rather the principle as to whether these cases should be admitted to appeal by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. 
     
      
       There is a point I should like information on.  There is a belief outside that this attack upon the status of the Free State originates among a small number of lawyers in Dublin.  If that is so, I should like that the Minister would consider the possibility of publishing a list of those lawyers so that the public could judge whether it is true or not. 
     
     
      
       I hardly think that is a fair statement.  After all, the lawyers are employed by their clients, or by their solicitors, and I do not think the lawyers themselves care very much one way or the other. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Redmond, in his original statement, raised a point with regard to the Second Reading which would seem to be a point of order.  He seemed to suggest that, on the Second Reading, we shall have to consider whether the case that has been brought to our notice is, or is not, of such a trumpery nature as to warrant appeal to the Privy Council. I do not know whether we will be   allowed to look at it from that point of view, as a matter of order.  If we are permitted to do that, I suggest that we will have to have put before us a list of the types of cases that we consider are sufficiently grave to go before the Privy Council.  I would like to know whether it is the intention of the Deputy or the intention of the members of the Executive Council to put before us such a list, that we may consider this matter from the point of view that Deputy Redmond has advocated. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know whether the result of our passing this Bill will be that, regardless of application or petition to the Privy Council and regardless of the decision obtained there, the position of this State will be that decisions of our courts on questions under the Land Act will be the law administered by this State, and that no decision given by the Privy Council in this matter will be carried out by the administration here. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would say whether there was any appearance on the part of the Free State before the Judicial Committee to argue against leave being given. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know if this Bill will deal only with this particular case, and if a Bill will have to be introduced in every case in which appeal is made to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.  We have the Minister for Justice using general terms such as &ldquo;the importance of the particular case&rdquo; and &ldquo;the public interest&rdquo; and &ldquo;matters of great principle,&rdquo; and I cannot see how anybody is to decide at any future time whether a case is of public interest or involves a great principle.  These are simply general statements, and if we are to pass a Bill dealing with this Article of the Constitution we ought to get down to specific and definite statements. 
     
     
      
       Specific and definite statements such as&mdash;? 
     
     
      
       Such as the cases that can be appealed to the Judicial   Committee&mdash;the type of cases.  Will the passing of this Bill mean that no case of any kind in the future can be referred to the Judicial Committee?  My opinion is, and always has been, that the decision of the Supreme Court here should have been supreme and that the insertion of such a provision as this in the Constitution was a weakening of the international position which the Saorstat is supposed to possess.  I would remind the Government that it is on account of this particular indefiniteness in certain Articles of the Treaty and which is now shown to exist in this Article of the Constitution, that we have had to deal with some very debatable and very contentious points&mdash; for instance, Articles 5 and 13 of the Treaty.  We are told that certain statements were made in certain negotiations by British Ministers, and that our Ministers are relying for interpretation of the Constitution on these statements.  Relying on statements which are not definitely written into the Constitution or in respect of which we have not some definite written proof is very undesirable, and is liable at any time to lead to considerable trouble between this country and the neighbouring country.  I do not make this statement in opposition to the Bill which has ben introduced but simply as a protest against the reference, over and over again, to statements which are supposed to have been made in private conference with British Ministers, and which we are partly relying on for interpretation of our Constitution. 
     
     
      
       I hope that Deputy Heffernan's protest against the existence of the King's Prerogative will be effective.  I hope, also, that this step, which has been taken after due deliberation by the Executive Council, will be an effective indication of the attitude of the Government here, acting on behalf of the citizens of this State in this matter of the accessibility of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council to appealing Irish litigants.  Deputy Redmond asked us would we put the Dail, so to speak, in a position to try this case.  This should be a Bill in   which an explanatory memorandum would be desirable, but to attempt to present to the Dail all the facts of this case would be rather a considerable proposition, and I do not think it is one on which we should embark.  The issue is a very clear and simple one.  It can be easily set out in an explanatory memorandum accompanying the Bill&mdash; that is, the exact point on which the litigation turned.  I should like to consider with the Attorney-General and the Minister for Agriculture the advisability to attaching to the Bill, when circulating it to Deputies, a brief explanatory memorandum. 
     
     
      
       Would it be possible to give a copy of the judgement of the Judicial Committee, which would show the ground on which they admitted this appeal? 
     
     
      
       It might be possible, but I am not sure whether it would be proper or desirable. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister not place a copy in the Library? 
     
     
      
       I could, just as Deputies could, no doubt, get copies for themselves.  The main thing is that two Courts, the High Court and the Supreme Court, have declared the law to be a particular thing.  Our advice on the matter is that there is no reasonable doubt, and that is why I stress the fact that this Bill should not be approached from the angle of being a Bill for the removal of doubts.  It will set out that the law has been, and will be, a particular thing, and it will confirm and declare the law as it was found by the High Court and the Supreme Court.  Deputy Heffernan read his little lecture about the undesirability of the King's prerogative and so on.  These things only change gradually, as a matter of constitutional practice.  I have quoted the authorities on constitutional development in the Dominions, which rather indicate that the prerogative is obsolescent.  I have stated that anything that we can do to expedite that development will be done.  I have said what our views are as to the existence of that prerogative,   but Deputy Heffernan knows as well as I do that in a constitution based on the Treaty it was not possible to do all those things which he and I might consider, in the abstract, possible. It was not possible, so to speak, to take a Parliamentary shears and clip off the prerogative that attaches to the King, and the King, as the Deputy knows, was accepted in the Treaty.  There is, however, a movement in the Dominions, there is a point of view in the Dominions, which has been growing steadily with regard to this matter of appellate jurisdiction of the Privy Council, and that view and feeling are shared fully and strongly here.  It is because it is so shared that this Bill is introduced, because we consider, further, that the assurances, which were given to Ministers at the time the draft Constitution was under review, have been departed from. 
     
     These assurances could not have been written into the Constitution. The Constitution merely preserves the King's prerogative, and the assurance turned on the way in which it would work out in practice&mdash;just how difficult access to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council would be made to litigants&mdash;and the assurance was that it would be very difficult, that the Judicial Committee would take an extremely conservative view in exercising its discretion, that the accessibility of the Judicial Committee for Irish litigation would at least be as restricted as in the case of the other unitary Dominion, South Africa, and that Irish litigation would not be dealt with in the same way as litigation arising in the non-unitary Dominions of Canada and Australia.  In one of those cases that have been admitted we feel that that general principle has been departed from.  We feel that this particular case which gave rise to this Bill is a case that would not be admitted from any other Dominion&mdash;if it had arisen in Canada or Australia&mdash; and least of all would it be admitted   if it had arisen in the other unitary Dominion, South Africa.  That is why we are taking the very strong and ex-exceptional course of asking the Dail to declare that the law is what it has been found to be by two courts of our own State.  Captain Redmond said that there are two cases.  There are.  We do not complain so much about the other case, as it could be said to have its roots in the Treaty.  It turns on the rights of civil servants arising out of the Treaty.  So long as this anomaly continues, so long as this appeal to the Privy Council exists, these civil servant cases may be said to be one of the kind of cases that could be admitted. One does not feel quite so strongly that if it had arisen in, say, South Africa, it would be shut out.  The Land Act case is different.  It is a small, clear issue which has been pronounced upon by two courts, and we feel that it is a case which should never have slipped past the door of the Judicial Committee.  We feel if cases of that complexion were continued to be admitted, you would gradually get back to the old appeal as of rights&mdash;an appeal as of course.  The Bill has of course departed further and further from the guarantees and assurances given to members of the Provisional Government in connection with the consideration of the Constitution. We can go further into these questions on Second Reading, but I thought it right, in introducing this Bill, to explain why the Minister for Justice is introducing a Land Bill, and to clear the minds of Deputies as to the origin and purpose of this particular Bill.  I would ask the co-operation of all parties and of all Deputies to at any rate confine the discussion on that Bill to the issue as stated by me to-day on its introduction. 
     Leave given to introduce the Bill. 
     Bill read a first time. 
     Second Stage ordered for Wednesday. 3rd February. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - MONEY RESOLUTION. 
     
     
       
     
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfar amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas na costaisi fe n-a raghaidh an tAire Dli agus Cirt chun aon Acht a rithfar sa tSioson so do chur in eifeacht chun regleail do dheanamh ar thradail sraide i gContae-Bhuirg Bhaile Atha Cliath agus fos i pe Contae-Bhuirgi eile agus Bailecheanntair Chontae a ghlacfidh leis an Acht. 
             That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas of the expenses incurred by the Minister for Justice in carrying into execution any Act of the present Session to regulate street trading in the County Borough of Dublin and also any such other County Boroughs and Urban County Districts as may adopt the Act. 
           
         
       
     
     I think that the expenses that may be incurred in carrying out this Bill will be extremely small.  Under certain clauses the goods of persons not complying with the requirements of the measure may be seized, removed, stored and sold by the Garda Siochana.  It is probable that the expenses in such cases will be covered by the proceeds of the sale and by the fees payable to the Commissioner under Clause 3.  It is anticipated that expenses other than trivial ones will not be incurred. 
     Motion put and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported. 
     Motion&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee on Finance on the Resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - STREET TRADING BILL, 1925&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     
      
       I move &ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo;  It is the definition section, and there is a definition of the terms &ldquo;street trading&rdquo; and &ldquo;stall trading.&rdquo;  Street trading in general means the sale of goods, by which is meant articles of any description on any footway or highway.  The word &ldquo;goods&rdquo; includes wares, merchandise, and other articles of any kind whatsoever.  It will be seen from the general framework of the Bill that this definition includes two classes of street traders  simpliciter &mdash;one a person who carries his goods in his hands, and the other a stall trader who exposes goods on a movable stall or booth. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Section 2 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I move &ldquo;That Section 3 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo;  The section provides that the Commissioner of the Garda has power to issue street traders' certificates to any person whom he thinks fit.  Every certificate granted under the Act shall be in the prescribed form and shall, unless previously revoked, remain in force for one year.  There is a provision that no fee shall be payable in respect of a street trader's certificate to a person under sixteen years of age, but such certificate shall not be granted unless such person has complied with the by-laws made by the Dublin Corporation under Section 2 of the Employment of Children Act, 1903. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 3 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 4. 
     
     
      
       This section provides that a person who has obtained from the Commissioner a street trader's certificate and who desires to engage in stall trading&mdash;that is, exposing his goods for sale on a movable   stall or booth&mdash;must obtain a further licence to be known as a street trader's stall licence, from the Corporation. They will be entitled to charge a fee of 5/- in respect of that, and it will remain in force as long as the street traders' certificate granted to the holder remains in force&mdash;that is, one year.  The street traders' stall licence will be in a form to be prescribed by the Minister for Justice and will authorise any person to sell his wares on a stall, booth, barrow, cart, or stand in any street in the city of Dublin in which stall trading may be permitted by the police, or the Corporation, or by order of the Minister for Justice, or the licence may impose upon the holder a condition that he shall only trade in some specified street. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 4 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 5. 
     
     
      
       This section permits a stall-holder to employ one or more persons to assist him in his trade, but the Corporation is empowered to make by-laws fixing the maximum number of assistants who may be at any one time employed by the stall holder. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 5 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 6. 
       (1) The Corporation may make by-laws for all or any of the following purposes, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a) prohibiting stall-trading or any particular class of stall-trading in any specified street in the City of Dublin ... 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), page 4, to add at the end of paragraph &ldquo;(a)&rdquo;, line 42, the following words: &ldquo;always provided that, when a by-law has been issued under this sub-section prohibiting trading in any specified street, such by-law shall not be revoked by the Corporation except with the consent of two-thirds of the ratepayers residing or carrying on business in that street.&rdquo; 
     
     
        This amendment has been put down at the request of a certain number of traders in the City of Dublin&mdash;not street traders&mdash;who are very anxious to have a fixed and stable policy in this matter of street trading and are anxious to know where they are.  They have had experience in the past of dealing with the Dublin Corporation. When a by-law was made, the interested parties came before the Corporation and it was repealed at the next meeting.  That is, apart altogether from the merits of the by-law, an undesirable state of affairs.  The adoption of this amendment would, I think, cause the Corporation to be slow in making by-laws if they knew they had no power to revoke them, and cause them to give more mature and careful consideration to the representations made to them by people who wanted a by-law made.  It would also secure, cause having been shown and a by-law having been made, that it could not be annulled without the consent of the people carrying on business in the street concerned.  I think that is not an unreasonable proposition. If the Minister thinks it would hamper the Corporation too much, I do not propose to press it, but I think it is not an unreasonable proposition to put forward, and it is one which I hope the Minister may see his way to adopt. 
     
      
       If I understand the Deputy's point, he is seeking to provide that when a by-law has once been made by the Corporation, say, prohibiting stall-trading in a particular street, that it shall not be revoked except with the consent of a fixed proportion of the members. 
     
     
      
       Of the residents. 
     
     
      
       I am wondering whether in that connection the Deputy knows that the Bill provides that ratepayers will be given an opportunity of making representations before any by-law can become effective.  Sub-section (2) of Section 6 provides that all by-laws to be made by the Corporation under the Section shall be deemed to be by-laws made by a sanitary authority for the purposes of the Public   Health Act, 1878.  Accordingly, certain sections of that Act shall apply.  The effect of that proviso is that all by-laws to be made by the Corporation, whether they are original by-laws or by-laws revoking or altering original by-laws under Section 6 of the Bill, cannot take effect unless and until they have been submitted to and confirmed by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.  The Minister for Local Government has power to allow or disallow any such by-laws as he shall think fit, and before these by-laws can be confirmed notice of intention to apply for confirmation must be given by the Corporation at least one month before making application.  During that month a copy of the by-laws must be kept in the Corporation office, and it can be inspected by any ratepayer free of charge.  So that the ratepayers get an opportunity during that period of making themselves familiar with the terms of any proposed by-law and of sending in their protests to the Minister for Local Government, who, if he is satisfied that there is sufficient ground for doing it, will disallow the by-law. That would apply to revocation as well as to some original by-law.  One by-law can only be repealed or revoked by another, and there will be that interval in which a ratepayer will get his opportunity of protesting to the Minister for Local Government.  He can then withhold his sanction.  I would consider checks of that kind adequate.  To say that they cannot change their minds unless they get a majority of two-thirds would be perhaps going too far. 
     
     
      
       That majority is more or less based on the procedure when the Corporation want to change the name of a street; they have to approach the residents and get a majority. I think, of two-thirds.  Broadly speaking, the difference between my proposal and the proposal of the Minister is that my proposal gives statutory protection to the residents in any street where street trading may have been prohibited. Under the Minister's proposal there is no statutory protection, but they must rely on the good nature and the fair judgement of the Minister for Local Government.  They have an opportunity   of making a case, but he is not bound, even if they are unanimous in wishing to prevent a change, to consider it.  I do not think that is as satisfactory as my proposal, certainly not as satisfactory for shop-keepers. 
       I do not think it is unreasonable to say that once a by-law has been made then the people who live in the street and carry on business in the street shall be asked if they want it revoked. That is what it amounts to.  In my proposal they have to be asked.  In the Minister's proposal they have to go to the Minister for Local Government and the onus is put on them to prove that a change should not be made.  My suggestion&mdash;and I think it is a sound suggestion&mdash;is that the onus should be put on the Corporation, or the body who wish to make the change, to prove it ought to be made, assuming that the by-law has been validly made in the first instance. 
     
     
      
       One effect of the Deputy's amendment might be that the body would be deterred from the making of a by-law which seemed to be quite desirable in itself on the grounds that if it were by any chance proved otherwise it might be difficult to get the necessary majority to repeal it.  There is really no great matter of principle concerned, but I would have thought that the period of delay and the opportunity to protest to ensure that an undesirable by-law would not be sanctioned was sufficient. The other proposal would be very rigid. It would make it almost impossible to revoke any by-law, and that fact would probably have the result of deterring public bodies from making by-laws for which there seems a fair and substantial case, fearing that if any bad results began to accrue from it its repeal would be a matter of difficulty. On the whole, I am not convinced, and I ask the Deputy not to press the amendment. 
     
     After all, if the personnel of local authorities are not in the position of feeling their responsibilities to the ratepayers, and if that feeling of responsibility is not reflected in their public acts, it is a poor position, and it is better to leave this situation which will   make it necessary for ratepayers to take an interest in what is going on, to follow the actions of the local authority, and to protest to the Minister and ask him to come in with his over-riding authority if something undesirable is being done rather than simply to set up this mechanical check&mdash;to make your by-law and not be able to wipe it out without a two-thirds majority, which is very large when you remember that the average attendance in a particular local authority would not be very high. 
     
      
       You will poll the people in the street&mdash;send round a voting paper.  It is two-thirds of the ratepayers, not of the local authority. 
     
     
      
       That would make it more difficult still.  I am sorry if I have been casual in dealing with the amendments.  That would make me still less inclined to accept the amendment. I was under the impression that it was a two-thirds majority of the local authority. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid that the Minister's last argument has convinced me that I ought to press the amendment. Has he considered how a provision of that kind would work in Ennis from what we have heard of the local authority there?  I think that any by-laws previous councils might have made in that area would have been swept away by the council that has been officiating there lately without consulting the ratepayers. 
     
     
      
       My point of view on that is, that the report about the position of Ennis is a very grave reflection on the ratepayers and electors of that area; properly viewed probably a greater reflection on them than on the members of the local authority itself. 
     
     
      
       Taking the ratepayers as a whole, I agree, but here the situation is that there might be one good shopping street in Ennis; the ratepayers in that street would be a minority of the whole in Ennis, and they might have their business ruined by by-laws made by the local authority or by a revocation of by-laws made by the local authority.  I admit there is in that case the protection of the Minister for Local Government, but I   prefer the statutory protection.  I do not suppose anyone would be so foolish as to start street-trading in Grafton Street, but you could have a Corporation in Dublin on which the ratepayers in Grafton Street would be in an enormous minority.  They could only return representatives in their own area, and even in that area they would be swamped by Clarendon Street and small streets at the back like that.  It is to protect people carrying on a certain class of business, who are paying rates and taxes and rent, against the unfair competition of street traders, that this Bill is designed, and I am suggesting that this additional proviso gives a greater protection. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 6 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Sections 7, 8, 9, 10 11 and 12 put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 13. 
       The Minister for Justice may by order make regulations for all or any of the following purposes, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a) prescribing the form of street-traders' certificates to be granted under this Act; 
       (b) prescribing the form of street-traders' stall licences to be granted under this Act; 
       (c) prescribing the limits of size of the receptacles in which holders of street-traders' certificates may carry the goods in which they trade; 
       (d) prescribing the form of the registers to be kept by the Commissioner and the Corporation respectively pursuant to this Act and the matters to be entered in such registers respectively; 
       (e) prohibiting stall-trading or any particular class of stall-trading in any specified street in the City of Dublin; 
       (f) prescribing any matter or thing referred to in this Act as prescribed or to be prescribed. 
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 4: 
     
     
        In line 25, after the words &ldquo;Minister for Justice&rdquo; to delete the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;shall immediately after the passing of this Act.&rdquo; 
     (Make regulations for all or any of the following purposes).  That is to say, it ceases to be permissive and becomes mandatory.  In this respect I am trying to impose rigidity on the Minister, which is, no doubt, altogether foreign to his nature.  But I do think it very desirable, in the City of Dublin, at any rate, that the whole position of street trading should be cleared up and that the regulations should be issued as soon as possible.  I apprehend that this amendment will not be accepted, but I do urge the Minister to give us some indication of what his intentions are in this matter, whether the whole matter is to be left to the Commissioners for the Corporation or whether he proposes to utilise the powers given to him under this section. 
     
      
       Will the Deputy say what the penalty for disobedience will be? 
     
     
      
       The penalty for disobedience will be the displeasure of the Dail.  I take it that the Minister will bow to the wishes of the Dail, and that there will be no danger of disobedience. 
     
     
      
       The amendment, as the Deputy seems to anticipate, is considered unnecessary.  The certificates of the stall traders and the registered sizes of the receptacles to be carried by street traders will have to be prescribed.  The Deputy may take it that the necessary regulations bearing on these matters will be made.  It may not be necessary to make regulations prohibiting stall trading or any prescribed class of stall trading in any specified street.  The power is given by the Bill, but the power will only be exercised by the Minister for Justice in the event of there being definite evidence of interference with traffic, arising out of the failure of the Corporation to prohibit stall trading or any particular class of stall trading in some street.  It may not be necessary to make such a regulation at all. The Deputy, in his amendment, takes   it for granted that it would be necessary, and he seeks to make it mandatory upon the Minister to do it.  I do not feel that the Deputy's amendment would improve the Bill, and I am not accepting it. 
     
     
      
       Having got that statement, I ask leave of the Dail to withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 5:&mdash; 
       In paragraph (e), line 38, after the word &ldquo;prohibiting&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;street trading or any particular class of street trading or.&rdquo; 
       I gather from what the Minister has just said that he is to make himself a sort of Court of Appeal from the Corporation. He can make regulations under this section prohibiting stall-trading, or any particular class of stall-trading, in any specified street, but I think it would be desirable for him to have that power as regards street-trading as well as stall-trading.  A woman with a large basket of oranges or a number of women with large boxes of oranges may be a serious obstruction to traffic.  Deputy D'Alton reminds me of fish.  I think the power is one that ought to be reserved.  Busy corners like the corner of Nassau St. and Grafton St. are not places where a large amount of street trading should take place.  I think the Minister ought to have a revising power for that class of trade when he is taking it for stall-trading.  It is a purely permissive amendment.  He is not obliged to do it unless he thinks fit.  He can say: &ldquo;I will prohibit that particular type,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I will not cut out newspaper selling,&rdquo; and so on.  I therefore urge him to accept this amendment. 
     
     
      
       I wonder if the Deputy would have any objection to leaving over that amendment without prejudice? 
     
     
      
       Without prejudice, certainly. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 6:&mdash; 
       At the end of the section to add the following words: &ldquo;always provided that the Minister may, from time to time, make any additional regulations, or vary, or revoke, any regulations made under this section.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is really consequential on amendment 4, because if the Minister may make regulations it is obviously necessary to give him power to vary or revoke them.  As far as I can see, under this section, once the Minister has made a regulation it becomes law and he would require an amending Act to alter or vary it.  I do not press this amendment now, but I think the Minister might take into consideration for the next Stage, whether it is not a desirable provision to have. 
     
     
      
       I am advised that the amendment is not necessary.  Implicit in power to make regulations, there is power to vary and revoke regulations previously made.  I will make quite certain of that, because there is substance in what the Deputy said, as it would be a bad position if, having made regulations, I was simply bound to them. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 13 put and agreed to. 
       Question proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 14 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       With regard to this section I should be glad to know if the Minister would consider the advisability of allowing smaller towns to avail of this measure; that is not to limit the application of the Act to towns of over five thousand population. Towns under that limit, having public bodies, could make very good use of the Act, and every argument used in favour of this Bill in regard to the larger towns would apply in the same way to the smaller towns, and would be a great boon to them.  At present those nuisances complained of are often to be seen in an intensified form in the smaller towns. 
     
     
      
       I wish to support Deputy Sears on that point.  I think it is very important that the Bill should apply to smaller towns, say, of a population   of 2,000 or even 1,000.  I know of some towns that are under town commissioners where street hawkers particularly prevail to the detriment of the trade of local people.  There is another matter which will probably have to be dealt with in another Bill, and that is the possibilities of infection from the commodities sold.  I think we will have to ask the Minister to deal specially with that.  As many Deputies know, there is a great danger of spreading disease through clothing that is disposed of, and perhaps an amendment could be brought before the Minister whereby clothing and harness should be disinfected before being offered for sale.  I support Deputy Sears on this point, that the Bill should apply to towns or areas where there is a population of 2,000.  That would cover a good many towns in various parts of Ireland.  The arguments in favour of the Bill are equally applicable, if not more so, to these small areas where people dispose of various commodities, including clothing and harness, brought long distances and very often from outside the country. 
     
     
      
       With regard to Deputy D'Alton's point about towns having Commissioners, would not any amendment of that nature be out of order?  We have passed a Money Resolution dealing with the County Borough of Dublin and other county boroughs and urban county districts, and I am afraid the amendment which Deputy Sears and Deputy D'Alton desire, and which I also desire, would be lost unless you extend it to only those towns of 2,000 population which have urban district councils.  I had intended to call attention to this on the Money Resolution, because it limited us so closely that we could only apply it to urban district councils.  Any amendment to extend it to towns having town commissioners, I suggest, would be out of order. 
     
     
      
       May I ask could it be brought up at a later stage?  The matter is of sufficient importance to have it brought forward, if possible. 
     
     
      
       I want to be quite clear as to what is wanted.  Personally I have had representations through   Deputies and I have had letters from various towns, since this Bill was introduced, and my own inclination is to strike out the population restriction and leave it that the council of any county borough (other than the County Borough of Dublin) or of any urban county district is empowered after due notice to adopt the provisions of the Act.  Without prejudice to the view that may be taken of the matter, I would like to know whether there is anyone pressing for something more than that, whether there is anyone pressing, for instance, that this provision should be so elastic that Town Commissioners could adopt it, because if we merely strike out the population restriction the position is that the Act applies automatically to the County Borough of Dublin, and that it is open to any other county borough council or any urban council through the country to adopt its provisions.  I want to be quite sure whether, if we take that step of striking out the population limitation, we will be meeting the demand, or whether there is a further demand that any town with a body at all in authority may adopt its provisions. 
     
     
      
       That would be my position&mdash;any town with a local body should have the power.  I would suggest the Act should be extended to towns situated like that. 
     
     
      
       I agree that we should apply it to towns having town commissioners. 
     
     
      
       Of course, one feels cynical about the enthusiasm to adopt this Act, because the local authorities through the country, the urban councils and town commissioners, have a great many powers, by the judicious use of which they could improve the amenities of their areas of charge, and they do not use them.  This power, which is simply to banish&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Opposition, competition. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;Competition in the open to the local traders is enthusiastically taken up as something that is a mighty measure that will bring calm   to Kerry and balm to Ballydehob.  But we could consider between this and the Report Stage whether there is any reason for stopping short at the urban councils, and whether town commissioners should not be enabled to take on its provisions also. 
     
     
      
       I want to put in a word in support of the view which seems to be expressed by the Minister's last statement.  While I am in favour, generally, of regulation and order in the trading operations of any community and would like to favour it even with respect to the small community of 500 people, there is another aspect that we must take into account.  I am not sure whether, if we go very far in the way of giving powers to regulate street trading, we are not damaging the public interest rather than benefiting it. I think that in many cases if the whole of the trading is going to be kept in the hands of the shopkeepers of any small town, without any possibility of competition, the consumers in that small town will be mulcted in much heavier charges even than they have to pay now.  There is no doubt at all that the travelling salesman, very often a regular purveyor of goods, is a benefit to the community and provides goods, especially food, much more cheaply than the shopkeepers are prepared to do.  Now, the likelihood is that if this power is exercisable by local authorities these local authorities will be the shopkeepers and as a consequence any competition will be rigidly suppressed, unless we are prepared to go further and do something to replace that competition by some kind of public market to act as a check upon the unbridled appetites of the small shopkeepers.  I think the suggested extension of these powers would be doing more harm than good.  I say that there is a very good case for regulation and order in the matter of trading, but I think there is danger in putting in the hands of the small town shopkeeper the power to prohibit&mdash;for that is, in effect, what it will come to&mdash;the fish hawker, or the fruit seller coming in from the country, and any other types of street traders or hawkers.  I am a little bit doubtful of the wisdom of extending these powers at all beyond the cities. 
     
     
     
      
       I think that these street traders are in no sense purveyors of food, as Deputy Johnson has suggested. 
     
     
      
       Plenty of them are. 
     
     
      
       Not in my experience. I think that that might be rather discounted.  &ldquo;Old clo' &rdquo; men, who purchase old clothes, I suppose, across the Channel, vend them here in small towns.  Serious complaints have come from urban councils and town commissioners, not with the object of suppressing these traders altogether, but with a view to obtaining power to regulate them, to see that they set up their stands in certain places so that they will not obstruct thoroughfares. I know of one small town that has neither an urban authority nor town commissioners, and these people are a perfect nuisance there, especially on fair days, when they practically hold up the whole street.  I think that if there is a case at all for regulating these street traders powers ought to be extended to the smaller towns, at any rate to towns that have urban councils or town commissioners. 
       Section 14 put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       It is understood that I will consider the matter between this and the Report Stage. 
       Sections 15, 16 and the Title put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Bill reported without amendment. 
       Report Stage ordered for Wednesday, 3rd February. 
       The Dail went into Committee. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - POLICE FORCES AMALGAMATION (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1925&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     Bill put through Committee. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Bill reported without amendment. 
     Report Stage ordered for Wednesday, February 3rd. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - MEDICAL BILL, 1926&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
     
      
       I move the Second Reading of the Medical Bill, 1926.  The object of this Bill is to continue in operation until the 21st August of this year the Medical Act of 1925, with powers to the Executive Council by order to continue it from month to month to a date not later than the 21st February, if they so desire.  Deputies are familiar with the conditions which made it necessary originally to introduce the Act of 1925.  We were under the impression that the then existing arrangement under the Medical Acts would have been continued in force in the Saorstat by the combined operation of the Constitution and the Adaptation of Enactments Act, but a condition arose on the other side which made it clear to us that we could not count on the continuation of the status quo in Ireland after the signing of the Treaty, and accordingly, if the rights of students qualifying in Irish medical schools were not to be seriously jeopardised, it was necessary to introduce legislation.  There were a great many angles from which the subject might be approached, a great many parties interested, and it was a matter which required a good deal of deliberation and consideration before a satisfactory result might be arrived at. Accordingly, it was considered necessary to introduce a temporary Bill for preserving the status quo while the whole question was being inquired into.  Since then negotiations have been proceeding between the interested parties.  These parties are numerous. There is the medical profession as a whole in Ireland, the medical schools, the General Medical Council, and the two Governments concerned, and the interests were in some cases divergent. Accordingly, a good deal of negotiation has taken place and is taking place with the object of reconciling the various differences.  While at the present stage I am not in a position to say that the matter is finally settled, I would not be unduly optimistic in stating that I think we have now hit upon   a line that will probably preserve the existing rights of students qualifying in Ireland, without in any way derogating from the status of this country under the Treaty, and that was our main difficulty.  However, negotiations, as I say, are still proceeding, and it is necessary, if the whole of the medical profession in this country is not to become chaotic, that this Act should be continued.  Realising that it was only intended to remain in force until the 21st of August, it may be necessary to continue the Act, particularly as the General Medical Council meets only in May and in November, and action taken in May requires to be ratified in November.  If this arrangement which we hope to arrive at will not be ratified until November it will take from then to the 21st February to give legislative effect to it.  For that reason I press for the passing of this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I support the Second Reading of this measure.  There does not seem to be any necessity for a prolonged discussion, because the measure is a temporary one and is only meant to bridge over a certain period that may elapse between 21st February next and the time when a permanent Bill with regard to medical registration would be introduced here.  The medical profession is extremely anxious that this permanent Bill should be brought in at as early a date as possible in order to do away with the uncertainty that exists at the present time, which uncertainty leads to some extent to the depletion of our medical schools. It was hoped that this measure would have been passed before the Christmas Recess, but that was found impossible. There is very little time between this and the 21st February, and a certain amount of anxiety exists in the minds of the students who are in their final year lest anything should happen that would prevent this Bill from being passed in time to enable them to get registered.  I, therefore, urge upon the Minister that he should endeavour to get the Bill through at the very earliest possible time.  There should be nothing whatsoever contentious in it.  It is only, as I say, to bridge over the time until a permanent Act will be passed,   an Act which I hope will be satisfactory to all parties concerned.  I have pleasure, therefore, in supporting the Second Reading of the Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Wednesday, February 3rd. 
     
     
      
       I wonder would the Minister endeavour to get through all the Stages of the Bill next Wednesday? There is a great feeling of anxiety that something might happen. This Bill has to pass through the Seanad as well, and there is a desire to have it enacted as early as possible.  I would urge upon the Minister to get through the remaining Stages at the earliest moment. 
     
     
      
       It would not be possible for the Minister to meet that point to the satisfaction of the Deputy. The Government will, however, facilitate the passing of this Bill in every possible way.  There need be no doubt as to the undertakings that we have given.  We are not in any way limiting the views of those who do not agree even with the proposals that we are at present considering; our undertakings do not limit them in expressing themselves very freely on these proposals when they come along.  We have undertaken&mdash;and we did so with the tacit consent of all Parties&mdash;that there should not be a period&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       A hiatus. 
     
     
      
       Yes, that is the term.  As I have said, we have undertaken that there should not be any hiatus in this matter.  Even those who might not agree with the ultimate decision will not, I think, object to this measure passing; they can register whatever objections they have got when the ultimate measure is brought forward. 
     
     
      
       Will the President agree to suspend Standing Orders in order to take the final stages? 
     
     
      
       If necessary. 
     
     
      
       I now give notice to move the suspension of Standing Orders to take the remaining stages of this Bill next Wednesday. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - OIREACHTAS LIBRARY&mdash;APPOINTMENT OF JOINT COMMITTEE. 
     
     
      
       I move the following:&mdash; 
       Go bhfuil se oiriunach Co Choiste ar a mbeidh triur ball den Dail agus triur ball den tSeanad do bhunu chun cabhair agus comhairle do thabhairt don Cheann Comhairle agus don Chathaoirleach maidir le treora agus le stiura Leabharlainne an Oireachtais. 
       That it is expedient that a Joint Committee, consisting of three members of the Dail, and three members of the Seanad be set up to assist and advise the Ceann Comhairle and the Cathaoirleach in the direction and control of the Oireachtas Library. 
       The Library is a joint affair.  It is to be hoped that it will be used frequently, wisely and well and that possibly it may provide occasions for many consultations and discussions between members of the Dail and Seanad. I think the control of the Library should be in the hands of a joint committee. The object of this motion is to set up a joint committee to advise and assist the Ceann Comhairle and the Cathaoirleach. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy say if he has had the approval of the Ceann Comhairle in connection with this motion? 
     
     
      
       I might be right in saying that it is inspired by him. 
     
     
      
       In that case there is no doubt that it will pass through the Dail. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DEFENCE FORCES (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) (No. 2) BILL, 1926&mdash;FIFTH STAGE. 
     
      
       I move that the Bill do now pass. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister any information to give us regarding the proposal to fly the Atlantic?  Have there been any developments since our last discussion on this matter?  I do   not know whether it ever had the formal sanction of the Minister, but inasmuch as the defence forces presumably include an air force, and certain officers of the air force are proposing to go on this expedition, perhaps the Minister could give us some information on the matter before we let the Bill go through? 
     
     
      
       The matter has been considered by my Department and it is the opinion that the time is not yet ripe for an expedition of this kind.  It is felt that perhaps at some future date we might entertain an enterprise of this description. 
       There is one thing I would like to mention here.  I thought that possibly Deputy Johnson or some other Deputy would have given me an opportunity of mentioning it.  Certain rumours are being circulated about the army and about the demobilisation of officers. Those rumours have caused a certain amount of uneasiness and discontent. Rumours crop up from time to time, and I believe&mdash;I am firmly convinced of it&mdash;that they are circulated by some person with the object of creating mischief and discontent.  The rumours have been reported in the papers and a certain amount of uneasiness has been created.  I want to say here and now that there is no intention of demobilising any officer from the army.  I want to make that perfectly clear to the House and to the officers of the army. In order to contradict any rumours that are in circulation, I make that statement, and I think it is only right and just that I should do so. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister tell us if it is proposed to discharge a large number of men from the army? Is it true that such a proposal has already taken effect and is in process of being carried out?  Is it a fact that a large number of men are being put out of the army without receiving what was given to the men demobilised 12 months ago&mdash;a month's pay and ration allowance?  I ask the Minister if it is not a fact that men are being put out of the army, are not entitled to unemployment benefit, and have not got an allowance for rations or a month's pay, such as were given to men twelve   months ago?  I have heard of at least one or two cases.  I want to know if it is the general policy? 
     
     
      
       Such is not the case. No men have been put out of the army. Men whose time has expired go out in the ordinary way.  Sometimes time-expired men asked to be re-attested. They may be re-attested or they may not.  There are no men being forced out of the army. 
     
     
      
       Is it a fact that a good number of time-expired men are being put out of the army, that they are going out without getting a month's pay and ration allowance, and that they are not even entitled to unemployed benefit? 
     
     
      
       As far as unemployment benefit is concerned, every man in the army has the matter brought to his notice.  In the case of any man who is liable to be insured, or who is entitled to insurance benefit, his card is stamped.  If the card is not stamped, it is the man's own fault.  There are men in the army who are not entitled to be insured; they are not insured.  Any man who is insurable is notified to take precautions to have his card stamped, and then he is entitled to insurance benefit just the same as anybody else. 
     
     
      
       Within the last hour I had a case from the army.  In that case the man has served three years and he was demobilised a few weeks ago; he was demobilised quite recently, anyway.  I asked if that man was going to get his card stamped and would he get unemployment benefit. The reply I got was that because the man's card was not stamped within a certain period he would not get benefit. That man was three years in the army, and he is now walking round the Dublin streets and he cannot get employment. 
     
     
      
       There was no man demobilised to-day, yesterday, within the last week, or within the last year.  A man may be time-expired and then he goes out in the ordinary way.  We are not bound to keep men after their engagements are up.  If a man is an insured   person his card is stamped.  A Vote was passed in the Dail for that purpose.  The matter was brought to the notice of every man in the service; they all know what their rights are, because all those things are posted in the regulations.  If a man does not want his card stamped, I cannot force him to stamp it.  The matter is brought to his notice in the ordinary way through the regulations.  If any man, such as Deputy Byrne speaks of, has gone out of the Army he is a time-expired man. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not yet replied to the point I raised.  Will a man, if he is time-expired, get the same benefits when he leaves the army as were given to those who left the army twelve or eighteen months ago? Those men got a month's pay and ration allowance. 
     
     
      
       They will not get any such thing.  Twelve or eighteen months ago the men were demobilised; they were sent out of the army whether they liked it or not.  In the case of a soldier who serves two or three years, whatever his period of enlistment may be, he is paid up to the day he leaves and gets no gratuity.  It would be an extraordinary thing if, after a man's engagement is finished, we had to pay him because he is going away from the army.  The only thing a time-expired man gets, when he is leaving the army on his own volition, is a character, let that be good or bad. 
     
     
      
       Then the Minister's statement has brought it to this: that a young man two or three years in the army&mdash;2 years and 271 days is the correct time&mdash;when he is leaving it does not receive one penny piece.  He just gets his ordinary pay up to the day he leaves and then he goes away without the month's pay or the ration allowance that were given to other men, and he is not even entitled to unemployment benefit because his card was not stamped.  What is to become of that man?  Where will he get relief? There is no employment for him. 
     
     
      
       I would like to reinforce Deputy Byrne's argument by   suggesting to the Minister that in other armies it is the practice, before a man's time expires, to allow him a certain period of leave on full pay in order to let him look for a job.  The period need not be a month; sometimes it is a fortnight.  A fortnight before his discharge the soldier is allowed to go away, knowing he will have his pay given to him.  He sets out to find a job. I put it to the Minister, who is not an inhuman man, that it is rather a cruel thing to keep a man at the Curragh, for instance, and say to him at the end of his service: &ldquo;Here you are; here is a railway warrant for you.&rdquo;  I do not know if that is given. 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       They say to the soldier: &ldquo;Go out and fend for yourself.&rdquo; A man at the Curragh cannot go around so easily and interview employers. When he does get away from the army he has to spend any money he may have saved supporting himself while looking for a job.  I think it would be fairer treatment to give the soldier a fortnight's leave.  The country will not lose by it.  The only loss will be the loss to the service, and no man is very keen or enthusiastic during the last fortnight of his service; he is usually looking forward to the day when he will go out.  I suggest that might be a desirable practice to adopt.  It would mitigate the hardship that Deputy Byrne has referred to. 
       The second point I want to raise is a very small one.  Why has not the Minister used Standing Order 88 to give notice of verbal changes in the Title of this Bill?  Is it not rather ridiculous that in 1926 we should be asked to pass a Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) (No. 2) Bill, 1925? Should it not be 1926?  Standing Order 88 gives the Minister power to put down an amendment making a verbal alteration.  As it is, some Senator will have to do it when the Bill is being considered by the Seanad.  I am not blaming the Minister, but I am blaming those who should have brought it to his notice. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy is looking at the wrong Bill? 
     
     
     
      
       I am looking at item 8 on the Orders of the Day. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy is not looking at the right paper. Necessary amendments in regard to what he has referred were brought in on the Committee Stage. 
     
     
      
       Then whoever prepared the Orders of the Day is at fault and not the Minister.  In that case the fault was in the preparation of the Order Paper.  I hope that the fact that the Minister has scored off me will make him more lenient to the plea which I have made. 
     
     
      
       I will look into that matter. 
     
     
      
       In the short statement which the Minister made in moving the Fifth Stage, he used a word which is capable of very grave interpretation, indeed, when used in connection with a military force.  The word is &ldquo;discontent.&rdquo;  I should like to know&mdash;it is well to have this matter cleared up&mdash;what is the extent of the discontent he refers to.  With the experience we have had&mdash;I am loth to tread on thorny ground, but it is well to get at the facts&mdash;I should be interested to hear the nature and the character of the discontent which the Minister referred to.  I would like to know if this discontent refers only to&mdash;I should be glad to hear it did&mdash;uneasiness as to the future of officers of the army, and that it has no deeper significance. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy interprets the word correctly. 
     
     
      
       In view of the statement made by the Minister, that it is the intention to maintain the army at its present strength, and, consequently, at the present expenditure, I would be glad if he would say if that statement has the approval of the Executive Council. 
     
     
      
       Any statement I make as Minister for Defence here has the approval of the Executive Council, because an Executive Minister who makes a statement of that description binds the Executive Council as well as   himself.  My statement was that, at the present moment, it is not my intention, or the intention of the Executive Council, to demobilise any officers.  I leave it at that. 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that the army is to be maintained at its present strength? 
     
     
      
       It does not mean any such thing. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - COINAGE BILL, 1926.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I move the Second Reading of the Coinage Bill.  Its purpose is to establish a separate and distinctive token coinage for the Saorstat. It is the natural and logical consequence of the setting up of the Saorstat that we should have here a coinage distinctively our own, bearing the devices of this country.  There is a certain advantage also in having control even of token coinage in the matter of maintaining a proper supply of coinage and a supply of the right denomination of coinage.  There are also very substantial monetary advantages in the issue of token coinage.  It is estimated that the face value of the amount of token coins required for the use of the people of this country would be about one million pounds. 
     
     There is, or there lately was, in circulation, and in the possession of the banks, in silver and copper, a great deal more than one million pounds. About a year ago, there was, I think, something like one and a half million pounds.  But that was much more than was necessary.  During the boom years a great deal of silver came into the country.  A great deal of silver was required because prices were high and a great deal more money circulated. The result was that quite a considerable amount of silver coinage came into the country.  To a large extent, that went gradually out of circulation and some of the banks had a considerable amount of silver coinage stored in their vaults which was not required   for the use of the country.  I understand that recently the banks have taken steps to get rid of considerable quantities of the silver coinage that they held.  Our estimate is that the amount that would serve the country at the present time, and in the immediate future, would be about one million pounds, speaking of the face value of the coins.  It might be that, if ten shilling notes went out of circulation, a further sum would be required, but if we estimate that one million pounds worth of token coins&mdash;principally silver&mdash;would be required, the profit on that would be very considerable. 
     We propose to issue a coinage containing a higher percentage of silver than the existing British coinage.  Up to 1920 British silver coins consisted of 920 parts in 1,000 of silver.  By the Act of 1920, that was reduced to 500 parts in 1,000 of silver.  That produces a coin which does not look well, which has to have special processes applied to it in the course of manufacture and which, it is believed, will result in its being a coin that will not wear well. Quite a number of recent issues of silver coin by various countries have been in the proportion of 75 per cent. silver and 25 per cent. alloy.  We propose to adopt the same proportions. That will give us a coin which will be a much better-looking and a much better-wearing coin than the existing one. 
     We propose to issue the coins in something like the following proportions:&mdash;Half-crowns, 2,888,000; two shilling pieces, 2,700,000; shillings, 3,600,000; sixpences, 3,600,000; three-penny-pieces, 2,000,000; pennies, 12,000,000; halfpennies, 9,600,000; farthings, 4,800,000.  The threepenny piece is an inconvenient and unpopular coin and it is thought desirable to replace that by a nickel coin of a somewhat larger size.  That involves also the making of our sixpenny pieces of pure nickel somewhat larger than the present sixpenny piece.  We believe that by making them of nickel and by having plain edges, instead of milled edges, which the silver coins will have, there will be no likelihood of confusion and that we will have coins that will be somewhat more easily handled than   the existing coins.  Assuming that we have silver coins consisting of 75 per cent. silver and 25 per cent. alloy, and that we have sixpenny pieces and threepenny pieces consisting of pure nickel, and other coins of bronze, there will be, at the present price of metal, allowing for the cost of mintage, but not for the cost of freight or the cost of insurance in transit, a profit of £624,000. 
     
      
       Spread over how many years? 
     
     
      
       Spread over one year. 
     
     
      
       That is not a recurring profit? 
     
     
      
       No.  There will be no recurring profit&mdash;no profit to talk about.  There will be a certain wastage and loss of coinage and there will have to be certain new issues not representing issues in the replacing of amounts which have been withdrawn, and there would only be a percentage of profit on making up that wastage.  I do not think that would amount to anything.  It would be very difficult to estimate what it would be. 
       We do not propose to set up any establishment for the manufacture of coin here.  It is proposed to arrange to have the coins manufactured at the Royal Mint in London.  That will save additional expenditure, it will enable the coinage to be supplied much more quickly than any small establishment we would set up might supply it, and it will probably mean that the cost of actual manufacture will be less than it would be with us. 
       The scope of this Bill is confined entirely to token coinage&mdash;coinage which has not intrinsic value, coinage which is not anything like its face value, coinage which is limited legal tender. We propose to limit the tender in approximately the same way as tender is now limited in the case of the British coinage.  Silver coins will be legal tender for payment up to 40/-; bronze coins will be legal tender for payment up to one shilling, and nickel coins for payments up to five shillings.  The Bill consequently does not affect in any way the general currency position or the general position in regard to legal tender. 
     
     I recognise very fully that any   change in the currency position at the present time would have serious reactions. It would, I believe, lead immediately to an Exchange position adverse to this State.  It would lead to unsettlement and produce the adverse effects that unsettlement would have, I believe that this State, struggling to get on its feet economically, struggling to get going, would be hindered and handicapped by any change in the currency position or by any departure from the state of affairs that exists at the present time, in which we have British currency as our real legal tender. The theoretic arguments&mdash;what I might call the &ldquo;national arguments&rdquo;&mdash;in favour of having a separate token coinage are probably the same as would apply in the case of general currency.  But there is this difference: that at the present time we can issue our own token coinage and get the benefits that arise from that issue without any detrimental results that I have been able to discover.  I have discussed this matter with a large number of people.  As a matter of fact, this Bill, although no rumour got about regarding its impending introduction, is a Bill that was discussed with a larger number of people outside the Government than any Bill that has been introduced for a considerable time. 
     
      
       A testimony to the public! 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say whether he consulted bankers? 
     
     
      
       I consulted everybody from whom I thought that information or argument or views that ought to be taken into consideration could be received and, having heard all these views and arguments, I am satisfied that there are no detrimental effects whatever to be anticipated from the introduction and issue of our own token coinage.  Touching on the main currency question, any alteration in the main currency would be another matter altogether.  There would undoubtedly be wide and grave reactions from that, and there would be immediate serious reactions.  It might be argued that what are arguments in favour of   one change might be arguments in favour of another change, and that those arguments could be treated as of equal force.  We may decide to do one thing because there is no injury or reaction to be anticipated from it.  We must decide against the other when we feel that the reactions would be such that this country ought not have willingly brought upon it in its general financial and economic condition. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say whether the coinage will be legal on the other side of the Border? 
     
     
      
       I think the Constitution prescribes the power of the Oireachtas to legislate for the Irish Free State. 
     
     
      
       I confess, in view of the pressing needs for legislation in many directions, that I cannot see anything in the nature of urgency for this Bill.  It is true that there is one argument in its favour and, that is, that it will, according to the Minister, produce a profit of £640,000, a very considerable sum and a sum not to be despised by a State such as ours.  So far as I can gather, however, that sum is not to be considered in the light of a recurring profit, and the risk we are running&mdash;and I think we are running some risk&mdash;in taking this departure is wholly and solely to produce this sum for the Exchequer.  I think there are many other ways in which that sum could either be saved to the Exchequer or brought into it.  I think, for instance, that the Army could be reduced. I think that a considerable sum could be saved in that direction, for I see no necessity for either the size of the Army at the moment or its cost of upkeep which is something like three millions.  I think it would be wise if the Minister for Finance would consider the position of the Irish distilleries, and if he could possibly reduce the present exorbitant excise duty on Irish manufactured whiskey, a duty which has lost to the Exchequer a sum of over £500,000 during last year.  I could go on enumerating various other means of raising or saving £600,000. 
     
     
      
       Does this Bill preclude that saving? 
     
     
     
      
       No, but I think it would have been wiser to have started in other directions where the same amount of risk would not have been run, and where a more useful purpose would have been served.  It may be said, and the Minister is probably entitled to say, that theoretically no risk will be run.  I personally agree with him, and I understand the difference, as any ordinary person should, between this proposal which deals with token coins and a proposal to tamper in any way with the existing currency. The two things are quite distinct, but although this does not tamper, strictly speaking, with the existing currency, it is, at the same time, very hard to get away from the idea that in the minds of certain people in the country&mdash;not quite so sophisticated perhaps as the Minister&mdash;there will be a certain amount of uneasiness and unrest, because, although the present coins may not look well, according to the Minister, and, perhaps, they do not wear very well&mdash;a fact which I myself can testify &mdash;I think, at the same time, that people are very well satisfied with the present coins, and I do not think that there has been anything in the nature of a demand for this departure.  I hope that the departure will be successful and that the Minister will be a true prophet when he says that there will be no injury&mdash;I think he qualified it by saying &ldquo;serious&rdquo; injury. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The Minister now says that no injury is to be anticipated. I hope he is right in that.  It is one of those matters which you cannot exactly give definite reasons why there should be injury, or why there should be uneasiness, but, as the Minister and the House know, the fluctuations of the money market are strangely influenced, and, even the mere substitution of one form of token coinage for another, though it may not influence the minds of certain classes of people, runs the grave risk of influencing the minds of others.  The Minister said that before he introduced the Bill he consulted several classes of people, including bankers.  I am glad to hear that statement, but I do not know whether he   has made any arrangements with neighbouring countries.  It is true that there is different token coinage in other dominions.  I have seen it myself in Australia and elsewhere, but I know that these other dominions have made arrangements whereby their token coinage is interchangeable between themselves, if not between the individual dominions and Great Britain. Here, however, we are in an entirely different position to that of the other dominions.  Unlike Canada and Australia, which are thousands of miles away, we have up against our doors not quite a dominion, but a country which is rapidly reaching the status of a dominion, namely, the North of Ireland, and we have, within a few miles cross-Channel, Great Britain itself.  I would like to know whether the Minister has thought fit to endeavour and, if so, whether he has succeeded, in making any arrangements, either with Northern Ireland on the one hand, or Great Britain on the other, whereby these new token coins of ours shall be accepted by them, and if we likewise shall accept theirs.  I think that is a most important matter in view of the proximity of this country and in view of the natural interchange and intercommunication between the two countries. It certainly will be a matter of convenience if the Minister has made this arrangement, and if we know when we get on board the boat at Dun Laoghaire that if we want to give a porter something at Holyhead he will be ready to take a Free State nickel sixpence. 
     
     
      
       Make it a nickel shilling and he will chance it. 
     
     
      
       Yes, or a nickel shilling.  It will also be convenient for visitors coming the other way, though probably the same risk would not be run in their case.  I think it would be well if such an arrangement has been, or could be, made for the general convenience of all concerned.  I am rather inclined to think that such an arrangement has been made, and I will tell you why. The Minister made a case, and I think it was a rather feeble one, for increasing the percentage of our new Irish   coins.  He said that they would wear well and look better.  That may be so, but I have got it in the back of my mind that one of the reasons that he is increasing the percentage of our coins is in order to enable them to be accepted on the other side in substitution of those of a lower percentage.  I hope, at any rate, that that will be the case.  I hope that the coins will be interchangeable, and I would respectfully throw out the suggestion to the Minister that, if he has not come to any such arrangement as I have mentioned, it would be wise for him, before the Bill finally passes into law, to come to such an agreement or arrangement with the Exchequers of both Northern Ireland and Great Britain&mdash;I think in this respect they are probably one&mdash; so as to enable their coin and ours to be interchangeable.  I do not see, as I have said, any immediate urgency or necessity for this Bill.  If it is going to give a saving of £600,000 I, for one, would have no objection, but I fear that there will be some risks run in connection with it, and I think there are other ways by which this sum could be better realised at the moment. 
     
     
      
       Like Deputy Redmond, I do not quite understand the urgency of dealing with this matter. We are told it has been under consideration for a long time, yet the average Deputy ten days ago had not the faintest notion that such a measure was under conception, and we are asked now to give it a Second Reading to-night.  It seems all the stranger to me because the Minister is going to set up a Committee on banking which must necessarily consider the questions of currency and coinage, and I feel it somewhat regrettable that the position of that Committee should be prejudiced to a limited extent in advance. I hope the Minister will give us, when he replies, some reason as to the urgency of the Bill.  Of course I dismiss entirely the suggestion that has been made that it is in the nature of a gesture to the People's Party led by Deputy Professor Magennis.  So far as that particular prodigal is concerned, the Government are not prepared to kill the fatted calf; they are   much more likely to let loose the bull. I do not accept that, but I think a stronger case needs to be made for its urgency.  I do not want to use unduly exaggerated language.  It is perfectly lawful and constitutionally competent for us to change our coinage in any way we may like, or for that matter to change our currency, if we wish. The whole question is that some things that are lawful are not expedient, and I think the inexpediency of this measure is the ground on which I should urge that it should not be allowed to receive a second reading. 
       The Minister told us that we can get the advantage of token coinage without any detrimental effect.  The Minister is perfectly consistent.  He always ignores inconvenience.  Whether it is a question of tariffs, of double income tax, a change of coinage, or whatever question it may be, he never takes inconvenience to the individual into consideration.  This Bill is going to cause a considerable amount of inconvenience to anybody whose business takes him either to Northern Ireland or across the Channel.  Double coinage is a nuisance.  Even people going from one part of the Saorstat to another would be inconvenienced.  Take the case of a Tirconnail Deputy coming from his constituency.  If he goes by train he has to pass through Northern Ireland, and if he wants to get out at Derry or Enniskillen to buy a paper or a cup of tea or spend any money at all, he will have to provide himself with coinage current in Northern Ireland in order to do it, and the same when he is returning.  I put it on no higher plane than inconvenience, but it is a considerable inconvenience. 
     
     Again, I am very strongly opposed to nickel coinage.  My experience of nickel coinage in Europe has been that it is an unqualified nuisance.  A nickel coin is so near the size of a silver coin and so closely resembles it at first sight that you are almost always mistaking one for the other.  When you impose them suddenly on a population that is not used to them you will have a great deal of grumbling and a great deal of difficulty before people realise the difference between a sixpence and a shilling   which will be very nearly the same size.  Remember that the designs will presumably be new, the lettering will very possibly be in Irish, and there will be unqualified confusion at first. 
     Another objection, which is perhaps only personal to myself, is that I am in the habit of carrying my copper coins in one pocket and my silver coins in another.  I do not know where to add a third pocket in which I can carry nickel coins.  Yet, if I mix them up, I shall find a good deal of difficulty in sorting them out, and I shall be giving a man sixpence when I mean to give him a shilling or vice versa.  I stress this point of inconvenience all the more because of my experience in Europe, although as regards nickel coins the French have got over the difficulty to a certain extent by punching a hole in them.  Is it proposed to do that?  The Italians do not. 
     
      
       The Belgians do. 
     
     
      
       The inconvenience is mitigated by that, but it is not entirely removed.  In Italy you have nickel coins and silver coins almost exactly the same size and shape and the inconvenience is considerable.  Much of this argument will be more proper to an amendment to the schedule which I shall put down. 
       Another difficulty that we find prevailing in Europe is the difficulty of getting small change in the currency of the country you are going to.  It is quite easy to get a one-thousand franc note either in Dublin or London, but you very often have to go to two or three places in London before you can get sufficient French silver or nickel to take with you. 
     
     
      
       Did the Deputy ever try a half-crown at Calais and see if it will be accepted by a porter? 
     
     
      
       I have no doubt it would be accepted, but it would be very much more than I would give to a porter.  It is very difficult to get English silver at Calais.  I want to call attention to the omission that Deputy Redmond called attention to&mdash;the   failure of the Minister to state whether any of the people consulted on the matter were people in Great Britain or Northern Ireland, because much of my objection to this Bill may be removed by a statement that an arrangement had been made by which the coinage of one country should circulate in another.  That in no way derogates from the national status.  Before the European war had thrown all the rates of exchange into a state of muddle and confusion, France, Italy, Switzerland, and, I think, Belgium came to an agreement to allow their silver coinage mutually to be used each in the other's country.  That was carried out satisfactorily, as far as I know; it certainly operated.  I do not see that we need be frightened of placing ourselves in a worse position than Switzerland or Belgium with regard to France if we make a similar agreement with Great Britain.  Northern Ireland really does not enter into it, because I think it has not power to make its own coinage. The Minister quoted the Constitution to Deputy Byrne, but he can hardly suggest that the Constitution precludes him from negotiating with the British Government on matters of mutual interest. If so, I do not know what he was doing in London last month.  I hope, at any rate, he will tell us definitely whether he has approached the British Government on this matter or not. 
     
     I want seriously to stress my belief that this is a step in the wrong direction. When once you begin tampering with coinage you go on to tampering with currency, and once you begin to tamper with currency you begin to operate an inflation that leads to national disaster.  Trying to get money for nothing is very attractive, no doubt, even though this is a capital sum, and the interest on it will be only a little over £30,000.  Trying to get money for nothing is like hunting the crock of gold at the bottom of the rainbow.  It is leprechaun gold.  It does not really benefit you.  It sets your feet in the wrong path.  Gold which you have not produced by your own industry or the industry of the country is not, in the long run, an advantage to the country. I believe war indemnities generally   have been a disadvantage to the countries that got them. 
     I do urge the Minister and the Dail seriously to reflect before we take the first step on the road that France is now treading&mdash;the road of national humiliation, because she is absolutely unable to meet the demands of her creditors.  I say nothing derogatory to a friendly State more than that it is obvious from the repeated series of Cabinet crises, and the discussions that France has been engaged in lately, that her state is not an entirely fortunate one in that respect.  I do dread that if not this Minister for Finance, some later Minister for Finance will say: &ldquo;They made £600,000 by altering the coinage; why should not we make £6,000,000 by printing and circulating our own notes?&rdquo;  and so create a rate of exchange?  I feel conscientiously bound to oppose any step in that direction&mdash;any precedent for it. 
     If there is such a wonderful gain of £600,000, a great national gain in that new status, why have not Ministers had the courage of their convictions?  Why have not they renamed the coinage? Why call a thing sixpence that is not sixpence, does not behave like a sixpence, and is not made of the same material? Why not get a new name for it?  Why do they not emulate that born British Chancellor of the Exchequer&mdash; I know not whether it was Sir Robert Walpole or Sir Robert Peel&mdash;who first caused the shilling to be called a bob? Why do they not rename the coinage after the Executive Council?  People are already talking about Blythe shillings. I am sure the Minister for Finance, as a modest man, will take the lowest denomination.  The penny is a good sound coin, and it might be called after the Minister for Defence.  The threepenny bit, at any rate in the form we now know it, might be an &ldquo;O'Sullivan.&rdquo; Then you would have the &ldquo;sixpenny McGilligan,&rdquo; the &ldquo;shilling O'Higgins,&rdquo; and the &ldquo;florin Cosgrave.&rdquo; There is still the half-crown. I was going to say that the only thing you can equate the half-crown to would be to call it &ldquo;Tim.&rdquo; 
     Debate suspended. 
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - SHOP HOURS (DRAPERY TRADES, DUBLIN AND DISTRICTS) (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1925. 
     
     
      
       Private Members' business will now be taken, and the debate will be interrupted for the taking of the Final Report of the Special Committee to consider the Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) (Amendment) Bill, 1925. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the report of the Special Committee, I beg to move the following:&mdash; 
       1.  That the report do lie upon the Table. 
       2.  That the Minutes of Evidence and proceedings of the Special Committee be printed. 
       3.  That the Bill as amended in the Special Committee be re-committed to a Committee of the whole Dail for Wednesday, 3rd February, and be printed. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - COINAGE BILL, 1926&mdash;SECOND STAGE (RESUMED). 
     Question again proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a second time.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Will the Minister not enlighten the Dail and probably shorten the discussion by stating whether he has communicated with the British Government and with the Northern Government with reference to the exchange of our new coins?  If not, some of us will have to go and draw attention to the great inconvenience and the extra tax that this Bill would inflict on the travelling public. A traveller crossing the border may have to exchange his coinage into that of Northern Ireland and pay 10 per cent. for the exchange, as is done in many places on the Continent.  That is one of the drawbacks that I see in this Bill; the travelling public who are already well taxed will have to pay a little extra to make this £30,000 a year for the Exchequer.  Taking the average   life of the coin and spreading it over a certain number of years, it would work out at about £30,000 a year.  Considering the inconvenience and irritation it would cause to the travelling public, I say it is not worth while, and that it is a measure that could well be postponed for many years to come.  I would like to ask the Minister whether he has anything on his mind concerning the withdrawal of the pound Treasury note and the ten shilling Treasury note.  A few weeks ago we were told by the newspapers that the pound and ten shilling Treasury notes were going.  What does the Minister propose to make legal tender in this country for these notes?  Does he propose to make Bank of England notes legal tender, or does he propose to issue notes over his own name on the National Land Bank or the Bank of Ireland?  In view of the statement that the Treasury notes were to be withdrawn, we ought to know really where we are. 
       I join with Deputy Redmond and Deputy Cooper in stating that this is one of the Bills that could have been shelved and that more useful work could be done in the House.  I say it is not worth while introducing this Bill and I hope the Minister will satisfy the Dail that the travelling public will not be inconvenienced or will not have to pay ten per cent. for exchanging Irish coinage into British coinage, either when they cross the border or go to Liverpool. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear the Minister speaking on the Second Reading of the Bill, but the arguments which have been advanced so far against its adoption make me support the Bill absolutely.  The fact of the State earning £650,000&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       It is not urgent. 
     
     
      
       Of course not!  Those who know the condition of the country and who know how hard it is to make £650,000 can readily understand that the agricultural community would be very glad to get this donation.  Why should not this country have its own coinage?  I will not venture on the question of currency at the moment, because that is not before us, though it   has been touched upon.  But, really, why should the British be permitted to have the means of getting this money for nothing, and why should we, who want the money, refuse to accept it? It seems to me a foolish attitude to adopt to oppose this measure. 
       With regard to inconvenience, does anyone mean to say that a merchant in the North would refuse to accept Free State coinage for his goods?  Do not we know very well that he will take it? Do not we know very well that there are branches of the Northern banks in the Free State and that they have nothing to do but to lodge those coins in their banks?  Again, there is something in nationality.  We have gone through a revolution.  Let us go ahead and let the people see that we are separate from Britain.  Let us have our coinage.  The Boers have their coinage. It was accepted in South Africa, nobody objecting.  On a South African coin you will see the figure of Von Tromp or somebody of note.  You will not see any British Treasury notes. Why should not we have it.  There is no reason on earth, that I can understand, why this Bill should not be accepted, especially as it will bring to the State £650,000 for nothing.  I do not think I would be in order in discussing the currency, but I do not look on the issue of currency for Ireland with any great apprehension.  I know that we would be glad to get fifty pounds for a forty pound bullock when sending it over to England.  As far as the farmers are concerned, depreciation in that currency would do us a good deal of good.  The Danes had the advantage for four or five years of this depreciation and they have nearly walloped us out of the market. 
     
     I am not giving that as an authoritative statement, but I am putting it to the House that there is no great danger in a currency for ourselves.  We would gain probably a million a year on currency.  There must be fifteen or sixteen million British pound notes issued here.  We give them solid goods and they give us back paper.  When the Minister for Finance picks up courage and says we will have our own currency he will have me, if I am here, to support him.  I believe this is a step in the right direction.  I believe it is   one of those things that stamps us as an entity of our own, that makes it clear that this country belongs to us and that there is a heart beating in this country which is not dependent on an outside nation.  If we are going to be a distinct nation, let us have the attributes of a nation; let us have our own coinage and let us not talk about inconvenience. We have had inconvenience before.  It was very inconvenient to get the Free State.  Let us accept it and the advantages which our position gives us. 
     
      
       I was rather surprised at Deputy Bryan Cooper, who on most occasions, if not on all, takes a very big and broad view of changes that are inevitable, and changes that are almost mandatory for us.  I was not very much surprised at Deputy Byrne.  I do not know that I ever heard his voice raised here in the spirit of that prayer that he must remember at least once a week, &ldquo;Sursam Corda.&rdquo; Deputy Byrne comes along on almost every occasion with a sob in his voice about inconvenience to somebody. 
     
     
      
       The usual gibe! 
     
     
      
       The latest is the traveller. 
     
     
      
       Language of the Cumann na nGaedheal election platforms should be reserved for the Rathmines Town Hall. 
     
     
      
       I ask him did he ever raise his voice here in a spirit of confidence?  Has he ever said to the people of this country: &ldquo;It is a great country, and I am proud to be a member of it.&rdquo;  He wants to know has the Minister made arrangements with England. We are going to be destroyed! The Minister has made no arrangements with England nor with the Northern Government.  I have travelled very little in my life, but French money was not refused from me in Italy or Italian money was not refused from me in France.  French money is not refused in England, and English money is not refused in France.  Deputy Byrne sobs about the travellers.  I would advise the Deputy to lift up his heart and look at this thing as an urgent question. What is the urgency in it?  The Minister for Finance has been considering   it for two years.  I was considering it two years ago when I was Minister for Finance.  The urgency of it is that £600,000 is worth at least £30,000 a year and is worth more than that to us.  Is that urgent?  I think it is a very urgent and a very important question.  I think it is time that we brought in this measure, and I think that the efforts that the Minister for Finance has made to ensure that it is a sound measure is the justification for its introduction.  I think that every statement that has been made in criticism of it is evidence of the futility of the criticism and of the nonsense of it.  Why should we stop issuing the currency we have at the present moment?  In the first place, as Deputy Wilson has pointed out, we ought to be able to stand on our own feet.  Evidence of that is the token currency, at any rate, in the country. We ought to be able to say to anyone who asks: &ldquo;Have you got Irish coin?&rdquo;&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;  Does the Deputy ever read the Gospel?  On one occasion when a great man was questioned in regard to. paying tribute to Caesar, he said: &ldquo;Show me a coin.&rdquo;  Looking at the inscription on the coin, he said it was evident that that was Caesar's dominion. 
     
     
      
       Is that the idea, that the new coinage is to be evidence of Caesar's dominion? 
     
     
      
       I was explaining rather the other way, that it was our dominion, and by the time the Deputy changes his political coat once more&mdash; he has changed it twice already&mdash;he will understand what I mean.  I can quite understand his stupidity in regard to coinage, he knows so little about politics. 
     
     
      
       Let us get back to coin. 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  In connection with this question it is natural of course that critics of the measure should introduce the question of currency.  I observed that most people who were speaking about currency were very careful and very guarded in the speeches they made on it.  Two Deputies gave evidence of a knowledge of the question, Deputy   Wilson and Deputy Bryan Cooper. Deputy Cooper referred to at least one country on the Continent.  I have been in that country quite recently and I did not see any token coinage there.  There was paper coinage and there was coinage from the Chamber of Commerce, but I did not see any token coinage while I was there. 
     
     
      
       Is the President referring to France? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I will bring in some token coinage to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       I was relating my own experience.  I was referring to the fact that I did not see any token coinage there. 
     
     
      
       But it exists.  I can produce it. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree. This is somewhat different.  In that country they were circulating paper francs; five francs were the lowest denomination, and they went from that up.  Criticism in connection with currency would have been relevant if it was the intention of the Minister to issue paper currency.  What is wrong about currencies which go wrong, in my opinion, is that a promise to pay is issued against a place where there is no gold to meet it.  The correct method of dealing with business in pre-war times, at any rate, was to issue a promise to pay where there was gold to meet it. 
     
     
      
       There never was. 
     
     
      
       I think so. 
     
     
      
       I think the President can take it that there never was gold to redeem the paper that was issued in Great Britain or any other country. 
     
     
      
       If we confine ourselves to our own country, in 1914 there were no Treasury notes.  The Deputy is not contradicting me on that.  That is agreed. 
     
     
      
       Agreed. 
     
     
      
       As far as Ireland was concerned, there were no Treasury notes issued; the banks which were   here and which were note-issuing institutions were bound by Act of Parliament not to issue in excess of certain quantities of gold that they had in their cellars. 
     
     
      
       The Treasury issue was in excess of the ordinary bank issue. 
     
     
      
       I was dealing with Ireland, with the banks issuing notes here.  No Treasury notes were issued here before 1914.  That is not contradicted.  The particular notes that were issuing here were Bank of Ireland notes, Provincial Bank notes, Belfast Bank notes, Northern Bank notes and National Bank notes, and against the note issue of each and every one of these banks there was gold in the cellars to meet it. 
     
     
      
       Will the President refer to anything that will justify that statement, because the official report that is freqnently issued points out that there is no such thing as gold at the back of them at all? 
     
     
      
       I quite agree.  I was coming to that point.  I am dealing with pre-war, when the currencies were not disturbed, and the matters that have arisen since 1914 produced disturbance.  Nations took up the question of issuing notes, and they had not to be bound by these limitations that were put on the banks.  That is what affects currency, issuing notes that one is not prepared to meet and is not able to meet.  The Minister for Finance has no intention of doing that.  He does not intend a national note issue, and in consequence there need, and there ought to be, no nervousness in connection with this change.  It will be a beneficial change, and it is a necessary change by reason of our status, Deputy Magennis's and Deputy Byrne's opposition notwithstanding. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order.  I think the President should withdraw that.  I have not opposed it. I asked what the character of the superscription on the coins was to be. 
     
     
      
       This has become quite an interesting subject, and although it does not deal with paper currency the   President has been giving us some little information regarding the financial requirements that govern the issue of bank notes.  I take it that if I followed that line on this Bill I would not be in order.  The Bill, according to the Minister for Finance, is a very simple matter, so much so that one should wonder why anybody should speak against it.  According to Deputy Wilson it means the receipt of 600,000 odd pounds, which, of course, would be very acceptable to the Minister for Finance and to the country.  The Ministry have a perfect right to alter the token coinage or the currency if they and the country think fit.  But one must look at this Bill in the light of how far people throughout the country will be affected, either sentimentally or otherwise.  The Minister says that this has not been hurried, that it has not been sprung on the country, that he had been considering it for a couple of years, and that the Bill has been brought forward after consultation with various people.  If that is so, one would imagine that the people one meets in the street would greatly appreciate the Bill.  While I agree that the man you meet in the street is generally very ignorant on matters that affect him, I think we must recognise, at all events, that as far as a great number of people are concerned, the sentimental feeling is rather in the direction of avoiding changes, and more particularly in connection with coinage.  Of course, if you say to the man in the street that the country will make £600,000 it may alter his point of view considerably, but I state, emphatically, that at the present moment the average man is not contemplating the change with any riotous joy, but would rather that the Government would leave him alone. 
     
     The Government has a majority in this House, and, presumably, they have a majority in the country.  Therefore, when the Government bring forward a Bill of this far-reaching character, one hesitates, particularly one occupying the position that I do in the House, to raise even a small voice against the change that is contemplated.  I hope I will not be taken as being in any way opposed to the general principle of   nationality that the Bill embodies. Some Deputies have asked if this coinage will be recognised in Great Britain and in Northern Ireland.  I think the answer to that is that it depends altogether on the people, say, on the Border, and on the people in Great Britain, as to whether they will wish to accept the coins or not.  It is not a matter that can be arranged as between the two countries, although such an arrangement might make the coins legal tender.  But I say that people in Ireland will not take the coinage until they are forced to do so.  I say that to-morrow or the next day, when a firm in Dublin proceeds to pay its employees in the new coinage, the workmen will show considerable hesitation in accepting it.  Of course that will be got over in the course of time. 
     
      
       Increase their wages. 
     
     
      
       Give them an extra coin and you will see whether they will take it or not. 
     
     
      
       Well, that, of course, largely depends on what the price of the pint is going to be in Irish.  I think that there is one rather serious matter in connection with this important Bill that I should refer to.  In any well-constituted and well-regulated House you have the Government on the one side and the Opposition on the other. The Official Opposition here is the Labour Party, and I take it that silence gives consent, that as we have not had Deputy Johnson on his feet, he is in entire agreement with the Government. This is not the first time that Deputy Johnson has been in agreement with the Government, but I must confess that I look with a good deal of apprehension on a situation which makes the Official Opposition the supporters of the Government.  The next largest party in the House is the Farmers' Party.  The Minister for Lands and Agriculture coined a phrase some time ago when he described the position in this country as being that agriculture represented 75 per cent. of the wealth of the country.  On that phrase our friends on the Farmers' Benches have put forward a claim that, being the   holders of the wealth of the country, their particular function was to demand many things. 
     
     
      
       And get nothing. 
     
     
      
       In this particular case the only reference to the Bill we have had from the Farmers has been a statement by a Deputy&mdash;I do not know whether he spoke for the Party or not &mdash;that he looked forward to the depreciation of the currency of the country as being a cheap way of getting them out of their debts.  That is rather a serious matter, if that is the view of the Farmers' Party. 
     
     
      
       Did I say that? 
     
     
      
       You did not. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps Deputy Wilson did not say that, but that could be inferred from what he said.  I suppose that Deputy Wilson will also repudiate the desire to depreciate the Land Bonds so that the farmers might get their farms back at a cheap rate.  That, of course, is an individual expression of opinion and only carries with it the weight that an expression of opinion from me would carry, but it is a serious matter when it comes from a member of an organised party which is part of the Opposition to which we look to supply a corrective to any undesirable action that the Government may take in the promotion of Bills. 
     
     
      
       Correctives when they do wrong. 
     
     
      
       Yes, I cannot look with anything but grave misapprehension at the position of affairs in this House, which discloses that it is practically unanimous on some subjects and that there is no opposition.  I hope that that tendency will not grow, because it would be bad, as in the case of this Bill, to have criticism of Government measures coming only from one or two independent Deputies.  I am not disputing in any way the right of this House to change the token coinage.  I am not even prepared to dispute the fact, stated by the Minister for Finance, that we will make money over it.  But I do say that this is more than a token coinage Bill.  It is proceeding on a certain road, and, in my opinion, that road   will not be accepted as unanimously in the country as it is in this House.  Undoubtedly, situated as we are, it will be a great inconvenience for a long time.  In fact, I would not be the least bit surprised if, on the issue of the new coinage, there will be a very considerable drop in the circulation.  The doubt in the minds of people, more particularly in the minds of the farmers of the country, notwithstanding what we have heard from Farmers' representatives in connection with the new coinage, will be more considerable than one may think. 
     
     
      
       They will have none of it, anyhow. 
     
     
      
       That is true.  I stand corrected.  I have been arguing on a wrong premise. 
     
     
      
       From the beginning. 
     
     
      
       I am glad, however, that I got upon my feet in order to show that there is still some opposition, even if it is very small, to Government measures as a whole.  I did not get up with the idea that I was going to convince the Government that they were wrong.  On the contrary, I think the attitude of the Government in the matter is one of confidence that the measure they have brought before the House is going to be helpful to the finance of the country.  In so far as anything helps the finance of the country, it is good, but, notwithstanding the two years' consideration that this Bill has got from the Ministry, I doubt very much that the time is opportune for the introduction of this measure or that the benefits that will be derived from it will be anything like what the Minister anticipates. 
     
     
      
       I am not quite certain whether Deputy Hewat is going to vote for or against the motion.  He has not expressed his view on this Bill at all.  He has stated there is a considerable body of opinion outside which is not as enthusiastic over this Bill as is the Minister.  He is not quite sure whether, because of that lack of faith, the Minister ought to press, or the House ought to accept, the Bill. That is the sum and substance of the   Deputy's statement.  He has not uttered any reasons against this Bill except the possibility that there may be some people lacking faith in the ability of the inhabitants of the country to honour their own coinage. 
       It is really surprising to hear the Deputy criticising the Farmers' Party and the Labour Party for not opposing the Government on every possible occasion. I imagined that we would have had from the Deputy a statement to the effect that we should at least exercise some discrimination.  Now we have an avowal from the Independent Benches&mdash;those Deputies who are always going to consider every matter on its merits and who are not going to be swayed by party passions, independent thinkers who will weigh the merits in every case, having fully considered the cases in all their bearings&mdash; that we should on every occasion oppose every measure and every proposition that is put forward from Benches other than our own.  That is the surprising doctrine that comes from the Independent Benches.  Are we to take it as a sign that in this realigning of parties the Independent Party is to become the perpetual and inevitable opposition to the Government? 
     
     
      
       Where is the Independent Party? 
     
     
      
       I refer to the Independent Deputies sitting on those Benches opposite.  Are we to take it that so far as Deputy Hewat can influence Deputies on those Benches there will always be an opposition put up to every proposition that comes from the Government? 
     
     
      
       Right or wrong. 
     
     
      
       There will be criticism, anyway. 
     
     
      
       It is surprising to hear Deputy Cooper, Deputy Byrne, Deputy Redmond and Deputy Hewat sneering at, and trifling with, this £600,000. 
     
     
      
       Oh, no. 
     
     
      
       It is a matter of no moment to them.  Why, it would more than doubly pay a decent wage to the   workers on the Shannon Scheme. £600,000 would not matter! 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       Does it matter never to have a token coinage with an Irish superscription?  Deputy Hewat does not say, whether it matters or not. What would be the sum in Deputy Hewat's mind that would justify an Irish Government in introducing a new token coinage?  Would he say one, one-and-a-half or two millions?  Would he name any sum which would justify his proposition?  I am afraid Deputy Hewat is only opposing this Bill because of his new position as an implacable opponent of the Government. 
       We have the question raised as to the difficulty with travellers.  A professional traveller really does not carry much small change.  He will take a pound note rather than eight half-crowns. 
     
     
      
       And plenty of small talk. 
     
     
      
       He will change his pound note for the token coinage of the country in which he travels.  If he happens to have a few pennies, sixpences or shillings in his trousers pocket he will leave them in his bag at the hotel and change the pound note instead.  It seems to me there is a lot of piffle talked about the difficulty that will arise amongst commercial travellers. After all, we do not make a new coinage for the sake of travellers. Coinage, especially token coinage, is meant to facilitate small exchanges within a country. 
     
     It seems to me the case for this Bill is very easily proved indeed.  I suppose it is eighteen months ago since I raised a question, feeling the way as to what it would be worth to have a token coinage.  It is some credit to the conservative nature of the Government that they should have taken as long as eighteen months or two years to decide that it would mean a saving of five, six, or seven hundred thousand pounds, and to decide on the introduction of a Bill to save that sum.  Well, their conservatism has cost this country   £600,000.  Surely that is sufficient tribute to the late doctrine of Deputy Hewat.  What the new doctrine will be under the new conditions I do not know. 
     
      
       Wait and see. 
     
     
      
       I do not think there is going to be very much more trouble over token coinage than there has been over postage stamps.  If the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs had been the Minister for Finance, this job would have been done without any Bill. 
     
     
      
       Long ago. 
     
     
      
       We would not hear anything about it until the new coins would be handed to us in change. 
     
     
      
       The whole thing would be done by wireless. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it would cause any more trouble to the citizens of this State than the introduction of the new postage stamps has done. 
     
     
      
       Do not be broadcasting that doctrine. 
     
     
      
       I am quite satisfied that Deputy Hewat will be glad to welcome the new coinage and glad to dispense it as freely and as liberally as it is within his power to do.  I am pretty certain that he will not be one of those who will refuse the first payment in change in the new coinage, bearing the Cosgrave or McGilligan medallion. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson described the amount of difficulty that is going to be brought about by the introduction of the new token coinage very accurately when he said that its introduction will create as little disturbance as the introduction of the new postage stamps.  Conservatism in anything connected with finance is, no doubt, very laudable.  We can admire the Minister's conservatism and we can appreciate his difficulties in taking a decision if he feels that there is any portion of the business population, represented by Deputy Hewat, which believes in any of the things that Deputy Hewat said.  I feel disappointed that when this token coinage was introduced the Minister did not make some attempt   to introduce a decimal system of coinage, or, at any rate, that he has not told us whether he considered the matter. I feel that in a progressive State, as ours is, facing the issue of a new coinage, we should examine the ground very carefully and see whether, in making such a change, we cannot swing around to the decimal system.  We would like to know whether the Minister has considered the matter and what particular difficulties he saw in the way.  A very considerable number of the progressive people in this country will want to know why the decimal system was not introduced one way or another. 
     
     A decimal system has been introduced in practically all the progressive European countries and Britain is, perhaps, the only country which lags behind.  The matter has been agitating the people of Britain since 1824, and their attitude has undergone a certain amount of fluctuation.  In the beginning, it was considered that decimal coinage should be introduced, the interest dictating the change probably being domestic.  Then the international aspect of the case came to the front and then the Empire aspect.  Now, they are going back to the domestic aspect of the case again in Britain, but they are going back to it at a time when, owing to the passage of years, the obstacles to the introduction of a decimal system of coinage have been multiplied. Any Commission in Great Britain that reported on the matter from the years 1830 to 1858&mdash;and a number of them did report&mdash;reported in favour of introducing decimal coinage.  Then a change came about. The matter has been gone into several times recently.  The latest report in the matter was in 1920, when the question was very exhaustively gone into.  The conclusion that Commission came to was that while it was very desirable, for many reasons, to introduce decimal coinage, the objections to it had piled up so much under modern conditions that they were unable to take a decision in the matter.  In the condition of development in which we are, the big objections that weighed against the introduction of decimal coinage in Britain after the 1920 report, do not   assume the same proportions.  The main objection there to introducing the decimal coinage was complications in connection with insurance, friendly societies, health insurance and that class of work.  There are something like 51,000 insurance policies in Britain, based on weekly payments of a few pence.  We are not in that position now, but, day by day, our social position here will pile up for us objections of that particular kind against the introduction of a decimal system. Even recently there was a movement in Britain to decimalise the shilling. I feel that, in introducing new token coinage here, we should have very great advantage, from our own domestic point of view, if we decimalised the shilling.  It is a matter that introduces no complications between ourselves and outside peoples.  It would have a very great reaction on the teaching of mathematics in our schools and save a great amount of time and a great deal of unnecessary labour there.  We have only a dim recollection of what we faced when we went to school first, but I think we have all a very formidable recollection of what compound addition and compound division meant to us, whether in weights and measures or in coinage.  We are bringing in token coinage and, if you take the bronze coins, we are issuing 26,000,000 additional objections to introducing a decimal system of coinage in any way. If we are not prepared to face consideration of the advantages of a decimal system of coinage, in dealing with this Bill, we are going to set back a matter of progressive importance both educationally and in business circles. I think it is a matter that should receive the careful attention of the Dail before it passes a Bill of this kind and continues the twelve pence in the shilling. 
     
      
       According to Senator Gogarty, the Farmers' Party exists to oppose everything.  We are not opposing this Bill, despite suggestions from Deputy Hewat that we should.  I would like to point out to Deputy Hewat that the Farmers' Party has gone into the Opposition Lobby against the Government many more times than the conglomeration of units   that is known as the Independent Party in this House.  Deputy Hewat gives to the Labour Party the honour of being the official Opposition in the House.  I am not prepared to concede finally that the Labour Party is the official Opposition. 
     
     
      
       You are welcome. 
     
     
      
       I think it is a matter that is open to discussion, and it might be very hard to arrive at a definite decision.  I do not believe in opposing for the sake of opposing, and I think that the Farmers' Party support the Government when they think the Government is entitled to their support.  In regard to this question of token coinage, I happen to be in a position of knowing something about the actual handling of coinage, and I know that the question of currency is a very complicated one, and I would not like to see the Government embarking on hasty measures dealing with Irish currency. I know that the greatest authorities on such matters differ as to the most suitable currency for any country.  We have had discussion after discussion in regard to the question of currency in England.  We had men advocating a gold standard and others advocating another form of currency, but there seems to be no consensus of opinion in favour of one or the other. My reason for supporting this Bill is simply on account of its financial aspect.  The Minister stated that it is worth £600,000 to the State.  I do not place very much weight on the suggestion regarding the assertion of our separate nationality.  I think that any effort to assert our individual nationality and freedom, unless it is a real advantage to the country, will not produce any commensurate benefit to the State in the aggregate.  I deprecate the idea, which seems to be growing all over the world, of separate nationality, as I think it is interfering with trade and progress.  I maintain that these different coinage and fiscal systems on the Continent of Europe are definitely acting as a brake on ordinary trade of the different countries.  To my mind this saving of £600,000 is worth the difficulties which may be involved and   which in my opinion should not be minimised.  I think that the advantages outweigh the difficulties, but I do not agree with the President when he says that the various token coinages make no difference to travellers.  They do, and they cause inconvenience.  I know that on my trip to Geneva to the League of Nations there was much inconvenience owing to the different coinages.  You found your pockets full of Swiss and French francs, and, in passing from one country to another, and in giving tips which you were not supposed to give, you found yourself paying in Swiss francs instead of in French francs, and, I may add, there is a great deal of difference between the two. 
     
     I think the idea to be aimed at would be some form of international currency, and I think that that should be the tendency in all future developments.  The President also stated that our coinage would be freely taken in Northern Ireland. That, however, is a matter about which I have some doubt.  I know that the American nickel coinage is not taken across the border in Canada.  It is taken in the banks, but it is not really used in ordinary trade channels, and is not really accepted as a coinage to be used in the State.  I think it will be found that such difficulty will exist in regard to the circulation of coinage here.  I would like to know, as there is going to be a gain in the beginning, whether there will be a liability in future.  Will not the continued replacement of token coinage involve the State in a yearly loss?  It seems to me that that will be so, and that the gain in the initial stage may be counteracted later by the loss which will take place in the replacement of the coinage. Some Deputies have wandered into the realms of a new currency, and I would like to say that, if that question becomes a matter for consideration at any time by our Government, I think it should be considered very carefully, and I suggest that a commission might be appointed to go into the question, because the issue of new currency is a matter which is likely to cause a great deal of controversy.  I deprecate the suggestion that for farmers, or for anybody   else, a depreciated currency would be an advantage.  I think we in Ireland have great reason to be thankful that the British Government is the only Government in Europe to maintain its currency free from depreciation. 
     
      
       What about the Spaniards? 
     
     
      
       I think the Spanish coinage has depreciated. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Then I will say that the British Government is the only Government of any belligerent country which maintained its currency free from unreasonable depreciation.  Our investors who have invested money to the extent of £200,000,000 in England have good reason to be thankful to those in charge of financial affairs in Great Britain.  The effect of a depreciated currency in England would be to rob those in this country who depend largely on the incomes derived from investments in England.  If British currency depreciated it would mean that Irish investors would be robbed of something approximating to about £10,000,000 a year. 
     
     
      
       Then you would get some cheap food. 
     
     
      
       They would have nothing to pay for the food with. There is one fact which I am sure Deputy Johnson is not slow to appreciate, and that is, that it is well known that wages always lag behind depreciation. Wages hardly ever rise as quickly as currency depreciates, and any advantage which a country which depreciates its currency gains is gained at the expense of the worker. 
     
     The worker works for a lesser real wage, though larger nominally, than the worker in the country in which the currency is not depreciated.  That is one of the difficulties which England has found in maintaining her position in the world's market&mdash;of paying a wage according to the real value of her currency as against countries where the currency has been depreciated.  The President made a statement which, I think, should not go uncontradicted, because I think it is incorrect in regard   to the currency.  The President maintained that the Irish bank note issue in pre-war days was backed by an equal amount of gold reserve.  I can hardly believe that the President really means that.  He must know that the Irish banks were allowed to issue notes considerably in excess of their actual gold reserves.  I am speaking from memory, but I should say that the actual gold in the vaults of the Irish banks was not more than one-fifth. 
     
      
       They had none at all. 
     
     
      
       They had some gold reserve, anyhow.  Similarly the Bank of England, which was practically the only note-issuing bank in England, was backed up by reserves of gold which amounted to practically one-fifth of the actual issue of Bank of England notes.  To all intents and purposes the acceptance by the State of the issue of notes depends on confidence, and if at any time everyone in the State who happened to have a bank note decided to go to the bank and demand that he should be paid in gold, the banks could not pay in gold because that amount of gold would not be available.  Again, we know that at a time of crisis people rush to the banks to get their notes cashed in gold.  We know that the English Bank Acts have had to be temporarily suspended in order to prevent the closing down of the banks.  I am only making these points in order to show that this currency question is a very complicated one, and that this issue of token coinage should not be taken in any way as a forerunner of the issue of an Irish currency until that matter has received every possible consideration, until the people have had an opportunity of discussing it backwards and forwards, and until the people have had a chance of forming a definite opinion on it as to whether it is advisable or otherwise.  I think the suggestion put forward by Deputy Mulcahy is one that should receive consideration. I think it should receive consideration before we embark on this new token coinage&mdash;I refer to the question of decimal coinage.  In connection with that, I think the question of having   a decimal system for our weights and measures should also be considered. As the Deputy pointed out, there are many difficulties in the way of such a move, but on examination it may be found that the advantages will outweigh the difficulties just as the advantages in this particular case may be said to outweigh the difficulties in regard to the issue of these token coins. 
     
     
      
       I do not intend to say much about this, because I have no exaggerated idea of the importance of this Bill and no misunderstanding as to the question of a token coinage Bill like this being mixed up with the general currency question.  I rise rather to emphasise the very clear and strong words of the Minister for Finance and the President in that connection.  So long as it is appreciated, everywhere, that this is a matter quite apart from the general currency position I take it there is very little real risk in the Bill. But I do not agree with the Minister for Finance when he says that there are no detriments attaching to this token coinage, and to the profit it will bring.  I think he might consider, carefully, the speech of Deputy Wilson and when he considers the arguments, and the trend of that speech, he will see that the Bill itself has already brought forward an indication of what possible detriments there may be in the Bill, and he will be exposed to such like arguments from many quarters probably in the future.  I do not attribute to the President or the Minister for Finance a readiness to take the cash and let the credit come.  There may be the reverse.  They have made quite clear that their thoughts are not tending in connection with the currency in such a way as to diminsh our credit.  But there is danger, and there is no use minimising it, that there will be many who will see in this the thin end of the wedge.  Let us be very clear that this has nothing whatever to do with the currency position and cannot be the thin end of the wedge, and I then think that danger is eliminated.  I think we ought to be clear what this £600,000 really means in the way of profit.  I hope I am right about it.  The President says that he and the Ministry   of Finance have had two years to consider this matter, but they have only given us about a week, so that if I say anything wrong I hope they will not be too hard upon me after such comparatively short consideration.  The way it appears to me is very much like the way it appears to Deputy Heffernan. 
       We really make a loan and posterity will have to pay for it sooner or later. We get £600,000 now for very little interest&mdash;the interest will be the annual cost of the upkeep of the currency. We shall have to pay for coins; that is the way this £600,000 will ultimately give us a profit, and we shall pay for them annually.  You cannot by juggle like this make money.  It is not production. You get the advantage of this money, and it has to come from somewhere. If the time should come when we have got to change our currency for a decimal point currency, or for other reasons, then in that particular year the particular charge on the country would be heavy.  You have half-crowns now, and you will have to withdraw them and issue other coins, and you will not make a profit that time. You make this profit once for all anticipated payment; but I believe it is only in that way.  I do not attach a great deal of importance to the Bill.  I do think there are drawbacks and detriments. There are inconveniences in the matter, both to ourselves and to others. You will find people getting their pockets full of nickel and thinking they are rich and being disappointed when they find they are not, and unless there is some marked distinction between the nickel and silver there will be distinct confusion between the two.  If this Bill goes to a vote, I think I will vote against it.  I like the £600,000, no doubt, and I like to get a loan on small interest, but it will be small, and I am not at all satisfied that the present value of this money is worth the detriment that, to my mind, will certainly follow by the introduction of this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I would like to deal with General Mulcahy's suggestion that we should have considered the introduction of decimal coinage.  We did consider that, but we felt that it was   really a different matter.  It is a matter that, even if we had already our own coinage, would meet with a certain amount of opposition and would cause a considerable amount of inconvenience. We thought that the better thing for us to do, in view of the fact that certain classes in the country have an attitude of opposition or, at any rate, entertain apprehensions about this matter&mdash;which I do not think are reasonable but which are not apprehensions to be ignored&mdash;was to have simply our own token coinage and not to deal with the question of decimalising at the present.  There are difficulties in creating a decimal system that would be fairly obvious.  You would have to make arrangements for certain contracts which would involve the payment of a certain number of pence, for instance. If an account were due to some contractor and that the figure was £1 2s. 1d., you would not have any coin in which to pay the exact sum of one penny, and you would have to make arrangements in your Bill for varying that. 
     
     If you made a penny the tenth of a shilling&mdash;that would be the easier way of decimalising&mdash;one of the effects would be that if a thing cost a twelfth of a shilling the public would have to pay one-tenth of a shilling, and that would be putting, in actual practice, a burden on the people for the benefit of the retailer.  I do not feel that on the whole it would be desirable to do that. The issue of coinage in the twentieth of a pound, in shillings and pence does not so seriously prejudice a change in future if it were considered desirable to change because the cost of changing silver and the issuing of new silver for instance would only be about 5 per cent. of the face value.  That is the cost of minting.  It would not be so difficult at all to re-mint our silver if we decided to withdraw silver in circulation and issue new silver coins.  In the case of bronze coins of course the percentage would be much greater, but the total cost of minting bronze coins would vary from about one-tenth.  In the case of farthings it would be very high, but the amount would not be so great.  It would be possible to re-issue the entire bronze coinage at a cost of about   £24,000 if at some future period it were decided to decimalise it, so that there are not such very large sums involved as to tie us for ever to a non-decimal coinage. 
     We certainly feel that the difficulties that, on ordinary business transactions, it would give rise to at the moment, are such that we should be content to leave things as they are.  Deputy Heffernan indicated that the cost of replacing worn coins would be very heavy.  As a matter of fact I do not believe that the cost of replacing of worn coins would be anything at all if we take into account the coins that will be actually lost, that would be lost in drains and so on, and that would disappear from circulation.  Taking these into account there would be, as a matter of fact, a small annual profit.  The cost of replacing coin withdrawn from circulation is only the cost of minting, something like 5 or 6 per cent. of the face value of the coin.  Coins do not become worn, if you have good coins, for a very considerable number of years.  I am not prepared to say what is the average life of a coin in circulation, but it might be 20 years or perhaps a good deal more.  If you assume that it is 20 years, the cost of replacing worn coins would be only one-twentieth of the face value of your total coinage for every year.  No expense ought to be anticipated but a small profit, perhaps £10,000 a year, on the annual issue of coinage. 
     I do not agree with Deputy Thrift that there is any question of posterity going to pay.  Some form of token coins will always be required.  I do not see any circumstances in which, approximately, we will not have this amount of token coinage.  If our population were to shrink to one million or half-a-million we might require a great deal less token coinage, and might have to call it in and pay people in full legal tender, but I do not anticipate that.  Nobody has refused to believe that the new postage stamps suffice to carry a letter to its destination, and no more will anyone refuse to accept the coinage. 
     I think the other points raised by Deputies have been answered.  I do not anticipate that there will be any   trouble at all in getting people to accept the coins.  I think they will be accepted with complete readiness. Currency notes were accepted, and I am quite confident that there will be no reluctance in accepting this coinage. As to people who are continually crossing the Border, I believe they will naturally use and accept both British coins and our coins indiscriminately. People are doing business on both sides of the Border, and no trouble will arise as far as they are concerned.  As to the occasional traveller who comes from Liverpool to Dublin, or the man who travels occasionally from Dublin to Belfast, or somewhere on the other side of the Border, very little trouble will arise.  Such a man can easily change a ten-shilling note or a pound note, and get the silver he requires any place he goes.  At the present time, as Deputies are aware, if you go into a shop in England and produce an Irish bank note they do not want it, but if you are lunching on the train going from Holyhead to London, and produce an Irish bank note, no question is asked. It is accepted the same as a Treasury note, or as silver.  You will find, where there is a good deal of resort, and where people are accustomed to handling the coinage of another country, that the coinage will be accepted. 
     I appreciate the fact that any change of this sort which might be misunderstood, or, above all, which might be misrepresented, has to be considered very carefully.  As a matter of fact, this particular proposal was considered very carefully, and all sorts of people were asked for their views in writing on it.  People whose views would be valuable, and who have given study to the matter, were asked for their views in writing, and precautions were taken that would not be taken normally. That sort of precaution is very desirable, but there is no use, on the other hand, in sounding the alarmist trumpet about every change that is made. There are some people who think we are faced with national disaster, and that the country is going to the dogs when anything is changed, even though the change may be something that follows very naturally, indeed, what has   gone before.  I think that if ever there is any panic on financial matters in this country, the panic will not be caused by anything the Government may do, or by anything in the nature of the case, but will be caused by the people who are always looking for us to do something that is unjustifiable, rash, and entirely harmful. 
     We were asked what was the urgency about this.  I never suggested urgency.  I have not asked for Standing Orders to be suspended.  I have not asked for any privileges from the Ceann Comhairle in the matter.  The Bill is brought in and there is no plea of urgency made.  I think the questions are why should we do this thing at all; why should we not postpone it for ever; why should we make any change, asking those questions in such a way as not to come up against arguments that have been already set up in reply to those arguments that it is the natural thing to do, that it is proper that there should be an Irish coinage, and that there is a substantial sum of money to be gained in quite a proper way, in a way that is gained by every Government that has issued token coinage. 
     
      
       I beg the Minister's pardon.  I was not in when he commenced his speech.  May I ask him whether he is in a position to state whether he has come to any arrangement in regard to the interchange of these coins? 
     
     
      
       Certainly not. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister give us an assurance that this Bill, as has been pointed out, is not a steppingstone to a change in the currency? 
     
     
      
       The Minister could not give such an assurance. 
     
     
      
       I spoke for five minutes on that question, and I am sure it will appear in the official report. I do not think I could add anything to what I have said. 
       Question put and declared carried. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Wednesday, 3rd February. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.30 p.m. until 3 o'clock on Thursday, 28th January. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - WOOD-RENTON COMMISSION AWARD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Wood-Renton Commission in 1923 made an award of £40 8s. 6d. compensation, and interest at 5 per cent. from August 1st, 1923, and £6 1s. 3d. costs and expenses, in favour of Mr. Michael Gowen, merchant, Fermoy, and notified his Department accordingly; whether a second award of £110 compensation, and interest at 5 per cent. from June 1st, 1925, and £3 3s. costs and expenses, was also made in favour of Mr. Gowen by this Commission, and his Department notified in August, 1925; whether these claims have yet been paid, and, if not, whether he will now have payment expedited; and whether he can state if a defended decree of the Recorder of Cork on October 23rd, 1919, for the sum of £42 compensation, and £6 1s. 10d. costs and expenses, in favour of Mr. Gowen for damage to his premises in September, 1919, has yet been paid. 
     
     
      
       Both of the awards referred to by the Deputy, as well as the defended decree mentioned, have been discharged long since; the latest payment (i.e., of the second award) being made in full to the claimant as far back as September last. 
       Discharge of the other two cases was effected in part by payments made to the Revenue Commissioners and the White Cross Trustees, but the claimant's solicitor was duly advised of these payments at the time. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - FORESHORE AND WHARVES AT COBH. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he can state if the bed and foreshore of the Cambers adjoining East and West Beach and The Mall at Cobh, the foreshore from Whitepoint to Cuskinny Bay at Cobh, the piers, quays, wharfs, dolphins, and slipways along the foreshore between the places above mentioned, are now the property of the Saorstat under Article 11 of the Constitution, and whether the State or the Port Authority is now responsible for the dredging, care and maintenance of these Cambers, wharfs, dolphins, piers, quays, slipways, etc. 
     
     
      
       I regret that it is not possible to reply in detail to a question of this nature.  The investigation of title is a matter which involves considerable research and difficulty. Generally speaking, however, the Deputy may assume that all foreshore not alienated from the Crown before the date of the coming into operation of the Constitution is now the property of the State. 
       If the Deputy will communicate with me as to a convenient time, I will arrange for an officer of my Department to explain the position in such detail as is possible. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF LEIX ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether an offer has yet been made to the owner of the Kilkelly Estate, Ballickmoyler, Leix, and if same has been accepted, and whether, in view of the fact that this estate has been inspected over a year ago, he will give instructions to have the lands acquired and divided without further delay. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission issued a proposal to purchase the untenanted lands of Ballickmoyler and Rathtillig on the Kilkelly Estate, Co. Leix, but this proposal has not yet been accepted by the owners. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - AN EDENDERRY ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if an   offer has yet been made for the Rathvilla Estate, Edenderry, Offaly, and if same has been accepted, and if the lands are likely to be divided amongst the local uneconomic holders and landless men in the early part of the present year. 
     
     
      
       The estate referred to cannot be identified from the particulars given in the Question.  The Deputy has been so informed and requested to furnish additional particulars. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVIDING A DURROW ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if an offer has yet been made for the estate of Messrs. Maher Bros. (Ashbrook Estate), Durrow, Leix, and whether same has been accepted, and also whether he will direct he Land Commission to expedite the division of these lands amongst the large number of local uneconomic holders and landless men. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission issued a proposal to purchase the untenanted lands of Knockamoran, on the estate of Michael Maher (formerly Ashbrook), Co. Leix, but this proposal was not accepted by the owner. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TURBARY RIGHTS ON LEIX ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commission have yet been furnished with their Inspectors' report in connection with a dispute regarding rights of turbary on the estate of Richard Carter, Leix, and if he is now in a position to state whether the Land Commission intends to exercise the powers conferred upon them under Section 42 of the Land Act, 1923, or what, if any, action they intend to take in the matter of this old-outstanding dispute. 
     
     
      
       The report of the Land Commission Inspector has been received regarding the turbary on the estate of Richard Carter, and the matter is under the consideration of the Commissioners. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TURBARY ON DOWNSHIRE ESTATE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commission has so far received their Inspectors' report in connection with a dispute regarding rights of turbary on the Downshire Estate, Edenderry, Offaly (County Offaly Record No. 4179), and, if so, whether the Land Commission intend to exercise the powers conferred upon them under Section 42 of the Land Act, 1923, or what, if any, action they intend to take in this matter. 
     
     
      
       The Inspector's report has been received, and the matter is under the consideration of the Land Commission. 
     
   
 