 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISTRESS IN WESTMEATH AND LONGFORD. 
     
      
       asked the President if he is aware of the acute distress that prevails amongst all sections of the working-classes in Westmeath and Longford, and if it is likely that a substantial grant will be given to the councils of the counties mentioned for relief work therein; whether he has received a resolution unanimously adopted at a public meeting in Moate asking for a grant for the relief of distress among the workers of South Westmeath, and, if so, what steps he proposes to take in the matter; and, further, if the relief work cannot be started immediately, whether he will have legislation introduced to grant unemployment benefit to every man and woman, whether insured or not, who can prove that they are unemployed through no fault of their own. 
     
     
      
       Grants of £2,500 and £2,000 from the Relief Schemes Vote were recently notified to the county councils of Westmeath and Longford, respectively.  Grants of £300 were also made to each of the urban districts of Granard, Longford and Athlone. 
       The resolution referred to by the Deputy was received, but it is not now possible to make any further allocations from the Relief Schemes Vote. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNDECLARED DUTIABLE GOODS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if, when undeclared   dutiable goods are found on or belonging to persons crossing the border, preventive officers request payment of duty on the articles in question, or whether a prosecution for smuggling or attempted smuggling normally follows. 
     
     
      
       Officers of Customs do not request payment of duty on articles liable to duty discovered in the possession of persons entering the Saorstat, across the land frontier, or otherwise, which are not declared and produced to the officers.  Non-declaration and non-production in such cases indicate attempted smuggling, and the goods, being forfeitable, are seized.  The question of proceedings against the persons concerned depends on the circumstances of each individual case. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TIPPERARY DRAINAGE SCHEMES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state the number of drainage schemes under the Drainage Maintenance Act, 1925, submitted to his Department by the County Councils of North and South Tipperary; which, if any, of these schemes have been approved by the Board of Works, and whether work has been started on any schemes approved. 
     
     
      
       Fifteen petitions have been received from County Tipperary under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, fourteen for the North Riding and one for the South Riding. Three of the former, the Nenagh, Newport, and Suir rivers, having been selected for early inspection, one of the Board's engineers proceeded to Nenagh for the purpose last week.  A preliminary inspection has already been carried out on the Multeen River (S.R.) and a survey and valuation will be made of the district in due course. 
       So far, none of the proposals put forward under the Act has been approved, and even after such approval the preparation of the schemes and the various preliminaries which have to be gone through will take a considerable time, so that it is expected that little actual work will be started this year. 
     
     
        As regards proceedings in County Tipperary under the Drainage Maintenance Act, 1924, last year the Clidiagh drainage district was restored at a cost of approximately £1,200, of which sum the Government contributed 25 per cent. 
     Under the same Act sanction has also been given for the following proposed works of restoration:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Drainage District. 
             Cost. 
             Government Grant. 
           
         
         
           
             Kilmastulla 
             £5,800 
             331/3 p.c. 
           
           
             Shinrone 
             2,500 
             25&nbsp; p.c. 
           
           
             Kilbride 
             £2,700 
             25&nbsp; p.c. 
           
         
       
     
     The latter two districts are situated partly in Co. Tipperary.  These works will, it is hoped, be carried out this year.  Two other districts in the county have been inspected and are at present under consideration. 
     
      
       Am I to understand that it is not likely that any drainage works under the 1925 Act will be carried out this year in Tipperary? 
     
     
      
       No, not very likely. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know from the Minister if that does not indicate unnecessary delay on the part of the Office of Public Works? Some of the schemes are very urgent. 
     
     
      
       It does not indicate undue delay. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister in a position to state whether he will give more grants towards the carrying out of work under the 1924 Act? 
     
     
      
       All the work that can possibly be done under the 1924 Act will be done.  Last year a very considerable amount of work was done; in fact, as many as 2,700 men were employed during the summer, and work will be continued on something like the same scale during the coming summer. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister supply us with details connected with drainage schemes that are being carried out?  There has been great delay. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy should refer to the Act. 
     
     
      
       Are we to infer from the Minister's reply that no work will be undertaken in any part of the country this year under the 1925 Act? 
     
     
      
       I would not go so far as that.  Not a great deal of work can be carried out. 
     
     
      
       Does it usually take twelve to fifteen months from the time notice is served on the county council before any work is commenced? 
     
     
      
       I do not think I said anything that would entitle the Deputy to infer that.  During the present summer not a great deal of work will be carried out, because of necessary delays in the preparation of schemes and in the arrangement of other formalities. 
     
     
      
       I know some schemes have been promulgated as far back as last September.  Is there any likelihood that they will be carried out this year? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will have to put down questions relative to particular schemes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TIRCONAILL PERSONAL INJURIES CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the reason why compensation was refused to Thomas O'Callaghan, assistant creamery manager, on his claim for personal injuries sustained at the hands of British Forces at Inver, Co. Tirconaill, on April 4th, 1921, and if he will further consider the claim. 
     
     
      
       The application of the person named by the Deputy was fully and carefully considered by the Compensation (Personal Injuries) Committee.  On the statement presented to them in the application form, and as a result of investigations which they caused to be made, the Committee were satisfied that any injuries sustained by the applicant were not of a serious or permanent nature and that no loss of earning capacity resulted   therefrom.  They accordingly recommended that no compensation should be paid.  I agree with the finding of the Committee in this case and I am not prepared to take the course suggested by the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PHOENIX PARK CRICKET GROUNDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will make arrangements for the restoration of the public cricket grounds convenient to the Wellington Monument in the Phoenix Park. 
     
     
      
       The demand for cricket facilities was not found to be sufficient to justify the maintenance of the enclosure referred to and the surrounding fence, which was falling into disrepair, was accordingly removed. The ground has not been allocated to any other purpose, but forms part of the open park, and it is not considered that any sufficient reason has been shown for re-enclosing it. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state whether he has received any applications within the past twelve months from junior clubs for the restoration of these grounds?  I know there is a great demand for their restoration. 
     
     
      
       Personally I have not received any applications. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister kindly make inquiries whether such applications have gone to his Department? I did not ask if he received them personally. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEGACY DUTY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if in the case of the estate of Michael Behan, Mount Bolus, Offaly, the Commissioners of Income Tax have charged legacy duty on the bequest for masses, and if it is the custom of the Commissioners to charge duty on all such legacies. 
     
     
      
       The case of Michael Behan cannot be traced.  Possibly the Deputy refers to the case of James   Behan, late of the same address, in which legacy duty has been charged in respect of the bequest of £120, contained in his will for masses to be celebrated by priests appointed by the executors of the testator. 
       A legacy for masses is chargeable with legacy duty unless the will by which it is bequeathed contains a direction that the masses are to be celebrated in Ireland, in which case the legacy comes within the exemption conferred by Section 38 of the Stamp Duties (Ireland) Act, 1842, on legacies for charitable purposes in Ireland. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SECOND VALUATION OF APPROVED SOCIETIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state what is the reason for the delay in making known the results of the second valuation of Approved Societies under the National Health Insurance Acts, and whether, in view of the fact that otherwise all additional benefits will cease and no new additional benefits can be paid from July next, he will arrange for the results of the valuation to be made known without delay. 
     
     
      
       The full material required for valuation will not be available until the apportionment of the funds of Approved Societies and branches by the National Health Insurance (International Arrangements) Board has been completed. This apportionment was rendered necessary by the severance of the system of National Health Insurance in Great Britain and Northern Ireland from that in Saorstat Eireann on the 1st April, 1922. 
       The preliminary work necessary for the valuation is, however, well advanced. It is expected that the results will be available in sufficient time to enable societies and branches with disposable surpluses to adopt schemes of additional benefits to come into force on the 4th of July next when existing schemes will cease to operate. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HEALTH INSURANCE&mdash;COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister   for Finance whether he can give any indication as to when the final report of the Committee inquiring into Health Insurance may be expected. 
     
     
      
       I regret that at the moment I am unable to indicate when the final report of the Committee may be expected. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister in a position to say whether there is any legislation in prospect based upon the interim report? 
     
     
      
       The question of legislation is at present under consideration. 
     
     
      
       From that may we take it that there is not likely to be any legislation introduced in the near future? 
     
     
      
       I cannot make any further comment. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMPENSATION AWARDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state what is the number of awards of sums exceeding five hundred pounds, and of sums not exceeding five hundred pounds, made under Part II. of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, and what is the total sum involved in the awards under each of those heads. 
     
     
      
       Owing to the fact that a number of awards have not yet been lodged in my Department, it is possible to give the Deputy only such figures as can be calculated from the awards actually under the notice of the Department.  Calculating on payments made up to 15th January last, the approximate figures are: Number of awards of £500 and over&mdash;540, total amount&mdash;£1,200,000; number of awards less than £500&mdash;15,000, total amount&mdash; £1,250,000. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - AWARDS CONTAINING REINSTATEMENT CONDITIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state how many awards under Part II. of the Damage to Property (Compensation;   Act, 1923, contain reinstatement conditions, and what is the total amount awarded subject to such conditions. 
     
     
      
       Up to the 28th ultimo the number of decrees and reports which had been lodged in my Department and to which reinstatement conditions were attached, was approximately 880, and the amount subject to reinstatement approximately £1,200,000. Further awards subject to reinstatement have, no doubt, been made by the courts, but have not so far been lodged. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONFISCATED GUN AND AMMUNITION (ATHLONE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that a gun and cartridges valued at £15 12s. 9d., the property of Mr. Thomas Plunkett, Tullywood, Baylin, Athlone, was confiscated by Irish Volunteers on July 7th, 1920, and, if the gun cannot be returned, whether the claimant will receive compensation; that on November 19th, 1924, it was stated that the claim in respect of these articles was transferred from the Department of Defence to his Department for reference to the Committee appointed under the Indemnity Act, 1924, and if he is in a position to announce a decision in this case. 
     
     
      
       The claim referred to by the Deputy was duly considered by the Committee appointed under the Indemnity Act, and a paying order in discharge of the claim was sent to the applicant on 19th ultimo. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRESERVATION OF GAME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he can state when the Bill dealing with the preservation of game will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       Conferences have been held with persons and associations interested in the question of game preservation, and the heads of a Bill have been prepared.  Owing to the demands upon the Parliamentary draftsman, I could not fix an exact date for the introduction of the Bill.  I hope to introduce it within the next two months   so that it will come into force before the end of the present close season. 
       This is a Bill which, perhaps, might appropriately be introduced in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       Amongst the persons with whom the Minister discussed the question of game preservation, was there any representative of the farmers or of farmers' organisations? 
     
     
      
       I discussed the matter with many farmers. 
     
     
      
       That is not an answer to my question.  I asked if the Minister discussed the matter with a representative of the Farmers' Organisation. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister discuss the heads of the Bill with representatives of the Irish Coursing Club? 
     
     
      
       I think that I am entitled to an answer.  The Minister stated he discussed the matter with many farmers.  He did not say if he discussed it with representatives of the Farmers' Organisation. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has not given the Minister a second chance. 
     
     
      
       Several questions have been asked.  There was a deputation received from the Irish Coursing Club, which is largely composed of farmers.  I do not know whether it could be called a farmers' organisation. 
     
     
      
       Twin sisters. 
     
     
      
       In connection with this Bill I am prepared to give consideration to any memorandum that may be sent in.  There seems to be no special reason for receiving a deputation from farmers' associations in connection with it.  It is sometimes necessary to make the sending in of a memorandum a condition precedent to any consideration of the question of a deputation.  If a memorandum is submitted, and if I form the view from it that a deputation would be of use, then no doubt, I would say so. 
     
     
     
      
       Perhaps I will be allowed to make a slight explanation. This matter of game preservation cannot adequately be carried out without the co-operation of the farmers.  Conferences have been held, but the information the Minister has obtained has been obtained from sources which are not representative of the farmers. 
     
     
      
       The chief trouble in this country is to know who are the farmers. 
     
     
      
       Are there any in the Farmers' Organisation? 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister indicate if there is any special connection between the Seanad and the preservation of game?  Why would the Bill be more appropriately introduced there? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A TRIM ARREST. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that a young man named James Sefton, Mill Street, Trim, was arrested on January 7th, 1926, and detained for seven days on suspicion of having taken part in an armed raid at Dunderry; that he was acquitted at the end of the seven days by District Justice Goff; whether he is aware that, as a result, Mr. Sefton, who was on his way to Queensland, missed the boat sailing from Tilbury Docks on 9th January, 1926, and that he was at a loss of a considerable sum of money, and whether he will consider compensating him. 
     
     
      
       James Sefton was arrested on a reasonable suspicion of having committed a felony, namely, armed robbery, and was duly remanded in custody by a Peace Commissioner to a District Court.  The period of remand was seven days. When the case came before the Justice of the District Court, he refused informations and Sefton was discharged. It is not proposed to compensate Sefton. 
     
     
      
       Is a citizen of Saorstat   Eireann, who is about to leave the country in order to better himself in a foreign State, not to be protected against information being given to the authorities of this State by persons who may, in a sense, be biased against him or have some spite against him, which they want to operate at a moment when it is very detrimental to the subject? 
     
     
      
       It may sometimes be necessary to arrest citizens of Saorstat Eireann about to leave the country, having bettered themselves in this State by questionable methods. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say if it would not be proper or just to produce the people who, it is alleged, gave information which led to the arrest of Mr. Sefton and make them prove the evidence they submitted? 
     
     
      
       Has a Peace Commissioner the power to return a man in custody without evidence? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       It is well to keep clear of them then. 
     
     
      
       This is a matter of great public importance and I would like to stress it.  I should like the Minister to be a little more explicit. 
     
     
      
       He is explicit enough. 
     
     
      
       Let us assume that one man has an ill-feeling against another and he sees that there is an opportunity of doing that man very serious harm; let us assume, as in the case of Sefton, that the man was leaving the country to go to Queensland and that the information was given two hours before he left his native town&mdash;should that information be sufficient to detain that man so that he would lose his passage and the money that he has expended to enable him to travel to Queensland.  Will the Minister say if it is proper and right that people who give information on those lines should not be produced?  The Garda Siochana state they got information from certain persons.  Why are these people not produced? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT FUND REVENUE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state what was the revenue received by the Unemployment Fund from contributions by employers, employed persons, and the State, respectively, during the twelve months ended December 31st, 1925. 
     
     
      
       During the twelve months ended 31st December, 1925, the Unemployment Fund received the sum of £619,000 in respect of contributions by employers and employed persons, and the sum of £220,000 as State Grant.  Under the present system of accounting it is not possible to give the exact amounts paid by employers and employees respectively.  It is estimated, however, that of the sum of £619,000, £328,000 represents contributions paid by employers, and £291,000 contributions paid by employed persons. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COLLINSTOWN (KILDARE) UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that James Dowling, Calverstown, Collinstown, Co. Kildare, Serial No. 3183, Droichead Nua Branch Office, who lodged a claim to unemployment insurance benefit on the 31st December, 1925, has been refused payment, although he has nine months stamps to his credit, on the grounds that in the interval between spells of employment applicant has little enough time to spare for the purpose of attending to his farm and that it cannot be said, therefore, that he is unemployed and unable to obtain suitable employment; whether he is aware that Mr. Dowling could not possibly live on this area of very poor land and that he was almost entirely dependent on County Council work, which has been stopped owing to shortage of funds, and whether, in view of the fact that he has had no money to live on for the last two months, and also that he was compelled to pay unemployment insurance, he will have the case reconsidered with a view to payment. 
     
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit made on the 31st December, 1925, by James Dowling, of Calverstown, Collinstown, Co. Kildare, was disallowed by the insurance officer on the grounds that the claimant was not unemployed and not unable to obtain suitable employment. In exercise of his statutory right, the claimant appealed from this decision to the Court of Referees, which, having considered all the facts and circumstances, recommended that the claim should be disallowed.  This recommendation the insurance officer accepted and consequently the claim remains disallowed.  The decision could only be revised on the submission of fresh facts, which have not so far been before the insurance officer or Court of Referees. 
       The payment of unemployment benefit can be authorised only when all the statutory conditions for the receipt of benefit are fulfilled and the claimant is free from statutory disqualification. Two of the conditions laid down in Section 7 of the Act of 1920 are that the claimant must be unemployed and unable to obtain suitable employment.  In the present case, Mr. Dowling was unable to satisfy the insurance officer or the Court of Referees that he fulfilled those two conditions.  It does not fall to the insurance officer or the Court of Referees to ascertain whether a claimant is able to live on his land or not, but if the land which he occupies affords remunerative employment it cannot be said that he is unable to obtain suitable employment. 
     
     
      
       Would the land give him remunerative employment during the months of January and February, suppose he were working on the land?  Surely a man is entitled to benefit when you take nine months' stamps from him and, as stated in the question, the grounds of refusal were that &ldquo;in the interval between spells of employment applicant has little enough time to spare for the purpose of attending to his farm and it cannot be said, therefore, that he is unemployed and unable to obtain suitable   employment.&rdquo;  That is totally different from the reply the Minister has given. 
     
     
      
       I do not follow the last piece of reasoning.  To deal with the earlier questions, there is a code&mdash;the Unemployment Insurance Code&mdash;and there are certain ways in which decisions made by the insurance officer may be tested.  The claimant here availed of all his statutory rights in the way of appeal and in the way of getting the case taken further.  He has been turned down pretty well at every step.  The Deputy says he wants to know how it would be possible for the claimant to live on this land in certain months.  Presumably that is exactly what the insurance officer and the Court of Referees had to be satisfied about.  And they were satisfied on that point.  As regards the question of the nine months' stamps, the applicant might have had stamps for 15 years back and it would add nothing to the case.  He has either statutory disqualifications or he has not.  If there are statutory disqualifications, no benefit can be paid.  As far as the other matters are concerned, I have to carry out the Act.  The Act lays down certain things.  The claimant has availed of his rights and his claim has been disallowed. 
     
     
      
       In cases where people are compelled to pay for unemployment insurance stamps and then are not entitled to benefit, will the Minister have the amount paid refunded and will he exempt them in the future from this payment? 
     
     
      
       That is a misreading of the Act.  A person is not entitled to have contributions paid for him if he is engaged in an occupation which is not insurable.  This is a mixed case&mdash;the case of a man who has been engaged during certain periods of the year in employment which was insurable. He has land to which at other times he can go back, and it is there that the statutory disqualification arises.  If the Deputy thinks that it is a case in which contributions have wrongly been paid, the man has his remedy.  But he will have to prove that his occupation, right through the year,   was not insurable, and in this case he would have a difficulty in doing that. 
     
     
      
       What is the valuation of a piece of land belonging to a man who works partly on the road and partly on the land which will disqualify him from receiving unemployment insurance benefit? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy put the question in another way, and on a different occasion, as to what was the highest valuation on which there is a decided case holding that it involved disqualification, I could answer.  This is a matter that depends to a great extent on circumstances.  A 50-acre farm might be found not to be sufficient to provide statutory disqualification, while in other circumstances a five-acre farm might give rise to disqualification. 
     
     
      
       What I asked was in regard to the valuation.  I quite agree that a 50-acre farm might not bring statutory disqualification, but in other cases you have a farm which only supports two young cattle which may bring disqualification.  Will the Minister say what the amount of the valuation is which imposes disqualification in the case of a man working partly on the roads and on his own farm, when road work is not available? 
     
     
      
       I can only answer the query as it pertains to this case.  The valuation here was £3 15s. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister refund the money the man has paid? 
     
     
      
       If it can be taken from me by legal means, it will have to go back to the claimant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARTHURSTOWN (WEXFORD) APPLICATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why payment of unemployment benefit is not being paid to Mary Carey, Kilhile, Arthurstown, Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit made by Mary   Carey, of Kilhile, Arthurstown, Co. Wexford, on the 24th November, 1925, was disallowed by the insurance officer in accordance with Section 7 (1) (iii) on the ground that the claimant was incapable of work.  The claimant was duly notified of the disallowance and of her right of appeal to the court of referees within twenty-one days.  She has not appealed from the decision and the claim therefore remains disallowed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INSPECTION OF SAW MILLS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether saw mills on agricultural estates are liable to be visited by factory inspectors under the Factory and Workshops Acts, 1901 to 1920, and whether, in that event, he will consider the advisability of introducing an amending Bill to render those Acts more suitable to the conditions of such saw mills. 
     
     
      
       Saw mills on agricultural estates are liable to be visited by factory inspectors if they come within the scope of the Factory and Workshop Acts, 1901 to 1920.  Such saw mills on premises not otherwise under the Acts are not regarded as coming within the Acts if they are used solely for the estate to which they belong and not for manufacture for sale. I am not aware of any good reason why the law should not be the same for all saw mills engaged in manufacture for sale. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say if he is prepared to introduce amending legislation as regards requiring a certificate for means of escape in case of fire in respect of a shed which is open on three sides; also whether he will introduce amending legislation as to the necessity of informing his Ministry of the rural district council in whose area his saw mills are situate, when the rural district councils were abolished a year ago; and does he not think that these Acts require revision in these respects? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must be aware personally that there has been no embarrassment to the Department in prosecuting a certain individual   by reason of the fact that the district councils have been abolished. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister answer the first portion of the supplementary question? 
     
     
      
       I think the fire has ample means of escape, and there is, therefore, no necessity for an answer. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PARTICULARS OF PROTECTED INDUSTRIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will issue to the Dail before the Minister for Finance makes his Budget statement a comprehensive return giving all available information in regard to the industries which are at present protected in the Saorstat, and showing&mdash;(1) the number of persons employed in each industry at the date of issuing the return as contrasted with the number employed at the date of the passing of protective tariffs; (2) the comparative retail prices of the protected goods manufactured now and at the time of the passing of the tariffs; (3)  the comparative retail prices of similar articles as manufactured in England; and if he will state the effect of protective tariffs on the prices of imported articles which are subject to an import duty, e.g., the prices charged for such articles in England and the prices charged for the same articles in Ireland. 
     
     
     
      
       I will circulate with the Official Report a Table giving particulars, so far as the information is available, of the number of persons employed in the protected industries on the dates when protected industries on the dates when protection was instituted and on a recent date. 
       I regret that I cannot give any of the other figures demanded.  Particulars are not available of retail prices either now or in the past, except in so far as such particulars are obtained for and used in the quarterly report on the cost of living.  Such particulars do not distinguish between home-manufactured and imported articles.  A glance at the list of protected industries will show that they produce an immense variety of different articles and of different qualities of the same article. These are retailed at different prices in a large number of shops throughout the Saorstat.  It would be impracticable except at the cost of prolonged inquiry to compile any dependable figures showing comparative prices now and at some date in the past. 
       The last part of the question asks me to do in respect of protected goods what I explained on the 3rd February in reply to a question by the Deputy as to the cost of living to be impossible. If it is impracticable to compile dependable figures of retail prices for such an immense number of articles in this country, it is still more impracticable to ascertain them in another country and even if they were obtained there could be no assurance that they applied to the same quality goods. 
     
     
       
        The following is the return:&mdash; 
     PROTECTED INDUSTRIES. 
     Return based on the available information at the date of the institution of protection and at a recent date. 
     FINANCE ACT, 1925. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY 
             Persons employed on Ist April,'25 mainly working part-time. 
             Persons employed on Ist Nov., '25 (working full time). 
             Increase 
             Increase calculated on basis of full time employment. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             (1) 
             (2) 
             (3) 
             (4) 
           
           
             1.  Wholesale Clothing (i.e., Men's &amp; Boys' Factory - Made Clothing) 
             845 
             (a) 1366 
             521 
             766 
           
           
             2.  Shirtmaking 
             810 
             (a) 1099 
             299 
             699 
           
           
             3.  Hosiery 
             988 
             (a) 1215 
             227 
             715 
           
           
             4.  Hats and Caps 
             89 
             90 
             1 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             5.  Umbrellas 
             45 
             47 
             2 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             6.  Tie-making 
             101 
             113 
             12 
             12 
           
           
             7.  Blanket Making 
             229 
             431 
             202 
             301 
           
           
             8.  Furniture 
             482 
             798 
             316 
             498 
           
           
             9.  Metallic Bedsteads 
             24 
             125 
             101 
             101 
           
           
             10.  Brush Making 
             195 
             277 
             82 
             157 
           
           
             11.  Tailors, Dress - makers, &amp; c. 
             Not available. 
             Not available. 
             &mdash; 
             300 (b)  
           
           
             12.  Corset Making 
             Nil. 
             Nil. 
             &mdash; 
             80 (c)  
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             3,629 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     (a)  The 1st November, the date on which the employment returns were compiled, is the slackest period of the year, and it is estimated that at the 1st March, 1926, there would be increases in employment of about 300 workers. 
     (b)  Estimated.  These trades are carried on in so many establishments, large and small, that comprehensive figures have not yet been obtained. 
     (c)  Estimated.  New Industry. 
     
       
        FINANCE ACT, 1924. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY. 
             Persons employed on 1st April, '24 mainly working part-time 
             Persons employed on 1st January, 1926 
             Increase 
             Increase calculated on basis of full-time employment 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             (1) 
             (2) 
             (3) 
             (4) 
           
           
             Bootmaking 
             359 
             1,010 
             651 
             760 
           
           
             Glass Bottles 
             25 
             125 
             100 
             100 
           
           
             Soap and Candles 
             263 
             347 
             84 
             197 
           
           
             Motor Bodies 
             249 
             See note (d) 
             &mdash; 
             Nil. 
           
           
             Confectionery (including Jam) 
             3,878 
             4,850 
             972 
             1,450 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             2,507 
           
         
       
     
     (d).  Full returns for 1st January, 1926, are not yet available, but it is estimated that they will show a decrease in employment as compared with 1st April, 1924. 
     FINANCE ACT, 1922. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             INDUSTRY 
             Persons employed on 1st April, '22, mainly working part-time 
             Persons employed on 1st January, 1926 
             Increase 
             &mdash;&mdash; 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             (1) 
             (2) 
             (3) 
             (4) 
           
           
             Tobacco 
             500 (e) 
             1,600 (e) 
             1,100 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             
             
             (e) Estimated. 
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Total 
             1922 
             1,100 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             ,, 
             1924 
             2,507 
           
           
             
             
             ,, 
             1926 
             3,629 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             7,236 
           
           
             To the total of 7,236 there should be added an estimated increase (a) of 300 at 1st March, 1926 
             
             
             
             
             300 
           
           
             
             
             Total 
             
             
             7,536 
           
         
       
     
     The total of 7,536 represents increased employment in the protected industries only.  It takes no account of increased employment in the building trade or in other trades connected with the protected industries, consequent on their expansion. 
     
      
       Could the Minister say when he will be able to table a return with regard to employment? 
     
     
      
       I am having a return published in the Official Report. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister, in view of the statement made by him, how we are to place any reliance on the figures issued as to protected industries if we have not particulars as to increases in prices in the articles they manufacture since the introduction of protection; if the Minister does not consider that an expenditure of money would be warranted in endeavouring to get the information asked for; and, if he cannot give the retail prices in connection with the protected articles, will he give the wholesale prices and the comparative particulars which I have asked for, substituting wholesale for retail prices? 
     
     
      
       It is very difficult for me to say how much reliance is to be placed upon figures produced by certain interested people in regard to protected industries.  As to the point the Deputy raised with regard to justifying a certain amount of expenditure, it is not entirely a question of expenditure; it is a question of the length of the inquiry and the impossibility of deciding whether the inquiry really could produce dependable figures.  The third matter is one that I shall have to look into.  I am afraid there will be considerable difficulty in supplying the information asked for in this question, even substituting &ldquo;wholesale&rdquo; for &ldquo;retail&rdquo; where it occurs in the question. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister not acknowledge that any information which we get in regard to protected industries must necessarily   be incomplete unless we get information of this kind? 
     
     
      
       That would involve me in a discussion with the Deputy.  Like Deputy Cooper, he has apparently found himself able to place reliance on certain statements which he has made himself about those protected industries. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SECONDARY TEACHERS' SALARIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state the average salary being paid during the current school year by secondary schools to registered secondary teachers, men and women resident and non-resident. 
     
     
      
       I have no official information regarding the salaries, if any, paid by secondary schools to those of their registered teachers who are priests or members of Religious Orders.  The following figures give the average rate of salary (exclusive of increments) paid during the current school year for all registered teachers (other than those in the classes referred to) who have applied for increments of salary:&mdash; 
       (a)  Men: Non-resident, £231; resident, £180. 
       (b)  Women: Non-resident, £178; resident, £143. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SECONDARY TEACHERS' INCREMENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will take steps to have decisions made as soon as possible on those claims which have been submitted for payment to certain teachers of increment grant for the current school year under the terms of Rule 6 of the Rules for the Payment of Increments of Salary to Registered Secondary Teachers. 
     
     
      
       Decisions have now been taken on some of these claims, and, where the decisions are favourable arrangements are being made to pay the teachers concerned.   The remainder of the claims are still under consideration, and I am taking steps to have them decided as soon as possible and the results communicated to the applicants. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state why payment of increment grant has been withheld for service in the school year ended July 31st, 1925, in the case of secondary teachers who were registered during that school year. 
     
     
      
       The delay in making payment in the cases referred to was due to a doubt regarding the interpretation of one of the rules (Rule 1 (7) (b) of the Increments of Salary Rules) and the credit to be given for increment purposes in respect of teaching service for the school year 1924-25 in the case of certain teachers registered during that year.  The matter has now been arranged and payments are being made to all teachers for whose service the necessary certificates of efficiency are available.  A few instances in which such certificates have not been furnished are being specially dealt with. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIMS FOR ARMY PAY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state why arrears of pay have not been forwarded to E. T. O'Keeffe, Kilmihill, Ballingarry, County Limerick; Owen O'Sullivan, Coolygorman, Broadford; Michael Sheehy, Broadford; Edward Coonan, Great Southern Railways, Foynes; Thomas Scully, Creveen Cottages, Foynes, all ex-Army men who served in the National Army in 1922 and whose claims have been vouched for on many occasions. 
     
     
      
       Evidence is available that payments were issued in respect of at least a considerable portion of the periods for which Messrs.  O'Keeffe and O'Sullivan claimed arrears of pay. The applications must therefore be regarded as invalid, and have consequently been disallowed. 
     
     The usual forms of application were sent on several occasions to Messrs.   Sheehy and Coonan for completion and certification.  In neither case has the form been returned duly certified. Pending their return, no further action can be taken. 
     Mr. Scully's claim was disallowed on the grounds that there is no record that he served with the Forces during the period for which he claimed.  He was so informed on the 9th September, 1924. 
     
      
       I can vouch for the fact that Mr. Scully was in the Army and has not been paid.  As for the other two men, they have answered those queries.  Six months ago a reply was given that they had not applied in time.  Consideration was given to their applications afterwards and they were vouched for. 
     
     
      
       I have no record that these forms were returned, although asked for on several occasions.  If the men have the forms and return them I shall have the matter looked into. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister make further inquiry? 
     
     
      
       I certainly will. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY DISCHARGES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state the number of men who left the Army since the beginning of this year and the number whose time will expire or terminate up to 1st July, 1926; if he will state whether he proposes to introduce legislation that will enable such men to come into immediate benefit under the Unemployment Insurance Acts. 
     
     
      
       The total number of men who left the Army during the months of January and February, 1926, is 1,155.  Of these, only 80 were discharged compulsorily.  The number of men whose periods of engagement with the Forces will expire during March, April, May and June, 1926, is 4,933.  It is intended at present that the men concerned who are of good character and who fulfil the physical requirements shall be given the option of enlisting for further periods.  This is   being done at present.  The number whose services will terminate up to the 1st July next cannot therefore be stated. 
       As I informed the Deputy in this House on the 3rd ultimo, military service is not an insurable occupation and consequently contributions are not paid in respect of it.  It is not proposed to introduce legislation which will enable men whose services with the Forces will terminate between now and the 1st July next to come into immediate benefit under the Unemployment Insurance Acts. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a number of men whose service in the Army has terminated have gone out on the unemployed market without one penny in their pocket and without being entitled to any unemployment benefit; that a large number of them were in insurable occupations prior to joining the Army and had stamps to their credit; and will he say why these men are debarred from unemployment benefit? 
     
     
      
       The law is there and I am not responsible. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether the 1,155 men who have been discharged or have ceased their Army service have all been informed that they would be eligible for re-enlistment; and whether only those who had not a good character or who have definitely declined to re-enlist have been discharged? 
     
     
      
       The number of time-expired men who were discharged voluntarily is 812; the number granted discharge on compassionate grounds, etc., 202; the number discharged medically unfit, 57; the number compulsorily discharged (service no longer required because unsuitable), 23.  There were some desertions and deaths, which make up the balance. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say if when men are demobilised or leave the Army they receive Army pay or allowance after demobilisation? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
     
      
       Would the Minister take into consideration the cases of men who had been constantly employed prior to joining the Army, who may have as many as 80 or 90 stamps to their credit, and who, after demobilisation, are not entitled to any benefits? 
     
     
      
       It is not a matter for me; it is a matter for the Insurance Commissioners.  If a question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce he will be able to answer it. 
     
     
      
       In the case of men who were insured prior to joining the Army, would the Minister authorise their cards to be stamped while in the Army? 
     
     
      
       No; the Army is not an insurable occupation. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM FOR MILITARY PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if a claim for a military service pension has been received from George Brown, Newcastle, Kyle, Co. Wexford; if the claim has been considered, and with what result. 
     
     
      
       I have received from Mr. Brown an application for a certificate of military service under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924. As he does not claim to have served in the National Forces at any time subsequent to the 1st July, 1922, and prior to the 1st October, 1923, as required by sub-section 2 (4) of the Act, I regret that I have no power to consider his application. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this young man lost an arm in pre-Truce days in the service of his country? 
     
     
      
       That is a different question; that would come under the Wounds Pension Act. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister see that he gets an answer to his application now? 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether he has applied or not. 
     
     
      
       I thought the Minister had admitted that he has applied? 
     
     
     
      
       For a military service pension, and he is not entitled to that. 
     
     
      
       Surely he is entitled to some information when he writes to the Minister, after losing an arm in the service of his country? 
     
     
      
       If he writes to the Minister he will get a reply. 
     
     
      
       He has done it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM FOR SOLDIER'S LODGINGS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will reconsider a previous decision of his Department to refuse payment of a claim made by Mrs. J. McCarthy, then of Drimoleague, and now of Clouncugger, Caheragh, Co. Cork, for food and lodgings supplied to her husband, a member of the National Army, considering that the foregoing accommodation was supplied at the request of McCarthy's superior officers then in charge of the Drimoleague military post. 
     
     
      
       This particular case was thoroughly investigated before the decision referred to by the Deputy was given.  From the information obtained I am quite satisfied that Mrs. McCarthy's husband was supplied with food and accommodation by her to suit their own convenience and not at the request of his superior officers.  Accommodation was at the time available in the military post and rations were drawn for Mr. McCarthy from Army stores.  In the light of this information, I am not prepared to reconsider the decision already given. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REDUCTION OF LOCAL OFFICIALS' SALARIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that many County Councils and other local bodies, in response to the circular issued recently by his Department urging the necessity for economical local administration, endeavoured to economise in local expenditure by means of cutting down salaries and wages; that these   bodies then found that they had no power to reduce the salaries of many members of their staffs, as those officials maintained they were protected in the enjoyment of their salaries by statute; if he will issue a circular to local bodies clearly explaining to them what their powers are in regard to reductions of salaries, and if he is aware that if the demand made by his Department that a rate shall be struck this year which will meet all current expenditure for the year, as well as meet any deficit in payments for the past year due to under-estimation, the local bodies will be unable to collect such a rate owing to the inability of the ratepayers to meet the demands made upon them. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the fact that considerable discussion has taken place at meetings of local authorties concerning the reduction of salaries.  Where definite proposals have been made they have related to all-round reductions irrespective of inevitable anomalies which would arise and with little advertence to the statutory rights of officers.  In such cases I have written inviting reconsideration, the letters then continuing as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;As regards existing permanent officials, the Minister deems it necessary to put before the Council his position under existing legislation. Under the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, the Local Offices and Employments Order, 1923 to 1924, made under the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923, and the Local Government Act, 1925, the Minister is bound to consider the case of each officer separately, having regard to that officer's rights under the various enactments.  The Minister would find it difficult, if not impossible, legally to act upon a resolution of a local authority imposing a general reduction in salaries, and he is entitled to definite fact in relation to each officer affected. 
     
     &ldquo;The Council while seeking economies in the matter of the salaries paid to their officials should be careful   not to create a claim by the officer to compensation under Section 44 (2) (c) of the Local Government Act, 1925.  In the case of officials who have opted out of Part IV. of the Act of 1925, compensation may be claimed under Section 8 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1919.&rdquo; 
     Salaries generally are at present at a considerably lower percentage of total outlay than in 1914. 
     I am satisfied that further economies, apart from those appertaining to salaries and wages, can be effected. This has been clearly shown where Commissioners who have replaced local authorities have applied themselves to the prompt collection of rates and the businesslike conduct of local affairs. Some Councils are, no doubt, in a position of embarrassment as regards the ratio the rate necessary for the coming year would bear to the resources of the ratepayer, but such perplexities have mainly arisen from unwise devices in the past whereby known liabilities were temporarily transferred from the ratepayers to the banks, causing additional liabilities in overdraft interest. 
     
      
       Arising out of that question, may I take it from the Minister that the councils have no power to reduce salaries of officials whose appointments have been sanctioned by the Local Government Department, and is the Minister aware that many councils are unable to reduce expenditure because their members have stated that they will not reduce wages unless they are also allowed to reduce salaries? 
     
     
      
       Officials of local authorities have certain statutory rights and neither the local authorities nor I have the power to interfere with them. 
     
     
      
       Then they only have power to reduce wages and not reduce salaries? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REDEMPTION OF TURNPIKE ANNUITIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health   whether he will, during the present session, introduce legislation which would empower county councils to redeem the annuities payable under the Turnpike Abolition Commissioners' Award of 1856 and thereby relieve the rates of a perpetual charge. 
     
     
      
       County councils have power under Article 22 of the Schedule to the Local Government (Application of Enactments) Order, 1898, to borrow for the purposes of discharging the liabilities referred to.  In the event of agreement as to the terms of redemption not being reached with the interested parties, the matter will be considered as soon as practicable after receipt of the requisite information from the county councils concerned. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TOLL RIGHTS IN MARKET CENTRES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that the public weighbridge, formerly used mainly for weighing of agricultural produce and live stock, situated in Banagher, Offaly, has been out of order for over two years, and was recently condemned by the Weights and Measures Inspector as being an obsolete and unsuitable type; also that the landlord, Mr. F. C. French, has refused to provide a bridge, while he insists on collecting tolls on one erected on a private farm by Messrs.  Denny, Limerick; whether he is aware that Mr. French, whose lands are vested in the Land Commission, prevented the townspeople from erecting a public weighbridge, which is urgently required by the farmers of the district, and if, in view of the fact that the above sort of grievance is common to many towns and villages in the Saorstat, he will consider the advisability of introducing legislation for the purpose of having all market and fair toll rights vested in county or urban district councils. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the circumstances connected with the   accommodation at Banagher for the weighing of cattle and the facts are as stated in the first part of the question. When the attention of the market authority was drawn by the Department to the unsatisfactory accommodation he applied to be exempted from the provisions of the Markets and Fairs (Weighing of Cattle) Acts, 1887 and 1891, and after due inquiry the Department, in January, 1925, issued an Exemption Order for a period of three years.  The advisability of introducing legislation as suggested in the final part of the question is a matter for the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE NOTICE QUESTION. - SAORSTAT AND LEAGUE OF NATIONS. 
     
      
       asked the President   to state whether the Irish Delegation to the present Assembly of the League of Nations had been instructed to oppose the application of all or any of the Powers who are demanding a permanent seat on the League Council. 
     
     
      
       The primary object of this Extraordinary Assembly being to further consolidate the peace of Europe by the admission of Germany to Membership of the League and to a permanent seat on the Council, the Saorstat Delegation has been instructed to oppose the consideration of any claims which would be calculated to prevent the realisation of that object. The Saorstat Delegation will support the view that questions affecting the Constitution of the Council, other than the admission of Germany to a permanent seat, should be postponed to the September sitting.  The delicacy of the situation, however, necessitates that the Delegation, which has the benefit of the presence of the Minister for External Affairs, should be in a position to exercise a certain discretion in the interpretation of these instructions. 
     
   
   
     RELIEF OF DISTRESS. 
     
      
       I have already given notice that on the motion for the adjournment I will call attention to the inadequacy of the measures taken to relieve distress due to unemployment. 
     
   
   
     DEPUTIES' PRIVILEGES. 
     
      
       I desire to raise a question of members' privileges, and I assure you, sir, that I will only take one or two minutes to state my case.  I asked one question of the Minister for Finance to-day, and I asked one supplementary question which did not commit his Department to a controversy of any sort.  The supplementary question did not ask for figures and I was refused the courtesy of a reply.  I merely asked the Minister whether he would inquire from his Department whether letters or applications were received from certain people.  I asked the question twice but the Minister sat silent.  I take this opportunity of stating that this is not the first occasion on which I have been selected for the   apparent discourtesy of Ministers. Perhaps the reason for that is that I am not supported by any party whose votes may count for something.  I hold, however, that, having been elected to this House, I come here and try to show my constituents the utility of Parliamentary representation, and I take this opportunity of complaining of the way in which I am received when I put questions affecting my constituents. I think the time has arrived when not alone I but members of various parties should protest against the discourtesy of Ministers.  I may say further that the language that they use very often in the House is typical of that which you would expect to hear outside.  The language that has been used does not add to the dignity of the House, for which I have great respect. I hope that Ministers have some respect for the Chair and the House, but they are not showing good example to people outside or to many members on the back benches by the discourtesy that they show to members, especially to myself.  I ask you, sir, whether I was in order or not, or whether I asked questions which were not worthy of reply? 
     
     
      
       As regards the question that Deputy Byrne has raised, I desire to say that about ten days ago I was treated with incivility and discourtesy by a Minister.  He was not the first who did so, and I desire to say that that is not good enough. 
     
     
      
       May I make the point a little more definite?  Personally, I never have had any reason to complain of incivility on the part of Ministers, but I think the Minister for Finance in dealing with the supplementary question asked by Deputy Byrne to-day adopted a wrong line. He was asked a question about a matter concerning a branch of his Department, the Board of Works, which probably did not come under his notice.  He replied: &ldquo;Personally I have no knowledge of this.&rdquo;  Surely Standing Order No. 24 lays down that questions addressed to a Minister must relate to public affairs connected with his Department or to matters of   administration for which the Minister is officially responsible.  A Minister's personal opinion has nothing to do with it.  What the Minister was asked, in general, was whether any representations had been made to his Department or a section of it.  It does not matter whether they came under his notice or not.  He ought to be in a position to answer not only questions on the Order Paper but supplementary questions on matters which reached his Department from ordinary channels. In this case complaints have been made to the Board of Works which may not have come under his notice, but he ought to be acquainted with the facts.  Personally, I have no complaint to make of incivility and I may say that I have always been treated with courtesy.  I should say that the point of view of replying to a question in the shortest possible way is wrong.  We are entitled at Question Time to all the information in the possession of Ministers. 
     
     
      
       I have never declined unreasonably to answer questions, but, just perhaps as Deputies have their own way of trying to pursue a thing, a Minister must be allowed reasonable latitude in the way he may answer. The supplementary question was one which I could easily have asked the Deputy to put down. 
     
     
      
       I am not like Deputy Byrne, who has a party behind him. I have no party behind me, but I desire to say that I was treated with the utmost courtesy ever since I became a Deputy in 1922, by every Minister, and any supplementary questions which I have asked have been answered to the best of their ability. I do not think that there is much ground for complaint as I believe that Ministers are doing their best. 
     
     
      
       There is only one question which concerns me and that is whether a question on the Order Paper or a supplementary question is in order.  Deputy Byrne asked whether he was in order to-day. He was in order.  A question has arisen before as to whether the Chair has any power to compel Ministers to   answer questions.  It has been explained that the Chair has no power to compel Ministers to answer either questions appearing on the paper or supplementary questions. 
     
     
      
       We are at least entitled to courtesy. 
     
     
      
       The courtesy which Deputies get depends on themselves. 
     
     
      
       That is rather narrow. 
     
   
   
     MESSAGE FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       A Message has been received from the Seanad that the Seanad has passed without amendment the Land Bill, 1926; the Police Forces Amalgamation Bill, 1925, and the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) (No. 2) Bill, 1925. 
     
   
   
     ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That a Return be presented to the Dail for the years 1912-13, 1913-14, 1914-15, 1922-23, 1923-24, 1924-25 showing (1) the total amount spent upon road construction and maintenance, distinguishing between expenditure by local authorities, expenditure out of Road Fund, special grants, grants for such work from relief scheme votes and other expenditure, (2) the total amount of all rates raised by local authorities, (3) the total amount paid as rates by the railway companies now forming the Great Southern Railways Company, distinguishing between rates on buildings and rates on permanent way, and (4) the amount raised by taxation of motor vehicles. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy so desires I can present a statement in the course of a few days giving the details asked for in part (2) of the motion as regards the total amount of rates raised by all local authorities in each of the years specified, but the figures for the year 1914-15 are not available. I can give at the same time the particulars   required in part (3) of the motion, but I regret I cannot readily separate the rates on buildings from the rates on railways.  As regards the motor taxation figures, those for 1912 to 1915 for An Saorstat would be almost impossible to collect.  Moreover its yield in those years was supplemented by a petrol tax, the produce of which went to the Road Improvement Grant, now the Road Fund.  Generally, therefore, I propose to furnish within a few days a statement giving as many of the details required in parts (2), (3) and (4) of the motion as is possible from the information at present readily available in my Department. If the Deputy then finds that he would wish any further figures I would endeavour to have them compiled. I assume the information required in the first part of the Deputy's motion is to cover road expenditure from all sources on construction and maintenance by county councils, county boroughs and urban district councils.  If that is so I will endeavour to have it prepared.  It may, however, be necessary to send a copy of that part of the motion to each local authority, and in that event the Deputy will no doubt realise it will take some time to furnish the appropriate return duly completed. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to wait any reasonable time to allow the Minister to ascertain the particulars asked for in part 1 of my motion, if he will promise to send out a circular and get the information as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Then we will make an order for the furnishing of a return by the Minister on the terms suggested now. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to take the Minister's assurance on the first part of the motion. 
     
     Ordered:&mdash;That a return be presented to the Dail for the years 1912-13, 1913-14, 1914-15, 1922-23, 1923-24, 1924-25, showing (1) the total amount expended upon road construction and maintenance.  (2) The total amount paid as rates by the railway companies now forming the Great Southern Railways   Company.  (3) For the years 1912-13, 1913-14, 1922-23, 1923-24, 1924-25, the total amount of all rates raised by local authorities.  (4) For the years 1922-23, 1923-24, 1924-25, the amount raised by taxation of motor vehicles. 
     
      
       Does the presence of No. 1 on the Order Paper mean that No. 8 will not come forward in Private Deputies' time? 
     
     
      
       I understand the suggested arrangement is this, that if No. 1&mdash;Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) Bill, 1926&mdash;is passed and the Second Reading fixed, Order No. 8 will be discharged. 
     
   
   
     SHOP HOURS (DRAPERY TRADES, DUBLIN AND DISTRICTS) BILL, 1926&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce a Bill entitled &ldquo;An Act to make further provision for the early closing of shops in the county borough of Dublin and surrounding urban districts in which the trade of draper, tailor, outfitter, hatter, hosier, glover, boot and shoe dealer, or house-furnisher and upholsterer or any of them is carried on.&rdquo; 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Second Stage ordered for Tuesday, 16th March. 
     
   
   
     SHOP HOURS (DRAPERY TRADES, DUBLIN AND DISTRICTS) (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1925. 
     Order for Report discharged, to be taken on Wednesday, 24th March. 
   
   
     MONEY RESOLUTION&mdash;ENFORCEMENT OF COURT ORDERS BILL, 1926. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of the salaries of Court Messengers under any Act of the present Session to amend the law   relating to the execution and enforcement generally of judgments and orders of courts of justice.&rdquo; 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     The Dail resumed. 
     Resolution reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     ENFORCEMENT OF COURT ORDERS BILL, 1926&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     Sections 1 and 2 put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 3. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In page 3 before sub-section (6) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(6)  For the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing sub-section but no further or otherwise, every reference contained in Section 6 of the Judgment Mortgage (Ireland) Act, 1850, to Her Majesty's Superior Courts at Dublin shall be construed as including a reference to the Circuit Court whether sitting at Dublin or elsewhere, and the Circuit Court shall be a superior Court within the meaning of the said Section 6, and that section shall have effect accordingly.&rdquo; 
       The purpose of this amendment is to provide the necessary machinery for registration of judgments of the Circuit Court. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 3, as amended, put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 4. 
       (1)  Every under-sheriff shall, subject to the approval of the Minister, appoint such number of persons (who shall be styled and are hereinafter referred to as court messengers) as the Minister shall sanction to act for him and otherwise assist him in the execution of execution orders under this Act. 
     
     (2)  Any court messenger may, if   the Minister so directs and the Minister for Finance so consents, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas such salary as the Minister, with the sanction of the Minister for Finance, shall determine. 
     (3)  Every court messenger shall hold his office at the will of the Minister and may be removed from office by the Minister at the request of the under-sheriff or on his own motion. 
     (4)  Every under-sheriff shall cause a correct list of the names and places of residence of the persons for the time being holding the office of court messenger in his bailiwick to be kept posted in his office and in every court-house in his bailiwick. 
     
      
       Would the Minister inform us whether there will be any alteration or reduction in the fees charged by the sheriff's officer, or the court messenger, as he may be in this particular case?  Certain fees are charged at the moment for performing certain duties, and in view of the fact that these men will be salaried officials is it intended to maintain the same standard of fees? 
     
     
      
       I could not give the Deputy a very definite answer on this at the moment.  There may be changes, but he can take it that substantially the rate will be the same. The disappearance of the under-sheriff will probably mean that a somewhat higher rate will be paid to the court messenger than what is now paid to the bailiffs, and we hope to get a better type of man.  I do not think that there will be any appreciable change in the fees. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister undertake to look into that?  We are anxious to get reductions, if we possibly can, in legal charges, and if we are to pay on the one hand through taxes for these new officials and then pay the existing court charges it will increase the cost somewhat.  However, this is a point that the Minister might look into. 
       Sections 4, 5 and 6 put and agreed to. 
     
     
        SECTION 7. 
     The necessary wearing apparel and bedding of a person against whom an execution shall be levied, and the necessary wearing apparel and bedding of his family, and the tools and implements of his trade, not exceeding in the whole the value of fifteen pounds, shall be exempt from liability to seizure. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In line 13 to delete the word &ldquo;fifteen&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;twenty-five.&rdquo; 
       The figures have reference to the value of the property of the debtor or his family which may be left to him after the bailiff has had his way.  The last Bill dealing with this matter raised the exempted limit to £15 worth, and I seek to raise it still further.  I want to call the attention of the Dail to the real effect of the section as it stands: 
       &ldquo;The necessary wearing apparel and bedding of a person against whom an execution shall be levied, and the necessary wearing apparel and bedding of his family, and the tools and implements of his trade not exceeding in the whole the value of fifteen pounds, shall be exempt from liability to seizure.&rdquo; 
       I want to argue that the limit is entirely too low when we set it at £15. We are dealing here not merely with the property, the wearing apparel, and the bedding of the debtor, but specifically the wearing apparel and bedding of his family, however large they may be, or how grown-up they may be, and also the tools and implements of such a person's trade, and the whole of the amount that the bailiff is obliged to leave behind is £15.  If you deprive a man of his means of earning a living, as it would be in many cases when you touch his implements of trade and tools, you are depriving him of his livelihood altogether, and I think that the limit of £25 is much more reasonable than the limit of £15. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has created a scale of reasonableness which is all his own.  I would have no doubt   that he would consider a limit of £50 much more reasonable than a limit of £25.  But for the moment he asks for a limit of £25.  I draw the attention of Deputies to the history of the present sum, and how it came to be arrived at.  When the Enforcement of Law Act of 1923 was under consideration by the Dail, Deputy Gavan Duffy and Deputy Johnson raised the point that the £5 limit, which had been statutory up to then, was somewhat small, in view of the decrease in the value of money and the increase in the cost of living, and it was trebled in that Act. I see no reason whatever why there should be a further advance to the sum of £25, and I consider that a debtor owing £6 or £7 and owning property up to the amount of £25 ought to be made meet his liabilities.  I think that, in fact, to fix a sum of £25 would mean that quite a number of people who ought to pay their debts and who have no real excuse for non-payment of their debts would evade payment.  I do not propose to accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I want to suggest to the Minister that inasmuch as this is his Bill and that as he has fixed the sum of £15 in it, it is for him to justify why he should fix £15, why he should make any exemption at all.  I assume that there is a reason for a limit of exemption, and that on that assumption the Minister fixed £15.  I would like the Minister to detail the values of articles which might be considered necessary to be kept by a family if there are to be any exemptions at all, and I ask him to imagine not merely a family of father, mother, and one child but, say, father, mother, and six or seven children, and detail what amount of clothing and bedding, plus tools, if there are any, can be purchased for £15.  Inasmuch as the Minister has fathered this provision of exemption, there are, presumably, some reasons why there should be an exemption, probably reasons of decency.  You cannot be expected to take the clothes off a man's back, unless they are valued at more than £15, or the clothes of the children, or the boots, shoes and bedding.  But I ask the Minister to make some statement as to what the value of these   things will be.  Presumably if there are seven children whose combined wearing apparel, clothing and tools were worth £15, and there is an eighth child which has some clothing, the bailiff would be entitled to strip the eighth child.  That, the Minister will say, is fantastic and foolish, but surely the Minister has some justification for making an exemption and, having that justification, I want to know how he arrived at the £15 worth. 
     
     
      
       The reasons are the reasons which the Deputy advanced two years ago for that sum, with just this modification, that they do not apply now to the same extent and with just the same force, inasmuch as I think I am right in stating there has been some slight fall in the cost of living. The Deputy was quite right in anticipating the adjectives that I would apply to his argument&mdash;&ldquo;fantastic and foolish.&rdquo;  The Deputy knows that in fact the eighth child has never been and will never be stripped by an under-sheriff, in the suspicion that the apparel it has on makes the &ldquo;little more and how much it is&rdquo; above the £15.  In practice he knows that the £15 in the Bill is a nominal sum and that the under-sheriff will not usually go within five or seven, or even ten pounds of that.  He knows, also, that to fix a statutory sum in the Bill of £25 would mean, in practice, that a person could and would usually be enabled to hold on to anything up to £30 or £40 worth of property, and contest with the under-sheriff that that was really only a good £25 worth.  He knows perfectly well that I could not, and that I should not, accept his amendment. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 7 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Section 8 agreed to. 
       SECTION 9 (1). 
     
     (1)  Any under-sheriff who takes goods, animals, or other chattels in execution under any execution order may sell such goods, animals and chattels by public auction at such place or places, whether within or outside his bailiwick, in which in his   opinion such goods, animals and chattels can be sold to the best advantage, and may remove such goods, animals and chattels or any of them or cause same to be removed from the place where same were seized to such place or places of sale. 
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Davin I move amendment 3: 
       In sub-section (1), line 26, after the word &ldquo;bailiwick&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;but not outside Ireland.&rdquo; 
       The question of the desirability of allowing a sheriff to send goods for sale outside the country was discussed before.  I think there was an excuse given, or an attempt for justification made, that certain classes of goods might sell at better prices in England, but I think there can be no real justification for sending goods outside the country where there can be no check of any kind upon the value received or the real genuineness of the effort made to get a satisfactory price without putting the debtor to a great deal of expense.  I think it should appeal to the House that there must be a limit to the area beyond which sales may be made.  I ask that the area should be the limits of the four seas of Ireland. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy Davin must have made a last-minute discovery about his amendment which he has left to Deputy Johnson, in good faith, to move.  Amendments 3 and 4 in the name of Deputy Davin are grounded on a misapprehension with regard to Section 9.  They are based on an erroneous construction of that article.  It is quite clear that the Deputy who put down the amendment thought that the section empowered the under-sheriff to sell in England, or such other place as he may think fit. Now, I am quite clear that the section has no such effect: that the under-sheriff is confined to the area of jurisdiction of the State under Section 9 of the Bill, and I have been so advised. The Deputy's amendments, 3 and 4, on that basis are unnecessary, and I think that they ought to be withdrawn. 
     
     
     
      
       With that assurance, that there is no implication that these goods may be sent out of the country, I certainly will withdraw both amendments. 
     
     
      
       Of course legislation which we pass here is confined to our territorial jurisdiction, and to say that an under-sheriff may sell outside his bailiwick does not mean that he may sell outside the area of jurisdiction of the State.  It simply means that he may sell elsewhere within the State than his own particular bailiwick. 
     
     
      
       Would there be any fault attachable to the bailiff if he did send outside the country? 
     
     
      
       There would. 
     
     
      
       If there is no doubt on that, I am satisfied to withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment 3, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Amendment 4 not moved. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 9 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Sections 10, 11 and 12 agreed to. 
       SECTION 13. 
     
     No. action shall lie against any under-sheriff for or on account of his having taken in execution under any execution order, any goods, animals, or other chattels found in the house or other place of residence or on the lands of the debtor and claimed or alleged (whether such claim or allegation does or does not prove to have been well-founded), to be the property of the wife or husband of the debtor, or to be the property of any parent or child of the debtor for the time being residing in the house or other place of residence of the debtor, and, in lieu of such action against the under-sheriff, the person to whom such goods, animals, or other chattels so taken in execution in fact belonged shall (if such goods, animals, or other chattels, should prove not to have been the property of the debtor) be entitled to recover from the debtor by action the value of such goods, animals, and other   chattels, together with such damages as such person shall have suffered by reason of such goods, animals, or other chattels having been so taken in execution. 
     
      
       I move amendment 5:&mdash; 
       To delete the section. 
     
     This section caused a good deal of discussion both on the occasion of the last Bill, and since the introduction of this Bill.  The proposal to delete it altogether is put down in the hope that the House will agree that the principle of the section is bad, and also in the hope, if the Minister persuades the House that steps are required to be taken to prevent fraudulent transfer for the purpose of evading the court orders, that the onus of producing a proposal, within reason and not outside reason, such as this is, will be upon him, and that he will search his mind and the experience of other countries to find some other means than this. The proposal of the section is that the creditor would be free to go into a house or farm, take possession and seize goods irrespective of who were the owners of the goods in the house: that is to say, that no action should lie against the under-sheriff if he takes the property of the wife or husband, father or mother, son or daughter of the debtor.  The Minister contended in his speech on the Second Reading of this Bill, as he did on the last occasion when the Enforcement of Law (Occasional Powers) Bill was brought forward, that he had no complaints of any kind since that enactment was made. Whether he has had complaints or not does not, I think, justify him in reintroducing this as a permanent provision. There was the contention made on the previous occasion that the Bill was to meet an exceptional condition of affairs: that there were so many thousands of decrees in the hands of the sheriffs, and that the whole condition of the country was such as to require to give them exceptional powers. The House, apparently, was satisfied that the exceptional powers were required in those circumstances.  Now we are asked to embody in the permanent law this provision which, I think, is reversing the whole course of legislation   in respect of such matters and is making a relative responsible for the payment of the debts of a debtor. 
     If a man has a judgment issued against him, and if he has his son or daughter living with him and owning some of the property in the house, the bailiff may seize the property of the son or daughter no matter how convinced he may be of the justification of the claim that the property belongs to the son or daughter, and no action will lie against the bailiff for having taken the wrong goods.  But what is almost worse, I think, is that if the son or the daughter has a decree issued against him or her, the property of the father or the mother can be taken without any action lying against the sheriff.  The effect of that is, or may be, that any son or daughter who may live in the house of his or her father or mother which contains a good deal of valuable furniture, let us say, and who would appear to be entitled to get credit, the shopkeeper would be justified in giving that young man or woman credit to such an amount as he thinks he would be able to collect from the father or mother, and the only security that a father or mother would have would be that they can collect from their son or daughter.  I think that is a most indefensible proposition.  Young men are fond of motor cars to-day, and though they may not have any money they may be able to persuade a dealer in motor cars that he has a good mark because the father is pretty well provided with this world's goods: the young man can be encouraged to go into debt, the father will have to pay and no action will lie against the under-sheriff for seizing the father's furniture.  I think that is indefensible. 
     I had brought to my notice this morning a case where a man had a visit from certain undesirable persons, to wit, bailiffs, some little time ago, for a small debt about which he knew nothing, which his son had incurred.  The bailiffs took possession and remained in the house for two days.  The son had no means, no money, and no property. He had no means of paying any debt at that time.  He had hopes and expectations that when he got employment he would pay, as he had been paying, by   instalments.  When he got employment he would continue to pay.  The bailiffs went into his father's house about something as to which the father knew nothing.  They remained there for about two days.  Solicitors were taken into consultation, and it was found that the solicitors knew nothing about this particular provision of the Act. They proceeded on the assumption that the old law still continued.  They drew up declarations asserting as to who the property belonged to, and finally, though the bailiffs were persuaded not to distrain, they could not be got out of the house until their fees had been paid by the father.  The position of the citizen in those circumstances is a most insecure one, and the effect is, or would be, if it were allowed to continue, that relationships are going to be very much more strained between father and son, brother and sister, son and daughter, than ever they have been, and that there is going to be a great deal of hesitation about allowing grown-up sons to live with their parents because of the liability that a son, who has attained his majority, may be allowed to enter contracts and that the creditor can come upon the father for any judgments he may get in the courts. 
     Moneylenders are not going to be very careful about the standing of the son if they are satisfied with the ability of the father to pay.  I think the whole principle of this section is wrong, apart from that particular application of it. The tendency of legislation has been to give married women a right to their own property.  This provision annuls, in a large degree, those particular Acts. On the discussion of this question on the last Bill of 1924 the Minister appeared to recognise that there would be occasional injustice done, but, he thought, for the better collection of debts, that it might be worth while doing injustice to 3 per cent.  If 97 per cent. of the debts could be collected, then the other 3 per cent. of injustice would not matter very much.  I dissented then, as I dissent now, from the principle that injustice should be done to the small minority, even to ensure the collection of debts or the enforcement   of court orders in respect of people who had taken trade risks and found that the risks were not good ones.  The Minister, on that occasion when the matter was under discussion in the Dail, said he would be prepared to consider the possibility of State compensation in the event of its being clearly established that, in fact, wrong had been done and loss had been suffered by a deserving third party.  The Minister found it not possible to put that in the Bill, but he said in the Seanad, when making a provision in the Bill, that if he was satisfied that, by the bona fide operations of the law, hardships were inflicted on any individual, he would be willing to consider the matter of  ex gratia  payments and make recommendations to the Minister for Finance. 
     While that may be very good for the individual who may suffer, I think it would be a very unsatisfactory method of meeting a kind of thing which appears to be inevitable as a consequence of this kind of legislation.  To legislate in such a way, with the expectation that injustice is going to be done to some, that hardship will be inflicted, and that if such hardship seems to bear heavily on some individual that the Minister will make a recommendation to the Minister for Finance and that the Minister for Finance may, if he thinks fit, make an  ex gratia  payment, is not a good justification for embodying a provision of this kind in an Act of the Oireachtas, and I ask the Dail to agree to the deletion of this section and to express the view that it is not right that the relative who lives in the house of the debtor and has property in that house should be liable to have his property distrained upon and sold.  The effect of it is, there is no protection for any householder, and incidentally also for the owner of a farm or other property, but it seems to be directed particularly against householders and house property.  I hope that the House will not agree to that provision and will throw upon the Minister the onus of finding some other way and protecting the creditor against fraud on the part of the debtor. 
     
      
       What we have   heard from the Deputy is, of course, very similar, if not identical with what we heard with regard to this particular section in the temporary legislation, and what I will have to say in reply will, of course, necessarily bear a resemblance to the case which I made for this section before when the temporary legislation was before the House.  The Deputy objects to the permanence of this proposal.  He said that perhaps a proposal of the kind was not so entirely out of place in temporary emergency measures that were brought in before the House on the basis that there existed a very abnormal situation in the country but that this Bill embodies permanent proposals for the execution of the orders and decrees of the new courts and that it is wrong to have such a section as this Section 13 in permanent legislation.  I put it to the Deputies that the problem with which this section purports to deal is not of a temporary or transient nature, that it is a permanent problem based not so much on any passing phase in the country's development but on rather universal experience of human nature.  As long as you have a state of affairs where particular property can be saved from seizure by the simple expedient of some member of the household, other than the judgment debtor, saying &ldquo;that is mine&rdquo; then the temptation to lie and put forward a bogus claim is so great that it will happen in the majority of cases.  That was the position in the past when the simple expedient of a third party claim was enough to send the under-sheriff and his men out of the house.  I think that is utterly wrong. 
     
     The Deputy talks about wrong principles. Does he consider it a right principle that, by a little straining of conscience, by a lie which it is impossible to disprove, the decree of the courts can be made waste paper and a messenger of the court a figure of fun?  If we are swapping right principles and wrong principles let us analyse that. How is the under-sheriff to disprove a plea of that kind, to disprove this third party claim?  How is he going to do it in the case of a particular mahogany table, let us say?  How is he to prove a   chest-of-drawers is not the property of some member of the household other than the judgment debtor, that the wife did not get it from her uncle or the daughter from her cousin or a friend? It is easy to ring the changes and be academically wise about the impropriety of legislation such as this.  But we are living in a world of facts, have to deal with them as we know them, and legislation must bear some relation to them.  If we are to split hairs and spin circles about how undesirable it is to have a provision like this in permanent legislation, there should be some attempt to put forward a constructive alternative as to how otherwise the bogus third party claim, by the member of the family, is to be met. 
     No sheriff in the past went ahead faced with such a claim.  He went home and returned  nulla bona  to the judgment creditor.  Is that to continue indefinitely?  Are we to perpetuate that farce in our legislation?  I have aimed, and will aim, at bringing forward legislation here that will be part and parcel of our permanent machinery of justice, not merely to secure that things will be done in certain respects as well as they were done in the past, but to secure that they will be done better, not merely to secure that the writ will run as freely in every square mile of our jurisdiction as it ran in the times that were called normal in 1910, 1911 and 1912, but to secure that, there can be no doubt or uncertainty, but once a man has his cause heard before the Courts and gets his decree that decree is going to become effective. Would we be securing that if we were to perpetuate that sham that existed, so we are told, in the past, that a simple statement to the bailiff &ldquo;be off about your business; that belongs to me; I got it from my uncle; do not dare lay a hand on it&rdquo; is going to be an effective answer to the judge's decree. You say he could rebut such. How could he do it?  Let any Deputy put himself in the position of an under-sheriff, faced with such a claim in respect of furniture.  How would he set about disproving it?  He would not get evidence.  If ever there was a problem which called simply for the granting to a level-headed, responsible officer of   administrative discretion it is this very problem of the bogus third-party claim, or rather the task of deciding whether or not a particular third-party claim is bogus. 
     If the under-sheriff believes it is not bogus, I think he will not proceed.  Lest there should be any doubt about it, the amendment makes it clear that there is no right given to the judgment creditor to have property seized that is not the property of the judgment debtor.  I had not very much doubt about that, but the question has arisen, and so that no under-sheriff might be put in the position of having to contest a testcase in the matter, Amendment 7 is put down.  It is not a question of giving to the judgment creditor the right to have some property seized in a house that is not the property of the judgment-creditor. That is not the position. We are saying that this third-party claim constitutes a problem so really difficult and permanent that you have not a better course than simply to see that your under-sheriff must do his best, and must exercise his discretion, and that if he exercises his discretion honestly and in good faith he shall not be liable to action.  The Deputy told us that is a wrong principle.  He should have spent more time in telling us what the right principle is.  Is it a right principle to lie to prevent seizure of property in a household for lawful debt?  Does the Deputy think if you create and perpetuate such a situation by your legislation, that the lie will not be forthcoming?  Of course it will. 
     
      
       Have there been any distraints in Ireland in the past if it is so easy to deceive the sheriff's officer? 
     
     
      
       There were restraints and there were  nulla bonas.  as the Deputy knows.  There will be, I hope, more distraints and less  nulla bonas  in the future, and there will be a higher and stricter standard of justice than there was in the past.  There is that at the moment, but there is going to be that in increasing measure. To achieve that end I do not boggle because of Press ramp, or because of certain academic objections on the   part of any Deputy to writing into the Bill a section such as this which I know to be right and to be an improvement on the other position.  I know that Deputies who desire to see smooth and effective administration of this country will not boggle at it either. A wrong principle Deputy Johnson says!  I say it is a less wrong principle than the other, and I say I have not been able to find the ideal, because, as Deputy Magennis told us the other day in another context, it does not exist. This Bill, and every other Bill, will have the imperfection of having emanated from a human institution and of being only the product of human brains derived from human experience.  It, therefore, will not be in this section or perhaps in any other section an ideal Bill.  It is a Bill to deal with realities, and to deal with the situation which I know to exist, which every under-sheriff knows to exist, and which every Deputy here knows to exist.  Deputies can choose between perpetuating the farce and the fraud of the simple device of saying &ldquo;I own nothing in this house.  Everything in it belongs to my wife, or daughter, or eldest son, or Uncle James,&rdquo; or vesting in the under-sheriff the discretion to proceed when he believes the third-party claim advanced to be bogus.  Amendment 7 had better be glanced at in this connection, that it is designed to make it clear that it is not obligatory on the under-sheriff to exercise the powers vested in him; in other words, to make it clear that it is a matter of administrative discretion, and that no right is given to the judgment creditor to have property seized other than that which is clearly the property of the judgment debtor.  The section was designed to give discretion to the under-sheriff to achieve that purpose.  To avoid doubt and so that the under-sheriff may be relieved of the necessity of fighting any test action on the point we are inserting this additional sub-section. Deputy Johnson and myself have covered old ground.  This particular fight was fought out before on the previous Bill.  The problem with which we have to deal is static and permanent. It is always there and will be   always there.  If you leave the third-party claim stand it will be there in answer to the decree.  I do not want to write any fraud of that kind into our legislation.  If the method adopted in Section 13 with the additional sub-section that stands in Deputy Duggan's name is not a perfect method of dealing with the question it is only because we have been unable to devise a perfect measure.  If any Deputy has I hope he will put it forward. 
     
     
      
       Since the Bill was before the House on a previous occasion I have taken the opportunity of getting, as far as one could in the time, the views of the commercial community on this measure.  I can say with authority that there is no section in the Bill which is looked upon by the commercial community as of greater importance than the section under consideration. These bogus third-party claims by relatives and others were carried to such an extent in the past that creditors in many cases gave up the idea of trying to collect their debts. The result of that, as I pointed out on a previous occasion, was to affect seriously the credit of the country, and the moment you start to affect the credit of any State you affect its most sacred possession.  What went on in the past with regard to the evasion of just debts was little more than legalised robbery.  We are told that the Bill which seeks to stop that practice is wrong in principle.  I do not know of anything that is more likely to demoralise the community than to allow that practice to be carried on. I look on this section as one of the most important in the Bill, and I hope the Minister will stand over it. 
     
     
      
       I think the answer to Deputy Good's argument is that no trader is compelled to give credit, and that he might reasonably insist on doing business on a cash basis. It has been a serious misfortune to this country in the past that too long credit has been given without regard to the position of the debtor.  When the Minister was speaking I could not help feeling thankful that he, as a Minister of the Saorstat and a contemporary of ours, did not live in the days of the   Old Testament, because if the Minister had been Moses he would have had the Ten Commandments handed down to us with the most drastic enforcement clauses.  Imagine the prodigal son, having returned to his father, being pursued by creditors who proceed to seize the fatted calf&mdash;not the fatted calf, for that was out of his reach, but the fatted calf's mother.  Seriously, is it desirable to make it impossible for a young man who has been foolish and run into debt, to go home to his father, and to make it necessary for him to go to his uncle or some other relation because he is afraid of having his father's goods seized?  He can go to anybody except to his father or mother under this section.  I will take another and more likely case, that of the prodigal father.  Take the idle father who does little or no work, and who has a hardworking daughter who has set up to teach music and dancing, and possibly has had to borrow money to buy a piano for the purpose of her training.  That piano is worth more than £15, and if she is living with her father that piano will be seized, and under the section she would be deprived of making an honest living because of her father's debts.  That is repugnant to common humanity. 
     
     The Minister asks us to put up an alternative.  The best alternative I can see is a declaration of ownership on oath before a Commissioner of Oaths or a Peace Commissioner.  That seems to be a reasonable safeguard.  The Minister says that there are many people who will lie.  Does he consider there are many who commit perjury on a matter of this kind?  Does he think there is a sufficient number to make it worth while legislating for it?  If so, why leave an enormous loophole in the section?  If they are prepared to lie or commit perjury surely they are prepared to get a brother or sister to declare the properties theirs?  It would be perfectly easy for persons under this section if they intended to be fraudulent to evade the section altogether.  It might inflict hardship in certain cases, but the really dishonest person would still be able to get out of it.  The Minister has asked us to rely on the discretion of the sub-sheriff and not on the   discretion of the courts, for appeal to the courts is removed, and yet in another Bill we are to consider the abolition of sub-sheriffs and placing their duties on registrars in all new cases.  I must say I would prefer the discretion of the courts.  I do think that we should proceed very carefully in this matter.  I hope the Minister will give some indication that this section is not as the law of the Medes and Persians. I hope he will try and insert some provision that will prevent undue hardship and give some kind of appeal from the decision of the sub-sheriff, which, in fact, means the decision of one of the sub-sheriff's officials. 
     
      
       I desire to support Deputy Johnson's amendment to delete Section 13.  The Minister for Justice made a very special and very insidious plea&mdash;something, in fact, to sweep us off our feet if we did not apply first principles against his argument. The primary consideration appears to me to be the conservation of property, and that in an inviolable way, against third parties.  Why must a father be held responsible for the debt of his son when that son is over age?  Why should his property be liable in any way to be seized?  I fail to get an answer.  Similarly, I fail to see why a son must be held accountable for his father's debts.  Look at the section: 
       No action shall lie against any under-sheriff for or on account of his having taken in execution under any execution order, any goods, animals or other chattels found in the house or other place of residence... 
       Here comes the relevant passage: 
       (whether such claim or allegation does or does not prove to have been well-founded). 
       Deputy Duggan is moving an amendment by which he seeks to add at the end of the section a new sub-section indicating that &ldquo;The foregoing sub-section shall not operate to make it obligatory on any under-sheriff to take in execution under any execution order any such goods, animals or other chattels as are referred to in that sub-section.&rdquo; 
     
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       While it is not obligatory on any under-sheriff to take goods in execution I submit that as a man of the world he will, having gone to the place of abode or the residence of the debtor, take goods.  He will not go home empty-handed; that is not in human nature.  The natural course is that he will take away goods and there will be no action in law against him.  You are putting the man who does not happen to be the debtor but who happens to live with the debtor and is either in ascending or descending degree related to him, at the absolute mercy of the under-sheriff.  There are many degrees of dependency, but to be placed at the mercy of any man is about the worst possible. 
       Even if the under-sheriff is conscious that the goods are lawfully the property of the debtor's father or the debtor's son, he still can take them. You are actually conniving at this man committing a felony, taking property which he knows he has no right whatsoever to take.  You debar the injured person from obtaining any redress in law against the offending party.  You give him a remedy which is more fictitious than real&mdash;an opportunity to appeal against the debtor, who may be a man of straw.  That is scarcely a fair proposition.  Over and above there exists the great principle of the right of a man to hold his property inviolate against the world when there is no debt. 
       I find it difficult to consent to any stringency in the law relating to debts. If we delete this section&mdash;I trust the Dail will do so&mdash;we leave things as they are.  Poverty is such throughout the country that instead of granting extraordinary powers for the collection of debts, the Dail might&mdash;and there is a strong, well-founded claim&mdash;grant temporary alleviation.  It is a very serious thing to claim, but conditions might be such as would demand a moratorium. We have to face these things.  This is one of the problems that we cannot shut our eyes to. 
     
     Deputy Cooper dealt with questions of credit.  I presume it is the business of every shopkeeper to exercise due   discretion in the matter of credit.  They advanced credit in the past without having any remedy for debt recovery such as is now sought.  I fail to see, in the midst of public distress, why we should give increased facilities for the collection of debt.  I submit that men should make sure of the persons they advance credit to.  People should exercise discretion in business of that sort. 
     Deputy Good refers to bogus third-party claims by relatives and others.  I would like the Deputy to amplify the phrase &ldquo;by relatives and others.&rdquo;  I must confess I am at a loss to explain it.  He said also that those third-party claims were a form of legalised robbery in the past.  Does the Deputy believe that a section like this would stand any chance of getting through the British House of Commons?  I am of opinion it would not.  If it could not get through the House of Commons why should it be passed here?  We are supposed not to take a headline from Britain; but even from reputed enemies we sometimes can learn something.  I assume that the British House of Commons would not give this extraordinary power without having a valid reason for so doing.  I hold that they recognise how inequitable such a procedure is and, recognising it, they would repudiate it.  The Deputy knows there never would be a chance of getting such a section through the House of Commons.  If such a thing were fit and proper, is it not extraordinary that down through the centuries it was never put into operation?  The Dail would be well advised to turn down this section. 
     
      
       I think the Minister for Justice has made a very good case for the retention of this section.  In the past&mdash;and even at present&mdash;a similar state of affairs exists&mdash;there is no doubt a great deal of bogus work went on in regard to the claiming of goods by different members of a family in the case of a seizure.  I recognise that there are cases in which a great deal of hardship is caused.  This Bill deals with all classes of the community, rich and poor alike.  It very often happens that women who have a certain amount   of money marry men who are extravagant and thriftless. 
     
     
      
       And foolish. 
     
     
      
       The parents of such people endeavour to secure for their children that the property shall be made as safe as is possible under the circumstances.  In such cases, if they are wise, they schedule a list of the belongings of the wife on the occasion of the marriage and put them in the hands of trustees.  In the case of seizure after the marriage by a bailiff in connection with a debt of the husband, if the wife produces a scheduled list clearly identifying articles and signed by the trustees before her marriage, that ought to be sufficient to justify her claim to the property.  There is no doubt that the removal of articles in the way they probably would be removed in the case of a seizure would have a very detrimental effect on the value of the articles.  In some cases the articles might be of very great value.  I think in a case where there is clear identification and where it can be proved that the goods belong to the woman, and the husband had nothing to do with them, it should not be open to the sheriff to take them.  I presume this clause is absolutely necessary because of the bogus claims that have been and are being made, and I think the aspect of the case I have referred to ought to be considered. 
     
     
      
       I am quite prepared to agree that Section 13, touching on the collection of debts, is fairly revolutionary. Deputies who have spoken in support of Deputy Johnson's amendment ignore some very important facts. If that section were to operate under the legal state of affairs that existed in the past, there would be some difficulty in justifying the radical change.  For instance, up to comparatively recently, the sub-sheriff was more or less an irresponsible person with no permanence of office, elected by a high-sheriff, who was a man of no legal training.  To give a person appointed to an office created in that way indiscriminate power to seize goods and chattels would, I think, be wrong.  In the past the under-sheriff recognised that he had a monetary responsibility   in connection with any action he took in seizing goods on a judgement summons.  What actually happened was the bailiffs, who were his employees, were paid a commission. The easiest way for the sub-sheriff and the bailiffs, on any notification by the debtor that the property did not belong to him, was to accept that and go away without seizing the property.  Under the new order that is about to be established, the bailiff now becomes a court messenger, with all the responsibilities in connection with the discharge of his duties that attach to a permanent official.  Likewise, the sub-sheriff becomes a permanent official, acting under the court.  Is it not reasonable to say that the court will see that its machinery is not used indiscriminately to seize people's property for debts for which they are not responsible?  The danger of that is minimised.  In executing a judgment, the successor of the under-sheriff is bound to use his discretion in a case where a claim is made bona-fide that the goods are not the property of the debtor. 
     
     The officer will be responsible to the court for the discharge of his duties in a reasonable manner.  All this section does is to take away the personal responsibility of the under-sheriff so far as liability for actions is concerned.  It still invests him with responsibility for discharging his office reasonably.  He and his officers are not going to put themselves in the position of having actions taken by people who have had their goods improperly seized.  If that were the effect of this section, it would not hold very long. I do not think public opinion would stand for that, and, after all, we are bringing public opinion to bear on the operation of the courts of justice in a way it has never been brought before in this country.  The remedy is there. For instance, the case has been made that a girl living in the house of her parents might have her piano seized on account of a debt by her parents, although she was earning her livelihood by the piano.  Action of that sort would leave the officer open to considerable criticism, except he had good reason to think that the piano   belonged to the parents.  What is the alternative?  Are you going to perpetuate a system by which people who deliberately get credit to a reasonable extent can defraud the creditor? When the debtor is called upon to pay, he says he will not pay.  When the sub-sheriff sends his bailiffs to the house, he finds everything there claimed on behalf of the wife&mdash;which is the usual procedure&mdash;or somebody connected with the family.  In the vast majority of those cases, the under-sheriff and bailiffs know perfectly well that those things did not belong originally to those people.  Is that system to be perpetuated?  I do not want to urge that the creditor ought to be able to exercise any harsh methods in the collection of his debts. All I want to establish is the principle that a man or woman is liable for debts ordinarily incurred and that the creditor should have reasonable protection, when he gives credit to a person, that that person will be liable for the debt. 
     
      
       &ldquo;That person.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I do not want to carry the case any further than to guard against the fraud which we know has been constantly perpetrated and which has been so widespread that it has been a scandal for many years. I do not think this section is going to hurt anybody honestly inclined.  It is going to get at the people who are dishonestly inclined. 
     
     
      
       It is not. 
     
     
      
       I think it is.  At all events, it is a reasonable effort to do so.  We have heard Deputy Connor Hogan speak about moratoriums.  That has nothing to do with this Bill at all. If Deputy Connor Hogan can come before the House and say that the state of the country is such that a general moratorium should be declared, and if he can convince the House to that effect, that will be a matter for separate legislation.  This Bill deals with the enforcing of court orders and ordinary procedure and, even where the sheriff seizes goods belonging to a   third party, there is a remedy, and a very effective remedy, against the creditor. 
     
     
      
       What is the remedy? 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy tell us where that remedy is to be found? 
     
     
      
       I beg the Deputy's pardon.  The remedy is against the debtor. 
     
     
      
       Against the person who has no money. 
     
     
      
       If he has no money, I do not suppose any law can secure payment of the debt.  The object of this section is to get the money out of persons who can pay.  It is not a question of getting money out of persons who cannot pay. 
     
     
      
       The problem we are confronted with by this section is an exceedingly difficult one.  We are placed in the position by the proposers of this Bill of choosing one of two alternatives.  My principal objection to the section is to the alternative proposed. When a judgment was given in the past, fraud was admittedly perpetrated by the debtor on the creditor. That fraud took the shape of bogus third-party claims.  By the Emergency Powers Act, it was sought to diminish that fraud.  A wrong has existed in the past against the creditor.  There is no gainsaying that.  What is particularly disagreeable in the present proposal, by way of remedy, is that it is proposed to rectify a possible wrong by the institution of another possible wrong. 
     
     
      
       By a greater wrong. 
     
     
      
       The question for us is: &ldquo;Which is the greater wrong?&rdquo;  I do not think it is altogether fair that we should be limited to these alternatives.  It is, I know, extremely difficult to suggest any other alternative. But is the position of affairs so difficult of solution that it is imperatively necessary for us to propose as a remedy for one wrong the possibility of another?  The old saying is: &ldquo;Two wrongs do not make a right.&rdquo;  I fail to see how two possible wrongs can make a right.  The present proposal   is essentially an unfair one&mdash;that a third innocent party may, even if it be only at the discretion of a certain officer, be made liable for a debt which he has not incurred.  Is that proposal justifiable in order to meet existing or possible future wrongs on creditors? I hardly think it is.  We are driven, in the present Bill, to consider which of two alternatives imposes the greater hardship.  Is it a greater hardship to leave open to possible fraud a creditor who, with his eyes open, gives goods to a certain person, than to impose liability on an absolutely innocent person for the debt of another?  As has been said, this proposal practically does away with a married woman's property rights.  A husband may contract a debt.  He may be a worthless spendthrift, but, notwithstanding that, his creditors know that his wife has property and that they may proceed against her and seize her goods.  That is rendering the Married Woman's Property Act inoperative.  The question of the wife contracting debts and her husband being liable is a different question, because that may be the law as it stands.  That a creditor should have at his disposal the discretion of an official as to the ownership of property within a family, without having the ownership specifically proved, is giving him too much advantage, since he gave the credit with his eyes open. 
     
     There is an existing possibility&mdash;indeed, I go so far as to say a practice&mdash; of fraud, but are we justified in trying to remedy that practice by substituting a possibility&mdash;I go no further than to say it is a possibility&mdash;of wrong upon another third party who happens to be in a certain relationship by blood with the debtor?  I do not think we are, and I do not think it will tend to the benefit of what the Deputy has described as our greatest asset&mdash;the credit of the country.  I think it would be a good thing, if it were possible, to curtail a certain amount of the credit that is given to certain people on the understanding that under the powers contained in the Emergency Powers Act, and possibly in the present legislation, the creditor shall have other means of obtaining redress besides seizing the goods of the actual debtor.  There is a   good deal in what Deputy C. Hogan has said, that previous to the passing of the Emergency Powers Act credit was given.  If that credit was given, which, as Deputy Cooper said, need not have been given, I do not see what is to prevent the same state of affairs going on in future.  If it does go on in future, I say that the people responsible for it are those who give the credit.  I think that the difficulty is a great one. I only wish that I could see any fair and proper way out of it.  I confess that I do not.  One thing I do see clearly, that it is not proper that we should endeavour to do away with the possibility of one wrong by substituting the possibility of another. 
     
      
       I wish to support Deputy Johnson's amendment, although I am not quite satisfied that the amendment will leave the situation quite satisfactory.  I am sure I am expressing the general opinion of those who favour the amendment when I say that we are not speaking for the people who want to get out of paying their legitimate debts.  We are all as anxious as Deputy Good that the credit of the State shall be maintained, but I am not prepared to say that the people of the country are so dishonest that we have to include a section like this in the Bill that is probably more drastic than any section to be found in a similar Act in any other country.  I hold that the conditions now are different from those prevailing when the temporary measure was passed.  It is true that many people owe legitimate debts, but there is no organised conspiracy on the part of a body of the citizens to get out of paying their just debts.  If there were, it might be necessary to seek such drastic powers as are sought here.  Many people are anxious to pay legitimate debts, but are not in a position to do so.  These measures are to be employed against certain people in certain conditions, and the representatives of trade in this House urge that the section should be included.  Under this section I feel that we are going to perpetuate a system of credit in this country that has been overdone. 
     
     
      
       To emphasise and increase it. 
     
     
     
      
       There is an old saying that experience is a dear school, and if some business people pay bitterly for their experience sometimes, it is to be regretted.  It is true that it would make them more careful in giving credit and make them examine more closely the standing of the people who want goods on credit.  Under this section business people will feel that they can give limitless credit, knowing that the under-sheriff has such drastic powers that he can go to a place to which goods have been supplied and seize property to satisfy a decree regardless of whether it belongs to the father or the son, or whether it was the father or the son procured the goods. Nothing could be more dangerous than putting business people in the position of being able to supply goods on credit, say, to the children of a man who is in a position to pay cash, but is in no way responsible for his children's actions, with the feeling that they could recover the money from somebody.  I feel that the credit of the country in the long run will suffer from such a dangerous provision as this, and that some section should be substituted for it that will provide a safeguard but will not go so far as this does. 
     
     Deputy Hewat talks about the remedy the aggrieved individual will have.  The aggrieved individual in certain cases will not have any remedy. A father's property may be taken away for a debt contracted by his son.  What is the use of the Deputy suggesting that the father has a remedy by taking his son into court when the father knows that the son has not a penny? The son has only got to order goods to be sent to his father's house and the father can be made amenable under this section.  I feel that the Minister is going too far.  When he makes the plea that the faults of law are due to the weakness of human nature, I wish to point out to him that the sheriff or his officials are only human, too.  When the sheriff knows that no action will lie against him, even though he takes the property of a person other than the debtor, property will be taken in satisfaction of the debt regardless of the person to whom it belongs.  We do not want to put the courts in the position of not being able to carry out decrees   against people who owe just debts, but it is unfair to give power to sheriffs to make seizures in satisfaction of decrees regardless of whose property may be taken and to say that the sheriff shall not be made amenable.  I feel that the Minister is asking too much.  I do not believe that the amendment down in the name of Deputy Duggan will meet the situation or that the mere deletion of the section will meet the situation, but I feel that something other than what is now proposed must be inserted. 
     
      
       It rather increases my good opinion of the section to find that when Deputies want to attack it they find it necessary to caricature it, as Deputy Baxter and Deputy Cooper have caricatured it.  There has been more folly talked about this section than I have heard in the Dail for some time.  The whole line of approach is that the section is designed to give to the under-sheriff not merely the power and the right, but to impose on the under-sheriff the duty of seizing in execution of a court order or decree the goods of persons other than the judgment debtor.  Deputy Baxter then proceeds on that basis with his caricature, just as Deputy Cooper did.  The prodigal son comes home and the under-sheriff arrives with his staff to dismantle the father's house in collection of his debts.  Deputy Cooper, of course, has read too many Bills to be honestly under the impression that the section is designed to create any such state of affairs.  But, unable to attack the section for what it is as it stands, he adopts the device of caricaturing it, and Deputy Baxter, in a rather melancholy way, did the same.  But Deputy Cooper's way differed from Deputy Baxter's only in being more cheerful and probably, for that reason, more insidious. 
     
     The section is not designed to create a situation in which the under-sheriff shall seize property other than the property of the judgment debtor.  The purpose of the section is to enable the under-sheriff, when satisfied that a particular third-party claim is not bona fide, is not genuine, to proceed on that judgment of his, on that opinion of his, without incurring the risk of an action   and personal liability.  If you leave the risk of an action there, then, in fact, the under-sheriff will not proceed.  Why should he?  The moment the claim is advanced he will return to the judgment creditor his  nulla bona.   The effect of the section is to withdraw that personal liability, and the position I aim at is this, the under-sheriff would be in the position that he can go ahead if he believes that a particular third-party claim is not honest.  That is a very different picture to that which Deputy Cooper drew&mdash;the dismantling of the house of the father of the prodigal son. If they had anything as civilised as bailiffs and sheriffs in those days the under-sheriff would not have any doubt as to who was the owner of the goods. Certainly he would not take the line that he honestly and seriously believed that the property was the property of the youth. 
     
      
       Will the Minister deal with the concrete instance given by Deputy Johnson? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson gave a specific case.  I rather deprecate these alleged specific cases. 
     
     
      
       You asked for them on Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       If a man stops me in the Lobby and pours a tale of woe into my ear, an ex-parte, biased account of something that had passed, I consider it would scarcely be fair of other Deputies, with the endorsement of my personal seal, so to speak, to put out that story as a fact without examination. 
     
     
      
       I was not aware that the Minister had been approached on the matter. 
     
     
      
       I am speaking in a general way about the introduction of specific cases as to what did and did not pass.  Deputies have too long been Deputies to believe every tale that is brought to them, but they will admit they generally find on investigation, either by themselves or others, that there is another side to the matter.  I want to suggest in regard to Deputy   Johnson's specific case that there is probably also another side to the matter. He himself probably will not question that.  Deputy Hogan suggested that we should not pass this section as it has not yet been passed in Westminster. If that criterion be applied, many useful and beneficial Bills will have to be withdrawn here.  Deputy Redmond used the words &ldquo;innocent third party.&rdquo;  It is not a question of innocence or guilt, and I do not quite understand the reference to the innocent third party who may be damnified by this section. 
     
     
      
       I meant the wife, husband, or other relative, as set out in the section, of the debtor who may be innocent. 
     
     
      
       We can have sympathy for many people, and I invite sympathy for that much abused person, the judgment creditor.  I want to put it to the Deputy that in the great majority of cases the debt will have been incurred for household requisites from which members of the household, as likely as not, will have benefited. If it were food, clothing, or furniture for the house, it is difficult to say that one person, resident in the household and enjoying its amenities, did not benefit as much as another.  I am not making the case that it follows from that that the property of a person, other than the judgment debtor, ought to be liable to seizure in the abstract, but I throw it out as a suggestion to the Deputy when he talks of third parties and mentions what an enormity it would be if third party property were seized.  You come back in the end to what Deputy Redmond calls the existing practice.  Abuse is to be perpetuated, and if it is not perpetuated how is it to be remedied or removed? 
     
     On the one hand, you have the admission that prior to the introduction of this Act there was wholesale abuse, a great fraud, a wrong to judgment creditors, something that reduced the courts and court procedure to a mockery.  What is the picture since? For three years this section has been operative law and not one single complaint has reached the Minister or the Department, which would certainly   hear complaints if they were there, and which hears very many complaints that are not there in fact.  If it is to be a choice of lesser evils, I put it to you that it is easy to choose.  You had this section as operative law for three or four years and you had not one complaint, not a suggestion of one, either through Deputies directly, by correspondence or by any other way.  On the other hand you had something that was notorious, scandalous, something that every solicitor and under-sheriff in the country could talk about.  I certainly had no difficulty in choosing.  I felt that to refuse to remove that abuse and fraud because of the technical, abstract, theoretical abuses that might flow from this section as it stands would be the height of administrative and legislative folly. 
     To suggest that we should solemnly write into this legislation, bearing on the execution of the order of our new court system, a thing which was a monstrous fraud in the past, seems utterly wrong.  That, however, in effect is what the deletion of this section means&mdash;that the under-sheriff must not have this discretion, and is to be put back to the position when, if he made a bona fide mistake and erred to the extent of taking one article of furniture, say the property of the wife in respect of the husband's debt, he was to be personally liable for that. That same provision will give the same results as it gave in the past.  The under-sheriff will not bother.  Why should he incur personal risk if the legislature imposes it?  He will return  nulla bona  every time, and then you get the position where the third party claim is a sufficient and effective answer to the judge's decree.  Is not that a temptation to people?  Will human nature stand up to it?  Deputy Duggan's amendment makes it clear that there is to be no right in a judgment creditor to have no property seized other than that of the judgment debtor.  It makes it clear that the under-sheriff cannot be made to seize any property which he does not believe to be the property of the judgment debtor.  I want to leave him free to seize property which he believes to be the property of a judgment debtor.  He   has not been so free in the past.  This sword of personal action was hanging over him.  If he made a mistake he was faced with that and he simply went home and returned  nulla bona.  
     Surely we ought not carry on to our new system that monstrous farce of the past.  I want Deputies to be hardheaded. I am sure that they desire efficient and impartial justice in the State, and, desiring it, let them not hesitate to take the only steps that will secure it.  To hesitate to take those steps, to reject the section on the grounds that it is not an ideal section in the sense of being an absolutely water-tight, cast-iron rampart against error and against the possibility of mistake here or there, is, in my view, a finicky outlook which will result in perpetuating a far greater wrong, a far greater fraud, a far greater injustice.  If this section is rejected because it is not ideal then we should seldom pass a Bill.  We have not passed a Bill here which, when fine-combed, could not be said to leave room for some hardship.  We ought not to legislate at all if that is the point of view, that rather than one wrong should occur let the State and its courts and its officials perish, let all writs be waste paper, let us tell the people that if they have the misfortune to be brought to court for debt they have only got to get their wives or their sons to say that they own everything in the house and that that settles it. Deputies should not take that point of view.  They should simply look at the matter soberly, decide where the greater evil lies, and if they cannot put forward a better section than the one in the Bill&mdash;which I assure them has been very carefully considered departmentally and in consultation with responsible officers throughout the country&mdash;then they should simply take it that this is the thing that must be if we are to get away from the farce and the fraud which notoriously obtained in the past. 
     
      
       The Minister has a habit of arguing against what he calls abstract principles and academic propositions and arguments.  Whenever he comes up against anything that deals with a political, a legal or any other principle he would prefer at any time   just to see and deal with the immediate object than to regard the possible consequences in the future.  He is quite prepared to say: &ldquo;Principles go hang; let us deal with the immediate difficulty and deal with that at the moment, irrespective of possible consequences.&rdquo; Deputy Baxter and others have said that the deletion of this section will not leave the Bill satisfactory so far as it affects the collection of judgment debts.  I agree at once.  I am glad to say that I have practically no knowledge whatever of the workings of this matter, either from a creditor's or a debtor's standpoint. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy did not need to tell us that. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister will believe me, the only direct contact I had with such a case was a case which this is designed to remedy, where undoubtedly an attempt was made to my knowledge to evade the judgment debt by alleging that certain property belonged to a third person.  I admit that, and I will accept the Minister's assurance that the evil is a very widespread one.  I do not know, though, whether the Minister agrees with the conclusion at which one arrives if his picture of the state of the country in this respect is a true one, that the country is so debased that lying is wholesale and no one will think of hesitating about a lie in such a matter. If that is the general state of the country&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Might I intervene just to say that I made the point that you were presenting people with an overwhelming temptation and that you were seeking to perpetuate what has been found to be an overwhelming temptation.  If you put a person in the position that he can save his property by saying that it belongs to his wife, he will say it belongs to his wife. 
     
     
      
       Yes, and the Minister told Deputy Cooper by a gesture that they would be quite prepared to perjure themselves and to make a mere statement that this particular property belonged to the wife or to somebody else.  Now, if that is the general moral   state of the country, I suggest to the Minister that it might be difficult to find court officers who will be free from contamination, and if such court officers are afflicted with the same disease they are liable to be &ldquo;touched,&rdquo; as the slang phrase goes, by the creditor, and they will not be quite so wise in the use of their discretion.  One of my objections to this section is that it talks about leaving discretion with the under-sheriff but removes from him all responsibility.  Leaving discretion with a man and removing responsibility from him is practically telling him that he may do what he likes, and &ldquo;discretion&rdquo; is a misnomer.  It is merely then a case of personal fancy, whether he likes the blue eyes of the creditor or not. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to interrupt, but I think the Deputy would perhaps wish me to, rather than to allow him to go on under a misapprehension. He is using &ldquo;responsibility&rdquo; very loosely there.  The officer has really a legal liability; he is not relieved of administrative responsibility, and does the Deputy suppose for a moment that the officer who will correspond to the under-sheriff, who notoriously and to the knowledge of the Minister abused his powers under the section, would be left in office? 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the Minister will find it very difficult to prove the misuse of discretion.  It will be the easiest thing in the world for the under-sheriff to make the claim that he had good reason to believe that this or that property belonged to some other person, and there is no likelihood at all that the Minister will have all the facts brought to his notice.  Deputy Good supported the Minister in this Bill for the protection of shopkeepers.  Naturally. The Minister said that the great majority of the cases that have come before the courts are in respect to the supply of household requisites.  If that is the case, as I presume it is the case &mdash;the Minister, no doubt, made full inquiries before he made such a statement&mdash;the position we are faced with is that the shopkeeper either does or does not make inquiries regarding the property   in the house, the household goods of the debtor, and what encumbrances there are on that property, before giving credit.  We know that as a matter of practice shopkeepers do no such thing.  They take the previous trading record of the debtor; they take their general knowledge of the debtor; they do not intend to inquire what property is in the house or whether other people have prior claims on that property. But we know that a habit has grown up in this city of shopkeepers forcing goods upon people, wanting to get them into their books, encouraging them to take credit rather than pay cash, and we know, on the other hand, that there is a large number of people, wealthy people as well as poor people, who will run into debt for months and months, and then, in six or nine or twelve months, make an attempt to pay and demand discount for cash.  But the shopkeeper does not make any attempt to find out before giving that credit what the furniture in the house may be. He deals, as a matter of practice, with the ordinary appearance, the previous record, if he has any knowledge of it, and takes his chance.  But this Bill, as soon as it is known to be in existence, will encourage shopkeepers to a greater extent than ever before, will encourage moneylenders, will encourage the travelling draper to impose goods upon the daughter of the house or the son or the wife, without the knowledge of the husband, with the knowledge that they have got a double or a treble security by means of this Bill.  To say that the Bill is only relieving the under-sheriff of personal liability may be true if it works out as the Minister thinks it ought to work out.  But this section opens possibilities which are likely to be availed of in many cases for injustice to be done; I should say even more than possibilities; that it almost makes sure that injustice will be done in many cases with the intention that protection should be given to creditors who have in most cases run people into debt by their importunity for trade. We have got from the Minister that the Bill is intended to apply mostly to shopkeepers&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       The suppliers of   household requisites.  But I think in the future it will apply to an increasing number of money-lenders' debts, and that particular class of debt, and I think that the shopkeeper or the moneylender ought not to be encouraged to give more credit than he gave in the past&mdash;because we are passing a Bill which will treble the security&mdash; without calling upon him to exercise more care than he has done in the past in the giving of credit.  Deputy Good talked about the prosperity of the country depending on the credit of the country.  We did exist somehow or other prior to 1914.  I will leave out the war period altogether.  If all we read to-day in the newspapers is true or approaches the truth, our position to-day is ten times worse in the matter of credit than it ever was pre-war. But the traders managed to exist pre-war; they gave credit pre-war and they had no such security as this behind them.  They took their risks, they got decrees in the courts, and presumably many of the decrees were executed.  I do not understand the argument that says that because the state of trade at present is so very much worse than it was in 1914, this kind of provision requires to be added to the ordinary law. 
     
     The Minister argues that the state of morality of the country, pre-war, was such, and the state of the commercial credit of the country was such as could not be defended, and that this sort of thing was required to help people to be honest and to help the traders of the country to collect their debts.  I do not understand how it was that the country could exist at all if the state of things was so bad in pre-war times without such a proposition as this is at the back of the creditors.  The Minister threw some doubts about the particular instance that I gave.  I do not know whether he will give me credit for it, but I have been always very careful in my selection of instances and in my examination of cases that are put up to me before making any complaints.  I have never attempted to father a complaint unless I had made some examination of it, and I did so in this case.  I made some inquiry into the case which I speak of,   and I quote it because I think it is a case that might easily be typical under the working of this particular section. A son goes into debt unknown to his father: judgment is entered against the son and the bailiffs enter the father's house.  The father makes inquiries and gets into touch with his solicitors.  The solicitors do not know that there is such a provision in the law, but eventually the bailiffs are induced to withdraw. They have used the discretion that the Minister speaks about, and so far so good, but the father is obliged to pay the sheriff's fees before they will withdraw, and whatever may be said about the debt itself, or the claim for distraint, it surely is an injustice that the father should be obliged to pay fees in respect of a debt of which he knows nothing.  I would feel myself very unjustly treated if I went home to-night and found there were bailiffs in my house because of a debt which was incurred by my son and of which I knew nothing, if I had to go to all kinds of trouble, to solicitors and to others, to prove that this was not my debt, if I had to run the risk that my property would be taken out of the house, and that no liability would lie with the under-sheriff no matter how I might endeavour to impress upon him the fact that the property was mine and not my son's. 
     It is all very well to talk of the discretion of the under-sheriff.  I am not prepared to trust to the discretion of any under-sheriff in these circumstances, which discretion might be used in nine cases out of ten fairly, but in the other one case might be used quite unjustly and I am prepared to stand by the one per cent. in such a case rather than assist the nine per cent. in collecting debts from people who do not owe them.  The effect of the deletion of the section would be that something else would have to be put in its place.  The responsibility for that lies on the Minister, but if he will accept a suggestion &mdash;I do not know how this would alter the Bill and it is beyond my capacity to frame a clause which would cover all the requirements&mdash;it seems to me that if this section is retained in the Bill it ought to be made possible for the actual owner of the property to forbid   a sale and to give that person the right to appeal to some authority, the sheriff or whatever the authority may be, and that there should be no sale until that appeal or appearance before such authority had been made; also that the responsibility for costs incurred should not lie upon the owner of the property but upon either the creditor or the sheriff.  I think the owner of the property upon whom a wrongful distraint has been made should be freed from all financial responsibilty in respect of a debt of which he knows nothing.  I ask the House to agree with the deletion of the section if only for the purpose of declaring   against the principle that a creditor should have the right to use a court officer to seize goods in payment of a debt which somebody else has incurred. 
     
      
       He has not the right. 
     
     
      
       Yes, he has the right because there is no responsibilty if he does wrong. 
     
     
      
       There is Deputy Duggan's amendment. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided.  Ta, 27; Nil, 41. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan Altun. Padraig Baxter. Sean Buitleir. Bryan R. Cooper. Seamus Eabhroid. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick J. Mulvany. Tomas de Nogla. 
             William Norton. Ailfrid O Broin. Criostoir O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hIfearnain. Sean O Laidhin. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Padraig O hOgain (Luimneach). William A. Redmond.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Thomas Bolger. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. Louis J. D'Alton. Michael Egan. Patrick J. Egan. John Good. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Patrick Leonard. Donnchadh Mac Con Uladh. Liam Mac Cosgair. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. James Sproule Myles. 
             Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean O Bruadair. Risteard O Conaill. Conchubhar O Conghaile. Mairtin O Conallain. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Aindriu O Laimhin. James O Mara. Seamus O Murchadha. Mairtin O Rodaigh. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhall.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers&mdash;Ta: Deputies Baxter and Tomas O Conaill.  Nil: Deputies Dolan and Sears. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Amendment 6.&mdash;&ldquo;In line 19 to delete the words `or other place of residence'.&rdquo;  (Major Bryan Cooper.) 
     
      
       This amendment was put down in order to get the discussion we have just had.  Therefore, I think it need not be moved. 
       Amendment not moved. 
     
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(2)  The foregoing sub-section shall not operate to make it obligatory on any under-sheriff to take in execution under any execution order any such goods, animals or other chattels as are referred to in that sub-section.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The purpose of this amendment is to make it clear to execution creditors that it is not obligatory on any under-sheriff to exercise the powers conferred on him by Section 13. The section was designed to give a discretion to the under-sheriff, but it has been ascertained that some little doubt has arisen on the matter and so it has been considered advisable to insert this amendment. 
     
     
      
       I would be in favour of this amendment considering that the previous Section 13 has been passed, and I take this opportunity of congratulating the Minister for Justice for admitting the principle of discretion. The principle of discretion in this case is in regard to officials who, though, as he has said, are not entirely without responsibility, still are immune by Section 13 from any action that they may take in the exercise of that discretion. When I say any action, I do not mean any unreasonable action, but I would like to congratulate him on admitting the principle of discretion, and I wish he would only admit the same principle with regard to higher officers of State, such as District Justices, and that when this is considered he will bear the attitude in mind that he has taken up on this proposal. 
       Amendment put and declared carried. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 13, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
     
     
      
       called for a division. 
     
     
      
       We have had a division already. 
     
     
      
       You have the amended section now put from the Chair. 
     
     
     
      
       There was no objection to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I am not sure on the matter of order&mdash;that would be for the Leas-Cheann Comhairle&mdash;whether the Deputy is entitled to challenge a division on a matter on which there has just been a division, but I put it to the Deputy's good sense that to perpetuate a waste of the time of the Dail is scarcely creditable for a representative of the premier county. 
     
     
      
       It is quite true that there has been a division within the last few minutes, but the amendment proposed by Deputy Dolan does not go far enough to meet my objection to the section.  I thought I made that clear when I spoke on Deputy Johnson's motion.  I am still of the opinion.  I am not satisfied and I claim the constitutional right to challenge a division. 
     
     
      
       The motion was declared carried before the division was called for. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I did not think there was a sufficient number present to demand a division. 
     
     
      
       Cannot one Deputy demand, and insist on, a division? 
     
     
      
       He can, but there is supposed to be more than one to stand up in their places when demanding a division. 
     
     
      
       That matter has arisen, with regard to myself, a short time ago.  I challenged a division and only two voted on my side.  I maintain it is the privilege of a Deputy, even if he votes alone, to insist on a division. 
     
     
      
       If the amendment is accepted by the House I do not see why Deputy Connor Hogan should call for a division.  It is only a waste of time. 
     
     
     
      
       It is on the section as amended. 
     
     
      
       
          Does Deputy Hogan persist in calling for a division? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       The Committee divided.  Ta, 41; nil, 21. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Thomas Bolger. Seamus Breahnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Michael Egan. Patrick J. Egan. John Good. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Patrick Leonard. Seosamh Mac a' Bhrighde. Donnchadh Mac Con Uladh. Liam Mac Cosgair. Eoin Mac Neill. 
             Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. James Sproule Myles. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean O Bruadair. Risteard O Conaill. Conchubhar O Conghaile. Mairtin O Conallain. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Aindriu O Laimhin. James O'Mara. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean O Suilleabhain. Micheal O Tighearnaigh. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhall. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig Baxter. Sean Buitleir. Connor Hogan. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Risteard Mac Liam. Tomas de Nogla. William Norton. Ailfrid O Broin. Criostoir O Broin. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hIfearnain. Sean O Laidhin. Padraig O hOgain (Luimneach). William A. Redmond.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers&mdash;Ta: Deputies Dolan and Sears.  Nil: Deputies Heffernan and Connor Hogan. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     Sections 14 to 20 inclusive put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 21. 
     21.&mdash;(1)  Proceedings by way of interpleader may be instituted by an under-sheriff before the District Court in any case in which the under-sheriff shall have taken in execution or intended execution any goods, animals, or other chattels under any execution order and such goods, animals, or chattels are claimed by some person other than the debtor, and the value of the proceeds of the sale (if any) of such goods, animals, or chattels does not exceed twenty-five pounds. 
     (2)  On the hearing by the District Court of any interpleader proceedings under this section, the Justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine all matters in issue between the parties, including the amount of and liability for costs, and to make such order thereon as justice shall require. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), lines 40 and 41, to delete the words &ldquo;of the proceeds of the sale (if any).&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister give us some explanation of this? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will refer to Section 21, sub-section (1), lines 40 and 41, he will see the meaning   of it.  In practice where a claim is made in the case of a person other than the judgment debtor and the sheriff decides to interfere he does not sell the goods, but he requires the claimant to lodge the amount of the decree or the value of the goods seized. and he refers the claim for decision to the Court.  He himself holds the amount which has been lodged with him much as a stake-holder.  He is the holder of the stakes.  The proceeds of the sale, it is felt, would not be the proper basis for determining whether the District Court had jurisdiction, and the actual value of the goods seized ought to be the determining factor.  We are proposing, therefore, to take out the other words, and leave simply the value of the goods as the standard test of whether a particular case would come within the jurisdiction of a District Court or would have to be referred to the Circuit Court. 
     
     
      
       The only question that arises in my mind is as to whether the provisions of the section, or the section as amended, is going to make it easier for the actual owner, or the person who claims to be the owner, of the goods to get quick relief.  I mean if the District Court is capable of dealing with the matter more quickly than a Circuit Court application shall be made to the District Court in as many cases as possible. 
     
     
      
       That would be the effect of the amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       Amendment 9, which I have down&mdash;&ldquo;In sub-section (1), line 40, to delete the word `of' and to substitute the word `or' &rdquo;&mdash;I do not now intend to move as it is destroyed by the acceptance of the previous amendment. 
     
     
      
       The purpose of it is the same as that effected by amendment No. 8, and I beg to suggest to the Deputy in connection with amendment 10, which is his next amendment, that the matter could be raised more conveniently   on the Rules of Court, that must be introduced after the passing of this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I do not wish to press the amendment.  The whole object I had in view is to give relief, and whether that is given by way of Rules of Court or through the measure we are now discussing is a matter for the Minister to arrange. 
       Amendment not moved. 
       Sections 22, 23 and 24, inclusive, put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       The Bill, as amended, reported. 
     
     
      
       I will take the report stage on the 23rd instant, and I intend to give notice, because of the considerable intervals there have been between the second reading and committee, and between this and report, to take the final stages on that day. 
     
     
      
       May I ask for an alteration of the programme.  I suggest that we should now take the Statistics Bill instead of the Court Officers' Bill, which we could take to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       I only wish to speak a word for those who may conceivably be preparing a case against the Statistics Bill and have been waiting for the other Bill to go through.  We were promised that a certain routine would be gone through, and if that is suddenly changed it might do harm to those interested in this section.  It is liable to disarrange the programme of Deputies if they really take an interest in the work of the Dail. 
     
     
      
       If Deputy Johnson wishes I will take the School Attendance Bill now. 
     
     
      
       I have no claim in the matter.  I only wish the business to be carried out as arranged.  I am giving the warning that this is the sort of thing that might cause trouble in the future if we are constantly disarranging our programme. 
     
   
   
     STATISTICS BILL, 1925&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
        The Dail went into Committee. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendment:&mdash; 
       The following words added at the end of Section 2&mdash;&ldquo;ancient monuments.&rdquo; 
       I hope there will be no objection to that. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendment:&mdash; 
       In Section 8 the following words added at the end of sub-section (1)&mdash;&ldquo;unless such occupier shall satisfy the court that the document was not received by him.&rdquo; 
       It is urged in connection with this section that the requisition of the document amounted to a case for prosecution, and that it would be a hardship upon persons that they should be prosecuted in respect of documents they had not received.  These words are inserted so that an opportunity will be afforded to a person who would feel aggrieved to satisfy a court that the document had not been received by him. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendment:&mdash; 
       In Section 1 (6), line 60, the words &ldquo;purports to act&rdquo; deleted and the words &ldquo;produces a certificate in writing signed by a superintendent of the Garda Siochana that he is acting&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       There is objection to this section on the ground that cases have occurred in which persons have represented themselves to be members of the Garda Siochana who were not members of that body.  In order to provide that no doubt would arise in respect of properly authorised persons seeking for certain information, it has been arranged to insert this amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
        It is arranged by the insertion of this amendment that the officer should produce a certificate in writing signed by a superintendent of the Garda Siochana that he is acting.  The reason a superintendent is selected is that he has under his charge something like fifty or sixty Gardai.  An instruction in writing from the Central Office would necessitate the signing of, perhaps, a large number of authorisations and the delivery of them to each Garda.  The superintendent authorising him and knowing each Garda will be a greater security than if the document had been sent from the Central Office.  I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Dail agree with the Seanad in this amendment: 
       4.  In Section 11, a new sub-section added as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(7)  Every appointment and every certificate signed by a superintendent of the Garda Siochana under this section shall contain a reference to the prohibition on the disclosure of information imposed by Section 14 of this Act.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is inserted to meet the objection that was raised to there not being a sufficiency of safeguards to ensure secrecy.  A suggestion was made that either an oath or a declaration should be made.  There was objection to that on various grounds.  The fact that secrecy should be obtained is brought to the notice of every officer or person discharging the duties under the Act by having inserted a reference to the prohibition on the disclosure of information imposed by Section 14 of the Act.  It was agreed by those who urged that certain information might possibly, innocently or otherwise, be disclosed, that the fact that it was confidential information was brought commonly under the notice of the Gardai by having the section prohibiting the disclosure of information cited in or on the certificate which gave them power to get the information. 
     
     
      
       There is one observation   I would like to make on this because it touches so many of the points raised in the Seanad.  I have no objection to the close guarding of secrets where necessary, but I think there is undue care when this secrecy has to deal with the better-off classes.  In respect to an unemployed man, an applicant for relief or a person under examination in the Compensation Courts, there is no hesitation to inquire into his financial position.  It is made open to the world.  Every person is quite willing and is expected to disclose all he knows.  That is the case in respect to a man who would ordinarily be in receipt of a weekly wage.  When it comes to a man in business the secrecy must be absolutely safeguarded. I draw attention to the difference in the approach to such questions that we noted in the discussion in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       I put it to Deputy Johnson that in respect to an unemployed man his credit is not affected very much by an allegation or a whisper regarding his business.  In the case of a public company, or a man in a big way of business, such whispers or allegations are very expensive at times. If information which would disclose the circulation of them were available, it would be open to the person aggrieved to get some compensation. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendments:&mdash; 
       5.  In Section 13 (1), line 3, the words &ldquo;Neither any&rdquo; deleted and the word &ldquo;No&rdquo; substituted therefor 
       This is a grammarian's amendment, as is also the following amendment:&mdash; 
       6.  In Section 13 (1), line 5, the words &ldquo;nor any&rdquo; deleted and the words &ldquo;and no&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       I will take the two together, and accordingly I move. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the   Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment:&mdash; 
       7.  In Section 13 (1), line 6, after the word &ldquo;document&rdquo; the words &ldquo;and no verbal information or answer given relating to any individual person, business or concern&rdquo; inserted. 
       This is to give the same sort of security for verbal information or answer as is enshrined in connection with information otherwise obtained. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendments:&mdash; 
       8.  In Section 14 (1), the words &ldquo;or any verbal information or answer given relating to any individual person, business or concern&rdquo; added at the end of the sub-section. 
       9.  In Section 14 (2), line 50, after the word &ldquo;aforesaid&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or any verbal information or answer given relating to any individual person, business or concern' inserted. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendment:&mdash; 
       10.  Before Section 17 a new section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Any order made under sub-section (1) of Section 16 of this Act shall be laid as soon as may be on the Table of both Houses of the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       This amendment occasioned a very considerable amount of discussion and it was desired at one time to have resolutions passed by both Houses, or, at least, to give both Houses an opportunity within a certain number of days of expressing disapproval.  It was pointed out that would hold up, during certain periods of the year, the collection of any information.  It was then agreed that any order made under sub-section (1) of Section 16 shall be laid as soon as may be on the Table of both Houses of the Oireachtas. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment:&mdash; 
       11.  Before Section 18 a new section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require any person to give information in relation to a matter as to which his knowledge was acquired in circumstances that would entitle him to decline to give such information in a civil proceeding in a court of law on the ground of privilege or to require any bank or corporation carrying on the business of banking or any official thereof to furnish any particulars which would enable any person to identify such particulars as relating to any individual person, business or concern without the consent in writing of that person or of the proprietor of that business or concern.&rdquo; 
     
     This amendment refers to persons placed in a position of confidence, such as solicitors or people like that.  They would occupy the same position with regard to this Act as they occupy in a court of justice.  The latter portion of the amendment deals with information concerning private banking accounts. I am not satisfied that there were any real grounds for the apprehensions which were expressed regarding the possibility of getting information concerning private accounts in banks.  I am perfectly satisfied that it would have been impossible to have made a case for getting such information.  I am satisfied that the banks would have been quite within their rights in refusing it.  I am satisfied that the statistical officer would not have succeeded had a prosecution been entered. I am satisfied that it is most unlikely that any Government would instruct a statistical officer to seek such information. I am satisfied that no such information regarding a private account would be of any use in connection with statistics.  But the apprehensions were there.  I would feel myself perfectly satisfied that the tradition, the experience and the common-sense of the business community and the people generally engaged in commerce would be against the necessity for including any   such provision as this even in this Act. But the apprehensions were there.  To satisfy them, this proviso was inserted and I recommend it for acceptance. 
     
      
       Perhaps the President would relieve my mind of a slight doubt&mdash;it is slight in my mind, but it might be stronger in the minds of other people&mdash;as to whether this provision will relieve banks of any liability which they have under other laws.  I refer to such a case as the failure of a bank to disclose its operations in the event of an issue as to the misuse of funds. There have been cases where banking institutions, as they are called, have failed, and where their operations have had to be disclosed.  I am wondering whether there is anything in this proviso which relieves banks of liability of that kind.  Personally, I do not think the Bill will have this effect, but I would like to have the assurance of the President, if he is in a position to give us an assurance, on the matter. 
     
     
      
       The section is very plain (section quoted).  I think there is very little doubt that that has reference to the privacy of particular accounts. 
     
     
      
       There are certain cases where a bank might be required to give information as to what they have done with certain accounts&mdash;for instance, in criminal proceedings. While I think that this section deals only with requirements under the Bill, if it could be read so as to relieve banking institutions from liability to disclose particulars under other circumstances. I think it should not be accepted. If it only applies to this particular Bill&mdash;that is, to requirements for statistical purpose&mdash;I would not be disposed to oppose it. 
     
     
      
       The second section deals with the collection of statistics.  (Section quoted.)  As far as the statistical side is concerned, all the powers the Minister would require are enshrined in that section.  The section in question simply deals with the privacy which up to this has been regarded as sacrosanct in connection with accounts in banks. 
     
     
     
      
       Is it not a definite answer to Deputy Johnson that the section commences: &ldquo;Nothing in this Act...&rdquo;  The whole proviso is limited by that particular phrase. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Amendments reported. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in their report&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL, 1925&mdash;FOURTH STAGE. 
     
      
       I move amendment 1: 
       &ldquo;In Section 4 (3), page 3, line 39, after the word `parent' to add the words `on his parent's land.' &rdquo; 
       There seemed to be some doubt on the last occasion as to whether the words in the Bill, as it now stands, expressed the intention of the Dail, and an amendment was moved by Deputy O'Connell.  That gave rise to some discussion.  I had some doubt as to whether the particular form of words suggested was acceptable.  Other considerations also came up which were not raised on the previous occasion. On both grounds I asked for postponement of the decision on the matter. Having considered the matter carefully, I came to the conclusion that what was meant on the Committee Stage, when this question was rather fully discussed, was that exemption should be for work for the parents on the parents' land.  It was on that ground that we argued that exemption should be given to children aged from 12 to 14 years.  It was on that ground that I argued that the provision of that exemption did not contravene the international convention at Geneva. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I regret I missed the debate in connection with this matter when it took place in Committee. If I had been here, I would certainly have objected to the form   which the amendment has now taken. The strongest argument the Minister advanced, in my opinion, was that he was bound by the Geneva Convention in regard to the employment of children. If the Dail is bound by that Convention we ought, of course, to stand by it.  But there may be a different interpretation of the Convention.  In my opinion, this is not an advisable amendment. I was picturing the state of affairs that exists in the country and I was trying, on a previous occasion, to make provision with regard to the worker on the farm.  Take the work in connection with the thinning of beet. That work is generally done, in areas where labour is employed by farmers, by the wives and the children of the labourers.  I want to call the Minister's attention to the fact that those children, if they were not engaged on the farms of their employers, would not be engaged at all on agricultural work, their parents having no farms.  It is all right to be idealistic, but we must face the actual facts.  A lot of this work is done by children.  The thinning of turnips is generally done by the wives and children of agricultural workers, and in the present economic conditions &mdash;with the wages which agricultural workers receive, which are not extravagant, having regard to the cost of living&mdash;it is necessary for these workers to take advantage of every opportunity that offers to add to their incomes.  If it is right that the children should be employed on their parents' land, I see no reason why the children of the workers, whose parents probably have no land, should not be allowed to work for this fortnight or so on other land. For that reason I object to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       This question was pretty fully argued when an amendment was proposed to delete the words &ldquo;for his parents,&rdquo; on the Committee Stage.  It was fully gone over in connection with the purpose of the Bill, with the purpose of the exemption, with the connection between this particular Section 4 and Section 7 which forbids employment that interferes with school attendance.  I think it was made abundantly clear on that   occasion that anything that savoured of employment as a reason for remaining away from school was not acceptable.  That was the view taken by the Dail.  If you allow what was suggested on the last day and has been considered fully since, what I might roughly call the swopping of children, though there may be a custom of that kind prevailing in certain portions of the country, it is impossible to draw the line between that, which is a disguised form of employment, and employment in the open sense, which is dealt with in Section 7.  The matter was really discussed on two occasions. I regret that Deputy Heffernan, unfortunately, was not here on either of those occasions, but the Dail has already expressed his opinion on the matter. 
       Amendment declared carried. 
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 2:&mdash; 
       In Section 4 (4), page 3, line 47, after the word &ldquo;parent&rdquo; to add the words &ldquo;on his parent's land.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 3:&mdash; 
       In Section 6 (4), page 4, line 42, after the word &ldquo;on&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or at the first opportunity after.&rdquo; 
       This is to meet a difficulty that was raised.  It was really a language difficulty&mdash;in the non-controversial sense of that particular phrase&mdash;as much as anything else.  I think there is a legal significance in the words now proposed that will cover what we really mean. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 4:&mdash; 
       In Section 10 (3), page 5, line 63, to delete the word &ldquo;or&rdquo; and substitute a comma, and immediately after the word &ldquo;resign&rdquo; to insert within the bracket the words &ldquo;or are removed.&rdquo; 
     
     This is to correct a slip in the actual drafting of this sub-section.  The sub-section   did not make provision for the power that was afterwards given to remove certain members of the Committee. There are three ways in which persons may cease to be members of a committee: they may die, resign, or be removed.  This is simply to meet the power subsequently given. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       I move amendment 5:&mdash; 
       In Section 11 (4), page 7, to delete all from the word &ldquo;on,&rdquo; line 23, to the word &ldquo;removal,&rdquo; line 26, inclusive. 
       It is felt that the section, as it stands ties down both the Committee and the Minister too much in insisting that the tenure should be the same and the remuneration should be the same, whether duties are increased or not.  As these officers are now made pensionable, it is also only fair that they would not be in a position, for instance, to raise the fact that their duties not being exactly the same, they would have power to go on pension.  I do not think there will be any difficulty in accepting the amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendments 6 and 7, which stand together:&mdash; 
       In Section 14 (4) (c) (ii), page 9, line 13, to delete the words &ldquo;one year's salary&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;one-tenth of the annual salary of the officer for every completed year of his service, such salary being calculated.&rdquo; 
       In Section 26 (4), page 13, line 38, to delete the words &ldquo;one year's salary&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;one-tenth of the annual salary of the officer for every completed year of his service, such salary being calculated.&rdquo; 
     
     There was a feeling in the Dail&mdash;at least so far as the Dail expressed its views on the matter&mdash;that the provisions of the Bill were not generous enough to these officers.  It is a matter for the Dail to decide.  I therefore propose to move that instead of a maximum of one year's salary being provided   by way of compensation for those whose offices are abolished by this Bill, one year's salary for every ten years completed service should be the maximum.  That is one-tenth for every completed year's service.  It is a matter for the Dail to decide whether they will have this particular amendment. In its favour I might urge that this Bill relieves the rates of the expense to which they have been put up to the present with regard to the enforcing of school attendance.  That will be one of the effects of the Bill. 
     Therefore, even though this particular amendment be accepted, by which one-tenth of the salary of the officer for every completed year of his service will be the maximum for compensation, the Bill as a whole considerably relieves the local rates.  It cannot be said, therefore, that any new burden is being put on the rates, even if this particular amendment is adopted.  It is unnecessary to explain that these two particular amendments have to do with the officials whose offices are abolished either by the Bill itself or whose offices may be abolished in future.  If you take the ratio of one-tenth for every year of service, the cost for part-time officers in urban areas for the whole of the Saorstat would amount to about £1,000, if the maximum were given; in rural areas to £2,100; and the total would be £3,187.  The whole-time officers would be somewhat more.  If you take the part-time and whole-time officers for urban and rural areas over the whole Saorstat, on this particular scale, assuming the maximum be given, the amount would be about £7,800. 
     
      
       Speaking as an individual and not on behalf of my party who at present are absent, I welcome the amendment.  I think that although the scale proposed by the Minister is not unduly generous, it is a great improvement on the previous limitations in the Bill.  Some school attendance officers have up to twenty-five years' service and I think it is rather ungenerous to dismiss an official who has had twenty-five years' service and who cannot get more than one year's salary.  This provision will give   greater latitude, and a man with twenty-five years' service will, I take it, receive at least two and a half years' salary.  This is not mandatory. It is voluntary.  As the Minister said that this is going to be left to the House, I hope the House will accept it. 
     
     
      
       Speaking on behalf of my present non-existent party I want formally to protest against the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Your party spoke strongly in favour of it; at least the one member who was present on that occasion did so. 
       Amendments put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill as amended be received for final consideration&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Fifth Stage ordered for Thursday, 11th March. 
     
   
   
     QUESTION ON ADJOURNMENT&mdash;RELIEF OF DISTRESS. 
     Motion made and question proposed: &ldquo;That the Dail do now adjourn.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I have given notice that I would raise on the adjournment the question of the relief of distress due to unemployment.  That question is one which probably would be better discussed on a formal motion, but the circumstances that have been forced on the public mind rather necessitate dealing with the matter at the first opportunity. I feel that the precedent which has been made in respect to the Dublin Union may be the initiation of a new policy which may eventually apply to the whole country.  I want to make certain representations with regard to this method of dealing with distress due to unemployment.  The provisions of Section 13 of the Local Government Act, 1908, which empower the Minister to authorise the local authority, that is, the workhouse authority, to grant relief to any person outside the workhouse in cases of exceptional distress, have been put into operation and the Commissioners have been empowered by an Order of the Minister to that effect.  I think it is understood that the section was devised for what may be   called, emergency cases, cases of distress arising out of unexpected calamities, such, for instance, as floods.  While I have no objection to stretching the intentions of the Act to cover any case, I want to argue that the method of dealing with distress due to unemployment by means of a special form of outdoor relief is quite inadequate and undesirable as a continuous procedure. It is being used, of course, to fill a certain gap which the failure of the Unemployment Insurance Acts has left.  I think it is a most unsatisfactory substitute for dealing with a problem under the Unemployment Insurance Acts.  I would ask Deputies to put themselves in the position of a workman who has endeavoured to keep himself decently and to retain his self-respect, who has been unemployed for a long time, who has been obliged to sell any reserves that he had, who has utilised all his insurance benefits, either in his own trade tontine society or unemployment insurance, and who is left in a position of distress.  The position that has been taken by the Government to meet that extraordinary distress is the provision of relief by means of food tickets, orders upon grocers, received from workhouse officials.  I want to argue that it is anything but a satisfactory method of dealing with this problem of poverty and distress due to unemployment.  I want to say, for fear of misapprehension, that I am not criticising adversely the method of administration so far as it has yet been practised.  A few days only have elapsed, and, so far as I can gather from enquiries, the method of administration has been careful and sympathetic. No harassing enquiries have been made, and fair and sympathetic methods have been adopted in the treatment of cases. 
     
     The unemployed man, however, who has grown up with a feeling of revulsion at having to seek the aid of the poor law, if he is obliged to follow this method of obtaining relief, feels that it is a distinct break with his traditions of decency and independence.  Whether we can approve of it or not on logical grounds, the revulsion against poor law relief applies to many people,   and it is only after they have sunk somewhat in their own estimation that they are willing to go to that stage and apply for poor law relief.  Many decent people do it, but they feel that it is a break with decency, and they would rather not be forced to do it, and many people would suffer deprivation rather than seek relief in this way. I think that is common ground.  It has been the argument used for many years in opposition to the whole system of poor law relief, but it is now being applied in Dublin as a substitute for an extension of unemployment insurance. As I said, I think that this is a very bad substitute, and I am urging that the distribution of assistance or relief, however small, however inadequate it may be, is better done through the machinery of the Labour Exchanges than through the machinery of the poor law unions.  Even if it became necessary to require the assistance of those who had been hitherto the workhouse authorities, it would be better to have that assistance so that the work of relief should be done through the Labour Exchanges rather than by food tickets.  The food ticket arrangement, as distinct from a cash provision, again is objected to, and I think with good reason.  While not logical, it is sound and has its roots in the mentality of people.  Men do not like to go to their grocer or other shopkeeper and advertise the fact through that shopkeeper that they have got this relief through the poor law.  The method of treating this distress through unemployment by means of the poor law in this respect also is faulty and liable, I think, in the long run, to reach the wrong people.  The objection is made&mdash; I do not lay special stress upon it&mdash; that in many cases the most urgent need is not food, but clothing, or perhaps to meet a demand for rent to escape eviction.  Cash payments can do that; food tickets cannot do it.  As I say, I do not lay special stress upon that because I think the landlord should not be the first to be paid and that the food and clothing requirements should have prior claim. 
     But there is another aspect of this which does not touch the individual being assisted, but does touch the question   of local responsibility: I mean the responsibility of the rates for this added burden.  The problem of unemployment that we are dealing with is clearly not a local problem; it is not a problem which the local ratepayer is or should be considered to be specially responsible for, and the burden, which may amount to threepence in the pound in any year under the Act, should not be borne through the rates at all, but as a charge which should be laid upon a central national fund, whatever that fund might be. I want to deal with this case, on this occasion at any rate, clearly as a matter of argument as to the wisdom of dealing with this distress due to unemployment through the Poor Law administration, and to urge upon the Minister, and Ministers, that they should proceed at the earliest possible moment to make provision for dealing with the question through insurance and the insurance system, rather than through Poor Law relief, and as early and as effectively as possible to provide work, or opportunities for work, of a constructive, remunerative character for the people who are able and willing to work.  But I want specially to stress the fact that if you are going to trust the Poor Law system for dealing with this matter you will find eventually that you are hurting the morale of the men and women concerned, that very many of those who are most needing will be deterred from accepting relief through this system, and that you are re-establishing what it was once thought to be a desirable thing to abolish, the old system of Poor Law administration.  I will leave it at that, with the plea that Ministers should take this question into consideration at the earliest possible date and introduce legislation, if legislation is necessary, as I presume it is, to enable benefits to be given through the insurance machinery. 
     
      
       I do not know how far I am concerned with this matter.  Deputy Johnson has enunciated certain theories which would be all very well if we were living in a Utopian State.  We are all agreed that   we would like to give relief, where it is absolutely necessary to give it, in a way that would not wound the pride or the feelings of decency of those being relieved, but we are not living in an ideal world. 
     
     
      
       Was the Minister ever a member of Sinn Fein? 
     
     
      
       I was.  I do not see what that has to do with this question. 
     
     
      
       Do you not? 
     
     
      
       We must remember that when we give relief we do so at the expense of somebody else.  We have not got a common fund, a great national fund, that could be called upon without treading on anybody's corns. The country at present, as we hear from the Press and from all directions, is pretty heavily taxed, and we can only give relief to people oftentimes by drawing on the very narrow resources of people who are, or are assumed to be, in better circumstances.  This is a case of exceptional distress, and we have availed of the statute to give this relief.  I consider that in the circumstances it is the best possible means of giving relief, having regard to the fact that the resources of the taxpayer are unlimited.  Undoubtedly the fact that relief is being given in kind acts as a deterrent, but in most cases it acts as a deterrent to undesirables seeking relief. Money may be put to a great many good uses, such as paying rent, but it also can be put to a great many bad uses.  We know that very often money given in this way can be spent in publichouses, etc., and by giving food we ensure that at all events nobody is going to die of hunger, and nobody who is reduced to that condition need have any scruples and need feel in any way embarrassed in coming forward for this relief.  On such short notice I am not in a position to deal any further with the Deputy's motion. 
     
     
      
       I would like to say a word or two on the line taken by Deputy Johnson.  The Minister for Local Government has just reminded us that we have not a Utopia here. Deputy Johnson made an interjection to ask the Minister if he was ever a member of the Sinn Fein Party.  Of   course, he said that he was.  I know and Deputy Johnson knows that he was.  I happen to have been a member of that Party also.  I know that one of the principal planks in the Sinn Fein platform which was used on every occasion, and at every opportunity that presented itself, was a condemnation of the poor law system as a whole. When Dail Eireann was brought into being in January or February, 1919, one of the first acts it did was to instruct President Cosgrave, who at that time was Minister for Local Government, to frame some kind of a scheme which would do away with workhouses as such: some kind of a scheme to try and get the people away from what was considered to be a very degenerate and demoralising system.  If the Minister for Local Government considers that it is Utopian merely to get away from that, I am sorry for his mentality, and am not prepared to go the same road that he proposes. 
     
     The Minister mentioned, in the course of his statement, that the country was crying out against expense and that the Government cannot be expected to have a general fund here to relieve everyone and everything.  I think the Minister and every Deputy in the House will agree that the Government are in a far better position to deal with that situation than the local ratepayers. It is all very well to talk about and to condemn high expenditure, to turn your ear to the statements made in the Press day after day about expenditure and then to throw the burden on the ratepayers in some particular area.  As Deputy Johnson has already pointed out, it is absolutely impossible for local bodies to take on anything more than they have at the moment.  In fact, as Deputy Heffernan pointed out to-day, local authorities are at their wits' ends to try and economise.  The financial condition of local authorities has become so top heavy that to-day it is a regular night-mare with them to consider any policy which could deal adequately with the unemployment problems. I think the Minister for Industry and Commerce will have to get back to the unemployment insurance system as it prevailed prior to the last   Act being passed.  I think he will agree with me that there are very few people in receipt of unemployment benefit to-day, and that it was a very inopportune time for him to bring in the last Bill. 
     If we were living in normal times it would be all very well to go back to the Unemployment Insurance Act as we knew it when it was introduced about 1912 or so.  To expect people to have sufficient contributions to their credit to entitle them to unemployment benefit as such, following the abnormal times through which the workers of this country have passed during the last four or five years, is asking too much altogether.  The position is a desperate one and will require a remedy which may not be at all in keeping with the desires of all the people who are pleased to call themselves taxpayers in this country. Sooner or later the Government will have to realise their responsibilities to the unemployed.  I want to give the Government due credit for putting by a certain amount of money each year for the relief of unemployment, but that is really only tinkering with the question.  The last relief Vote which the Government brought in is not, to my mind, going to serve a very useful purpose, either as regards relieving unemployment or getting effective work done, because it is surrounded by conditions which will permit local authorities to waste the money placed at their disposal.  In that connection, I hope the Minister for Finance will agree with the suggestions made from these benches a week ago, that a longer time be given to enable local authorities to spend the money that is being given by way of grant. 
     I do not think the Minister for Local Government has answered to any extent the arguments put forward by Deputy Johnson.  It is all very well for the Minister to come here and say that he received very little notice of this question.  I do not think it is necessary for him or for any other Minister to receive notice of the huge problem that confronts this country so far as unemployment is concerned.  They have been tinkering with it for the last four or five years, and I suggest to the Government   that they ought seriously to consider the situation at this, the beginning of the new financial year, in a way that will tend to relieve the distress that undoubtedly prevails amongst thousands of families in this country. 
     
      
       I wish to support the case made by Deputy Johnson.  I was really astonished at the brusque, shall I say, the almost savage way, in which the Minister endeavoured to brush aside the case made by Deputy Johnson.  The Minister's speech was a short one.  He wound up by telling the Deputy that he is not prepared to do anything more than he has already done in the way of issuing food tickets to those who would much prefer work and pay.  It is all very fine for the Minister to say that if cash were given it would find its way into the public houses.  I say that is a slur on, and an insult to, the Dublin working men&mdash;to think that the value of a food ticket, if given in cash, would find its way into the public house while a man's family was hungry and while the landlord or his representative was hammering at the door with a notice to quit.  To say the least of it, the speech made by the Minister was astonishing. 
       The giving of food tickets reminds one of the past, when we used to listen to Sinn Fein speeches condemning workhouses and the workhouse system and all that they stood for.  In some of the orders quite recently, whether it was printed inadvertently in the newspapers or not I do not know&mdash;issued by his Department&mdash;I will not say whether his Department or the newspapers were responsible&mdash;the word &ldquo;workhouse&rdquo; appeared on three separate occasions in connection with these food tickets.  The new name which has been given to the poor law was not applied when you were dealing with the food tickets. 
     
     When Deputy Johnson brought this matter forward on a former occasion I stated that the Government were only dealing with the fringe of the question so far as the Dublin unemployed were concerned.  We have to-day many decent workmen who earned good wages in the past walking the streets of Dublin unemployed.  They   are idle through no fault of their own. As a class they look on the offer of the Government to give them food tickets as degrading.  They feel that they are not trusted with the few shillings that would go to pay the landlord to save them from eviction from their little rooms.  I say on behalf of the Dublin workingmen that they should get this cash which is so badly needed by them.  I say, too, that not one-half per cent. of it would find its way into the publichouses if given.  I protest strongly against the insinuations made by the Minister.  It is unworthy of the Minister to make such a statement when it is remembered that the police courts are busy for practically three hours every day listening to landlords or their representatives seeking ejectment orders against their tenants for small sums due for rent. 
     Within the last week I was in the police courts listening to cases.  A mother with a large family, in one case, for the sake of 21/-, was about to be evicted.  This is the class that we ask you to give a little money to, and not food which is bringing you back one hundred years when men were offered crumbs and not work. Go to the police courts and you will see the number of cases in which notices have been served on good-class people that never owed any money until this unfortunate state of affairs arose in the country, when they have been unable to get sufficient money to keep themselves and their families. The Minister has been almost flippant in his dealings with Deputy Johnson's motion.  Something more definite will have to be done.  The Minister for Finance and the Minister for Industry and Commerce will have to put their heads together and devise some means of giving the Dublin unemployed a chance to pay their way. 
     
      
       I wish to support Deputy Johnson in this matter.  It is the duty of the Minister to provide for unemployment during the coming year. As he has stated, local authorities out of their funds cannot meet demands for relief or home help as it is more politely called.  We have representatives in Kildare and I do not know whether   they should be called representatives in the true sense of the word.  Some of them advocated a return to the old union principle.  They say that no one should get relief unless he goes into the union.  That is not a nice thing for a representative to say.  We have others who suggested that home help recipients should be listed, and that these lists should be sent to the Civic Guard barracks throughout the country.  I hope if any of those suggestions come up from the Co. Kildare that the Minister will deal with them in the way that they ought to be dealt with.  Sinn Fein, as I understand it, always stood for the abolition of the English poor law system in order to take away the brand of pauper from the poor.  It seems now that the Minister is trying to brand the workers as paupers.  He is treading on dangerous ground if that is to be the policy of his Government. As to remedies, I think the Minister for Industry and Commerce ought to bring in a new amending Unemployment Benefit Bill.  I cannot see why he cannot extend those Acts further so that he will touch on other workers including tradesmen of various kinds. 
     
     Another thing I should like to suggest is that if the 1924 Drainage Maintenance Act is to be enforced throughout the country I think many useful schemes of work could be carried out which would give work in the rural districts.  Contrary to what some people think, there is great unemployment in the rural districts.  We heard to-day that the 1925 Arterial Drainage Act will not be put into operation for about 18 months.  When that Act was passing through the House we all had high hopes that it would relieve unemployment. It seems we were destined to further disillusionment.  I cannot see why a certain number of schemes cannot be tackled under the 1925 Act.  There is no use in saying that you have got to get levels taken and all that sort of thing.  Two or three competent engineers could start the work inside a month.  It is merely a repetition of the promises made here a long time ago as to the Barrow Drainage.  Those smaller schemes do not require much engineering   ability at all.  Anyone can walk along and see where widening and deepening are required.  You do not want to be an eminent engineer to see where a river is choked up.  Does the Government intend to tackle the trunk road scheme?  Surely they do not intend to let the workers die of hunger? Local authorities cannot provide food. The land is lying waste and the farmers will not till it.  They believe that by divine right they are the owners of the land and that they have no responsibilities to the remainder at all. 
     
      
       They have responsibilities to themselves at present which they cannot discharge. 
     
     
      
       If you are going to turn labour against all forms of Constitutional Government go on the way you are going. 
     
     
      
       I wish to refer to a matter which has been touched upon by Deputy Corish in his remarks here to-night. Not alone does the Minister in his reply show that he has no sympathy whatsoever for people who are in a position of destitution and semi-starvation to-day but his speech seems to show, as well as the speeches of other Ministers show, that he is out of all touch with the position in the country at present.  In my constituency the position appears to be one of creeping paralysis over the whole industrial and agricultural position.  Some time ago a mill was burned at Belmont.  Another mill was closed down at Clara.  The Wolfhill Mine was closed.  I have heard to-day that a quarry works employing about 200 men in the south of my constituency will close down on 20th March.  I have a wire here from a local clergyman stating that unless works, for which a grant was provided, are completed, by 31st March, 135 men will be thrown out of work.  That is the position with regard to five areas in my constituency involving 1,000 workers and their dependants.  Not only are the Ministers not prepared to deal with the district but they are not prepared to intervene in the position of the unemployed to-day. 
     
     Deputy Corish made an appeal to the Minister that the grants which were provided for useful work should not   be terminated by the 31st March.  I realise there is a certain technical difficulty about the matter, but we could have an assurance from the Minister that for the unexpended portion of the money a supplementary estimate would be introduced before the 31st March, making it possible to carry out and complete the works.  So the money that has been set aside for the completion of those works could be spent.  I think we are entitled to some assurance from the Minister on questions of that kind, because surely the Minister does not think that members of this House would be so foolish as to refuse the revoting of these monies.  One has to give facts about particular areas.  In the Wolfhill area, where the mine was closed down, roughly 200 men were thrown out of work.  A road scheme was sanctioned for a couple of weeks which gave employment to 70 men. That scheme was practically completed last Saturday, but there is no hope of getting the additional money to complete the work which the county surveyor intended to carry out.  He asked for a certain amount of money but did not receive what he asked for.  Forty-two men have been thrown on the rates as a result.  I know the position of the ratepayers who are all working farmers, but they are now in a rather bankrupt condition and are not able to provide the money out of local rates for bolstering up the position created by men being thrown out of work and who are suffering starvation.  Deputy Colohan hit the nail on the head when he said if the Ministers charged with the responsibility of good government in the country and of looking after the people, continued to allow the present conditions to continue they would be faced with a situation with which even the army and police would not be able to cope.  This time twelve months Deputy Mrs. Collins-O'Driscoll told us that 20 millions of money would be borrowed, and at a low rate of interest, if Deputy Leonard and another Deputy were returned at that time.  We have not heard a word since, except a little in Leix and Offaly, about the 20 million pounds which would be found if Deputy Leonard was returned.  He is not present here to-night, but if he was   he might give some explanation as to why he has not got that money. 
     
      
       As only one of the two candidates was returned, so he could only have got ten millions. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Corish is right, but even the ten millions might have been borrowed for drainage works, building houses and making trunk roads.  If all the schemes that we were promised were put in hands, especially the drainage schemes, there would be plenty of work which would at least partly relieve the situation with which we are confronted to-day. I had hoped that many drainage schemes would be put under way as a result of the Drainage Act, 1925. From the statement made by the Minister for Finance there is no hope for that in the coming year.  The Minister will probably have a chance of making his position clear.  We know the state of the people.  To say that in my constituency there are thousands of people in distress would not be an exaggeration.  Unless the Government decide now to face the position that confronts them, later on they will not be able to cope with it even with the Civic Guards and soldiers. 
     
     
      
       rose. 
     
     
      
       Under the Standing Order, when a Deputy has given notice that he will raise a matter on the adjournment, the debate on that matter continues for half an hour after the time fixed for the adjournment.  When the business on the Order Paper has concluded before 8.30 p.m. the practice established has been to allow half an hour to Deputies who wish to speak on the question, and then take the Minister's reply.  If the Deputy speaks now, it will be impossible for the Minister to reply. 
     
     
      
       In view of that I give way to the Minister. 
     
     
      
       It has been suggested that there has been a return to the Poor Law Union system, and that that is a deliberate and definite policy. The question has been raised, is it   desirable to return to that system rather than extend insurance benefits? That does not bear examination.  What has happened is that a certain local authority applied to the Minister for Local Government asking for certain powers with regard to the issue of food tickets.  Deputy Byrne says that he wanted it placarded throughout Dublin that the Minister should have refused these, that there should be no food tickets, but that there should be insurance benefits instead.  There has been talk about the degradation of the Poor Law system.  No one is going back to it as a system.  but if people say that if a system is abhorrent for normal times that something which might have the same taint about it should not be used in an emergency, then I cannot agree.  We have the other principle put forward by Deputy Colohan, and I think Deputy Corish, that the local authorities can do nothing.  Why not?  They can raise money&mdash;they can increase the rates if they want to do so. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Local Government will not allow it. 
     
     
      
       Apart from what the Minister for Local Government would allow them to do, the fact is that people do not want to put anything on the rates but depend on the central government.  If there is any reason to say the local authorities can do nothing, dismayed as I am by the Press for the last three weeks, then nothing can be done by the central government.  Deputy Corish says very few people are seeking unemployment insurance at the moment. 
     
     
      
       Comparatively few. 
     
     
      
       I do not believe the figure has changed by 1,000 in the last three weeks, and the figure has not gone below the figure that I thought it was likely to go below. When I was speaking here last year I agreed with Deputy Corish that there would be a big drop.  I agreed to that proposition of the Deputy, because I thought with him that there was little work to be got, and that when the maximum   period had elapsed there would be a tremendous fall.  That, in fact, did not occur.  All the evidence that has accumulated since showed there was work to be got through the country. What has happened is that people have gone to work intermittently, and very few people have been affected by the maximum regulation.  With regard to the Deputy's reference to an inopportune time for legislation, opportuneness had to be judged from various circumstances. As far as the unemployment insurance benefit is concerned there was this point, that any further increase on the fund would make it bankrupt.  I made it clear that there could be no further demands on the unemployment insurance fund, and the position would have to be met through other means&mdash;it might be through a Vote to the Labour Exchanges, it might be anything decided upon, but there was going to be no extension of the insurance benefit. 
     
     Deputy Byrne has been very severe on the Minister for Local Government for his &ldquo;savage speech.&rdquo;  There should be some relation between epithets of that kind and the facts.  The Deputy's attitude in matters like this seems to me to be best described by a passage from a work of Dickens, which runs: &ldquo;Mr. Micawber conjured me to observe that if a man had £20 a year for his income and spent £19 19s. 6d. he would be happy, but that if he spent £20 1s. 0d. he would be miserable,&rdquo;&mdash; then comes the most pertinent part of the quotation&mdash;&ldquo;after which he borrowed a shilling of me for porter and cheered up.&rdquo;  That is like Deputy Byrne's attitude in public life as I have seen it here.  He criticises taxation, and talks about having a good financial system, and having things properly adjusted, and then he will borrow a little for&mdash;if I say porter I hope he will not misunderstand me, or think that I am casting a slur on his constituents.  The Deputy condemned the workhouse system.  The word &ldquo;workhouse&rdquo; crept into Deputy Johnson's speech this evening, because he was, I presume, quoting from a particular section of the old 1898 Act. Surely there is nothing in the way of &ldquo;atmosphere&rdquo; or &ldquo;tendency&rdquo; to be   arrived at by fastening on words.  The Deputy then came with the statement he has made so often in this House about men who are &ldquo;walking the streets of Dublin to-day through no fault of their own.&rdquo;  I do not deny that&mdash;that there are men walking the streets of Dublin to-day through no fault of their own.  But there are a considerable number of men walking the streets of Dublin to-day through their own fault, by reason of their actions, and by reason of what people&mdash;I am speaking of work-people and I am not making any political reference&mdash; have done.  They have made the burden almost intolerable on people who are anxious to work&mdash;and anxious to work without acting, with regard to terms and conditions of work, as if this country was in an absolutely normal condition with regard to unemployment. 
     A question was raised by Deputy Colohan and by Deputy Corish, and, I think, by Deputy Davin, as to these relief moneys.  Fears were expressed that these schemes may come to an end because the money may not be expended before the end of the financial year.  You may take the assurance of the Minister for Finance, through me, that that technical objection is not going to be allowed to overpower the schemes.  I do not say that every scheme not completed is going to have money provided so that it may be completed, but I say that on the technical ground that the money has not been spent before the end of the financial year, the scheme is not going to be overpowered. The money may be surrendered, but it will be re-voted. 
     
      
       Will that be for the completion of schemes already sanctioned? 
     
     
      
       For the completion of schemes already sanctioned. The estimate will be before the Deputy some of these days, and he will see that provided for.  I am not giving any undertaking with regard to the amount, nor do I say that the estimate will cover everything. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister give an assurance that if work is proceeded with by the local authority, as far as   possible, that work will not be interrupted because of the money not being expended within the year? 
     
     
      
       I think schemes can be entered upon without the fear that they will be interrupted by reason of the money not being expended within the year. 
     
     
      
       That is the only assurance that is wanted. 
     
     
      
       That assurance can be given.  I think Deputy Davin introduced a bad example when he talked of Wolfhill&mdash;a very bad example. I do not know if we should argue that at the moment.  May I end on this note: we have got threats now from two persons about our responsibilities, and what is going to happen if we treat our responsibilities in the way we are apparently treating them at present? 
     
     
      
       What about your unfulfilled promises? 
     
     
      
       That will get us back to the Barrow, which is the main example of promises alleged to be unfulfilled. 
     
     
      
       That will be left out until the next election. 
     
     
      
       Until the local authorities adjust themselves to the conditions under which the work can be carried out and until the local authorities and the Deputies live up to the promises they made through deputations with regard to the contributions to be paid.  We have had threats about our responsibilities; we have been told that the end of it is going to be that work-people will lose all faith in responsible government; we are going to have war and rumblings of war. That has been tried already and tried by people who probably were better organised for that sort of game. 
     
     
      
       Query! 
     
     
      
       And the result was none too happy for those who attempted it, nor is the resulting state now very happy even for people who were not in it. 
     
     
     
      
       There is a difference between then and now. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy really thinks that that is an answer, let him tot up what has been done and find out if there was a will to do more if there had been the resources.  Let him find out how the resources were wasted.  Let him enter on that other path and find the result. 
     
     
     
      
       Desperate men do not reason. 
     
     
      
       Desperate men ought to be led towards reason. 
     
     
      
       They do not reason and they will be offended by the Minister's tone. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.30 p.m. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - R.I.C. PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the reasons for his refusal to award a pension to Hugh Creedon, Rossmore, Macroom, an ex-member of the R.I.C., and whether he will reconsider the case? 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied on the evidence placed before me that Mr. Creedon's resignation from the Royal Irish Constabulary was caused by his national sympathies and I have, therefore, felt unable to issue the certificate required by Section 5 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923, which would render him eligible for an award of pension. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - REPORT ON AWBEG RIVER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state if the engineers from the Board of Public Works visited the Awbeg River, near Buttevant, Cork, last November, for the purpose of taking measurements and making a Report; whether the Report and estimate of costs has been prepared and presented, and if drainage operations are likely to start this spring. 
     
     
      
       It is necessary, before the Commissioners of Public Works can form any opinion on this scheme, that they should have a report from   their Engineer on the proposals contained in the Petition under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, and for the purpose of this report the Engineer must inspect the proposed district.  This preliminary inspection has been completed and the report will be furnished very shortly.  After consideration of this report the Commissioners will have to decide whether the circumstances are such as to justify the preparation of a detailed scheme.  If so a survey and valuation of the lands to be drained or improved will be required, and these can only be carried out in low water summer conditions.  In view of the preliminary proceedings necessary under the Act, considerable time must elapse before any actual work can be started in the district. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SCHULL TRADER'S CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether payment on foot of a report on a claim for meat commandeered from Mr. J. McCarthy, Schull, Co. Cork (amount of report, £70), has been refused by his Department on the ground that the meat was voluntarily given; whether, in view of the fact that Mr. McCarthy has denied the statement entirely and that local responsible persons have vouched, or are willing to vouch, for the truth of Mr. McCarthy's contention, he will further consider this claim with a view to making payment. 
     
     
      
       Payment was refused for the reason stated by the Deputy. Enquiries subsequently made from parties suggested by the applicant's solicitor did not disprove that the goods were voluntarily supplied, and no further investigation is warranted. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CLONAKILTY TRADERS' CLAIMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether payment will now be made under the Indemnity Act, 1924, on a claim by Messrs. O'Donovan and O'Leary, Clonakilty, Co. Cork, for loss and damage to cars by Irregulars and on which claim the Circuit Court Judge reported for a sum of £27 over a year ago. 
     
     
     
      
       Payment of the judge's report under the Damage to Property Compensation Act was refused by my Department some time ago for reasons which have already been communicated to the applicant's solicitor.  The case has since been referred to the Indemnity Act Committee for consideration, but that Committee will not be able to deal with the claim until certain evidence which the claimant's solicitor was asked two months ago to furnish has been produced. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ARMY ACCOUNTS (CASTLEREA). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether a claim for compensation on account of goods supplied to the Headquarters of No. 2 Brigade, Western Division, Castlerea Irish Volunteers, during the period April, 1922, to July, 1922, has been received by the Indemnity Claims Committee from Mr. James Morris, victualler, Castlerea, and what action has been taken as a result of this claim. 
     
     
      
       The claim referred to by the Deputy was received in my Department some days ago, but as it appears to be a matter for the Army Finance Office and not for the Indemnity Act Committee the papers have been passed to the Department of Defence. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT (CO. CORK). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that some months ago claims to unemployment benefit lodged by T. and J. O'Sullivan, father and son, of Bere Island, Bantry Bay, Co. Cork, were rejected by his Department on the ground that one of the claimants held a small patch of very poor land, and whether, in view of the fact that decisions such as the foregoing have in similar cases been recently reconsidered, he will take steps to review the above cases and authorise the payment of benefit. 
     
     
      
       Claims to unemployment   benefit made by Timothy Sullivan and John T. Sullivan, both of Bere Island, on the 26th January, 1925, were finally disallowed by the Umpire under Section 7 (1) (ii) and (iii) on the grounds that the claimants were not unemployed and not unable to obtain suitable employment.  The decision of the Umpire is final, and cases decided by him could only be revised on fresh facts of which he was not aware when deciding the cases.  No additional evidence has been put forward in these two cases.  Timothy Sullivan again claimed benefit on the 8th February, 1926, and John T. Sullivan made a claim on 22nd February, 1926.  As there was no evidence that the circumstances of these claims had changed, both claims were disallowed by the insurance officer.  Timothy Sullivan has appealed against the decision to the Court of Referees and his appeal will be heard at an early date.  John T. Sullivan also has the right of appeal   from the decision of the insurance officer, and the time for exercising that right has not yet expired. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - REGISTERED SECONDARY TEACHERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state the number of registered secondary teachers, now employed in secondary schools working under his Department, who fall into the following age groups: 21-30, 31-40, 41-50, 51-60, 61-70, 71 and above; whether he will state the number of teachers of each sex in each group, and the number who are (a) in Holy Orders, (b) members of teaching orders or communities and not in Holy Orders, (c) not in (a) or (b); and if he will state the average age and average length of registered teaching service of the teachers in each subdivision. 
     
     
     
       
     
     
      
       
       
       Particulars in regard to the Registered Teachers employed in the School Year 1925-26 in Secondary Schools working under the Department of Education. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             (a) IN HOLY ORDERS 
             (b) MEMBERS OF TEACHING ORDERS OR COMMUNITIES AND NOT IN HOLY ORDERS. 
             (c) NOT IN (a) OR (b) 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             (MEN ONLY) 
             MEN 
             WOMEN 
             MEN 
             WOMEN 
           
           
             Age-group 
             No. 
             Average Age 
             Average length of Registered Teaching Service 
             No. 
             Average Age 
             Average length of Registered Teaching Service 
             No. 
             Average Age 
             Average length of Registered Teaching Service 
             No. 
             Average Age 
             Average length of Registered Teaching Service 
             No. 
             Average Age 
             Average length of Registered Teaching Service 
           
           
             21&mdash;30 
             18 
             29.0 
             3.7 
             41 
             27.5 
             5.7 
             40 
             28.0 
             5.5 
             85 
             27.6 
             5.4 
             37 
             27.7 
             5.0 
           
           
             31&mdash;40 
             88 
             34.2 
             8.2 
             63 
             35.6 
             12.4 
             185 
             35.9 
             10.1 
             112 
             35.7 
             11.8 
             54 
             35.7 
             9.3 
           
           
             41&mdash;50 
             49 
             44.9 
             13.6 
             51 
             45.7 
             20.0 
             189 
             45.5 
             17.0 
             59 
             44.2 
             17.1 
             38 
             45.3 
             16.4 
           
           
             51&mdash;60 
             34 
             54.2 
             21.8 
             30 
             54.4 
             26.2 
             110 
             54.9 
             22.8 
             35 
             55.7 
             28.5 
             42 
             54.8 
             21.0 
           
           
             61&mdash;70 
             8 
             63.7 
             25.1 
             12 
             67.1 
             37.2 
             39 
             64.5 
             28.1 
             19 
             64.8 
             35.4 
             14 
             64.5 
             26.5 
           
           
             71 and upwards 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             6 
             73.7 
             34.2 
             2 
             76.0 
             39.0 
             1 
             71.0 
             44.0 
           
           
             TOTAL 
             197 
             41.0 
             12.4 
             197 
             41.3 
             16.6 
             569 
             44.5 
             16.0 
             312 
             39.4 
             14.6 
             186 
             42.7 
             14.3 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     NOTES.&mdash;The Age has been taken as on March 1st, 1926, and the Teaching Service up to July 31st, 1925.  Service rendered before the age of 21 years has not been taken into account. 
     No teaching Service has been registered in the case of 22 of the Teachers included in the return because either they are registered provisionally or did not apply to have their Service registered.  These Teachers have been disregarded in calculating the Average length of Teaching Service. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ARMY ACCOUNTS (CO. CORK). 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether the claim of William O'Brien, merchant, Military Road, Buttevant, Cork, for property alleged by him to have been commandeered by National troops during their occupation of the town in 1922 and 1923, has yet been investigated; and whether he will expedite payment of this claim. 
     
     
      
       Mr. O'Brien did not make his claim until about two years after the alleged commandeering took place.  The evidence he has produced is far from being satisfactory and great difficulty is being experienced in locating the officers stated to have been concerned.  Inquiries are, however, proceeding. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ARMY WORKSHOPS (CURRAGH). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that it is alleged that repairs and renovation to private motor and horse-drawn vehicles, cycles and prams belonging to office workers and others living on the Curragh Camp and neighbourhood are being executed in the workshops of the Army Departments, thereby depriving ratepaying mechanics of a considerable portion of their trade; whether this is true, and, if so. whether he will give instructions to put a stop to this irregular practice. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of an allegation that privately-owned vehicles are being repaired and painted in Army workshops at the Curragh.  It is not true. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CO. MAYO TELEPHONE SERVICE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he is aware that the telephone service has not yet been extended to Ballyhaunis. Claremorris, Castlebar, Westport, or Ballinrobe, Co. Mayo, and if he will state when such service will be established in those towns. 
     
     
      
       The plans for the telephone development of the County   Mayo are being proceeded with as rapidly as possible.  An extension of the telephone trunk system from Athlone to Claremorris with telephone exchanges at Roscommon, Castlerea. Ballyhaunis and Claremorris is in progress and has been completed as far as Roscommon.  A second extension of the trunk system to Claremorris northwards from Athenry is also in hand and has been completed as far as Tuam.  As soon as the Claremorris telephone exchange is opened consideration will be given to the question of further extensions from that point to Ballina, Castlebar, Westport and Ballinrobe, and if the necessary support for a telephone exchange at each of these places is forthcoming, the service will be provided. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - UNION HALL ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he proposes to take any steps to acquire under the terms of the Land Act, 1923, the lands of Union Hall, held by Colonel Spaight, who left the country some years ago. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are making inquiries as to the suitability of the lands referred to for acquisition under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - WELSTED ESTATE (CO. CORK). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he will state if the lands on the Welsted Estate, Castletownroche, Cork, recently acquired by the Land Commission for the relief of congests and landless men, have been let out for grazing purposes; whether he will state the reasons for such letting; whether it will be possible to place those to whom the lands have been already allotted in possession immediately at a reasonable rent per acre pending the final stages of acquisition and so enable those persons to take advantage of the spring season to put in their crops. 
     
     
      
       Pending the completion of the requirements of the statutes   applicable to the lands being complied with, a scheme for their division cannot be put into operation, and in the meantime they have been let temporarily for grazing. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SLIGANAGH ESTATE (COUNTY LEITRIM). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he can state when the estate of Sliganagh, Dromahair, Co. Leitrim, which has been in the hands of the Land Commission for some years, will be divided. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings in respect of the estate of W.H. Gray are pending under the Land Act, 1923, but the lands have not yet been vested in the Land Commission.  The estate comprises 140a. 2r. Op. of the townland of Sliganagh, which are returned as in the occupation of six tenants. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF NEWBRIDGE LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the result of the investigations made by the Land Commission, as promised on the 28th January, 1926, are yet available respecting the following lands near Newbridge, Co. Kildare, held by Mr. Patrick Bobbett, viz., one hundred and eighty-two acres in the townland of Kilbelan, electoral division of Morristown-Billar, and eighty-one acres in the townland of Kilbelan (township of Newbridge) electoral division of Newbridge Urban; whether, in view of the fact that the numerous congests and landless men in the locality are very anxious that the lands should be divided this spring, he will expedite acquisition of these holdings. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have not yet completed their investigations as regards the lands of Kilbelan referred to. 
     
   
 