 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY OCCUPATION OF OFFALY DWELLING. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that the dwelling-house of Mrs. Coghlan, Kinnitty, Offaly, was taken over by the Military Authorities from August 22nd, 1922, to January 1st, 1923; that the house was left in a state of disrepair and is quite unfit for habitation, and if he will give instructions to have the house put in proper repair or compensation paid to Mrs. Coghlan as soon as possible. 
    
    
      
       , replying: I am aware that a house occupied by Mrs. Coghlan, Kinnitty, was utilised by troops for the period stated, and that she has lodged a claim in respect of its occupation.  The claim is being dealt with by the Office of Public Works, and I am informed that its consideration will be expedited. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM FOR TYPEWRITER. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that the claim of Mr. J. Binchy, Solicitor, Charleville, for £27 10s. 0d. for a typewriter loaned the National Army and never returned, was sent from the Claims Department, Portobello Barracks, to the Army Finance Office, College of Science, as long ago as May 7th, 1923, and that no payment has yet been made, and if he will expedite payment. 
    
     
    
      
       It is regretted that there has been a delay in dealing with Mr. Binchy's claim.  Certification as being in order except as regards amount was required before payment could be effected, and this has been obtained within the last few days.  The claim is one for payment by the Stationery Office.  That Office is, I understand, at present arranging settlement with Mr. Binchy. 
    
    
      
       Is the Stationery Office the Army Stationery Office or the General Government Stationery Office? 
    
    
      
       It is the Stationery Office. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MACROOM ARMY ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that there is an account of £152 10s. 1d. due to Mr. P. Crowley, Main Street, Macroom, in respect of goods supplied to the National Army in October, 1922, and if he will expedite the payment of this account. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Crowley's account has been received and is under consideration.  Its settlement will now be effected with the least possible delay. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLOGHEEN (TIPPERARY) ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state why the balance of an account amounting to £41 0s. 9d. due to Mr. E. Riordan, of Clogheen, Co. Tipperary, on account of the National Army, has not been paid; if Mr. Riordan's books have been inspected by military officers and approved, and if he will take steps to expedite the payment of the balance due on this long outstanding account. 
    
    
      
       Accounts amounting to £73 6s. 0d. in respect of billetting furnished by Mr. Riordan were assessed at the rates operative at the time, and discharged by the payment of sums amounting to £36 7s. 0d.  Increased rates, however, were subsequently   authorised.  Mr. Riordan's accounts have now been re-assessed, and a further payment of £28 15s. 6d. is being made to him immediately.  He is also being paid at once an account amounting to £4 2s. 5d. in respect of goods supplied to the Army. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISPENSING WITH TEMPORARY CLERKS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state how many temporary clerks have been given notice to leave from the Dependents' Allowance Section of the Army Finance Office between June 17th and June 30th, and whether, in view of the congestion existing in the Claims Branch of the Office, he will consider their transfer to enable that branch to dispose of its business more expeditiously. 
    
    
      
       Owing to the reduction of work, twenty-nine temporary clerks were discharged from the Dependents' Allowance Section between the 17th and the 30th June. 
       It is not considered that the transfer of these clerks to the Claims Branch of the Department would expedite the clearance of work in that Branch.  Any delay in dealing with outstanding claims is due to difficulties experienced in having claims certified locally, and not to shortage of staff in the Branch itself. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, can the Parliamentary Secretary say whether these temporary clerks who have been discharged will be given a preference, if it is necessary to have additional help, as they know the work of that Department? 
    
    
      
       I have no doubt that they would be given a preference in that event. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RETURN OF KINGSCOURT MAN'S GUN. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he can state why a gun handed over by Philip Carroll, Drumsallagh, Kingscourt, to the R.I.C., and which has been traced to Island Bridge Barracks, Dublin, has not been   handed over to him; if he is aware that an authorisation was asked for from the British Colonial Office by the Chief Ordnance Officer at Island Bridge and was furnished by Mr. Carroll, and that no acknowledgment has been received by him, and if he will take steps to have this gun returned to its owner. 
    
    
      
       The delay in returning Mr. Carroll's gun has been due to a difficulty in making suitable transport arrangements.  The gun will be handed over to Mr. Carroll as soon as possible. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - POLITICAL PRISONERS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state the number of untried political prisoners still detained; the number of sentenced prisoners whose sentences have been reviewed; the number of prisoners whose sentences have been remitted, and who have been as a consequence released; the number of cases where the sentences were reviewed but were not remitted; the number of prisoners whose sentences have not yet been reviewed; and if he will state what period must elapse before all these cases will be considered and the last of the prisoners released. 
    
    
      
       There are at present in military custody 123 untried political prisoners, and 86 sentenced political prisoners. 
    
     The review of sentences passed by military tribunals on political prisoners began at the end of February last. At that time there were 323 sentenced prisoners in custody.  During the period of review one died, one escaped, and seven were released in the ordinary way on expiration of sentences.  The cases of the others have all been considered by two judges either under the provisions of Section 3 of the Indemnity Act, 1923, or in accordance with the procedure outlined in the President's statement on the Deputy's motion regarding political prisoners on the 21st May last.  As a result, in 228 cases sentences have been remitted, and the prisoners released; in nine cases the sentences have not been completely remitted, but have in practically all cases been substantially reduced.   In the remaining 77 cases the recommendations of the judges are under consideration. 
     As regards the last part of the Deputy's question, I am not in a position to give a reply now, but I hope to deal with it in the statement which has been promised before the end of next week. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMMISSIONERS FOR OATHS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that great inconvenience is caused in certain country districts through the want of Commissioners qualified to administer oaths, etc., for the High Court, and whether he will, if satisfied of the necessity, appoint a sufficient number. 
    
    
      
       Under the Courts of Justice Act, 1924, Section 19, sub-section 3, Commissioners for Oaths for the High Court are appointed by the Chief Justice, not by the Minister for Justice. I have, therefore, no responsibility in the matter, but I am drawing the attention of the Chief Justice to the Deputy's question. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IMPORTATION OF MOTOR PARTS AND ACCESSORIES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether in view of the numerous complaints made as to delay by the Customs Authorities in clearing motor parts and accessories arriving at the ports of Saorstat Eireann he will cause inquiry to be made as to whether it is possible to arrange for a more expeditious discharge of these goods from the custody of the Revenue Officers; whether, also, as the complaints of delay are particularly serious in regard to articles arriving by parcels post, he will give special attention to the causes responsible for these delays. 
       May I say, while asking this question, that we all are sorry because of the Minister's illness, and regret his absence. 
    
    
      
       I will have that expression of sympathy conveyed to the Minister.  The following is the reply to the Deputy's question: 
    
     Previous complaints of delays on the   part of the Customs Authorities in clearing motor parts and accessories have been investigated, and it was ascertained that the delays were due to failure on the part of the importers or their agents to furnish correct documents and to produce the goods for Customs examination.  The duty of furnishing import documents and producing the goods to the Customs devolves by law on the importers or their agents, and if the Deputy can furnish any specific instances of undue delay on the part of the Customs Authorities the necessary investigations will be made. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUTY ON MOTOR PARTS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether he is yet in a position to announce a decision on the representations made by the motor trade as to the necessity of admitting free of duty motor parts replaced under guarantee. 
    
    
      
       It is not intended to admit motor parts free of duty on the ground that they are to replace parts supplied under guarantee. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION AT BIRR. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that hay, straw and other property owned by Mr. Daniel Molloy, Boolinarig, Birr, Offaly, to the value of over £160, were maliciously destroyed on the night of December 1st, 1922, and if steps can be taken to have the case listed for hearing before the County Court. 
    
    
      
       An application for compensation in respect of property destroyed on the 1st December, 1922, has been lodged by Mr. Daniel Molloy, but, so far as I am aware, it has not yet been heard.  Cases are listed for hearing by the Clerk of the Peace in consultation with the County Court Judge and the State Solicitor, and this case will presumably be listed in the ordinary way.  The Deputy will no doubt appreciate that some order must be followed where so many claims await adjudication. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. CLARE ELECTION OFFICIALS. 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that expenses incurred by Presiding Officers, Poll Clerks, etc., in County Clare have not been paid, and if he will expedite payment. 
    
    
      
       The fact is as stated.  In January last the Minister for Finance requested the Returning Officer to obtain forthwith vouchers in support of the heavy claims made for travelling expenses in the election in this constituency.  The Returning Officer experienced some difficulty in obtaining the necessary vouchers, but recently forwarded the majority of them to the Department of Finance, where they are being examined with a view to early authorisation of payment where due. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KANTURK P.L. GUARDIANS' OFFICIALS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will reconsider the recommendation of the late Kanturk Board of Guardians to grant a gratuity to Ellen Spillane, who was employed for ten years in the Fever Hospital, in view of the fact that four other employees whose conditions of employment were similar, received gratuities with the sanction of the Minister. 
    
    
      
       I am advised that a gratuity could not lawfully be allowed in this case, as Ellen Spillane acted only in a temporary capacity.  It has not been possible to identify the cases of the four other employees referred to. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister reconsider the matter, if I give him the names of the four others who received gratuities, and I may say that they received these gratuities when the present Minister for Finance was Minister for Local Government? 
    
    
      
       I do not think I could reconsider this case.  I have no powers in the matter; even if I sanctioned it, it would still be liable for surcharge. 
    
    
      
       There are no Boards   of Guardians there now to be surcharged. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CARRICKMACROSS TOWN CLERKSHIP. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether, some months ago, the office of Town Clerk for Carrickmacross became vacant, and, after advertising in the usual way, the Council, by a majority, elected Mr. James Finlay to that position; whether Mr. Finlay's appointment was sanctioned by his Department, and, if not, if he will state on what grounds sanction was refused. 
    
    
      
       The facts are as stated in the first part of the question.  If the Deputy will refer to a reply given to Deputy Hughes on the 12th June, 1923, he will see the reasons why sanction to the appointment was refused. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KANTURK POSTAL DELIVERIES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he is aware that the proposed change of letter deliveries in Kanturk will impose a great hardship on the traders, particularly, and the people, generally; and if he is prepared to reconsider the matter with a view to allowing the present arrangement stand. 
    
    
      
       Under the proposed change in the hours of delivery and collection of letters at Kanturk correspondence will be available to private box holders at 10.15 a.m.; the ordinary delivery will commence at 10.30 a.m.; and the despatch will not take place until about 4.35 p.m. 
       Any improvement in this service, which it is considered cannot be regarded as unsatisfactory, could only be made at considerable additional cost that would not be warranted. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that question, I would like to ask is the Minister aware that it would be absolutely useless to instal private boxes in a place like Kanturk, for the reason that there is only one arrival per day of mails, and all the mails come in in that   arrival?  The delivery is in the ordinary way, and if private boxes were taken and the owners visited the Post Office fifty times in the day after they would find them empty, so that that particular concession is of no use whatever to anybody in Kanturk. 
    
    
      
       What the Deputy is saying is a matter for debate and cannot be admitted as a supplementary question.  He has said quite enough. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask if the Minister would reconsider the matter in view of the facts I have stated. Private boxes are a different thing in Dublin from what they are in a place like Kanturk. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REMOVAL OF PORTARLINGTON POSTMASTER. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will state the reasons for the removal of Mr. E. Hanrahan from the position of Postmaster at Portarlington, Leix. 
    
    
      
       In the interests of the service, Mr. Hanrahan was transferred from the position of Postmaster to a position in the Department, for which he was deemed more suited, after a service as Postmaster extending over 18 months. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say what he means by the expression &ldquo;in the interests of the service,&rdquo; and can he give an assurance that there was nothing wrong with the work of the PostOffice in Portarlington during the time Mr. Hanrahan was there? 
    
    
      
       I do not think it would serve any useful purpose to give any reasons beyond what I have stated. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BLACKWATER FISHING INTERESTS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that &ldquo;the Blackwater Riparian Owners' and Anglers' Association,&rdquo; with a membership of 200, has been established for the protection and development of the salmon and trout fisheries on the said river; whether he has received a request from the members of the said Association as to the necessity   of holding public inquiry into the causes which have led to the very serious diminution of salmon and trout in the upper and fresh water portions of this river; whether it is intended to grant the inquiry asked for, and if, owing to the lack of funds for said fisheries, he will advise that a special grant be made for these protective purposes. 
    
    
      
       A copy of a resolution passed by the Blackwater Riparian Owners' and Anglers' Association has been received stating that salmon was almost totally absent in the fresh waters of the River Blackwater and attributing this to certain illegal practices.  The Association was requested to supply more definite information as to the nature of the alleged illegalities, but up to the present has failed to do so.  My Department has out of the limited funds at its disposal made a special grant of £300 to the Lismore Board of Conservators for the protection of the local fisheries. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister be prepared to consider the question of introducing legislation which would provide for the removal of existing weirs and artificial barriers so that the fish may have free and uninterrupted passage to the upper reaches of the rivers? 
    
    
      
       I do not think that I would be prepared to do that. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COW-TESTING SCHEME. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, whether, having regard to the great importance of cow-testing as a means of developing the dairying industry, effect will be given to the recommendations of the Commission on Agriculture that grants from State funds at a rate not less than is now being paid, namely, 4s. per cow, should be maintained for at least another five years, and that ample funds should be provided to meet the normal development of the cow-testing association scheme. 
    
    
      
       The grant in question will be payable at the   full rate of 4s. on cows under test in the current year.  The question of the period for which the grant at this rate can be continued, and of the provision of additional funds for this service, will be fully considered in connection with the preparation of the Estimates for 1925-26. 
    
   
   
     STATE HARBOURS BILL, 1924.&mdash;REPORT OF EXAMINER OF PRIVATE BILLS. 
    
      
       I have received from the Examiner of Private Bills a report stating that in the case of the State Harbours Bill, 1924, referred to him on the passing of the First Stage thereof in the Dail, the Standing Orders which are applicable thereto have been complied with. 
    
   
   
     ARRANGEMENT OF BUSINESS.&mdash;THE ESTIMATES. 
    
      
       Can the President say, at this stage, whether or not it is proposed to take the Estimates to-day, and if so, can he name the particular items that are to be taken? 
    
    
      
       It is proposed to take the Estimates if, with the help of God, we arrive that far, in the order in which they are found, and take them up from where we stopped on the last day. 
    
    
      
       Would the President, in view of the illness of the Minister for Finance, consider the desirability of taking another Vote on account and postponing the consideration of the Estimates until the Autumn Session? 
    
    
      
       I do not think that would be a good precedent to set up in this matter. 
    
    
      
       Would it be possible for the President to set down the Estimates for one day; that is, for one day definitely? 
    
    
      
       I hope to be able to give more than one day to the Estimates. But we are in this position, that there is a heavy agenda of legislation, and it is hoped to get most of these Bills out of the way before we deal with the Estimates. 
    
     
    
      
       Would the Minister consider the advisability of dropping the Estimates for which the Minister for Finance is directly responsible; that is to say, the estimates relating to Departments for which he is directly responsible, and going ahead with the other Estimates? 
    
    
      
       I hope to be able to deal with the Estimates of the Minister for Finance.  The Minister, I fear, will not be present until after the Session has concluded. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister aware that the difficulty with Deputies is that they never know when the Estimates are coming on.  They are on the agenda all the time, but they have not been discussed, except on one or two occasions.  It is rather unfair to the busy Deputies not to know when important Estimates are coming on. 
    
    
      
       Would the President, instead of using the Estimates as padding to fill up the interstices of the Orders of the Day, set aside a day, or even a week, for the Estimates, and nothing else but the Estimates. 
    
    
      
       That would hold up public business which it is urgently necessary to transact.  In this way, many Bills of which the Deputies know and which are under consideration, and which it is absolutely essential to pass, would be held up.  There are two on the Order Paper to-day which ought to have been passed before this in order to give the prisoners the opportunities which will be derived by others as soon as the Bills are passed.  Then there are other Bills, such as the Dublin Reconstruction (Emergency Provisions) Bill, the importance of which will be realised when they are under discussion, and I do not see my way to postpone these Bills.  I am prepared to sit longer, later, and oftener in order to deal with the work. 
    
    
      
       In the event of it being impossible to deal with some of the Estimates before the adjournment, and of their having to be passed without discussion, will the President give facilities in the Autumn Session for consideration of those Estimates, either by giving additional time to private   members' business or in some other way?  Deputies might be anxious to discuss the conduct of affairs of different Departments that cannot be fully discussed now. 
    
    
      
       I could not undertake to promise that.  Deputies know very well that there are certain Bills which must come on for consideration in the autumn, and which will need very careful attention.  There is, for instance, the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Act, and several other measures of importance.  It must be, I think, admitted, that for the last couple of years, and for another year or so, there has been, and there will be, some congestion in the matter of legislation. 
    
    
      
       Does the Minister ask us to assess the relative value of estimates and of legislation, and put estimates as something much subordinate to legislation?  Does he suggest that the precedent set in the matter of legislation is one that will have to be followed in future years? 
    
    
      
       I hope not. 
    
    
      
       Would it be possible to arrange that nothing but estimates would be taken on Thursday? Then every Deputy would know when Estimates were coming on. Either Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday, or if necessary Saturday, could be arranged for the purpose of considering Estimates only. 
    
    
      
       I will get an opportunity of seeing the schedule, and I hope by to-morrow to be able to say if it would be possible to arrange that. 
    
    
      
       Pending the consideration of the matter by the President, could the Estimates not stand over for the present?  We are in this uncertain position that we do not know whether the Estimates will come on to-day or not.  Some of us are very anxious to have an opportunity of discussing certain Estimates, and we do not know if it would be necessary to wait on until a late hour to-night in case the Estimates may be taken up.  I would suggest that the whole matter of the Estimates be left over. 
    
     
    
      
       I could not accept that. 
    
    
      
       Could it be arranged that we would take the Estimates for three hours on a given day, and then take legislation subsequently? That would give Deputies an opportunity of being present.  What does the President intend to do on the 15th July when there may be Estimates unfinished? 
    
    
      
       I hope there will be none of the Estimates unfinished that day. 
    
    
      
       The President is an optimist of the finest character. 
    
    
      
       I wish the Ceann Comhairle would share my optimism. 
    
    
      
       What is it intended to do? 
    
    
      
       I believe we will have to sit oftener and later. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister guarantee that the parties backing up the Minister for Finance will always be present in full force? 
    
    
      
       If it is the settled policy to have Closure by vote or Closure by exhaustion, I would prefer to have Closure by vote. 
    
    
      
       It must be remembered that Closure by exhaustion has been practised on Ministers. 
    
    
      
       In the alternative of fixing a definite day, would the President also consider the suggestion to have the Estimates taken at a fixed hour on a certain day, and that all business be suspended at that moment, the Dail then to enter upon a consideration of the Estimates for a given period of time? 
    
    
      
       Has it come to this, that the Dail is to suit the convenience of one or two Deputies, and that the remainder of us are to sit here all the time?  That is what the arguments put forward amount to.  The sooner, I think, that every Deputy accepts his responsibilities the better.  I think every Deputy should take part in the business of the Dail. 
    
     
    
      
       The Deputy's remarks are entirely uncalled for.  If he had a proper sense of his responsibilities in the Dail he would regard the Estimates as the most important work to be done. Many of us have received complaints, and we desire to bring these forward when the Estimates come on for consideration. I think it is quite right and proper that we should be given adequate notice, so that we may be able to get our papers in order and be in a position to discuss the Estimates. 
    
    
      
       When the Estimates are on the Government benches are generally empty. 
    
    
      
       That sneer is not deserved from the Deputy who always absents himself from the Dail when a vote is being taken. 
    
    
      
       We need not go into these matters now. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move that the House sit later than 8.30 p.m., the adjournment to be taken not later than 10 o'clock. 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     LOCAL OFFICERS COMPENSATION (WAR PERIOD) BILL, 1924.&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move for leave to introduce this Bill.  It is a Bill &ldquo;To make special provision for the payment of the compensation to which certain former officers of local authorities who were removed from or otherwise ceased to hold office during the years 1919, 1920 and 1921 are entitled in respect of their having been so removed from or otherwise ceased to hold office.&rdquo; 
       It is hoped that this Bill will settle, to some extent, the difficulties that have been experienced and often expressed in the Dail regarding the cases of the officers described in the Schedule to the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I oppose the First Reading of this Bill.  I know nothing about it, and the Minister has not given us any justification at all for bringing in a Bill of this kind.  We are now talking about the congestion of business, but we refuse, in effect, an opportunity for the proper discussion of the   Estimates.  The Minister, in bringing forward this Bill, gives us no explanation as to what it is, and asks us to give it a First Reading.  I oppose the First Reading of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       As far as I am concerned it is not from what the President has stated that I got my information about this Bill, but I gather from the wording of this proposal that the Bill is one to deal with cases which both Deputy Corish and myself have raised on several occasions in the Dail. That being so, I hope that Deputy Johnson will be able to withdraw his opposition to the First Reading of the Bill. As far as I understand, the Bill is to provide that where certain awards were made, especially in the case of the Wexford County Council, to certain rate collectors, the Wexford County Council should be indemnified by the Government against this charge. As far as I am concerned, I happen to be interested in the people to whom the awards were made, and I do not care whether it is a county council or a Government charge.  In equity, I think the proposal is one that should be a Government charge, because, as far as I know, it was at the instance of a former Dail that the county council acted as it did in this matter, and I hope therefore that Deputy Johnson will see his way not to oppose the First Reading of this measure. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy is asking us to assume that he knows all about the measure.  The President has not stated what the Bill is, and I cannot accept the Deputy's explanation. 
    
    
      
       On more than one occasion attention was drawn to the fact that Second Reading speeches were made on the First Reading of a Bill. This evening I introduced this Bill, and I said very little about it so as to save public time.  At once I am faced with an objection because I have not gone into a Second Reading speech in introducing this measure.  On all occasions I endeavour to save the time of the House, and if the records are looked up I do not think it will be found that I have ever occupied more time than an ordinary member of the Dail in any statements I had to make. We can all, of course, observe all the   forms at great length, and with great lucidity absorb the time of the House, but at the same time we cannot do that and save time.  We cannot, for instance, meet every case put up by Deputy Corish and by other Deputies regarding certain difficulties experienced by local authorities and at the same time afford opportunity for discussion on the Estimates and other matters of pressing importance in the limited time at our disposal.  If the Dail wants a Second Reading speech on this Bill, I am prepared to give it now. 
    
    
      
       I would like to have an explanation as to what it is about. 
    
    
      
       It is to remove a cause of irritation amongst local authorities in connection with certain officers.  These officers were dismissed during the years 1920, 1921 and 1922. The British Local Government Board at that time fixed what their pensions were to be.  In certain cases the local authorities paid the pension, but in certain other cases they did not do so. This measure seeks to carry out an obligation that we entered into when negotiating with the British Government about the payment of grants. The local authorities, on their part, while taking the money, did not fulfil their obligations, and this measure is to see that as far as these officers are concerned in respect of whom we gave an undertaking that they are not at a loss and that their rights are safeguarded. That in essence is a Second Reading speech. 
    
    
      
       Will the President say if the Bill will cover the cases of officers who were in the employment of county infirmaries?  These institutions were taken over at the time that the union amalgamation schemes went through.  In my own county there are two or three officers to whom pensions were passed, but the position is that although some of them are on the brink of the grave they cannot legally get their pensions, of which they are very much in need. 
    
    
      
       This Bill is not meant to cover cases of that kind. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That leave be given to introduce the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
     
        Second Stage ordered for Friday, July 4th. 
   
   
     INTERMEDIATE EDUCATION (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1924.&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move for leave to introduce this Bill.  It is a Bill &ldquo;to amend the Intermediate Education (Ireland) Acts, 1878 to 1914, and the Local Taxation (Customs and Excise) Act, 1890.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Might I ask the President to give us a little more information than he has given in regard to the purport of this Bill? 
    
    
      
       Has this Bill anything to do with the giving of relief to Intermediate teachers? 
    
    
      
       No.  It is a matter of the distribution of the grant.  If there is any objection to this Bill I will withdraw it. 
    
    
      
       Should not the Minister for Education be here when a Bill of this kind is introduced in order that we might learn something more about it?  I think it is his unique legislative effort. 
    
    
      
       The Minister for Education is absent on urgent and important public business.  That is the reason why I am moving the First Reading of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I suggest that we might see the Bill in print.  We are anxious to see what it contains. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That leave be given to introduce the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Second Stage ordered for Friday, July 4th. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DUBLIN RECONSTRUCTION (EMERGENCY PROVISIONS) BILL, 1924&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
    
      
       There are 13 amendments which have been made in the Bill in the Seanad.  They are all agreed amendments arrived at after consultation with the various interests   concerned&mdash;the Corporation, the Government and the property owners&mdash;and there was no opposition in the Seanad. 
       Amendments 1, 2 and 3 were agreed to. 
       Amendment 4.  Immediately before Section 4 a new Section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       (1)  In this Section the expression &ldquo;site fronting on an improved street&rdquo; means any plot, the property of the same person or persons, either directly adjoining any land acquired by the Corporation under this Act for the purpose of improving a street, or between which and such land no building intervenes. 
       (2)  If, on the application of the Corporation, the Minister is satisfied in respect of any site fronting on an improved street that for the general scheme of reconstruction of the area it is necessary either&mdash; 
       (a)  to remove any existing building on such site, or 
       (b)  to erect a new building on such site, or 
       (c)  to reconstruct or alter any existing building on such site, he may make an order requiring such removal, erection, reconstruction or alteration to be carried out. 
       (3)  Before making an order under the preceding sub-section in respect of any site the Minister shall give at least one month's notice to, and shall consider any representations made by, the owners, lessees and occupiers of such site. 
       (4)  The provisions of Section 3 of this Act shall apply to the erection of any new building on a site fronting on an improved street as if such site were the site of a building which has been damaged or destroyed in the course of the recent disturbances; and to the reconstruction or alteration of such a building as if such building were an existing building in Upper Sackville Street or Lower Sackville Street (commonly known as &ldquo;Upper O'Connell Street&rdquo; and &ldquo;Lower O'Connell Street&rdquo; respectively). 
    
     (5)  Any reconstruction or alteration of a building or any erection of a new building on a site fronting on a new street in pursuance of an order   under this section may be carried out notwithstanding that it interferes with any right to light or other easement, but compensation shall be paid to the persons interested in the land to which such right or easement is attached. 
     (6)  Any compensation payable under this section shall be&mdash; 
     (a)  fixed by an arbitrator under the rules set out in the Schedule to this Act in the like manner as the compensation mentioned in those rules is to be fixed thereunder, and any appreciation in the value of the land to which the easement is attached by reason of the general reconstruction of the area shall be taken into consideration in fixing such compensation; 
     (b)  paid by the owner of the building by which the right or easement is interfered with and shall in addition be a first charge on such building. 
    
      
       I should like to have an explanation of this amendment and to hear some justification for it. 
    
    
      
       This amendment gives rather more extended powers to the Corporation than they had under the Bill as originally drafted.  It gives power to the Minister on the application of the Corporation, if he is satisfied in respect to any site fronting upon an improved street, that if in the general scheme of reconstruction it is necessary either to remove any existing building on such a site or to erect a new building on such a site or to reconstruct or alter any existing building on such a site he may make an order requiring such removal, erection, reconstruction or alteration to be carried out.  And the section also gives power to interfere with various easements attaching to property in this area on condition that proper compensation is allowed. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in the said amendment&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Amendments 5, 6 and 7 were agreed to. 
    
     Amendment No. 8.  In Section 6 (4)  the following words added at the end of the sub-section: &ldquo;save that for the purpose of such application   the passing of the said Dublin Reconstruction (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1916, shall be substituted for the passing of this Act.&rdquo; 
    
      
       This is another amendment that I would like to have some explanation of so that the meaning of it may be made understandable to the ordinary Deputy. 
    
    
      
       If this amendment were not accepted the building owners under the 1916 Act would be allowed two years longer in which to rebuild than the builders under the present Act, and it is not considered that it would be justifiable to give them that advantage. 
       Amendment put, and agreed to. 
       Amendment No. 9.  In Section 7, the figures &ldquo;1927,&rdquo; line 19, deleted, and the figures &ldquo;1930&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       Amendment No. 10.  In Section 8 the figures &ldquo;1925,&rdquo; line 22, deleted, and the figures &ldquo;1926&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
    
    
      
       I would like to oppose these two amendments unless there is some justification given for the change.  To extend the period to three years would, I think, require some explanation.  It appears that the valuation recommended in the original Bill as sent forward to the Seanad dealt with the valuation before 31st day of March, 1927.  Now it is proposed to alter that date to 1930.  That is to say, to give three further years before any change can take place.  I think that requires some justification. 
    
    
      
       This matter was discussed at length in the Seanad by the various parties represented there. After a considerable length of time I agreed it was only reasonable in a case where buildings were destroyed and where people as a result of the destruction of their premises lost their trade, where it would take a considerable number of years to recover their trade, and considering that the object of the Bill is to promote building, that everything possible should be done to get the builders to rebuild instead of selling the vacant sites.  We considered on the whole it   was well to allow this concession and that it was only equitable in the circumstances. These people who lost their business suffered sufficiently without asking them to pay rates on houses that will not be completed on that date, or to submit to a valuation that will be considerably higher than what they are paying on at the present time. 
    
    
      
       I do not remember that any similar consideration was given to people in other parts of the country.  It seems to me that the argument that justified the Government in bringing this Bill in in its original form, which was, I understood, the Bill agreed to between the Government and the Corporation has lost nothing in its effect by discussion in the Seanad.  The case that was made for 1927 as against 1930 seems to me to be the stronger case, and I would oppose the amendment in the Seanad, preferring to leave the year 1927 rather than to change it to 1930. 
    
    
      
       I think it would be unfair not to give very much the same consideration to those persons whose property has been destroyed in the last couple of years as was given to persons whose property was destroyed in 1916.  In their case presumably the Corporation&mdash;I was not there at the time, and cannot express an opinion&mdash;but at any rate the Acts of Parliament extended the period from which the new valuation would come into effect for twelve years.  A much lesser number of years is inserted here, and I think the Minister for Local Government will have to consider very soon some alteration in the Valuation Act by reason of the extraordinary change that has taken place in the last six or seven or eight years.  A very considerable increase has taken place in building costs, and whether the Valuation Office makes allowance for these increases I cannot say, but it is evident that on a house built now the valuation will far exceed what exactly the same class of house built forty or fifty years ago would have been valued for, and the extension in this case from 1927 to 1930 is, on the face of it, perfectly fair and reasonable proportion.  Now the facts are that   for something like two years, and perhaps longer, the vast majority of those people have not been able to do any business; there are a couple of instances where they have been so enabled to do business.  If it were only taking into consideration the allowances that ought to have been made to them in respect of this interruption of their business, then the amendment would be reasonable, and I am only surprised that the owners of property there did not press for the same allowance as was made in respect of 1916.  In the cases between now and 1916 there is this difference.  In 1916 the City of Dublin was only just re-valued, and new houses built were built at a much lesser cost than they can be built for now.  The construction of them at that time was in the ratio of one to two to what it is now.  In that respect these people had to make up the difference between whatever compensation they got and the ultimate cost of building, and they had a much larger chasm to make up than those people who suffered at the other end of the street in 1916.  In all the circumstances of the case the length of time that is allowed for here is a perfectly reasonable one, and I am not in the least surprised that the Seanad should have put in that amendment. 
    
    
      
       Would the President agree that the same consideration should apply to the valuation of any reconstructed buildings anywhere as well as in Dublin? 
    
    
      
       That is a big question, but I would be prepared to give it the most favourable consideration. That proposal, however, does not come within the purview of this particular measure, but the proposition is a reasonable one. 
       Amendment 9 agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I would like some justification for the change proposed in Amendment No. 10. 
       &ldquo;No building or house destroyed, nor the land on which the same stood, shall be assessed or liable to any local rate before the 31st day of March, 1925.&rdquo; 
    
     
        It is proposed to alter that to 1926. Before we pass that, I think we ought to have the proposed change justified. 
    
      
       The same argument holds in both cases.  I was, in fact, dealing with the two amendments together. In a great many cases these buildings will not be completed at that date at all and it is rather unfair to charge rates on buildings that are not earning any income.  If we want to encourage building, I do not think we can do so in that way. 
       Amendment 10 put and agreed to. 
       Amendment 11.&mdash;In the Schedule immediately after paragraph 6 a new paragraph 7 inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;7.  Where the land is the site, or part of the site, of a building or buildings in respect of which a judge has made a report under Section 15 of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923 (No. 15 of 1923), the Arbitrator appointed for the purpose of settling compensation shall, in addition to any determination which he shall make for that purpose also fix and determine the value of the land without such building or buildings and as if such report had not been made.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       This, I think, is a most important amendment, and it seems to embody a more important principle than any of the others.  I would like to hear the Minister's justification of it before voting for it. 
    
    
      
       I do not know exactly what Deputy Johnson objects to in this amendment.  It was arrived at after considerable discussion between the various parties interested.  It was with some considerable difficulty that we were able to arrive at agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Corporation, and the various building owners.  This amendment is put in in order to enable a valuation of the site to be made, and in order to arrive at the proper amount of money or compensation to be paid to the Corporation, namely, the difference between the value of the site and the amount of compensation payable to the owner. 
    
    
      
       We are in a difficulty in this matter.  Sometimes we are able   to get more enlightenment in regard to amendments which have been the subject of discussion in the Seanad by reading the official debates of the Seanad.  In this case it was referred to a Select Committee of the Seanad, and no reports have been published of the proceedings of that Committee, indicating the arguments for or against this condition.  The Minister has not attempted to justify his motion to agree with this amendment, and, while I do not pretend to understand it, I suspect it has a particular value to the owners of the sites.  That, at once, makes me doubt the wisdom of accepting the amendment, because when you are giving an advantage to the owners of the sites you are taking that advantage from the Corporation, or the public, in some other form.  To insert an amendment of this kind requires that it should be justified by arguments in favour of it.  No arguments in favour of it have been given, and, because it arouses in my mind a suspicion, I intend to oppose the amendment. 
    
    
      
       This amendment was not inserted by the Select Committee. It was inserted on the Report Stage. There was a good deal of debate on the point, and though it was not opposed&mdash; as it was agreed upon between the various interests&mdash;it does not, in any way, improve the position of the owner. The only thing it does, perhaps, is that it puts the Corporation in the position of the owner with regard to getting compensation from the Ministry of Finance.  Under the Bill, as originally drafted, the right of compensation was left exclusively with the building owners.  The amendment leaves it to the Corporation to get the compensation from the Ministry of Finance. 
    
    
      
       Is it the Minister's argument that, under the new conditions, the Corporation is in a better position to get the compensation from the Ministry of Finance than it was under the old conditions? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment No. 11&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       The following amendments were agreed to:&mdash; 
    
     
       &ldquo;In the Schedule.  Paragraph 7 deleted.&rdquo; 
     &ldquo;In the Schedule.  All after the figures `1896,' in paragraph 10, deleted.&rdquo; 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in its report&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Message ordered to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - CRIMINAL JUSTICE (EVIDENCE) BILL, 1924&mdash;FIFTH STAGE. 
    
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the Criminal Justice (Evidence) Bill, 1924, be now passed.&rdquo; 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - CRIMINAL JUSTICE (ADMINISTRATION) BILL, 1924.&mdash;FIFTH STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move: &ldquo;That the Criminal Justice (Administration) Bill, 1924, be now passed.&rdquo; 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DEFENCE FORCES (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT, 1923 (CONTINUANCE AND AMENDMENT) BILL, 1924.&mdash;REPORT STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move: &ldquo;That the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (Continuance and Amendment) Bill, 1924, be received for final consideration.&rdquo; 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       The President has a motion on the Orders of the Day for taking the Fifth Stage of this Bill to-day.  Is there any objection? 
    
    
      
       Yes, I object, because of the short notice. 
    
    
      
       The matter must be one of urgency, and I cannot see how I can decide that this is one of urgency. 
    
    
      
       I will put it down for Friday. 
       Fifth Stage ordered for Friday. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - FISHERIES (ELECTION OF CONSERVATORS POSTPONEMENT) BILL, 1924.&mdash;COMMITTEE. 
     
    
      
       I take it that this Bill is to be postponed in the absence of the Minister for Fisheries. 
    
    
      
       Can I move it? 
    
    
      
       Certainly. 
    
    
      
       Are we to proceed with this Bill in the absence of the Minister? 
    
    
      
       The President has asked leave to proceed with this Bill in the absence of the Minister for Fisheries. 
    
    
      
       In view of the necessity of putting it through so that there will not be elections, and to save a considerable amount of money, I am   asking for leave to proceed with this Bill now.  We have got through the business more rapidly than was anticipated. 
    
    
      
       As the Minister has not a great deal of business, I think he might be here at least when his Bill is on.  He was in the Dail at an earlier stage of the sitting.  Will you take a motion to report Progress until the Minister for Fisheries is here? 
    
    
      
       I would rather postpone the Bill than go into Committee and report Progress without doing anything.  The Bill can be taken later on. 
    
    
      
       Will it have a fixed place or are we to await the convenience of the Minister? 
    
    
      
       I will put it down before the Estimates. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAMAGE TO PROPERTY COMPENSATION ACT. 
    
      
       I beg to move the following motion:&mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Chun criche aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun a udaru go dtabharfar amach urusanna i gcasanna fe Alt 15 den Acht um Dhiobhail do Mhaoin (Cuiteamh), 1923, go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go gcuirfi ar an bPrimh-Chiste no ar a thora fais muirear colann agus us na n-urus san agus muirear na gcostaisi fe n-a raghfar chun iad do thabhairt amach. 
             That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to authorise the issue of securities in cases within Section 15 of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, it is expedient to authorise the charge upon the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof the principal and interest of such securities, and of the expenses incurred in connection with the issue thereof. 
           
         
       
     
     I do not think it is necessary to go into the merits of the Motion.  The Bill has been before the Dail, and I think the Minister has explained it.  If any Deputy desires to raise any question I will afford him any information at my disposal. 
     Motion put, and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the said Resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAMAGE TO PROPERTY (COMPENSATION) AMENDMENT BILL.&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 2. 
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 13 of the Principal Act, the Minister for Finance may issue securities created by an order made under that section to applicants in cases within Section   15 of the Principal Act in discharge of a sum not exceeding the sum mentioned in pursuance of paragraph (b) of sub-section (3) of the said Section 15 in the report made by the judge under that sub-section. 
    
      
       This is the only section on which any question may arise.  I think the Minister explained the Bill, but he did not say that he has discretion in this section to pay the applicant for compensation, either partly in securities or partly in cash.  He proposes in cases where furniture is destroyed to pay the same proportion as is paid in the Damage to Property Act.  If a sum of, say, £3,000 is awarded, the first £500 will be in cash, and in the second case I think up to £2,000, the amount would be half security and half cash.  In the case of loot it is intended to pay only in securities. 
    
     
    
      
       In many of the orders made the term &ldquo;cash&rdquo; appears; would this clause override that? 
    
    
      
       It would.  It is intended to pay cash in all cases where there is a reinstatement clause.  In other words a person in respect of whom a report is made as against an award will not suffer any disadvantage as compared with the person who gets an award.  If £5,000 were awarded to a building the whole would be paid in cash on the certificate of the architect. 
       Question, &ldquo;That Section 2 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 3 and the Title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill reported without amendment. 
     Fourth Stage ordered for Friday, July 4th. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - TRADE LOAN GUARANTEES. 
    
      
       I beg to move the following Resolution:&mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Chun criche aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun comhacht do thabhairt don Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala chun urraiocht do dheanamh ar shaghsanna airithe iasachtai go raghadh a n-usaid chun obair do thabhairt do dhaoine i Saorstat Eireann, agus maidir le saghsanna airithe iasachtai go raghadh a n-usaid chun luiodu do dheanamh ar phraghsanna miondiola earrai Saorstat Eireann, chun iadsan do dheona no urraiocht do dheanamh ortha, agus chun foralacha do dheanamh chun airgead puibli d'usaid chun no mar chabhair chun na hurraiochta san do cho-liona agus na hiasachtai sin do dheona go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru&mdash; 
             That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to enable the Minister for Industry and Commerce to guarantee certain classes of loans the application of which is calculated to promote employment in Saorstat Eireann and to grant or guarantee certain classes of loans the application of which is calculated to promote a reduction in the retail prices in Saorstat Eireann of essential commodities, and to make provision for the application of public moneys in or towards the fulfilling of such guarantees and the granting of such loans, it is expedient to authorise&mdash; 
           
         
         
           
             (a)  go gcuirfar ar an bPrimhChiste no ar a thora fais muirear pe suimeanna a bheidh ag teastail o am go ham chun aon urraiocht a tabharfar fen Acht san do choliona no chun aon iasacht a hudarofar fen Acht san do dheona; 
             (a)  the charge upon the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof of such sums as may from time to time be required for fulfilling any guarantee given under such Act or for granting any loan authorised under such Act; 
           
           
             (b) go gcuirfar ar an bPrimhChiste no ar a thora fais muirear colann agus us aon urrusanna a tabharfar amach chun iasachtai d'fhail fen Acht san. 
             (b) the charge upon the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof of the principal and interest of any securities issued for the purpose of borrowing under such Act. 
           
         
       
     
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     
        Resolution reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the said Resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - TRADE LOANS (GUARANTEE) BILL.&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     (4)  No guarantee shall be given under this section in respect of a loan the proceeds or any part of the proceeds of which are intended to be used as working capital. 
    
      
       I move: &ldquo;To delete sub-section 4.&rdquo;  My intention in putting down this amendment is to get a clear definition from the Minister of the use of the term &ldquo;working capital.&rdquo; As I understand the Bill, it is not allowable to guarantee loans which will be used for the purpose of working capital.  In my opinion that is rather a hindrance and it would be a mistake to retain it in the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I do not know if I am expected to give a definition of working capital now. I should rather think that the definition which occurs later defining the purposes for which expenditure is allowed&mdash;&ldquo;capital undertaking&rdquo; means an undertaking involving capital expenditure&mdash;would have met the point.  The Deputy is right in assuming that, for instance, the paying of wages will not be considered a proper object for which a guarantee may be given.  That depends on a very obvious reason, that if you provide or secure money for, say, the payment of wages, you are guaranteeing expenditure which is not balanced by any tangible asset, and that is the sole and almost only reason why working capital is excluded from the provisions of the Bill in this section.  It would include, as well as payment of wages, the payment of certain charges which would arise immediately in the promotion of   an undertaking of this sort and for which a return would have to be awaited until the undertaking was in being.  There is no tangible asset which the State afterwards could seize to make good the guarantee. 
    
    
      
       The explanation of the Minister rather baffles me.  In regard to money which may be advanced for expenditure on the putting up of a new building, that expenditure will in the main it is alleged go in the form of wages; perhaps half would be in the form of wages.  Is it suggested that there is a tangible asset in the expenditure of that money, but that there is no tangible asset in the expenditure on wages&mdash;in making clocks, for instance? I think the explanation requires a little amplification. 
    
    
      
       I have already stated that there would be something to represent it, but that something would not give money, and there would be no return for a certain time.  Once the loan is guaranteed you must have assets which are tangible and which will secure the guarantee. 
    
    
      
       I may have misunderstood the intentions of the Bill. As yet I am not satisfied with the Minister's explanation.  It seems to me, in a great many cases, that working capital is the essential thing.  People may have all the other necessary things, but the thing they require to give employment would be working capital.  There are fixed assets, such as premises, plant, etc., which would be a guarantee for the safety of the loan.  Take, for instance, the case of co-operative creameries. One of the ideas which we had was that co-operative creameries could secure under this Bill money to buy motor-lorries, which would have the effect of giving extra employment, perhaps reduce the cost of living, and that money would be advanced for that purpose. I may have misunderstood the purport of this Bill, but that is my idea in putting down this amendment. 
    
    
      
       A definite point has now been raised&mdash;the purchase of a motor-lorry in connection with a co-operative creamery.  A motor-lorry represents something tangible.  That is different; that is not payment of wages.   A motor-lorry is a very definite object, and money to buy it would properly come under Section 1, sub-section (4). 
    
    
      
       Because of the definition between fixed and working capital I thought an expenditure of that kind would be included in working capital.  It is an asset which will disappear in a short time.  There are many other cases where working capital might be necessary, or part of it, in connection with the payment of wages. 
    
    
      
       I have not any statement from the Deputy of the type of working capital which it would be desirable to guarantee under this Bill. If he gives me some such instance we can consider it. 
    
    
      
       The Minister seems to me, in his explanation, on the one hand to narrow the intentions of the Bill, and on the other to broaden its intentions.  I would have thought that the provision of motor lorries for creameries might easily be classified as working capital and that money under this section would not be advanced for such a purpose, particularly as such an item will not be fixed and could be the property of the creamery to-day and some other body's property to-morrow.  When the Minister says, on the other hand, that money will not be advanced under this section for the payment of wages for work which is specific, in the carrying out of this undertaking, when there is concrete evidence that labour has been expended and something tangible is available&mdash; that seems to me to warrant an advance under the Bill.  A manufacturer or creamery proprietor or co-operative association may go into the market and may buy a motor lorry which may not involve any expense in this country in the way of wages.  The Minister suggests that that would be an expenditure against which a loan might be granted under the Bill, but that if the creamery started out to build a new wing to their factory and sought an advance for the wages to build that wing, that advance could not be given under the Bill.  That seems to me to be a contradiction, and if that is the intention an explanation is desirable. 
    
     
    
      
       Again you see this difficulty of definition arising here, the difficulty of defining in a specific way in a proposal or legislation, matters which are in their interpretation going to be left to the Advisory Committee; but I may say this&mdash;it has been the feature of any and every Act of this type that no guarantee shall be given in respect of a loan the proceeds, or any part of which proceeds, are to be used as working capital.  I can conceive a case in which the provision of a motor lorry would be definitely included in the category of working capital. 
    
     Take the point dealt with by the Minister for Agriculture on the Second Reading: If the milk suppliers decided in order to diminish the middle-men's profits, in the provision of milk, to combine in an association to provide the milk more cheaply, I should say motor lorries for that purpose would come within the category of working expenses or working capital.  There is another point, a semi-philosophical point, raised by Deputy Johnson.  I do not want to get into an argument as to whether an article when produced represents so much capital or so much labour.  I am not trying to argue by any side wind against capital value and the apportionment of that, but if there is an instance put up in which anybody would be hampered and in which at the same time the State could get ample security for the guarantee given, then consideration would have to be given in that case.  Let me take the case put up by Deputy Heffernan&mdash;a co-operative creamery which requires money for working expenses.  Now, that co-operative creamery would have some assets, according to him&mdash;assets in the way of plant and capital outlay.  Then it can raise money itself for the provision of working expenses, and it is proper for that Association, or whoever is in charge, to raise money in the normal way through a bank.  The bank can take these risks.  The State cannot take the risks that a bank could.  The State must have ample security to cover all advances, and that security must be in the way of tangible assets. No loan can be made for the payment of wages, although the finished article,   as Deputy Johnson says, represents some fraction of capital and some fraction of labour, but on the actual payments out for that particular purpose there would be no return for a considerable period, and within that period the concern may go smash.  The State must have security, and the only way you can get money for the promotion of sound schemes under this Bill will be by having the guarantee limited to capital expenditure. 
    
      
       I think the case the Minister is making for this sub-section might be quite conclusive, but when he instances the proposal under Section 2 to establish milk-selling agencies, and suggests that an association of milk providers might under this be allowed to provide material out of the loan, I am still a bit doubtful as to the explanations of this reference to no guarantee and the reference to working capital. The reference to working capital applies only to Section 1.  I think that is so, that is to say, the loans are to be applied in a way which is calculated to promote employment in the Saorstat. Taking the provision of motor lorries, I would have thought that the intention of this sub-section would be that the manufacturer of motor lorries who saw a market would be in a position to obtain a loan under this for the manufacture of motor lorries, and, consequently, to increase employment, but that if another firm under this same section desired a loan for the purchase of motor lorries in the conduct of its own business, then that would not be allowed under this section, inasmuch as that would, in fact, be working capital to carry on the business, and with the further object of the distribution of commodities.  I think it is desirable that there should be a sub-section of this kind inserted, but I am afraid that the explanation the Minister has given would rather mislead applicants for loans, if it is to be thought that the provision of motor lorries for the conduct of their distributing trade would not be considered as working capital, and, therefore, that they may borrow under this section money to provide motor lorries, which is not in the ordinary   course calculated to promote employment. 
    
    
      
       I did definitely state when the question of the motor lorry was raised that I considered it came rather under Section 2.  Let us be quite clear.  Section 2 has a sub-section with the phrase &ldquo;subject to the limitations imposed by this section, and subject to the sanction of the Minister for Finance.&rdquo;  That also occurs in Section 1.  I am not clear as to what will be excluded under Section 2, but I am clear as to what will be excluded under Section 1.  If Deputy Johnson proposes to insert a new sub-section, I do not think it would be desirable. 
    
    
      
       I am supporting this section, and the sub-section, I think, is necessary. 
    
    
      
       Are you supporting the amendment to delete the sub-section? 
    
    
      
       No, I am not, but I think the Minister's arguments defeat the purposes of the sub-section, and I think his arguments tended to support the case for the removal of this sub-section. 
    
    
      
       I must confess I am getting more confused, because I can conceive of a case where working capital would be essential.  It might be possible for a person to get the working capital from a bank, but it might not be possible to get it on the guarantee given by the Ministry.  I am not sure that the retention of the words &ldquo;working capital&rdquo; is advisable. I think some substitute should be used giving a clearer definition of &ldquo;working capital.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Have you got it? 
    
    
      
       No, I think you can produce it.  I think it is necessary to define the difference between fixed and working capital. 
    
    
      
       The bankers will tell you. 
    
    
      
       They may give their definition, but it may not be a definition suitable to the man who wants capital.  It seems to me that the intention   of the Bill is to give capital to a man who has practically no capital, and where the security will be very flimsy, whereas if he were advanced the money as working capital he would have the plant as a security which is there all the time.  Take the case of a woollen manufacturer.  Times are bad, and they have not the advantage of protection.  He may have an excellent factory and plant, but he may be short of working capital, and the banks may be reluctant to advance it to him.  That manufacturer then goes to the Minister, gets that guarantee, and gets the money at a lower rate of interest.  The Minister has the factory all the time as a security.  I think it is wrong to prevent such a man taking advantage of this Act.  My view may not be the intention that was present in drafting the Bill, but that is the idea I have got from the Bill. 
    
    
      
       If the amendment is put and defeated now it cannot be moved on the next Stage. Would the Deputy withdraw the amendment to see if he could arrive at a definition with the Minister? 
    
    
      
       If I had any asurance from the Minister that he would give the matter more consideration that is all I want. 
    
    
      
       We have the phrases &ldquo;working capital&rdquo; and &ldquo;capital undertaking,&rdquo; defined in a later section.  If Deputy Heffernan feels he can get some phrase which will allow the guaranteeing of money for purposes he has vaguely indicated, and that he is obliged to put it in a setting which would frighten both the Advisory Committee and the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and certainly the Minister for Finance, from giving any guarantee or any loan, I cannot help him; but if he thinks he can get some phrase that would fulfil the object he has in view, he had better bring it along.  This phrase in sub-section (4) is used in every Bill of the sort, and until we get good reason why it should not be in we do not intend to remove it. 
    
    
      
       That is what I am afraid of, that because this phrase has been used in other Bills it has   been accepted by the Minister, but I am willing to withdraw my amendment if the Minister would allow me to put forward a definition at a later stage. 
    
    
      
       I do not intend bringing forward any further definition. 
    
    
      
       The Minister cannot prevent a Deputy from bringing forward a definition. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       On the Second Reading the Minister invited me to put down an amendment to this section stating qualifications for the Advisory Committee, somewhat similar to the qualifications laid down for Panel Members in the Railways Bill.  I am not quite clear as to what are the qualifications for the Panel.  I am not sure if this Panel, like Julius Caesar, has not been murdered in the Seanad, but the Minister, however, is capable of resurrecting it. I have come to the conclusion that I will not put down any amendment, for though the composition of the Advisory Committee is vitally important, unless the Advisory Committee is a good one, the Bill will fail hopelessly to carry out the object it intends to achieve.  By laying down some qualifications, that there must be one banker, one businessman, one farmer, and so on, we shall unduly circumscribe the choice of the Minister. It is not so much the professional qualifications of the man appointed on the Committee as his own personal individual character that will count.  The Minister should try to get men of caution and men of vision, men who are cautious in their control of public money, and at the same time with sufficient vision to take a risk if the ends involved are important enough.  These men are not easy to find, and you cannot put down a cut and dried description of qualifications for these individuals. I for one am content to leave the matter in the hands of the Ministers named in the Bill.  I am sure the nominees of the Minister for Finance will possess caution, and that the nominees   of the Minister for Industry and Commerce will possess vision.  I do hope they will possess the qualifications that are demanded, and will possess courage which, at any rate in this instance, is not a bad substitute. 
       But it must never be forgotten that unless the Advisory Committee is a success, the Bill cannot be a success, and, therefore, I hope that the appointments will be made with care, and will be announced.  There is nothing in the section as to the announcing of the names of the Advisory Committee.  I think their names should be announced in the  Iris Oifigiuil , because it will give confidence to the banks and the public if they know that wild-cat schemes will not be proceeded with under this measure. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if he would give a little fuller information than he already has done in regard to the effect of this section when it is considered together with the Trades Facilities Act that is the law in Great Britain.  I wish to ask that specifically because of certain sentences that he used in his speech on the Second Reading of this Bill.  He said: &ldquo;We want to create an investing public, and more than that, we want to bring here the creators and directors of industry.  Of these we have some, but not enough.&rdquo;  I take it that he means, by bringing here the creators and directors of industry, to attract within these shores those who are not here now, but who are known as the creators and directors of industry. That is the meaning that is suggested to me by the obvious interpretation of the words.  In regard to those men, they already have at their disposal a very considerable sum of money for the establishment of industries, even in the Saorstat.  The Minister knows very well that the Trade Facilities Act in Great Britain is an Act under which people can get very great advances of money, even though the works they establish are not in Great Britain.  Only about three or four months ago a very large factory was established, as the Minister will know, in Poland, and the moneys available   for that were advanced under the British Trade Facilities Act. 
    
    
      
       took the Chair. 
    
    
      
       I feel, and the Minister probably has it in mind, in regard to industries that are established here, that it is a matter of right feeling that the moneys guaranteed should be sought under this Bill rather than under any other Bill.  But we cannot expect that those thoughts will be common to the type of person whom he describes in his introducing words; that is, the people whom he desires to bring here, the creators and directors of industry.  There is a very large sum of money available under the British Trade Facilities Act, and, as the returns show, almost the greater part of it&mdash;a very considerable part of it anyhow, has been taken and developed, some in India, some in Africa, and some in various parts of the Continent of Europe.  There is another part on which I would like to ask for his somewhat fuller opinion, and it deals more or less with the same kind of subject. These are the words of the section: &ldquo;In connection with the purchase of articles manufactured or produced in Saorstat Eireann required for the purposes of any undertaking.&rdquo;  That is, moneys wanted for capital purposes, those moneys to be guaranteed only if they are expended on articles manufactured or produced in the Free State. Well, the majority of moneys so required would be in respect of machinery and matters of that kind, where these articles are not produced here, but where the articles are produced in Great Britain or any other country, but where, if they were purchased from Great Britain, the British Act would be available for persons purchasing machinery in Great Britain for the erection of factories in Dublin, such machinery not being produced in the Free State at all. 
    
     There is a sort of no man's land between the two Bills, and I would like to have some indication from the Minister as to that sphere of administration. It is not likely that much money would be required for a capital undertaking, or machinery, for example, under this Bill.  But the Trade Facilities Act,   although not repealed&mdash;it has passed out by the passage of time&mdash;was an Act in the Free State.  It was part of the legislation taken over under Article 73 of the Constitution, and whether that be much to the issue or not, whether it be or be not germane in view of the fact that it has passed out of administration, it nevertheless remains that its purpose can be made effectual, and might easily be made effectual by companies starting here desiring to buy their machinery in Great Britain and seeking all the opportunities proferred by the Trade Facilities Act.  The same companies might look, for example, to this Bill for the erection of buildings in Ireland by Irish labour for a guarantee for that part of the capital, and for the machinery that went into the building look to the British Trade Facilities Act for the guarantee of that part of the capital.  That is quite possible under this Bill and the British Act, and I think the matter does require some attention to fix some kind of boundary line between the two administrations. 
    
      
       It does not strike me that there is very much difficulty in the matter that Deputy Figgis has raised.  As I read this section, it practically takes for the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, after consultation with an Advisory Committee, the powers which are daily exercised by banks, to determine how capital should be expended, and under the proposition that Deputy Figgis has made it seems to me quite clear that if a loan which is guaranteed is to be applied for the purposes of one portion of an undertaking, namely, the erection of a building, the remainder of the capital might be drawn from anywhere&mdash;that the purposes of the section would be served and employment assisted by the erection of that building.  There is just one little point that may not require the assurance that I ask for, but it is just as well to have it.  In the parallel section of the British Act there was inserted a proviso that none of these moneys should be expended for munitions of war.  That has not been put into this Bill, but I hope not with the expectation that new industries should be established within the Saorstat of a warlike kind, to promote the manufacture of munitions of war.  I would take   it that the Minister had not got any such purpose in his mind when he omitted that particular phrase from the Bill.  I would like him to say in a general way what he has in mind.  It is not for him to pass the responsibility on to the Advisory Committee.  It is he who is going to determine the policy, after consultation with the Advisory Committee, and I would like him to say whether he has in mind the using of the £750,000 in a few big industries in the hope that they will become very valuable, or, as I said on the Second Reading stage, stimulate the development of a large number of smaller industries in different parts of the country, because I want him to bear in mind that the problem of unemployment is not confined to the larger cities. It is very widespread, and I think the true policy for the country would be to absorb people from all parts of the country into concerns of a reproductive and development character, and I think that it would be advantageous if he would give us some indication of what is in his mind as to the use that will be made of these powers that will be granted to him. 
    
    
      
       With regard to what Deputy Cooper mentioned in connection with the Advisory Committee, and his application on Second Reading that either the names of those to be appointed should be given, or else that the qualifications desirable in those to be appointed should at least be outlined, I am glad to observe that he has at least withdrawn his suggestion that the names be given.  It will be a task of some difficulty to get even a small committee such as will inspire the confidence that Deputy Cooper thinks desirable, and that I myself think desirable. I think there would be great and undue interference with the liberty that should be accorded both to the Minister for Finance and to myself in getting persons to act on that Committee if we were obliged to set out rigid qualifications.  The qualifications of the ordinary members of the railway tribunal have disappeared in the Seanad, that is to say, as a clause in the Bill, but that does not mean that the qualifications set out in the particular clause will not be regarded by the Executive Council in   advising the Governor-General to make appointments.  That is a different matter. It would be most undesirable here, I agree with the Deputy, to set down a statement of the qualifications required. 
    
     I think Deputy Cooper went even so far as to impugn the Minister for Finance for his caution in certain respects. I do not think he need be at all worried that the people recommended will be people who are likely to let through their hands any schemes of a wild-cat nature.  I think his suggestion a wise one, that the names should be published prominently in the Official Gazette, or if it can be done before the Dail rises, that the names should be announced to the Dail.  Deputy Figgis made a matter of much complexity of what was in reality a very simple thing. We have here a Bill which states that on certain conditions being met certain guarantees are to be given.  It is immaterial to us whether the same firm has in England received guarantees under the Trade Facilities Act for purposes connected with Ireland.  If they have a double guarantee it does not make any difference to us so long as we have our loan guaranteed in a certain way.  It makes no difference whatsoever. So far am I from wishing to draw a boundary line between the two administrations that I do not care how much they overlap so long as I am sure that our security is not impaired by any guarantee given by the British Government under their Trade Facilities Act.  There is no difficulty, and the only use of the argument is to show Deputy Figgis's dexterity in extricating himself from a difficulty into which he got  a propos  of this Bill.  Deputy Johnson has drawn attention to the fact that one phrase has disappeared&mdash;&ldquo;munitions of war.&rdquo;  It is not the only phrase.  In the British Act there is a phrase for lending money to any Government, etc.  That has been cut out, not because we wanted to preclude any Government from applying for loans, although it might read ambiguously as regards Ireland, but because we did not think that any foreign Government was likely to apply here. It was only so much verbiage and was   not going to lend any additional weight to the Bill. 
     The &ldquo;munitions of war&rdquo; phrase has been left out.  It does not mean that we are going to embark on a process of lending money to undertakings that may set themselves up for the production of those munitions.  It must be remembered that the production of certain things useful in making munitions of war are often a by-product of other forms of industry.  It would be undesirable to cut out certain things which seem desirable simply because they were some by-product useful in the making of munitions.  As to the other question by Deputy Johnson, it is not so much whether the money is spent on one or two big schemes, or on a large number.  It is not so much what I would like to see happening but what I think will happen.  There are schemes that have been rolling in within the last couple of months.  It strikes me as absolutely certain that this money will be expended over a multiplicity of small schemes rather than on a number of large ones.  That is desirable on account of the reasoning of Deputy Johnson: that unemployment is not a city problem merely, but a problem for the whole country, and for that reason it will be desirable to have schemes not concentrated round one spot but to have many small undertakings.  I do not think there was any other point raised on this section which has been left unanswered except Deputy Heffernan's amendment, which, I presume, we will see in another form later. 
    
      
       It is not quite so simple as the Minister would suggest.  Let me put it in this practical, concrete way.  Supposing a manufacturer to-morrow desires to establish a factory in Dublin.  He could make avail of this Bill within the purview of the Committee's restricted capacity, that restriction being £750,000.  But that manufacturer could do much more.  He could go to the British Trades Facilities Act for every penny of that money, because it has been by the last Imperial Conference made operative in Ireland and other of the so-called Dominions. That means, if the manufacturer wanted to-morrow to establish a factory   here, he could use not only the £750,000 of this Bill, but he could use the much larger resources available under the British Trade Facilities Act for purposes in Ireland, and these have been extended so far to £190,000,000. When one sees a Bill in those words, those being the exact words of another piece of legislation that also applies over the Free State, then I am asking if the intention is to try to expel, so far as is possible, for patriotic or other reasons, the operation of the British Act in this country. 
    
    
      
       That question answers itself.  There is nothing in the Bill to show that there is any intention to expel or to prevent anyone from taking advantage of the Act on the other side. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 2. 
       (1)  If the Minister for Industry and Commerce, after consultation with an advisory committee nominated by him in conjunction with the Minister for Finance for the purposes of this section, is satisfied that any loan proposed to be raised by any public authority of any association (corporate or unincorporate) of producers, or of consumers, or of producers and consumers is calculated to promote a reduction in the retail prices in Saorstat Eireann of essential commodities, the Minister for Industry and Commerce may, either&mdash; 
       (a)  grant the loan upon such terms and conditions as to time and manner of repayment, rate of interest, security, and other matters whatsoever as he shall think proper, or 
       (b)  guarantee in such manner and on such terms and conditions as he shall think proper the repayment of the principal of such loan and the payment of the interest thereon or the repayment of such principal or the payment of such interest, 
       subject to the limitations imposed by this section and subject to the sanction of the Minister for Finance. 
    
     (2)  The aggregate capital amount of the loans granted under this section   shall not exceed the sum of fifty thousand pounds, and the total aggregate capital amount of loans granted under this section and of loans in respect of which guarantees are given (whether as to principal and interest or as to principal only or as to interest only) under this section shall not exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds. 
     (3)  No loan shall be granted or guarantee given under this section after the expiration of twelve months from the passing of this Act. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 50, after the word &ldquo;committee&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;in the case of an undertaking which is mainly of an industrial character composed of members the majority of whom are engaged in industrial occupations, or who have special knowledge of that nature, and in the case of undertakings which are mainly of an agricultural character composed of members the majority of whom are engaged in agricultural occupations, or who have special knowledge of that nature.&rdquo; 
       This matter of the Advisory Committee has been discussed fairly fully, but my intention in putting down this amendment was that if necessary two Advisory Committees should be appointed, or if not two distinct Advisory Committees, that when the Advisory Committee came to deal with a matter which was predominantly agricultural that the Minister would see that the majority of the members of that committee were men with agricultural knowledge, or a special agricultural training. 
    
     The argument is obvious that when we are going to deal with agricultural matters, the only people who understand those matters are naturally the agriculturists; similarly, when we are going to deal with industrial matters, the people who understand those matters best are the industrialists.  Since the introduction of the Bill I have been rather afraid that the outlook of the Minister and the Government is too much centred round the metropolis. Too much attention is devoted to Dublin, and I believe that in the actual working out of the measure the advantage   will be derived by business men living close to Dublin, and the guarantees will be given to business men residing in or near the city. 
     Perhaps I misjudge the Minister in that regard; from what I heard him say to-day, I am inclined to think I have misjudged him.  I would like to emphasise that there are men in the country who, if they got the opportunity, would prove themselves at least as good and as up-to-date and as anxious to advance as business men in the city.  It would be well that the Minister would show us that he is prepared to take a broad view in this matter, and that it is his intention to make this measure apply to all classes, and that no special favours will be permitted. 
     We should have some specific indication that the Advisory Committee will have an agricultural representative, so that his advice will be of assistance when agricultural matters are under discussion, and that there will be an industrial representative to deal with industrial matters.  I am particularly interested in agriculture, and I would like if the Minister would see his way to give the industry representation on the Committee. 
    
      
       I am not responsible for the viewpoint which Deputy Heffernan may adopt with regard to my outlook on certain matters, or the Government's outlook.  I object to this amendment, because I believe it would make the machinery too cumbersome. The functions to be performed by the Advisory Committee are very similar to those to be performed by the directors of any ordinary bank, where they advise having their main interest centred in the financial aspect rather than in any other aspect that may be put before them; they do not view it from the expert agricultural point of view, or any other expert point of view save that of finance.  Agricultural and industrial experience will not be overlooked in the formation of the committee, but the main thing to be achieved is that we should get on the Advisory Committee persons who will regard any proposals put up from the financial end; persons who will be able to value the prospects, and to do that   they will have to have knowledge and experience of agricultural and commercial matters. 
       The great point on which choice will proceed will be rather their financial outlook, and how far they will be regarded as good judges, from the point of view, primarily, that is taken into account in the case of a director or directors of a bank.  The amendment is objectionable, because it would limit us and tie our hands very much.  It is going to be difficult to get even a small committee of the expert type required. They have to be experts in a particular way.  A certain burden of work will be put upon them, and it is going to be very difficult to get people of the type we desire, who will undertake the work that will necessarily fall on them under an Act such as this. 
    
    
      
       I think that Deputy Heffernan's fears are groundless. When the Housing Act was going through we heard a great deal about the need of houses in Dublin.  Yet, all the houses that have been built under the Act have been built in the country. The country districts are quite as alive to the advantages to be gained under this measure as any other districts, and they are probably even more alive to those advantages than the town districts are.  I believe the Deputy's fears are groundless.  Even if the Minister were to accept the principle&mdash;I do not think he could quite accept the amendment&mdash;it would not be so very helpful. 
       Portion of the amendment reads: 
       &ldquo;The majority of whom are engaged in agricultural occupations or who have special knowledge of that nature.&rdquo; That is not a special knowledge of agriculture, but of agricultural occupations. That would make a cowboy or a ploughman eligible, and a lot of people who might be desirable would not be eligible.  Take one instance Mr. Justice Wylie would, I presume not be held to be engaged in an agricultural occupation; yet he has a knowledge of agriculture, and if I were buying a horse I would sooner take Mr. Justice Wylie with me than Deputy Heffernan.  I think Mr. Justice Wylie has more knowledge of that peculiar kind. 
    
     
        There are certain county court judges and lots of other people in the country who might not exactly be described as having an agricultural occupation, but who, nevertheless, have a deep knowledge of agricultural matters. One of the candidates for our division in the last election, though manager of an industrial undertaking in Dublin, is also a very large farmer; I refer to Mr. David Barry.  Farming is more or less implicit in Irish life.  A large number of people in other occupations have either come from a farm or have carried on farm work in their spare time.  An amendment of this nature is hardly, in the circumstances, suitable, and therefore I hope that Deputy Heffernan will not press it. 
    
      
       Can those people you refer to, do agriculture successfully in their spare time? 
    
    
      
       I want to support the idea underlying Deputy Heffernan's amendment.  I do not support exactly the wording of the amendment.  I believe, however, there is doubt for presupposing that in connection with this Advisory Committee, however capable it might be, and however suitable might be the schemes which would emanate in the minds of the rural population, and which might come before the Committee, it is possible that there would be a certain slight bias in their minds, and there would be no possibility whatever that our schemes would come within the meaning of the measure, unless we have something like a definite assurance that both agricultural and industrial interests will be given representation.  Otherwise we would unquestionably have to wonder whether the Act would be available for us in the way in which it ought to be. 
       Deputy Cooper makes reference to the Housing Bill.  If the Housing Bill had not been extended during the Committee Stage and made apply to the rural areas, our enthusiasm in the country to build houses would not avail us very much if the grant were not available. The same would apply to this measure, and we would like the Minister to give us some indication that agricultural and industrial interests will be represented. 
    
    
      
       Both the arguments   of the Minister and Deputy Cooper only convince me that my amendment is correct.  The Minister has in view a certain type of business man who, in addition to his business knowledge, would know something of agriculture.  He has in view a type of financier who looks at farming purely from the financial point of view.  Our business will be looked at, as it has been in the past, purely from the point of view of the financier and of the business man who deal with agriculture in only a theoretical way.  We are in close touch with the agricultural world, and we know that farmers frequently get advice from a business man who possibly makes a side-line of farming and who tries to make it a paying proposition. Very often it is not a paying proposition, and he carries on the farming at the expense of his other business. These are the men who give advice as to their undertakings; but in my opinion all they can do is to theorise on what should be done, and they have little knowledge of the actual conditions with which the farmer has to contend. I want to avoid placing men of that type on this committee.  Amongst the farmers we have men who are both practical farmers and capable business men, and they have a sound knowledge of affairs.  Farming interests are not assisted as they should be in this country. The reason is that the men who handle finance are not in sufficiently close touch with the farmers and have not sufficient sympathy with the outlook of the farming community. 
       The same statement has been made in England, and has given rise to controversy, and it is only to avoid that statement being repeated, and to avoid statements which may be made that this Bill will not deal primarily with the interests of the farmers, but will deal principally with business from the outlook of the city man or the industrialist, that I suggest this amendment. I still think that my amendment is reasonable and I still think that in a country which is predominantly agricultural we have a right to expect that our industry would get representation in a matter of this kind. 
    
    
      
       I understand the amendment is being pressed.  It   reads: &ldquo;In the case of an undertaking which is mainly of an industrial character composed of members the majority of whom are engaged in industrial occupations,&rdquo; and it goes on to say: &ldquo;and in the case of undertakings which are mainly of an agricultural nature composed of men the majority of whom are engaged in agricultural occupations.&rdquo;  Now take the type of committee that I see being set up under this Bill.  I had originally thought of two committees, say, numbering five each.  Thinking over the matter since, and casting around for a proper type of personnel for the committees, I have come to the conclusion that the best type of committee will be one of three set up under Section 1, strengthened by the addition of one man for the purposes connected with Section 2. 
       It is now suggested to me that I should take a clause of this sort, that the majority of the committee of three shall be composed of members engaged in industrial occupations, while I presume the additional member for the purposes indicated under Section 2 would be a man engaged in an agricultural undertaking.  That would require some definition.  Would the manager of a co-operative agricultural society be a person engaged in an agricultural undertaking?  There would be a certain amount of difficulty in having these matters decided, and who is to decide them?  If we have this outlook in favour of the town as against the country. we are not going to have the same difficulty in getting men who at some twenty-fourth or twenty-fifth remove would have some dealing with agriculture, and in the same way we could describe him as having a special knowledge of that nature, so that he could go on the committee.  But if the amendment is to be worded in a rigid form so as to preclude us from doing all sorts of absurd and unnecessary things it would not serve its purpose. 
    
     The Deputy believes that the farming community would provide men of considerable business experience and men who are practical farmers.  If he sends me on some of these names I will be very much obliged to him.  These were the names I wanted to get for consideration.   The big difficulty is to get four men who would fill the bill properly. I do not know if Deputy Heffernan is going to persevere with this amendment in its present form, or what he intends to do with it.  But let him consider, having regard to what I said, that the proposal now is&mdash;I do not say it has assumed any concrete form, but it is in my mind, and it is what my mind was tending to&mdash;a Committee of three for Section 1, strengthened by one additional member for the purposes of Section 2. 
    
      
       It strikes me that this section has neither to do with industry in the sense that has been referred to, nor with agriculture in the sense that has been referred to.  It has to do with distribution of trade, merchanting, if you like; and neither industrialists as such, nor agriculturalists as such, have any special claim to representation on that Committee. It is obviously a section having for its object the reduction of retailed prices. It has nothing to do with production either on the industrial side or on the agricultural side. 
    
    
      
       This raises another point that I think should be considered.  We dodged round it some time, but we know that it exists, and we might as well face it now.  The Minister has informed us that the Committee that will be set up to administer Section 1 will, with the addition of one other, be brought in to administer Section 2.  That is to say, the kind of Committee which would be chosen for administering Section 1 would be, presumably one having a majority of persons not familiar with large manufacturing enterprises.  Section 2, as Deputy Johnson has rightly pointed out, would have for its primary purpose the question of distribution, and I imagine might be so used, and in my judgment should be so used for co-operative distribution.  We know it to be the case that there are manufacturers who are convincedly prejudiced against the co-operative distribution. We do know in one or two cases in co-operative creameries that they have been unable to get machinery on wholesale terms, and that there has   been generally a feeling in regard to some of them, that that kind of business is not to be encouraged.  It would be quite easy, I think, to get a Committee under Section 1 that would not look upon the primary purpose of Section 2 with quite so favourable attention, and for that reason there is a case to be made out for it.  I suggest that the Minister would consider that the Advisory Committees under it would be separated from one another. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Figgis has mentioned the point which I omitted to mention.  There is undoubtedly a prejudice in the minds of certain classes of business men, manufacturers, and, I might say, of bankers, against co-operative undertakings, and my view is that we intend to avail of this section largely in conjunction with co-operation.  I am looking at it largely from the farmers' point of view.  In dealing with co-operative undertakings, we have frequently found ourselves up against rings of merchants, men who will not give us goods at wholesale prices, but who are willing to sell to the ordinary retail shops at wholesale prices.  If business men of that kind happen to get on the committee they will be prejudiced against co-operative undertakings.  I have great regard for the Minister's ability and knowledge, but there are a good many things of that kind which he may not know about.  It was largely with that in my mind that I suggested this amendment. I am willing to withdraw it if the Minister will give some kind of undertaking that on this committee which he proposes to set up, he would put instead of one additional member, two additional members, and that he would see that these two men were men with an interest in, and special knowledge of, agriculture, and that they were men who were not biased in their point of view when dealing with co-operative undertakings. 
    
    
      
       If the Minister accepts Deputy Heffernan's amendment, where is the room for the trader?  This section, as I understand it, is largely a trading section.  There are to be three industrial representatives, and in addition two agricultural representatives.  Where, then, I ask,   does the trader come in as distinct from the agriculturist on the one hand, and the industrialist on the other?  So far as Deputy Figgis's speech went, I must confess that I do not see what his arguments had to do with the amendment that is under discussion.  If you take Deputy Heffernan's amendment, there are many industries, and it is impossible to say whether they are industrial or agricultural, but at the same time you propose to make it mandatory on the Minister, and if he does not act he breaks the law, to appoint a majority of either agriculturists or industrialists. I am rather surprised to see one of the farmers' Deputies drawing this rather rigid distinction between agriculture and ordinary industry, because I understood that agriculture is the main industry in this country, that it represents 75 per cent. of the wealth produced in the country. 
    
    
      
       We quite appreciate the Minister's difficulty in dealing with this matter.  I do not agree with Deputy O'Sullivan that there is no connection between the speech delivered by Deputy Figgis and the amendment proposed by Deputy Heffernan. Deputy Figgis's remarks were made in reply to the Minister's statement and to the constitution of the committee under this section of the Bill.  Deputy Figgis's remarks were in this direction: that there ought to be distinction between the committee that would be set up under Section 1 of the Bill and the committee that would operate under Section 2.  We admit, of course, that the Minister is experiencing a real difficulty in the setting up of this committee.  Deputy O'Sullivan has made the point that agriculture represents seventy-five per cent. of the wealth produced in this country.  I say that if agriculture represented ninety-nine per cent. of the industry of the country, and that the committee was ninety-nine per cent. anti-agricultural, the agricultural community could not expect to derive very much benefit from the Bill when passed into law. We are not definitely tied to the proposition that the men appointed on this committee must be in the word and in the letter agriculturists.  We recognise that the traders' point of view   must also be represented, but our point is that the trader and the agriculturist might, if proper precautions were not taken, be one and the same.  That is what Deputy Heffernan seeks to guard against in his amendment.  I do not agree with Deputy O'Sullivan that the same type of man should represent both interests.  I repeat that I do not see how the same committee can operate under Section 1 and Section 2 of the Bill.  There is no doubt, whatever, that if you have the same committee to work the two sections difficulties will certainly arise.  I cannot see eye to eye with the Minister in that, that a committee of three, with one advisory member, will be sufficient, and will be capable of dealing impartially with the administration of the whole Bill irrespective of what particular section or class in the community demands consideration from it.  I think it would be desirable if the Minister could state that he would reconsider the whole matter and introduce something on the Report Stage that might be generally acceptable. 
    
    
      
       In reply to the points put forward by Deputy Heffernan and Deputy Baxter, if they can put something before me more acceptable on the Report Stage it will come up then for consideration, but again I am standing by Clause 2 in the Bill until I see some better proposal put up to me.  The amendment that has been proposed does not better the section, but rather disimproves it.  The amendment disimproves the section and makes the matter considerably more difficult than I am going to experience at the moment in getting a proper team for the purposes of this Bill.  The argument has been used as if non-agricultural men were anti-agricultural. There is a big difference between the two, I should say, and I presume that even Deputies on the Farmers' Benches will admit even that much. 
    
    
      
       It happens very often that they are anti-agricultural. 
    
    
      
       Am I to take it then that the agricultural representatives believe that they so repel the ordinary person that any person not   completely in their grip is definitely anti-agricultural?  Is that their attitude, I ask? 
    
    
      
       I am sorry to say that it is very often the case. 
    
    
      
       We are not speaking now of ordinary people, but of men who have to be sanctioned and approved of for a particular purpose by two supposedly responsible Ministers. We are not talking about people in the lump, but of people picked for a certain purpose.  Is it to be assumed that certain people are going to be picked to work this Bill and that they are going to be picked simply to see that the machinery proposed to be set up under it does not work?  That, to me, argues a very peculiar outlook.  It amounts to this, that I am going to go to all the trouble of preparing this Bill and of putting it through the Dail, and that then I am going to put its working into the hands of people who will see that nothing comes off. 
    
    
      
       There is no intention of imputing any such deliberate motive to the Minister, or a deliberate bias against agriculture, but as the section stands we do not see how it is going to work. 
    
    
      
       Look at the amendment from another aspect: I am not getting three or four men to come together for the purpose of saying to them: &ldquo;Here is so much money for you to distribute and see what you can do with it.&rdquo;  I am giving them very definite terms of reference.  The first is, is the expenditure of this money likely to promote employment in the Saorstat, and secondly, is the guarantee likely to reduce in the Saorstat the retail prices of essential commodities?  That is what they have to consider.  Remember I am not getting a committee of three for the purpose of Section 1, who are going to be industrialists, that is, according to the arguments put forward from the Farmers' Benches, anti-agriculturists. I am going, as I said originally, to get people to act on this committee whose first duty will be to evaluate the financial prospects of any proposals put before them, and the security that the Government will have to meet liabilities   incurred under the loan or under the guarantee.  In passing, I might say that there is a tremendous amount of fuss here about a matter that really amounts to nothing.  I do not think that the Farmers' representatives here can say that they have been so handled in this House that they have any justification for assuming that a committee of four established for a particular purpose is to be selected in order to down the interests of agriculturists.  There are very definite terms of reference given to those who will be appointed on the committee.  I imagine that the men on the committee will be of the type corresponding to directors of a bank.  The first thing to be guaranteed is security, and my difficulty is to get men who will have that type of experience and qualifications under that heading, and who will also be anxious to promote employment, and, secondly, who will try to bring about a reduction of retail prices in essential commodities in the Saorstat. If I were simply to get men who were going to set up two rival factions on the committee, I willingly agree then that I ought to make the committee one with fifty members on it, because then I am sure we would get a certain amount of amusement and enjoyment from its proceedings.  My object is to get a reasonable committee composed of a small number of men, three or four at the outside.  The suggestion has been made, and it is worthy of consideration that there might be two committees, one in respect of Section 1, and a second committee for the purposes of Section 2.  I may say that I have no objection to two committees. I have not a decided preference for one committee strengthened for the purposes of Section 2 of the Bill, rather than of having two separate committees. The difficulty is to get a suitable personnel for both committees.  If Deputy Heffernan and Deputy Baxter will supply me with a sufficient number of names to constitute two separate committees, one for the purposes of Section 1 of the Bill, and one to operate Section 2, then that is a matter that is not beyond further consideration.  I am not prepared, however, to accept this amendment, which proposes to tie my hands as to the selection of a certain   type of people with certain qualifications. 
    
    
      
       If the Minister really wants a small committee, judging from experience, I think he would be wise to fix the number at 100, with a quorum of 20.  There was the suggestion of Deputy Heffernan in his endeavour to save the Minister from his sub-conscious mind, that two members might get added to the committee in respect of this section instead of one, and I think there is something to be said for that because a committee of five is much more manageable than a committee of four.  In the case of a committee of four, when there is a division, the chairman has a vote, and then if the committee is divided equally he has the further power of his casting vote.  I think there is good reason for having a committee of five instead of four.  I do hope that in submitting the names Deputy Heffernan and Deputy Baxter will not send up the names of all the farmers who understand business conditions, because in that case there would be none left to work the co-operative schemes. 
    
    
      
       The Minister proves himself to be a very effective debater, but whether that debating skill is always quite so just in one's attitude towards an amendment is another point.  It is easy to score off an amendment without meeting the point it purports to suggest.  I treated this amendment not rigidly in the terms of its wording.  Deputy Cooper, sometime ago, made a suggestion that had already been developed in a Dail previous to this, namely, that the official draughtsman might be made available for the purposes of Deputies, but whether that is done or not so long as the general purport of an amendment is clear, that general purport can be addressed and the details of it not pressed.  I suggest that the Minister has not taken the right attitude when he says &ldquo;I am standing over the section, and unless I can see an amendment that is water-tight in every sense I will not accept it.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       As a matter of fact I did not say that. 
    
    
      
       No, but   the Minister did say that he stood over the section and he criticised the amendment in some detail.  If I am not addressing myself to the amendment I am addressing myself to the section. What I am saying is that the purposes of Section 1 and Section 2 do not coincide, and not only do they not coincide but it is quite possible to find a committee for the administration of Section 1 that, because of its fitness for that administration, might create the greatest prejudice and hostility for the proper and efficient administration of Section 2.  I know a case that I could give to the Minister of a certain employer in Ireland to-day who manufactures a certain agricultural implement, and because he was relying for the bigger part of his business on the traders, although he believed that co-operative enterprise was one that should be encouraged in the country, nevertheless he undertook that he would supply none of his implements to any co-operative society.  It is easy to see how prejudice like that might exist, and to see how the purposes of Sections 1 and 2 could in one particular mind be antagonistic to one another, although persons in whom that antagonism existed might be proper persons to appoint on the committees for the administration of Section 1. 
    
    
      
       I am not going to appoint any person who may be a proper man for Section 1, taken by itself, and who is not a proper man for both purposes.  That is not going to be met, at any rate, by amendment.  I have not said that I am standing for this proposal until I see a water-tight amendment.  I say there is my proposal. Give me something better and I will accept it.  I say the amendment does not better it; it disimproves it. Deputy Cooper makes a different point, and I want to be clear on this.  When I talk of a committee of three, to be strengthened by one, that is only my present attitude towards it; that may change; it has changed between the time of the Second Reading and now, when I was of a mind that two committees would be necessary and two committees of, say, five each.  It is only because in the interval I have considered   the difficulty with regard to 10 men who will come forward voluntarily and shoulder the burden put upon them under the Bill that the suggestion of a committee to be strengthened by two instead of by one is considered a useful suggestion.  If one is not considered necessary and we get two, and two would meet the point mentioned by Deputy Cooper, that is to prevent the chairman from having to exercise a casting vote in the case of a tie, that certainly can be done.  If I get the proper names and I get the proper people, then a committee of three for the purpose of Section 1 and five for Section 2 will certainly be appointed. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       Before the section is passed I rise for the purpose of getting some information, not perhaps a precise definition of what is in the Minister's mind as essential commodities. At present we have no indication of what essential commodities are.  I suppose the Minister for Agriculture knows, but the Minister for Agriculture's idea is not to be found anywhere in the Bill.  But apart from that, Executive Ministers may be essential commodities, and extern Ministers luxuries. There should be some machinery to say what are essential commodities and what are not.  I think the Minister ought to have established some machinery for this purpose and ought also to have some machinery for the purpose of adding things to the list if necessary, because I have no doubt the first list will be found rather incomplete. I would ask the Minister to consider that and to see if he could not on Report Stage bring something forward to make this more complete.  There are many things in which there is a great deal of profiteering on the border line of what some people may call essential commodities and some may not.  Take vegetables, for instance.  I would say that vegetables are an essential.  It is common knowledge that in the Dublin Market there is a great deal of profiteering in vegetables.  There are a great many people who will say that workmen do not want vegetables, and there are a great many people who refuse vegetables because they do not consider them essential except, perhaps, potatoes.   There will be confusion on this question, and it is very desirable to have some method of determining what are essential commodities.  The second question that I want to raise arouses more attention, and that is the question of stout or porter.  Men working on the quays will tell you that that is essential, and that as their work is so hard and creates so much thirst unless a man has one pint at least a day he cannot do it.  I do not think it will be disputed that the price of stout is very high.  I received from a constituent a leaflet containing the words &ldquo;Guinness' Stout our speciality, per bottle 5d.&rdquo; and there follows an address of a firm in Manchester which I will communicate to any Deputy who desires it. The price of stout in Dublin is 8d. per bottle, and that requires explanation. I do not know why the constituent sent the communication to me and why he did not send it to someone like the Minister for External Affairs or the Minister for Justice, who could do something about it.  But though profiteering is very widespread, and though I do not press the Minister for a definite answer now, I would ask him to indicate the machinery by which the section can be used to lower the price of stout. 
    
    
      
       I desire to ask the Minister to give some explanation as to how he has arrived at the different sums available for Section 1 and Section 2.  In my innocence, I put down an amendment whereby the sum available under Section 2 would be doubled, raised to £100,000, for the purpose of loans; and to £500,000 for the purpose of guarantees. I was unable to get that amendment passed, being informed that it was not in agreement with Section 90 of the Standing Orders.  I wish to get some information at this stage, as it seems to me that there is no real reason why £750,000 should be available for guarantees, and only £250,000 for another purpose.  I cannot see that one section is more important than the other.  The giving of employment is of more importance than reducing the retail prices of essential commodities.  I would ask the Minister if he would consider the question of increasing the amount   available to £500,000 instead of £250,000. 
    
    
      
       Before the Minister replies there is one matter in subsection 3 that I wish to refer to.  Does the Minister consider twelve months long enough?  I can understand the anxiety to get this section working as soon as possible, but in many cases, associations of producers and consumers do not exist yet.  They will have to be formed, and will have to get all the data to enable them to lay a case before the Advisory Committee.  Would the Minister consider the question of extending the period to, say, the 31st December, 1925?  That would mean an extension of possibly four months, beyond the twelve months.  I think it would give a little better chance to people who have not yet begun to think about this, and who would bring up their schemes later.  It would not delay the earlier schemes brought in, and if the money was gone it would be gone. 
    
    
      
       I would like to support Deputy Cooper's view regarding this phrase &ldquo;essential commodities.&rdquo; There is just the possibility that the word &ldquo;essential&rdquo; may be taken as confining the activities of the Minister in a way that was not intended.  I suggest to the Minister that he should endeavour to find some other phrase to cover what I think is his intention. &ldquo;Commodities in general consumption,&rdquo; or words of that kind.  If the word &ldquo;essential,&rdquo; for instance, became a question for the courts, we might find difficulties as to whether what we believed to be essential would be what a judge would believe to be essential. 
    
    
      
       This question of essential commodities was raised on the Second Reading and I then suggested that it could be taken as meaning generally.  I did not advance a definition. It would be taken to mean, generally, articles on which the cost of living figures are made up. 
    
    
      
       Porter is not in that. 
    
    
      
       Porter is not in that.  That is why I did not want to define it and say &ldquo;that is the list, and   the essential commodities are to be confined to it.&rdquo;  There are certain items which might not appear to people in the Dail as essential, such as paraffin oil and lard.  Even Deputy Cooper, I think, has expressed in another debate a preference for candles.  Of course he might object to paraffin oil being substituted for candles.  It is very hard to get a suitable definition, and it is a thing I can consider bringing up again on the Report Stage.  I could approach the matter this way.  I could schedule a list of articles and say, these may be added to by order from time to time. If it is considered more acceptable, I could have considered the phrase Deputy Johnson has suggested, as to commodities in general use, or in general consumption.  The matter could be left over for the Report Stage, and I will consider the advisability of having the articles scheduled, and allowing others to be added by order, by being laid on the Table of the House or something of that nature.  I presume that porter and stout would have to be added to the first list and scheduled immediately to the Bill.  As to the question of time, I considered that and raised the point. I think the answer is that, it is best to proceed by some regular period, say 12 months.  It is easy to extend that period.  We thought it best to hurry so as to speed up people who have proposals of a likely nature.  If there is any insistence on it I am not adamant on the question of time.  There was a suggestion, rather, to cut it down and coincide with the end of the financial year, running from the 1st April until the 1st April next year, and thereafter for a twelve months period.  I think it is better to leave the matter as it is. If necessary the time can be enlarged. Deputy Heffernan asked me how the sums were arrived at, and in his voice I again detected the old antagonism between agriculturists and industrialists, between £750,000 and £250,000.  If I am asked how the sums were arrived at I would observe that it was almost a personal combat between the Minister for Finance&mdash;who is in hospital&mdash;and myself, and I think the Deputy will admit that I have won. 
    
     
    
      
       Can we take advantage of his absence? 
    
    
      
       I do not think that would be in my canon of sport&mdash; when a man has given way to some extent, that we should extend the time. As to why more money should be set down in Section 1 than in Section 2 that was because Section 2 is tentative. It is a section that has not been tried out in any other country.  If there is any difficulty about the sums I can guarantee for the Minister for Finance, in his absence, and I think, with his consent, that if schemes of a likely nature are brought forward and exhaust the money set down, there will not be any great difficulty in having the sums enlarged.  If that is the only difficulty in the Deputy's mind I can remove it. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 2 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Sections 3, 4 and 5 agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 6. 
    
    
      
       I have not put down an amendment, but, I would like to ask the Minister, if there is any objection to adding to the statement, that is to be laid before the Oireachtas, the terms and conditions on which loans have been granted.  I think it would be well that we should be informed of the terms on which loans have been granted, especially if any general principles are set out.  I can understand that there may be exceptions in particular cases and peculiarities that would require, perhaps, different conditions in every case, but it seems to me that there will be, probably, some general principle applied in the granting of loans and the Oireachtas should be informed.  I would ask the Minister if he would have any objection to inserting an amendment to that effect on the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       I cannot see any objection at the moment but one may occur to me between this and the Report Stage.  I see no objection at present to have the statement including the terms on which loans and guarantees are given. 
    
    
      
       It might be as well for   the Minister to consult the Advisory Committee upon that matter before coming to a decision and I strongly urge him to do so. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 6 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
       In this Act, the expression &ldquo;capital undertaking&rdquo; means an undertaking involving capital expenditure, and the expression &ldquo;public authority&rdquo; means any board or other body, whether corporate or unincorporate, exercising any function of central or local government or discharging any public duties in relation to public administration (whether general or local) in Saorstat Eireann. 
    
    
      
       I move the following amendment: 
       To add a Schedule as follows:&mdash; 
       Schedule referred to in Section 7:&mdash; 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - FAIR WAGES CLAUSE. 
     &ldquo;The contractor shall, under a penalty of a fine or otherwise, pay rates of wages and observe hours of labour not less favourable than those commonly recognised by employers and trade societies (or in the absence of such recognised hours and wages, those which in practice prevail amongst good employers) in the trade in the district where the work is carried out.  Where there are no such wages and hours recognised or prevailing in the district, those recognised or prevailing in the nearest district in which the general industrial circumstances are similar shall be adopted.  Further, the conditions of employment generally accepted in the district in the trade concerned shall be taken into account in considering how far the terms of the Fair Wages Clause are being observed. The contractor shall be prohibited from transferring or assigning, directly or indirectly, to any person or persons whatever, any portion of his contract without the written permission of the Department. Sub-letting, other than that which may be customary in the trade concerned, shall be prohibited.  The   contractor shall be responsible for the observance of the Fair Wages Clause by the sub-contractor. 
     In considering whether a contractor is complying with the terms of the Fair Wages Clause, regard shall be had to the conditions of employment generally in the contracting firm.&rdquo; 
     This amendment is put forward with a view to protecting two bodies of people&mdash;the workers who are engaged in their present employment, working on agreed rates, and the employers who have agreed to pay those rates and who are working their industries on fair terms.  The proposal is to make one of the conditions, namely, what is known as a fair wages clause which has for a number of years been operating in regard to public contracts and which is necessary in regard to public contracts at present.  The intention will be that the recipients of loans under this Bill should be put in the same position regarding the terms of employment in their industry as contractors of public bodies in receipt of public money are now placed in.  There is danger if no such provision of this kind is made that firms may apply for loans and use such guarantees as will be given and that they will be put in a position of distinct advantage over competitors who are not applying for loans or guarantees.  That would be unfair to the firms concerned.  Complaints may be heard, and they are almost sure to be heard as a matter of fact, from say firm A that he is carrying on his business without any guarantee or loan while his competitor B has had the use of capital under this Bill.  There may not be very much in that because, each of them probably would be placed on equal terms so far as the Minister is concerned, if each of them applied, but if one is bound to observe fair conditions and the other may be free to observe fair conditions or not as he pleases there would be a distinct handicap on the fair employer and Government funds would be available for handicapping such employer.  I am not asking the Minister, nor am I asking the House to bind themselves to the actual phraseology of this new section, but I ask them to agree to the principle which I propose, that the   Fair Wages Clause, which I suggest, should form the subject of a schedule, the same as the Fair Wages Clause at present in operation, and I ask the House to agree that similar conditions should be applied to any works carried out under this Bill. 
    
      
       I wish to support the amendment.  I believe that the inclusion of a Fair Wages Clause would be a most important provision in the Bill.  I think it will be generally accepted that where such a clause is in operation, particularly with public bodies, it has been conducive to settled conditions and has gone a good way to avoid disputes as well as safeguarding the interests of the workers. 
    
    
      
       In considering this amendment I hope that the Minister will also take into consideration the advisability of adding a form of words so as to make it read &ldquo;the fair wages and fair work clause.&rdquo;  It would remove the blemish which I see in this Fair Wages Clause as it stands.  If he cannot consider it in that way I do not think it would be good business at all. We had better face the situation honestly and have fair work as well as fair wages.  We have no objection to fair wages but we want fair work. 
    
    
      
       I was glad to hear Deputy Johnson, in supporting his own amendment, admit that there was such a thing as fair terms of agreement between employer and employee.  The general inference is that the employers are sharks and that the men are downtrodden individuals.  Generally speaking, my experience is that while I have no objection to a fair wages clause going in, it seems to me to be a work of supererogation as the men can very well look after themselves.  Deputy Johnson, as instancing the case for fair wages, referred to the fact that loans might be applied for by, say, A and that B is working under certain terms with his employees at different wages. Surely this Bill is not going to operate in that way.  If it is, it seems to me that it will probably do more harm than good.  In other words, Deputy Johnson's idea is that the Government   are going to provide money to start a man in an industry that is already started. 
    
    
      
       I have not suggested anything of the kind. 
    
    
      
       Then how does your instance work?  Deputy Johnson referred to the fact that A was working and B started up in competition.  If that is so, the Government is going to provide money to start a man in competition with someone else.  I imagine that that would be misplacing Government money.  I imagined that the Bill was for the purpose of providing guarantees for the raising of capital for industries of national importance. In Great Britain, for instance, it has been done and money has been advanced to build ships for foreign trade.  There is a national reason for that, but there would be no national reason to bolster up somebody in competition with somebody else. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid Deputy Hewat has not been following the discussion, nor has he been following the development of work under the Trade Facilities Act in Great Britain.  He has instanced shipbuilding.  He would have known, had he followed the discussion that the very question which was raised by me has already been raised in respect of rival shipbuilding companies.  One shipbuilding company obtains under the Trade Facilities Act a loan at a certain rate, a rate which is lower than a similar loan could have been obtained without a guarantee. One firm obtains that loan under the guarantee; another firm is not able to keep its yard going.  Overhead charges have to be borne on the ordinary commercial lines, and consequently it is alleged there is a disadvantage to firm B as compared with firm A.  This is not a question of starting a new man in the shipbuilding industry; the existing shipbuilders are really competing with one who is able to keep his business going by virtue of that loan under guarantee, and the other alleges he is handicapped in the matter.  I am not referring to the starting of any firm in a new business, although it is quite possible and may be even very desirable   under this Bill.  The question of terms and fair conditions should appeal to Deputy Hewat.  He knows as a matter of ordinary commercial and industrial practice that if the conditions that are ruling are generally similar then the firms are able to start on a line, but if the conditions are favourable in respect of one firm and unfavourable in respect of the other then one firm is much handicapped compared with its rival.  Deputy Gorey can rest assured, of course, that the firms will have the right to employ and the right not to employ.  I am not suggesting any change in this matter, and if Deputy Gorey can introduce a new Fair Wages Clause, I, for my part, would be glad to give it every consideration.  If Deputy Hewat can produce that for the next Stage of the measure, I have no doubt also the Minister will be very glad to give it consideration, but I would like to have the Minister's assurance that he will accept this amendment now, or at least the principle of it. 
    
    
      
       I am not very much disposed to accept this amendment for three reasons.  It is unnecessary, it is undesirable for reasons which I will indicate, and it would be very difficult to administer.  Where the terms and conditions are not all right the workers will not accept them, and the scheme will not come into being.  It does not put any further power or leverage into the hands of potential employers than they have to-day under the fair wages clauses.  I am asked not merely to drive with this particular amendment but to get into harness with something such as Deputy Gorey proposes. In that case I am afraid there will be nothing done under the Bill during the coming twelve months or any other period.  It is undesirable for many reasons to insert something in the Bill which will induce a certain amount of uncertainty as to any schemes proposed under the Bill.  If you take England, which is a highly industrialised country, the application of a fair wages clause there has led to considerable difficulty and wrangling on the question of what are the conditions in adjoining districts.  Here, if an enterprise is proposed in a town in which the wage conditions are those generally recognised, then obviously   these wage conditions must rule the undertaking, but if you have an undertaking started in a centre which is not industrial, then you are immediately involved in a wrangle as to the conditions obtaining in that district compared with the district nearest to it. If you have a scheme which is acceptable from the point of view of the promoter and which meets with the approval of the worker, why should the setting up of such a scheme be delayed pending the interpretation of a fair wages clause of that type or of any type because there will have to be an interpretation about which there will be a certain difficulty?  I need not go into any arguments as to why this should be administratively difficult.  It obviously would be, and there are no benefits to be derived from it, merely from the fixing of it, commensurate with the disadvantages it would bring in its train.  Any advantages it would bring will be gained in the ordinary way, from the operation of ordinary conditions and fixed wages.  As to Deputy Gorey's suggestion to introduce a clause providing for a fair day's work, it would be administratively difficult and lead to great wrangling. 
    
    
      
       I am disappointed at the attitude of the Minister.  I do not think it can be shown that the administration of a fair wages clause in this country has been very difficult.  I have not heard that there has been any great difficulty in the matter.  I would have heard it during the last three or four years if there had been any great difficulty. 
    
     The refusal to accept any such clause is, in fact, an invitation to recipients under this Bill to endeavour to break the rates of wages that are prevalent in any industry which will come under the Bill.  There is only this to be relied on &mdash;the strength of the trades unions.  I hope that that will be effective and thoroughly well exercised, and that it will not be necessary to try that strength.  In asking the Minister to accept this clause, I do so in order to avoid the possibilities of that strength having to be tried.  If firms applying for loans under this Bill know that they are to be expected to conform to the prevailing conditions of good and fair employment in the area, they will know   exactly where they stand.  But if they know that they may try their hands in introducing strange labour into that particular district at low rates, then, of course, it comes to the question of a tussle.  If once you have given your guarantee&mdash;once you have issued your loan&mdash;then the firm concerned will be expected to start its undertaking.  After that you may find that the security for your loan is less valuable than it was, or that it would have been if you had embodied a clause of this kind in the original contract.  Everything will depend on the way the Minister interprets his powers, the kind of industry, and the kind of persons who are going to be assisted, and who are waiting for such opportunities as this Bill provides. Some men may not be careful or considerate of the kind of labour they will employ.  It may be said that I am giving a far-fetched illustration, but I want to give an extreme illustration of the kind of thing that would be possible, except there is some security of this kind&mdash;the introduction of cheap labour, Polish. Chinese or Negro labour to do a certain job.  There is nothing in the Bill now to prevent that.  There may be other things.  Public opinion, no doubt, would be effective, but surely it would be better that firms getting the benefit of this Bill should not be allowed to consider for a moment that anything other than the normal conditions of good, fair employment in the area concerned would be allowed.  We would then have no reason to fear the introduction of cheap labour from either inside or outside the Saorstat, and I say that the Minister or the Dail must not think that is outside the possibilities.  I say, with a little knowledge of what may be in the minds of certain applicants for loans of this kind, that they may be contemplating the possibility of getting cheap labour introduced.  The rejection of the principle of the amendment would simply mean that the risks will have to be taken, and the ordinary methods which might be said to be extra legal so far as the Bill is concerned, and outside the scope of the Bill, will be brought into play.  You may by that reduce the security, and if a loan is granted to a firm which,   thinking that there is no obligation upon it to employ labour at fair rates, enters into a business undertaking, there is resistance and obstruction in the conduct of that firm in the conditions of low pay and unfair rates.  Then your security has to that extent been reduced, and we ought, if possible, to avoid that at the beginning. 
    
      
       With regard to the defeat of this amendment being taken as an indication to applicants to break the fair wages clause or conditions in the district, I do not think that is quite a sound argument.  If there had been a fair wages clause in the proposed Bill, and the Dail had, of its own accord defeated it, or got it removed, that would be an invitation to the applicants to cut across the ordinary fair wages in the district.  If the defeat of a clause of this kind is to be regarded as an invitation to the adoption of tactics of that kind, then a certain amount of responsibility for the invitation must rest on the Deputy who brought forward this, and got it defeated. It is said that it is better to set out that applicants must conform to the conditions and wages paid in certain districts, and that applicants who bring forward certain schemes will know very well that they must conform to the wages in the district. They must, in the circumstances, conform. Otherwise, if Deputy Johnson puts it to me that an applicant can come forward, and knows that he can get wages reduced in a particular district, I think, if he pointed out these districts there may be a rush of applicants to start enterprises in these districts. He knows as well as I do that any applicant coming forward will have to conform by the very nature of things to the ordinary rate of wages in the district, but we do not want to have any clause which would have to be interpreted where the conditions are not suitable for interpretation.  That may suit in a highly industralised country. On the other hand, if the money was given by way of Government loan to already existing industries where the conditions are known, then an obligation of this kind must not cause much difficulty, but in the conditions   envisaged by us they would be considered a difficulty as regards the security and how it may be lessened, because proper regard is not had, in making the application, to the necessity of conforming to the fair wages clause. That is one of the things to be considered by the Advisory Committee.  A scheme is to be put forward involving labour and necessitating payments. Obviously, the committee will have to look into that and see if there is any relation to the wages paid in the district. If it bears no relation, and if it can be shown that the wages are at a lower level, the man will not get much   consideration from the committee. Such a scheme is not likely to be put forward, and if put forward is not likely to be passed by the committee. In the terms and conditions in which the money would be guaranteed the wages paid will have to conform to the wages in the district, and in the nature of things that will be done, but a clause such as this, which would be very difficult to interpret, and where the interpretation of it would lead to unnecessary delay, is not desirable.  The difficulty of administration is a minor point, but it also has a certain weight. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 11; Nil, 38. 
       Ta. 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Tomas de Nogla. Ailfrid O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. John J. Cole. Bryan R. Cooper. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain, Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Darrell Figgis. John Good. William Hewat. Connor Hogan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Patrick McGilligan. Eoin Mac Neill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick McKenna. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. 
             Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Richard O'Connell. Partholan O Conchubhair. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus O Dolain. Tadhg O Donnabhain. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon O Dugain. Donchadh O Guaire. Micheal O hIfearnain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Risteard O Maolchatha. Domhnall O Mochain. Sean O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       took the Chair. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Before Section 7 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Any loan borrowed by any public authority exercising functions of local government which is granted by or the repayment of which or the interest on which is guaranteed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce under this Act shall not be reckoned as part of the total debt of such authority for the purpose of any enactment limiting the borrowing powers of such authority.&rdquo; 
       The effect of this amendment is that the limits on the borrowing powers of local authorities under existing enactments shall not apply to loans raised under this Bill.  In the absence of such a provision any local body which had exhausted its borrowing powers would not be able to take advantage of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       This amendment is an old friend; we had it last week in the Relief of Rates Bill, and now here it is again.  I protested against it then, and I am going to say again, at the risk of wearying the Dail, that if the borrowing powers of local authorities are inadequate the way to remedy it is   by extending them in a specific measure, not by putting section after section into Bill after Bill.  If there is a case for extending these powers&mdash; and I believe there is&mdash;this is not the way to do it.  Otherwise you will find them thinking that however they exhaust their credit it will not matter, because every Bill that empowers them to borrow will also empower them to disregard the fact that their credit is exhausted.  That is not a good thing. I hope that the Government will give some specific reason: do they know of any local authority which has exhausted its credit and which is likely to take cognisance of this measure, for instance?  I think it is doubtful. 
    
    
      
       I said on a former occasion when a similar matter to this was under consideration that I know of one local authority that does not stick in the mud, and has borrowed money for going ahead and putting its business on a proper footing.  It is very near the limit of its borrowing powers, and if this amendment is not accepted this particular local authority that I am interested in would not be in a position to take the facilities that this Bill offers.  While there may be many local authorities which do not need to exceed their borrowing powers at all, and which could take the facilities without this amendment, I would not like to see any local authority shut out because of the fact that they would not be in a position to borrow money under this Bill. Authorities which have not taken the facilities that have been offered to them in improving their position under the Local Government and other Acts will be in a position to go ahead, while people who put their townships, or whatever they were, into a proper sanitary condition, and so on, will not get the benefit that this Bill might afford.   so that we should be very wary in seeing that people who might be willing to take advantage of it are not cut out. 
    
    
      
       I think local authorities got special borrowing powers to carry out specific obligations.  This is in addition to all those obligations and is quite a different matter.  I think it is much more satisfactory than to increase the borrowing powers.  I do not agree with Deputy Cooper.  I think this is the best measure to deal with this specific matter. 
    
    
      
       If Deputy Hughes can assure me that the local authority for which he speaks is going to take advantage of this Bill when it becomes an Act then I will withdraw my objection. 
    
    
      
       I am sure if there is anything to come out of it for the benefit of that district they will take advantage of it. 
    
    
      
       It is not for the benefit of the local body but for the benefit of the ratepayers, which is a different thing. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the new section stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 7 and 8 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill reported with one amendment. 
     Report Stage ordered for Friday, the 4th July. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DEVELOPMENT OF THE TELEPHONE SYSTEM. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Chun criche aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun airgead do dheona chun sceim Thelefonach Shaorstait Eireann do chur i bhfeabhas agus chun cricheanna eile a bhaineas leis sin. go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru&mdash; 
             That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to grant money for the development of the Telephonic System of Saorstat Eireann, and for other purposes connected therewith, it is expedient to authorise&mdash; 
           
         
         
           
             
               (1)  go gcuirfar ar an bPrimhChiste no ar a thora fais muirear pe suimeanna is ga chun Sceim Thelefonach Shaorstait Eireann do chur i bhfeabhas ach gan iad do dhul thar suim Cuig Cead Mile Punt ar fad; ach cuirfar in aon aireamh ar iomlan na suimeanna a tabharfar amach fe udaras an Achta san gach suim a tugadh amach roimh rith an Achta san as an bPrimh-Chiste no as a thora fais no as Ciste Codhluite Rialtais Shealadaigh na hEireann chun na criche roimhraithe; 
             
               (1)  the charge upon the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof of such sums, not exceeding in the whole the sum of Five Hundred Thousand Pounds, as may be required for the purpose of developing the Telephonic System of Saorstat Eireann: Provided that all sums which have been issued prior to the passing of such Act out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof or out of the Consolidated Fund of the Provisional Government of Ireland for the aforesaid purpose shall be included in any calculation of the total sums issued under the authority of such Act; 
           
           
             (2)  go n-iocfar amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas chun seirbhis Oifig an Phuist aon bhlianachtai gur feidir deire do chur leo agus a cruthnuiodh chun iasachtai d'fhail fe udaras an Achta san, agus 
             (2)  the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas for the service of the Post Office of any terminable annuities created for the purpose of borrowing under the authority of such Act, and 
           
           
             (3)  maran leor an t-airgead san agus sa mheid nach leor e go gcuirfar ar an bPrimh-Chiste no ar a thora fais suim aon bhlianachtai gur feidir deire do chur leo agus a cruthnuiodh fen Acht san. 
             (3)  In the event of such moneys being insufficient and in so far as they are insufficient the charge upon the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof of the amount of any terminable annuities created under such Act. 
           
         
       
     
     Motion agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the said Resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - TELEPHONE CAPITAL BILL, 1924.   THIRD STAGE. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and the Title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill reported without amendment. 
     Report Stage ordered for Friday, the 4th July. 
    
      
       I move the adjournment until 7.15.  It is more than possible that we will be able to reach the Estimates this evening.  I propose to devote from Questions to-morrow until 6.30 to the Estimates in the order in which they are down, with the possible exception of No. 57.  If we reach the Army Vote, until that memorandum that I undertook to circulate is ready, we shall not take it. 
    
    
      
       The White Paper on the re-organisation scheme has already been circulated. 
    
    
      
       I think there is something else.  It may be also necessary to postpone consideration of an Estimate should the Minister in charge of the department be absent in the Seanad. 
       Sitting suspended at 6.30 p.m. 
    
    
      
       entered the Chamber at 7.30 p.m., and a quorum not being present, the sitting was further suspended until 8 p.m. 
       At 8 o'clock, a quorum being present, the sitting was resumed,  AN CEANN COMHAIRLE  in the Chair. 
    
   
   
     STATE HARBOURS BILL, 1924. - (SECOND STAGE). 
     
    
      
       The State Harbours Bill contains four essential points.  The first point is to vest the Dun Laoghaire and the Dunmore Harbours in the Commissioners of Public Works.  The second point is to enable such tolls and dues as may be approved by the Government to be charged at those and any other harbours controlled by the Commissioners of Public Works, without regard to existing statutory conditions.  The third point is to apply to all such harbours certain useful provisions of the Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act of 1847, which is a codifying Act making all sorts of regulations about harbours. The fourth point is to change the name of Kingstown Harbour to Dun Laoghaire Harbour. 
       When Kingstown Harbour was constructed under a series of Acts beginning in 1815, and when Dunmore Harbour was reconstructed under an Act of 1818, each of them was vested in Commissioners, not more than five in number, to be appointed by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.  It proved convenient for the Lord Lieutenant to appoint the individuals, who were from time to time Commissioners of Public Works, to be Commissioners of both those harbours, because the Commissioners of Public Works had to maintain the harbours out of public funds, and it was obviously convenient for the same body to manage the harbours and maintain them.  Though the Commissioners of Public Works are actually the same persons as the Commissioners of Kingstown and Dunmore Harbours, they are not legally the same.  The Commissioners of these harbours are theoretically and legally two separate bodies; they can be sued separately; they are incorporated as the Commissioners of Public Works are.  The legal and practical line of division between their duties as owners and managers of these harbours, and their duty in maintaining the harbours, is a line which is hard to draw, and this leads to some practical inconvenience. 
    
     As regards the tolls and dues there is a point of importance involved.  Originally it was contemplated that the   sum charged would bear some relation to the number of trips of the mail boat. It was calculated at that time that there would be about six trips in the year, but now the trips are taken twice daily, practically.  At present the income derived from Dun Laoghaire harbour is something about £1,800, and in the last year there was a sum of £300 or £400 of that arrears from the previous year.  In the case of the Dublin Port and Docks Board the charge would be something about 7d. or 71⁄4d. per ton of the actual nett tonnage. It was that up to some time ago. If based on the charge which would be made in the ordinary way at the Dublin Harbour proper, what should be charged for the mail boat would be somewhere about £40,000.  That is what those passenger boats would pay in dues if the same rates ruled at Dun Laoghaire as rule at Dublin. 
     The various charges that are made in other harbours are as follows:&mdash; 
     Belfast&mdash;31⁄2d. (less 5 per cent.) 
     Londonderry&mdash;33⁄4d. 
     Larne&mdash;33⁄4d. (plus 11⁄4d. per passenger). 
     Glasgow&mdash;5d. (less 5 per cent.) 
     Bristol&mdash;6d. (plus 10 per cent.) 
     Fishguard&mdash;4d. (plus 6 per cent.) 
     The actual cost of the upkeep of Dun Laoghaire Harbour amounts to over £20,000 in the year.  It is more than likely, within the next few years, if any reconstruction work has to be done there&mdash;and it is necessary there should be&mdash;a very considerable expenditure of money will have to be made.  It appears that the boats now used by the London, Midland, and Scottish Railway Company are much larger, and, in consequence, they do a good deal more damage. 
    
      
       I do not want to raise any objection to this Bill, but when the President quotes rates charged for steamships it should be borne in mind there is a considerable distinction recognised by most ports between cargo and passenger vessels. Passenger vessels, which are used almost wholly for passenger service, and have high power, are generally granted a lower rate on their gross tonnage. 
    
    
      
       The rates I have   quoted are the passenger boat rates in regard to the particular ports I have mentioned.  I gave quotations from Belfast and other ports. 
    
    
      
       From Belfast no vessels run out solely with passengers. Would the President give us the figures for Larne and Stranraer? That would be more enlightening than rates on cargo ships.  There is a distinction between high powered vessels going out almost wholly with passengers and mails, and vessels that are partly passenger and mainly cargo. 
    
    
      
       Before the President replies on this point of the tolls and other matters, which we may be excused from going into now because the Bill will pass from the cognizance of the Dail to a Private Bill Committee, I would like to say a few words upon it.  While I am not disputing the necessity for making the L.M.S. Railway Company pay more than they do at present, it is very desirable that they should pay a lump sum and not pay by the journey.  If they pay for each journey the tendency will be to curtail the service.  The Company are already talking of taking off the day boat on Sunday.  That would cause great inconvenience to some people. There is talk of taking it off because the service does not pay. 
       We may be in the position of finding them reducing the number of services by half, and that would have a big effect throughout the country, both in regard to tourist traffic, mails, and practically every other service that is carried on by those boats.  That would be extremely unfortunate.  I hope that point will be borne in mind.  It is not merely a profit and loss transaction on paper.  It will have social effects with immense reactions in almost every department of the national life. Secondly, I hope that the revenue from increased tolls will be earmarked for the use of the harbour that makes them.  At present, as far as Dun Laoghaire is concerned, the pier accommodation is out of date.  It is small, narrow, out of date and inconvenient, and is highly unsuited for the collection of customs. 
    
     If the increased tolls bring in increased   revenue, I hope the Government will devote the surplus to the provision of a new pier adapted to modern conditions, something on the scale of Dover.  Even Holyhead is superior at the present time.  People coming to Ireland via Dun Laoghaire do not gain a very favourable impression. They are crowded, hustled and delayed while their baggage is being examined, and they get off the pier into the train in a state of semi-irritation which is not improved by the state of the train.  Our entrance gate should be firm and dignified, and any extra revenue that accrues should be devoted to improving the harbours that make those revenues. 
    
      
       The rates for passenger ships per ton nett in Belfast amount to 31⁄2d. less 5 per cent., and on goods vessels, 7d. less 5 per cent.: Cork, passenger ships per ton nett, 1⁄2d., and goods vessels, 41⁄2d.; Londonderry, passenger vessels, 33⁄4d., goods vessels 71⁄4d.; Larne, passenger vessels, 33⁄4d. plus 11⁄4d. per passenger, and goods vessels, 5d.; Glasgow, passenger vessels, 5d. less 5 per cent., and the rate for goods is the same. 
    
    
      
       Will the President explain more clearly what he means by so much per passenger and so much for goods?  As regards the reference to rate, is it nett tonnage or gross tonnage? 
    
    
      
       I refer to nett tonnage.  I take it in regard to Larne 11⁄4d. has to be paid for each passenger in addition to 33⁄4d. per nett ton of the vessel. 
    
    
      
       As regards Glasgow, does the President mean 5d. per ton on goods in addition to the nett tonnage? 
    
    
      
       I mean 5d. per ton nett register.  I have not any particulars in relation to Stranraer. 
    
    
      
       That is the parallel. 
    
    
      
       I think Belfast is a fairly good case, too.  With regard to the other matter mentioned by Deputy Cooper, I have heard complaints about the condition of the harbour, but after   all I am afraid finance does enter into the matter, somewhat.  We got something like £1,400 last year and it cost us about £23,000 to maintain the harbour. Obviously somebody besides ourselves   has the advantage.  I will bring the matter to the notice of the Minister when he returns. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     STATE HARBOURS BILL, 1924. - REFERRED TO JOINT COMMITTEE OF BOTH HOUSES. 
    
      
       I move the following motion:&mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Go gcuirtar Bille na gCuanta Stait, 1924, chun Co-Choiste den da Thigh, a hainmneofar do reir foralacha Buan-Ordu 61 (Gno Priobhaideach); 
             That the State Harbours Bill, 1924, be referred to a Joint Committee of both Houses, to be nominated in accordance with the provisions of Standing Order 61 (Private Business); 
           
         
         
           
             Go gcuirtar chun an Cho-Choiste gach Achuinge a tiolacfar i gcoinnibh an Bhille tri la glan roimh an data a socruiodh i gcoir cruinniu an ChoChoiste, go n-eistear na hAchuingeoiri i bpearsain no tre na nAbhcoidi no tre n-a nGniomhairi i gcoinnibh an Bhille, agus go n-eistear Abhcoidi no Gniomhairi i leith an Bhille. 
             That all Petitions against the Bill presented three clear days before the date fixed for the meeting of the Joint Committee be referred to the Joint Committee, that the petitioners be heard either personally or by their Counsel or Agents against the Bill and that Counsel or Agents be heard in support of the Bill. 
           
           
             Go gcuirtar teachtaireacht chun an tSeanaid a iarraidh ortha aontu leis an Run. 
             That a message be sent to the Seanad desiring their concurrence with the Resolution. 
           
         
       
     
    
      
       One point arises on this.  The Standing Orders for private business make no special provision for the representation of the State.  The State is exactly in the same position as an ordinary litigant, and if counsel or agents be heard in support of the Bill, it will be necessary for the Chief State Solicitor to qualify himself as a Parliamentary agent.  It will be easy for him to do it, as he is a qualified solicitor and he need only make the necessary deposit.  I believe opposition is coming from various quarters, and it is very desirable that this matter should be seen to beforehand. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     STATE HARBOURS BILL, 1924. - FISHERIES (ELECTION OF CONSERVATORS POSTPONEMENT) BILL, 1924.&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     Bill passed through Committee without amendment. 
   
   
     STATE HARBOURS BILL, 1924. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill reported without amendment. Fourth Stage ordered for Friday, July 4th. 
   
   
     TREATY OF LAUSANNE. - MOTION TO ACQUIESCE IN ITS RATIFICATION. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
I dtreo na beidh aon amhrus reasunta i dtaobh staid na siochana do bheith socair idir Shaorstat Eireann agus an Phoblacht Thurcach, go n-udaruionn an Dail don ArdChomhairle aontu le daingniu Chonnra Lausanne, ach go dtuigfar go soleir na fuil aon cheangail ag an Saorstat a chur air fein leis sin lasmuich de bhunu na siochana (mara ndinidh  an tOireachtas ina dhiaidh seo na ceangail sin do chur air fein le reachtuchan). 
             
That the Dail, in order that the state of peace may be established beyond all reasonable doubt as between Saorstat Eireann and the Turkish Republic, authorises the Executive Council to acquiesce in the ratification of the Treaty of Lausanne, provided that it be clearly understood that (unless the Oireachtas shall hereafter undertake such commitments  by legislation) the Saorstat thereby incurs no commitments other than the definite establishment of peace. 
           
         
       
     
     I think I had better give a little explanation and a little historical statement about this.  The Treaty as it stands effects, or purports to effect, roughly three things.  One is a clear definition of a state of peace with Turkey, between the ratifying parties on the one side and Turkey on the other. It makes certain conventions with regard to the protection of the Straits, and it has also an arrangement which permits of the submitting of contract cases, and other similar cases, to a body known as a mixed arbitral tribunal. 
     When the Saorstat came into formal legal existence, the position was that the condition of war which had been declared on November 5th, 1914, had not been formally declared at an end, owing to the non-ratification of the Treaty of Sevres.  Further negotiations for a Treaty had already been begun at Lausanne.  These negotiations had been suspended but were recommenced in February, 1923.  During the later stages of the negotiations we were kept informed of their progress, but it will be observed we were not consulted as to the initiation of these negotiations, nor were we invited to be represented by an Irish plenipotentiary at Lausanne. When the Treaty became due for signature, we were not invited to be signatories.  It will also be seen that when we came into existence, a state of technical war might be held to exist and that a Treaty of Peace was already being negotiated to establish a state of peace beyond question, and to settle various legal questions connected therewith. 
     The Irish Free State, therefore, cannot in any way be held responsible for the existing circumstances, and for that reason the Executive Council do not propose to ask the Dail to recommend ratification, as by doing so the Dail might appear to be accepting  post factum  responsibility.  At the same time, it might be held that a state of war exists between the Irish Free State and the Turkish Republic.  A Treaty of peace has been negotiated and signed, purporting to be made on behalf of all the nations of the community. The negotiation of that Treaty has been very protracted, extending over a period considerably more than a year.  That Treaty cannot be constitutionally ratified without the acquiescence of the Irish Free State.  To start negotiations now for a new Treaty might easily lead to considerable complications in the Near East.  The main feature of the Treaty is the declaration of peace, and as that appears to be the only aspect of the Treaty really affecting the Irish Free State, we think that we may safely acquiesce in its ratification. The two other main features of the Treaty are the Convention with regard to the Straits.  Great Britain, under this Convention, would be bound, under certain circumstances, to take such warlike steps as might be decided upon by the Council of the League of Nations. 
     Ireland and the other nations of the Commonwealth are not in that position.  The other point of the Treaty is that relating to contracts, etc., under the terms of which the Oireachtas might by legislation arrange that disputes would be referred to a mixed arbitral tribunal instead of to the ordinary courts.  But as apparently none of our Nationals are affected this matter does not arise, and in any case would be subject to future legislation by the Dail.  The Executive Council will, therefore, acquiesce in the ratification of the Treaty on the clear understanding that unless the Oireachtas shall hereafter undertake such commitments by legislation the Saorstat incurs no commitments other than the definite establishment of peace; on the clear understanding also that in the initiation, negotiation and signature of any future Treaties the terms of the Imperial Conference Resolutions shall be rigidly adhered to; and on the assurance given that the existing form of Royal Title be used in the preamble, that steps are now taken to put Royal Titles used in the preamble, in accord with fact as brought about by the Treaty of December 6th, 1921. 
     
        The Treaty is an extremely long document, going into many details, practically all of which are of no interest to this country, and do not affect this country in any way.  Clause 1 declares a state of peace to exist.  As I have said, it might be argued that at the present moment we are in a technical state of war with Turkey.  On the other hand it might be argued that we are not.  We propose to make it perfectly clear beyond all reasonable doubt, as we say in the resolution, that we are not at war with Turkey.  There may be some question about the Straits Convention.  Under the Straits Convention in this Treaty if the Council of the League of Nations decide that warlike action should be taken Great Britain is certainly committed to warlike action. Other members of the British community of nations would not be committed by any decision of the Council, but the matter might go before the Assembly of the League of Nations.  Before we entered the League of Nations I wrote to the League of Nations a letter embodying a statement I made in the Seanad when I was proposing the League of Nations Bill.  I may as well, perhaps, give the text of that letter:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Sir,&mdash;I have the honour to inform you that the Irish delegation to the League of Nations, at present in Geneva, is instructed to call special attention to two documents amongst those submitted to the League of Nations, viz.: the copy of the Treaty between Ireland and Great Britain, and the copy of the Constitution of the Irish Free State, with particular reference to Article 49 of the Constitution; and to say that the application of the Irish Free State for membership of the League is made subject to an authority obtained expressly in our Legislature, and such authority is governed by the terms of those two documents, and in particular by the aforesaid Article 49 of the Constitution.&rdquo; 
     I do not need to remind Deputies that Clause 49 of the Constitution states that this country cannot actively participate in war without the express sanction of the Oireachtas, and, therefore, as we pointed that clearly out, and as our joining the League of Nations was subject to the acceptance of   that letter, we cannot be committed to any warlike action under this Treaty. The other tangible effect of the Treaty relates to the mixed arbitral tribunal, and as none of our Nationals are affected by that, future legislation that we indicate in the resolution, apparently, will never be required, and, of course, if we did find that certain of our Nationals were affected, the ratification of the Treaty would not affect us unless we passed definite legislation here to provide for the hearing of such case by the mixed arbitral tribunal. I do not pretend that the way this Treaty was initiated, negotiated and signed was in any way satisfactory. I do not pretend that we agreed to acquiesce in the ratification of this Treaty for any other reason than for the reason I have indicated, namely, that its non-ratification is creating a very unsettled state in the Near East of Europe, and that unsatisfactory state might easily lead to a far more unsatisfactory state.  The ratification of this Treaty will tend to do away with that unsatisfactory state, and we hope, to establish fairly quiet conditions there.  This Treaty cannot be ratified without our express sanction, because, as I say, it was without reference to us it was begun; it was negotiated in the name of the whole British community.  If we refuse to ratify it, the only course I see would be that the whole negotiation would have to be begun over again, which would involve the British Commonwealth, and France and Italy and Japan, and Turkey as well as other countries in a secondary way.  The negotiation of it took over a year, and I feel that, on the whole, it is better to recommend that we acquiesce in its ratification than that we should run the risk that would be inevitable in postponing some such Treaty being made for another year or more, that the negotiation of another Treaty would take. 
    
      
       I agree that the ratification of this Treaty is necessary, and I shall vote for it if it is pressed to a division.  There was one thing the Minister said that I cannot allow to pass without comment and contradiction. He said that the only feature that affected the Irish Free State is the   conclusion of peace.  I did not follow the proceedings at Lausanne very closely.  But I do know that great and deep consideration was given to one question, and that question is embodied in the Treaty, and that is the question of the custody of the graves in Gallipoli. That is a feature that affects this country, and very many people in this country, most deeply indeed.  From the slopes of the beaches at Sedd-ul-Bahr, where the Dublins and the Munsters were dashed to death, to Kiretch-Tepe-Sirt, where the Tenth Irish Division was bombed out of existence without being able to make reply, the slopes of the Gallipoli beaches are enriched with Irish blood, and Ireland's glory never shone more brightly or more gloriously than there.  There were men of every creed and class there, men who a year before had joined in the Volunteers with General Collins and other men of very different opinions.  They fought, lived and died side by side like brothers, and now the Minister tells us that the details of this Treaty are of no interest to this country.  Is it of no interest to an Irish mother to know whether her son's grave is exposed to the jackal and coyote?  I am more concerned with peace with Turkey than any Deputy in this Dail, because I am the only Deputy who fought against Turkey, and while I thank God that peace has come, because I know what war is, I say we have a vital interest in this Treaty; and, that we should have been represented at Lausanne.  Though I would not stand in the way of peace, I will not allow the Minister to say that it is no concern of ours. 
    
    
      
       I am not rising to make any opposition to this Resolution, because I think that the form of words adopted by the Minister, the definite form of words, does preserve the dignity and freedom of this State.  I think it would be a good thing if, in future, in spite of the expense that might be involved, that before resolutions like this are circulated to Deputies that a little more time should be given for their consideration and that with the Resolution should be circulated the Treaty in question.  The Minister has stated that we are only concerned with the declaration that beyond   all reasonable doubt war does no longer exist.  Deputy Cooper has already referred to one matter in the Treaty where members of this Dail are concerned beyond that simple fact. But there may be others.  I remember reading the Treaty of Versailles, but I did not read this Treaty of Lausanne. I do think it would be more in conformity with what should be expected in this House that the Treaty should be circulated to Deputies.  I would suggest to the Minister, without implying any unnecessary criticism, that in future when we are asked to ratify a resolution of this kind that some notice should be given in advance, and that with the resolution should be circulated the Treaty in question.  I agree that the form that this resolution has taken has not been exactly the wisest and best, but we need not go into that so much now.  We are asked to accept the fact,  post factum , and we are asked to support action that has been taken as to its general purport, though all the details of that action are not such as we would agree with.  In that connection I have been reading lately the correspondence that passed between the Canadian Government and the British Government in regard to this very Treaty.  It has taken up more or less the line that has been taken up by the Minister for External Affairs in this regard.  I do not know whether priority of time may be claimed, but the two protests have been going on side by side.  The correspondence itself is of a very energetic kind.  Perhaps the energy is owing to the fact that it was conducted mainly by telegraph, and one can afford to be a good deal more energetic by telegraph than in the case of diplomacy conducted in the form of a letter.  I have also before me the statement made by the Canadian Premier in this matter, Mr. McKenzie King.  He puts the position in regard to dignity and independence so succinctly that I think I can quote it with advantage in this House.  He stated in the debate, a debate which he himself initiated, that &ldquo;We take up the position that not having been invited to the Lausanne Conference and not having been represented there, not having for the reasons I have mentioned signed the Treaty, the Treaty does not impose obligations on Canada.  The parts of   the Empire in which it does impose obligations are the only parts that should be expected to sign and ratify it.  As we do not regard the Treaty as imposing obligations on Canada we did not feel it was necessary to submit the Treaty to Parliament for approval or in its name to signify concurrence in its ratification.&rdquo; 
    
     That, I think, states the position here, subject to what the Minister has now stated.  I think the position is satisfactory, and I hope that due publicity will be given to the Minister's statement in the newspapers.  It was a very proper statement and a very accurate statement, and it states clearly the strong position we now hold with regard to independence under the Treaty. The position is that if the Free State in its Parliament and Oireachtas did not confirm this Treaty the negotiations would have to be opened up again as it were from the beginning.  We know that statement to be accurate, but we forget sometimes exactly what has been achieved, and I think that a statement of that fact will serve a very useful purpose.  There is one other advantage that I would like to draw attention to which, I think, is a matter of particular importance.  The Minister referred to Article 49 in the Constitution, which states that the Irish Free State shall not be committed to active participation in any war without the consent of the Oireachtas.  In the form of words used it has been implied that although Ireland may not be committed to active participation that she actually is, nevertheless, in a state of war, although she actively may not participate in that state of war&mdash;that, for example, if between any European Power and Great Britain a state of war broke out, that we in the Free State might decide to have no active participation in it, but that nevertheless a state of war would exist.  Now I come to the resolution, and I wish to mark what I think is a very important matter, or, rather, an important stage in our national journey.  In this resolution it is stated that a state of war cannot be superseded by a state of peace except by a resolution of this kind.  Consequently, the obverse becomes   equally true, that if we find a state of war existing, and that a resolution like this is necessary, as the Minister has stated, in order to end that state of war and bring about a state of peace, once the state of peace has been created a resolution of this Oireachtas of the Free State will, by converse reasoning become equally necessary in order to create a state of war and to end a state of peace.  I think upon those lines an important stage has been marked, and, therefore, I welcome this resolution by the Minister for External Affairs.  I think it points the way out of a very difficult situation, but I also think that it preserves the national dignity.  I think, further, that it marks a definite stage of progress in the two matters I have mentioned.  In his opening speech the Minister said something in regard to the amending of the title of the Crown by which this Treaty was signed.  I would like him, if he could, when closing this debate, and before this resolution is accepted by the House, to give a little fuller information in relation to that matter. This Treaty has been signed. The only fault in it is that these are matters that we have taken over&mdash;a heritage&mdash;and they can only be rectified by degrees as we go forward, recognising that everything cannot be made right within one twenty-four hours. 
     One of these important matters is that the signature to the Treaty has been given in the name of Ireland. One of the main objections we would have to it, an objection that we could not be expected to have at the time, is that it has been signed in the name of Ireland, although the Parliament of the Free State has not yet passed the Resolution confirming that signature.  That, as I say, is a matter on which I would like to have fuller information from the Minister to make it perfectly clear that in all future Treaties the matters referred to by Mr. McKenzie King will be regarded as absolutely essential. No matter how laborious the method may be, or no matter how cumbersome it may be to people not only outside the Free State, but even to people within the Free State, I hope that in future no   Treaty will be brought before the Oireachtas in the expectation of its confirmation that does not preserve in the first place the representation of Ireland at the Conference that came to that conclusion, and the independent signature of Ireland's representatives in the document so agreed to. 
    
      
       I must express my surprise at the apparently safe passage which this Resolution is going to get through the Dail.  I am sure the Minister is congratulating himself, and I have no doubt the British signatories to this Treaty will rejoice, if the opinion of this House and of the country is expressed that we are so much in accord with what was done at Lausanne as to acquiesce in the ratification of this Treaty.  That is not my point of view upon the matter, and I am just going to express my view upon it.  I wonder if it is to be argued that the inclusion of the words in the resolution, &ldquo;unless the Oireachtas shall hereafter undertake such commitments by legislation&rdquo;&mdash;that is the strong point of the resolution&mdash;makes for the acceptance of it.  If it is, I want to ask the Minister will these words be included in the Treaty.  Are they or shall they be included?  I take it that this resolution means the ratification of the Treaty or acquiescence in it.  I cannot find out when the negotiations started, what mandate these people had, and whom they represented.  I have yet to learn what authority there was from anyone in this country to declare war with Turkey, or to negotiate a Treaty of peace.  I do not think any such authority was ever given by the people of this country. 
    
     Under these circumstances I cannot see why we should be called upon to acquiesce in the ratification of a Treaty that will make for peace with Turkey. We were not consulted about any declaration of war, and neither were we consulted in the negotiations for a Treaty of peace.  If we acquiesce in the ratification of this Treaty I take it that we would be bound by the words in the Treaty, and that our action would not be governed by the words of the resolution.  The Treaty will be a binding document.  From my point of view I do not think the people of this country   gave to the representatives of the British Empire a mandate to negotiate a Treaty on their behalf with Turkey. If we acquiesce in the ratification of the Treaty, and agree to its terms, even though our signatures may not be on it, at a later stage, if that Treaty is broken, will not this country be at war again?  I agree that we may not be committed to any act of war, and may not be called upon to take up arms and fight these people, as no matter what any Treaty may demand, the will of the people will decide what action is to be taken.  If the Treaty were broken would we not be at war again, technically? Although we may not be disposed to take any action that would really mean an active war for us, the other people would be in a position to make war on us.  We would then be called upon to defend ourselves, and be drawn into the conflict because we left to the people of another country the right to negotiate a Treaty, and later acquiesced in the ratification of that Treaty.  That is something I do not feel in a position to agree with.  I recognise the difficulties that will be created by refusing to ratify this Treaty&mdash;that we would still be, technically, at war with Turkey.  If peace is to be made with Turkey it seems to me that it ought to be possible for this State directly to negotiate peace either through Notes or, if necessary, by having a representative there.  That is the only way the sovereignty of this State, and its right to make a Treaty, can be maintained.  If the Dail accepts the resolution and agrees that a Treaty made between the representatives of Britain and other peoples at Lausanne, is to be accepted, it seems to me, the Dail is agreeing that the people of another country can make a Treaty, in which our interests are concerned, and that it can be brought to the Dail at any time for acquiescence.  That is not a position I am prepared to take up. 
    
      
       I am not able to follow the arguments of Deputy Baxter, though I think his desires are in accord with my own.  I notice that the Minister mentioned the date, November 5th, 1914, as the date on which war was declared against Turkey by the British   Crown.  At that time, as a matter of fact, without the desire of Deputy Baxter or other members of the Dail, the majority of the people of Ireland had not decided up to that date to renounce their association with Britain, and were largely represented in the British Parliament. Even Deputy Baxter will agree that, technically, Ireland was at war with Turkey.  A change in relationship has taken place since that date. It seems to me that the case the Minister has made is very satisfactory.  War was declared on behalf of, and with the legal acquiescence of, Ireland, in November, 1914.  International procedure seems to require that there should be some form of declaration of peace.  If there had been an absolute separation of Ireland from the British Commonwealth, no doubt the international arrangements would be such, that Ireland could make formal peace with Turkey independent of anything that had been done by any of the other powers that were at war with Turkey. Whether we like it or not, that situation has not been arrived at, and consequently it seems that some other method is necessary.  When the war was begun in November, 1914, it was a war entered into on behalf of Ireland, and, as has been pointed out, very many Irish soldiers entered into it.  Consequently, the method of notifying Turkey in the formal way adopted by the Resolution seems to me to meet with acceptance. 
    
     I do not accept as a corollary at all the statement of Deputy Baxter, that if at some future date the present Treaty were broken, it would automatically make Saorstat Eireann a formal enemy of Turkey.  The alternative position should be looked at.  We do not know the effect of non-acceptance of this Resolution, or of any such resolution, or perhaps more important, the non-approval of the state of peace, and what it is going to result in for the eastern portion of Europe.  I do not know very much about the terms of this Treaty.  I do know that it has been looked upon by publicists throughout the world as a diplomatic victory for Turkey, and that there are many people in England who would not be averse to failure to ratify   the Treaty.  Large numbers of people are rejoicing at the delay that has taken place in doing so, and they seem to suggest&mdash;not in so many words but there is a certain current which seems to underlie their views&mdash;that it would be a very good thing for the Powers, outside Turkey, if this Treaty were not ratified.  I do not think we ought to take any further steps, having arrived at this stage, which would even possibly lead to non-ratification of a Treaty of this kind which would mean the creation of a situation in Eastern Europe that would mean war.  If we could, by safeguarding our position, as this Resolution seems to safeguard it satisfactorily, secure that the risk of war is avoided, then I think we would be very wrong in failing to realise what the responsibility would be of our refusal to accept the Resolution. 
     What we are asked to do is to approve of the Executive Council notifying that it will acquiesce in the ratification of the Treaty of Lausanne, on behalf of those Powers that were technically at war since November, 1914. In the resolution we also say that we agree that any such acquiescence must be accompanied by a proviso&mdash;and we are informing the ratifying Powers&mdash; that our position is that we only entered into a formal state of peace. That is the whole of our proposal.  We recognise that, as a matter of fact, the Free State of its volition, having arrived at a stage of conscious and actual nationhood, formally set down in writing, and accepted by the Powers of the world through the League of Nations, has never considered itself at war with Turkey.  There is, technically, as a matter of international relation, a state of war still existing.  We want to remove that former state of war and notify everybody that we are not only actually at peace but formally at peace. I think the proviso here notifying not only the ratifying authority, but also whoever will read the proceedings of the Dail and the decision of the Dail in this matter, that our position regarding a possible outbreak of war between Turkey and any other Power will not involve the Free State, unless the Oireachtas, by a formal decision, enters into that state of war.  I think the   position of the Free State is made secure and that the Dail should agree to this resolution. 
    
      
       First of all, I want to explain that I think Deputy Cooper did not understand the point of view I was taking.  I was considering the difference between our agreeing to this Treaty and our not agreeing to it. I recognise that there are many Irish people who are deeply interested in the graves in Gallipoli.  I recognise that so much that I have made certain arrangements about our relations with the Imperial War Graves Committee. I was considering solely the difference, whether Ireland were an international person who acquiesced in this ratification or if Ireland were not.  As a matter of fact, those graves in Gallipoli are, I think, administered by the War Graves Commission, and although this Treaty does consider this matter, actually, if Ireland were entirely outside this Treaty these graves would be still looked after, and not left to the coyote and the jackal.  Although that is the fact, I quite agree with the Deputy that I should have made it clear that there were other matters of interest to us in the Treaty, inasmuch as it puts an end technically to a state of war in Europe.  That is of interest to us independent of our share in it. 
    
     I think Deputy Baxter has not quite noticed the clear connotation of the words of the resolution.  If he looks at it clearly he will see that the resolution does not, in any way, say that we are in a technical state of war at present. I think it could be argued two ways. There are various opinions.  It may be held on one side that once war is declared war exists until it is formally declared that it ceases to exist.  On the other hand it may be held that war only exists so long as an active state of war is there and that at the end of any period of time, when peace has existed, peace exists technically as well as actually.  That has been held but there has never been any definition as to how long it requires a state of peace to exist before it&mdash;a technical state of peace can be said to exist.  Therefore, if the Deputy reads the resolution he   will see that it is so worded in order that peace may be established beyond all reasonable doubt.  At present the Turkish people may say: &ldquo;We are technically at war.&rdquo;  On the other hand they may equally say: &ldquo;We are not technically at war.&rdquo;  In order to remove all doubt on that point, if the Deputy will read the words of the resolution he will see that he has put too definite a connotation upon the words. 
     Deputy Figgis stated that he hoped that no further Treaty would be brought before the Dail without an amendment to the Royal title.  I felt quite strongly myself on that, and as I stated here on a former occasion, we are making representations with regard to that.  The royal title is a matter which affects, not only Great Britain, not only Ireland, but it affects Canada, Australia, and the other members of the British community.  I have been assured that steps are already being taken, and that such steps can only be taken in consultation with all the members of the British community to rectify the apparent existing disparity between the title and the actuality behind the title.  Deputy Baxter asked what authority the British had to negotiate peace on our behalf.  I thought I stated clearly in my opening statement that we could not recognise that this Treaty in being negotiated for, without every State being represented, had been negotiated properly, and I quite agree with him that we could have every reason for protesting and saying that as we were not there we refuse all responsibility in the matter.  I explained, however, in my opening statement that the Treaty was negotiated over a period of a year.  We have every reason to be angry.  We were not invited to send our representatives there, nor were we invited to be a signatory, but the question arises, shall we nurse our anger and shall we put our own anger&mdash;our own pride if you like &mdash;before the well-being of the peoples of Eastern Europe?  In this matter, weighing up one thing with another, I think it is better for us to be generous, if you like, and say that, although we may say we have been wronged we are prepared to be wronged rather than that ill should come to others.  We must remember also, and I think I made it   clear, that this thing which happened in regard to the Lausanne Treaty must not be regarded as a precedent, and if the same thing happens again we must refuse to have anything to do with the ratification of any similar Treaties. That is a thing upon which the whole Dail can be entirely agreed.  The Deputy says that he thinks that in acquiescing to the terms of this resolution we will be bound by the whole Treaty. The terms of the resolution make our attitude perfectly clear.  I, myself, believe, and the Government that negotiated this Treaty also believe that we are committed to no active thing other than the clear definition of peace, where a lack of clearness may exist with regard to peace.  We are stating exactly where we stand.  If it is considered that our acquiescence in ratification of this Treaty only binds us so far as we are agreed, then there is no need for any stipulation about it.  We have no nationals involved. 
     I have stated the position with regard to the Straits Convention.  I think in a matter of war and peace that we have an equal right with any other State in the British community. When it comes to negotiating peace, unfortunately, it cannot be arranged merely by saying that a state of peace exists from this date on.  This Treaty runs to some 250 pages.  All sorts of details have to be gone into and my own opinion in the matter is this, that in the event of war and in the event of negotiating peace, this nation is a coequal nation.  If they agree that peace should be declared they can so agree to any details of the peace, such as any delimitation of boundaries and so forth.  There must be absolute equality as to the implementation of that Treaty and it can be done in a number of ways.  It can be done by each State in the community being represented by a plenipotentiary.  It can be done by a series of clauses and by one State agreeing with one set of clauses and another State agreeing with another set.  I think that in the future an arrangement will have to be made among the nations forming the British community with regard to the implementation of matters in a Treaty   such as this.  I think I have dealt with most of the points raised and I think that if Deputy Baxter will read the resolution carefully and see exactly the significance of it he will see that he read a great deal more into it than is there. 
    
      
       Would the Minister say what would happen, in the event of the Treaty being broken&mdash;where would we stand? 
    
    
      
       We would be at war. 
    
    
      
       We hereby make it clear that we are at peace with Turkey.  As I said, there are two opinions: one that a technical state of war exists, merely because war has been carried on and, another, that a technical state of war exists because a formal declaration of war has been made.  If the Treaty is broken in such a way as to lead to war, this legislature can, by its own volition and by its own act, decide that Ireland is going to take part in that war.  If this legislature decides that Ireland would not take part in that war I would refer the Deputy to Article 49 of the Constitution. 
    
    
      
       If we had a representative in Constantinople and the Treaty was broken, could our representative stay at Constantinople? 
    
    
      
       He might have to stay there. 
    
    
      
       In the event of the Treaty being broken and if we had a representative in Constantinople what would be the position? 
    
    
      
       There are 250 pages in the Treaty and there are far more than 250 ways in which the Treaty can be broken, and there would be a different situation according to these 250 pages.  The question is far too vague. 
    
    
      
       It should not be vague.  Would our representative have to negotiate another Treaty in order to maintain peace? 
    
    
      
       There is the question of the ordinary collection of nations that go to make up peace.  If a number of nations go and make peace it is not fair for one nation to   say: &ldquo;We will not agree,&rdquo; and thus tear up the whole agreement.  It has to be a whole agreement.  We have a certain responsibility there to the other nations and it would be unreasonable for us to refuse to ratify this.  I take it from what I have heard, that the Turks have made a very good peace. 
    
    
      
       I misunderstood the Deputy.  He seems to have forgotten the fact that this Treaty is negotiated not merely between the British community and the Turkish people, but it is negotiated on one side by the British, Italians, Japanese and French, and I say that if that Treaty is broken, Turkey and Japan may go to war in the same way as France and Turkey might go to war.  I think what the Deputy has in mind is the possibility of war arising over an infringement of the Straits Convention.  If that is done, the arrangements in the Treaty are that it be referred to the Council of the League of Nations, and Great Britain is by this committed to take such action as the Council of the League of Nations unanimously decide upon.  On the other hand, the members of the British community, other than Great Britain, are not committed by that.  They would only go into the matter through the Assembly of the League of Nations, and as I have said in joining the League of Nations we made it perfectly clear we are bound by the limitations imposed by Article 49 of our Constitution. Therefore, as I read it, Great Britain may be committed to war, but a distinction is made between Great Britain in that Convention and the British Community in other Conventions. Great Britain can be merely bound through the action of the Council of the League of Nations, but we are not, I consider, to be bound by anything except our own action. 
    
    
      
       I would like it to be put much clearer than the Minister has stated, that it is the view of the Ministry, it certainly is the view of the Dail, that if Great Britain went to war with Turkey, because of some matter arising under that Treaty, we can simply say, &ldquo;We are not at war with Turkey; we refuse to go to war with Turkey, on anything arising out of that Convention   or that Treaty.&rdquo;  Surely we can say that as definitely and as clearly as it can be put. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister accept this as an accurate answer to the questions that have been put&mdash;that if it required a specific resolution of the Oireachtas to create a state of peace, it will require an equally specific resolution to create a state of war with another State, and to end that state of peace we have declared? 
    
    
      
       I agree with Deputy Johnson wholeheartedly, and also with Deputy Figgis. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister state his intentions regarding Conventions 4 and 5? 
    
    
      
       With regard to Conventions 4 and 5, we are not adhering to those Conventions; we are excluded from them. 
    
    
      
       I would like an explanation of the latter part of the resolution, which says &ldquo;The Saorstat thereby incurs no commitment other than the definite establishment of peace.&rdquo;  I would like to know what commitments we are bound to in the definite establishment of the peace. The word &ldquo;technical&rdquo; has been used frequently in the debate, and why could not the word &ldquo;technical&rdquo; be used here instead of &ldquo;definite&rdquo;? 
    
    
      
       I drafted this resolution as carefully as I could, and I used the term &ldquo;definite establishment&rdquo; as distinct from a doubtful establishment of peace.  There was, to my mind, peace established when war stopped, but as I have said a number of times here, some people could have cast doubt on it and said &ldquo;the peace is not there until it is formally declared.&rdquo; It is to make it perfectly clear and definite beyond any doubt that this form has been adopted. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES.&mdash;PUBLIC WORKS AND BUILDINGS.&mdash;(VOTE 11 RESUMED). 
    
      
       The next item to be dealt with is   Item EE, &ldquo;Compensation for Premises Commandeered by the Army.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       In regard to Vote 11, might I ask the President if we may rightly assume that he is taking charge of the Estimates that the Minister for Finance would have taken charge of, if he had not unfortunately been taken ill? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       Before you go on with that the President, in dealing with certain points that may be raised in the Estimates particularly relating to the Department of the Ministry of Finance can plead a certain amount of ignorance. In order to get satisfaction, may I suggest that in any case of that kind it would be advisable for Deputies who wish to raise questions on these particular Estimates that they should pass a note to him beforehand where they want a proper explanation of items of which they are likely to complain. 
    
    
      
       Yes.  The Minister for Finance mentioned here in an earlier discussion that Deputy Johnson had facilitated him very much in connection with the Vote on the Stationery Office by notifying him that he had to ask for some information beforehand. In his speech on that occasion he said that if he had not satisfied Deputy Johnson he had satisfied himself, as he had endeavoured to get all the information possible.  There are matters, not alone in regard to the Department of Finance but other Departments in which, if definite questions are to be raised, it would be to the interest of the administration generally if as early a notice as possible were given to each Minister so that we might get through the business as quickly as possible. 
    
    
      
       I think that expression of opinion is rather to facilitate the proper discussion on both sides and does not rule out of discussion a question of which no notice has been given? 
    
    
      
       No, certainly not. 
    
    
      
       I would just like to ask the President whether he can state whether all the outstanding   claims have been paid, or what progress has been made in dealing with the payment of outstanding claims for payment for commandeered premises. There were, up to some time ago, a very considerable amount of complaints with regard to delay in payment of claims for commandeered premises.  I must say that for the past month or two I have not had any complaints, but perhaps the President would be in a position to say whether all these outstanding claims for premises which were commandeered in the early days of the trouble in 1922 have been cleared off. 
    
    
      
       Yes, much the same sort of history prevails in regard to this particular service as with the other claims for billeting.  I mentioned that we had 18,000 billeting claims in March, and they were cleared off by March 31st, in accordance with the promise given by Deputy Mulcahy, who was then Minister for Defence.  There are about 1,000 claims at present under investigation, and they are coming at the rate of about 25 a week. 
    
    
      
       Can the President give any information of the total sum claimed on these accounts up to date? 
    
    
      
       The claims amounted to about £250,000, and they were settled at £102,000. 
    
    
      
       I hope the President does not mean to assume that they have been settled to the satisfaction of the parties concerned? 
    
    
      
       Not with any manifestation of satisfaction to us, but with great satisfaction to themselves. 
    
    
      
       I think it only right to say that the individuals in the Board of Works dealing with this particular item are very fair, from my not too close knowledge in dealing with them.  I am not personally concerned, but I have received communications from a number of people; on two or three occasions I had to go to the Board of Works, and I can say that the people who are dealing with this particular item have very intimate knowledge and experience with regard to the work. I have in mind cases where claims have been paid, and there is apparently a   grievance on the part of the people as to whether the amounts granted were fair or not.  Is there any right of appeal in these cases, and if so to whom? 
    
    
      
       I do not know that they have any right of appeal except to the Minister.  There were over 2,000 claims, of which 1,044 have been settled.  I observed an almost exact equation in the amounts awarded by the Board of Works and in the amounts awarded in the courts, so that I should say there is a very fair settlement, taking it generally.  It is inevitable that in a particular case one might come across hardship, but I am sure in any cases where the persons have been overpaid the State will not benefit by any pricks of conscience on the part of these people. 
    
    
      
       I want to know, in the case of commandeered premises, where an officer, in 1922, made an agreement with the proprietors of hotels, if that agreement will be observed? 
    
    
      
       He had no right to make an agreement. 
    
    
      
       He was in charge of the troops down South at that time. Why was he left in charge of the troops, or who authorised him to commandeer houses? 
    
    
      
       If the Deputy gives me the name of the officer I will look into the matter.  We had a great many officers in the country at that time who assumed authority which was never delegated by a superior authority. 
    
    
      
       He was a General Officer commanding the 1st Southern Division.  He is now dead.  Several hotels have suffered owing to his death and I would like to know as regards the people with whom he signed the agreements for so much, if the Government or the State is responsible? 
    
    
      
       I take it we will be responsible for a fair charge for the premises in question, but certainly not for the bargain he made.  He had no right to make the bargain. 
    
    
      
       Will the President   state if all premises commandeered by the military have been vacated or returned to the owners? 
    
    
      
       I take it it was generally understood that officers in the 1st Southern Division in the middle of June, 1922, had to take action under circumstances in which those called the authorities were not close enough in touch that they could give much assistance or guidance. 
    
    
      
       I cannot say if all the premises have been vacated, but they are being gradually vacated. 
    
    
      
       I want to draw attention to a case where compensation has been refused, and there may be many other cases of the same kind.  It is a case where the premises were commandeered by the military.  It was a shop in a certain village in the constituency I represent or mis-represent if you like.  In this case the claim was dealt with, and the Board of Works people came to the decision to pay a certain amount for the use of the premises during the period of occupation. Subsequently the military authorities came, and for some reason unknown to me, without justification, instructed the Board of Works not to pay this amount because of the alleged association of the parties concerned with the Irregulars.  I made representations both to the Board of Works and to the authorities regarding this particular case, but up to the present without any particular result.  We should not be unjust in these matters.  President Cosgrave, in dealing with these questions in the Indemnity Bill, said we could afford to be generous.  Where compensation has been granted by the Board of Works people should be paid. If we want to get back to a peaceful state of affairs there should be no petty spleen in dealing with parties who suffered as a result of commandeered premises.  I raise that question here because there has been no justification whatever for the attitude adopted except that the officer in this particular quarter up to a certain time has apparently come out on top.  I have never made charges against an officer that I had not justification for, and I did complain of the conduct of this particular   officer in regard to other matters, and I think his advice should not be relied upon in the case I have mentioned. 
    
    
      
       It is the first time I heard of any bar regarding a person whose property was taken, that there was any delay or holding up because of Irregular activity, but if the Deputy provides me with particulars I will enquire into it. 
    
    
      
       The next item is, G&mdash;Phoenix Park National School. 
    
    
      
       There is a small vote under &ldquo;G&rdquo; to which I call attention as another illustration of the point I referred to earlier in the Vote.  The Vote appears to be misplaced.  I would like an explanation of it.  The Phoenix Park School is referred to, but if we pay for education in a national school we pay for it under the Educational Vote.  Here we are voting an absurdly small sum.  Would the Minister explain why that is under this head? 
    
    
      
       I agree with Deputy Thrift.  The Board of Works employs all sorts of strange people&mdash; divers, upholsterers, housemaids, and even propagators, whatever they may be, but I do not see why they employ schoolmistresses, and if they do why they should not pay them properly.  I do not think even Deputy Gorey would complain that a schoolmistress should be paid only £35 a year. 
       Is it possible for the President, remembering past years, to explain why this Vote has gone up?  It is nearly £30 more than it was last year. 
    
    
      
       I think I may be able to throw some little light on this.  There are many schools which were built by landlords, or attached to an estate, and the estate was responsible for keeping up the school, maintaining the buildings, providing fuel, and giving small sums for prizes.  Also, in some cases&mdash;there are very few cases now, indeed&mdash;a certain grant was given to the teachers by way of what is called local aid.  This was not part   of the ordinary salary which they received under the Education Vote, and I take it that if this school is built in the Phoenix Park, it comes under that particular class, and that this small sum which is voted for the salaries is really by way of local aid, in addition to the ordinary salaries which the teachers receive.  That is the explanation, I take it. 
    
    
      
       The Commissioners of Public Works are patrons of this school, and these sums are simply in addition to the ordinary teachers' salaries which are paid under the Education Board. 
    
    
      
       I thought it probably would turn out to be local aid, but I thought it was the case that most local aid assistance to salaries had ceased since the new scale of salaries came in. 
    
    
      
       That is the point I wish to make, that there should be no local aid.  I withdrew my local aid when Lord Killanin led the teachers into the promised land, and I think the State would be well advised when a vacancy occurs in this school to consider the situation.  I would not like to create ill-feeling among existing occupants. 
    
    
      
       May I ask has Deputy Cooper restored his local aid, seeing that the Minister for Finance is driving them out again? 
    
    
      
       In connection with the River Shannon works, I do not think that the £77 that has been saved by the reduction of the Estimate in this case is justified.  It may be justified from the point of view of the Minister for Finance, but certainly not from the point of view of those who are acquainted with the present conditions of the Shannon Navigation.  I had occasion, about nine or twelve months ago, to travel on a liner from Limerick to Killaloe&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       A lighter. 
    
    
      
       If the Deputy likes to call it so.  It was in connection with my work on the Canal Commission.  I noticed and one could not fail to   notice, that every lock on this Navigation was of a different size.  I believe that is due to the fact that different engineers were employed as every lock was constructed, and for some enginneering reason that is not quite clear to an ordinary lay man, the locks are all of different sizes, with the result that boats which should be carrying 100 tons, with consequent relief to the people who send their goods by them, can only carry 60 or 70 tons at present. I understand good reasons were put forward as to why locks should be reconstructed, which would enable goods to be carried from Limerick up to Lough Allen, and coal back from the Arigna coalfields at considerably reduced rates.  I think that if the Government ever intends to proceed to do useful work that would give employment and a return in kind to the State, that could best be done by carrying out improvements of this kind.  I have not a knowledge of engineering, but three very prominent engineers associated with this Commission made recommendations which I think can be justified. Instead of saving £77, which may appear big to the Minister for Finance, I think the Government might proceed to carry out the works that were recommended by the Commission and make the Shannon Navigation navigable for boats carrying 100 to 120 tons.  The President, I am sure, could see what the effect of that would be in the nature of a reduction in rates.  I raise the matter now simply because I saw the thing for myself.  I have only the ordinary layman's view of the matter, but I think that the Report might be looked up and that the views on this question given by the engineers might be taken into consideration by the Government when they propose to take up any work of a useful nature. 
    
    
      
       I think that it is on Vote No. 10&mdash;the immediately preceding Vote&mdash;that this question of the Shannon Navigation would arise.  As far as this particular item of £500 under Subhead (H) is concerned, it is for the maintenance of works which are intended to improve the drainage rather than the navigation.  These particular works were carried out at Government expense in the years 1879 to 1883, and consisted of the insertion of sluices in   the drainage weirs at different points on the river.  The works were successful in diminishing floods. 
    
    
      
       I should like to ask with regard to this item of telephones, which appears in the Estimate for the first time, whether the Board of Works have only just discovered the telephone. It did not appear in the previous year, and now it is £335.  I should like further to ask when are they going to discover the telegraph, because every other Estimate&mdash;the Estimate of the Minister for Agriculture, the Estimate of the Minister for Local Government, and so on, has telephones and telegraphs. This has only telephones.  I cannot help thinking that some of their operations would be facilitated if they made more use of the achievements of modern science, even if it were wireless. 
    
    
      
       It should read &ldquo;telegraphs and telephones&rdquo; or &ldquo;telephones and telegrams,&rdquo; as the case may be.  This is a new method of arranging the Estimates, and I think in future it will appear in that, and it is fairer that it should be so rather than at the expense of the Postmaster-General, who wants to show a balance on the right side. 
    
    
      
       Are we to gather, then, that the Postmaster-General's balance is largely a fictitious balance? 
    
    
      
       He has claimed so himself, and we want to prove the contrary to him. 
    
    
      
       You will remember that on the last occasion when this matter was brought forward we decided that we should take the subheads item by item and then the general question could be raised, and I gave notice then that I was proposing to move for a reduction in the Vote. I desire to move: &ldquo;That the amount be reduced by the sum of £10,000, being the sum of £5,000 estimated to be required for improvement of lighting the Governor-General's residence and the late Chief Secretary's Lodge, together with £5,000, a reduction of the sum estimated as required for the maintenance and supplies in respect of the Governor-General's residence.&rdquo;  The   sums on this particular Vote estimated in this respect are £5,000 for improving the lighting, which is the sum re-voted. A similar sum was voted last year and apparently not spent.  Then there is a sum of £10,000 asked for other maintenance, repairs and other current charges of the Governor-General's residence, including the Private Secretary's Lodge.  It is necessary in discussing this matter to draw attention to the fact that in addition to these two sums on this Vote that on Vote No. 1 is a footnote.  We have the information that, including £10,000 drawn out of the Central Fund as the salary of the Governor-General, there is £35,111 which may be added to this £15,000 on this Vote, totalling £50,111 as a charge upon the State for this State officer. 
    
    
      
       The £15,000 is included in the £35,000. 
    
    
      
       No; I beg your pardon; the £15,000 is office accommodation. 
    
    
      
       That is Vote 11. 
    
    
      
       &ldquo;Buildings, furniture, fuel and light.&rdquo;  It may be that this maintenance is for office accommodation, if that is so, it is not made clear that it is office accommodation, and one must assume, or are we to assume, that there are no charges against this Vote for the maintenance of the residence.  Are we to assume that the £15,000 includes £10,000 for the maintenance of the residence and £5,000 for the improvement and lighting? Is this the £15,000 referred to in this footnote?  I think it is not so.  I think it is £15,000 additional to the £15,000 referred to.  The evidence of these estimates points to £15,111 as the sum which is called for as required for the accommodation, including salary. 
    
    
      
       Do I take Deputy Johnson to say £50,000? 
    
    
      
       £50,111. 
    
    
      
       That is wrong. The sum is £25,000.  The footnote means the total expenditure. 
    
    
      
       The note at the foot   of Vote 1 says £15,000 for office accommodation (buildings, furniture, fuel and light), etc.  That is all in parenthesis as applicable to office accommodation. I cannot understand this sum of £5,000 for the improvement of lighting re-voted and £10,000 for maintenance of the residence.  However, it makes a matter of £15,000 difference, if the estimate, as presented, is wrong. The fault lies with the presentation of the estimate.  There is a sum of £35,000 voted as a total, £10,000 for the maintenance, repairs and other current charges, and £5,000 for improvements of lighting.  The £5,000 was voted last year and was not expended.  My desire is it should not be voted this year and consequently should not be expended this year.  I think that £5,000 can be spent to better advantage.  It cannot be said to be necessary, but surely it is not going to be said that the relighting of the Governor-General's residence, and of the late Chief Secretary's Lodge must be done this year.  It may be desirable, some day, to economise on one form of lighting over another.  I do not know what kind of lighting there is there now.  It may be lit by Deputy Bryan Cooper's candles, or the Minister for Industry and Commerce's paraffin, or it may be electric light or gas, I do not know, but it seems to me there is no justification for the expenditure of £5,000 this year any more than there was last year, and that we ought not to vote it.  In regard to the cost of maintenance, £10,000 is voted, last year&mdash;£11,442.  I do not know how much was spent, but I am convinced notwithstanding the statements made about the cost of managing such an establishment that we ought not to spend as much as £10,000 on that maintenance. I am quite sure that it would be maintained for £5,000.  It may not be maintained as satisfactorily or as luxuriously as some people would like, but it can be maintained for £5,000, and taking the two together we would have a reduction of £10,000 on this vote.  The Minister for Finance said this matter was brought up before for political purposes and not in the interests of economy.  I wonder whether the President will justify the contention which seems to be implied in that   statement that to save any sum of money from a vote has a political purpose, and whether it is not a justifiable purpose to expend such money, as is available where the best results for the common good will be obtained. That is decidedly a political purpose and that is decidedly my object in moving this motion, that we should save this £10,000 from this vote and spend it to better advantage for the common good.  We are told on every hand that there is need for economy. I agree, but again I maintain that economy lies in wise and beneficent expenditure, and not merely in the saving of expenditure.  I say this £10,000 if it is to be spent can be better spent than spending it in the relighting of those two residences or in the maintenance of the Governor-General's residence and the Private Secretary's lodge at a rate which involves an expenditure of £10,000 per annum. 
    
    
      
       I wish to support Deputy Johnson.  I speak with a good deal of hesitation on the matter for the reason that it may be put down to political motives.  I am not speaking from political motives.  I am speaking from the point of view of economy and I agree with Deputy Johnson.  The important thing about this vote is the example which is set to the country.  There has been a tremendous amount of comment about the expense of the upkeep of the Governor-General's establishment.  A great deal of the comment has been unwarranted and a great deal has been misinformed. At the same time looking over those estimates I have seen this amount and I think it is not a wise or a suitable thing that this year when we hear so much about the necessity for economy and where efforts have been made to enforce economy in one way or another that an opportunity should be taken to expend £5,000 in the relighting of the Governor-General's establishment. Looking at this from the commonsense point of view it seems to me that the lighting which has lasted during the period of the late Lord Lieutenant should be good enough until we are in a position to pay for the expenditure necessary or otherwise.  The same thing applies to   the amounts voted for the expenses of the upkeep of the Governor-General's establishment.  I personally cannot see that such a large amount is required and I am confident that if the Governor-General's establishment were to enforce the economy which other establishments have been asked to enforce within the past few years the expenses would be cut down very considerably. 
       It is generally acknowledged that the salary of the Governor-General is an ample one, and I do not think it would be unreasonable to ask him to pay a considerable portion of the up-keep of his own establishment.  That is what the ordinary inhabitants of the country have to do out of their salaries, and it would not be unreasonable to expect the Governor-General to do the same thing.  The financial capabilities of this country should be taken into account when considering those Votes.  Still more so should the example we are setting be taken into account.  It is impossible for any Deputy to vote for the reduction in old age pensions and teachers' salaries and other things, and not vote for a reduction of this particular estimate.  It would not be consistent. 
    
    
      
       I hope the President will acquit me of having any personal animus or ill-feeling against the Governor-General.  I always had the deepest respect for him, and he was one out of the four men whom I would leave a meal to listen to in the House of Commons. Still, I believe a reduction ought to be made, though I am not sure that the reduction Deputy Johnson proposes is not too much.  I think it is somewhat on the large side.  A reduction ought to be made in the interests of the Government. This is the stone that is flung at the Government from every platform &mdash;the enormous cost of the Governor-General's establishment.  In some respects it is undoubtedly high.  I think the suggestion of a new system of lighting might well be postponed until financial conditions were more favourable, and the cost of fuel, light and water could conceivably be reduced. Most people now living in houses the size of the Viceregal Lodge have had to cut down their fuel bill very considerably.  A great many   rooms cannot have fires, and in a great many rooms they have to have wood fires.  There must be a great deal of wood in the Phoenix Park which could be utilised for this purpose&mdash;falling trees and so on. 
    
    
      
       So they would have fires? 
    
    
      
       If they had fires at all.  If they would have fires they must have wood.  People who burn other people's coal are always better warmed and more comfortable than those who have to pay their own coal bill.  I am not arguing that the Governor-General should not be kept warm, but there should be some reduction.  There should also be reduction in the matter of maintenance and supplies.  That might be met to some extent out of the £3,000 allowed for personal expenses.  I do not think it is wise to make a sudden cut.  A cut of 50 per cent. is not reasonable; it is too much.  I do not see how the Board of Works could reduce the figure to £5,000 in one year.  The cut should, if possible, be more gradual.  I do not think I can vote for Deputy Johnson's amendment, though I am in entire agreement with the sentiments that prompted it. 
    
    
      
       I was not here at the beginning of the discussion on this matter.  I would now like to ask can the President explain why we have this figure of £7,500 down for the maintenance on this vote, and that we have another sum of £3,000, which is described under a note as &ldquo;provision for the maintenance of the Governor-General's official residence.&rdquo;  I do not think that he explained why there are two votes for the same purpose. 
    
    
      
       We are now discussing the amendment by Deputy Johnson that the amount be reduced by £10,000. 
    
    
      
       That is the point&mdash; that we find in these estimates an item of £10,000, of which £7,500 is spent on maintenance of the Governor-General's establishment, and yet although we are not discussing that vote, still it is within   the knowledge of the Deputies here that there is another vote, and it is put down as a sum of £3,000, which is expressly described as maintenance of the official residence of the Governor-General. 
    
    
      
       I think it is a different vote. 
    
    
      
       No; it is put down in a note in page 2 as &ldquo;provision for the maintenance of the official residence of the establishment of the Governor-General, £3,000.&rdquo;  I think the Dail deserves some explanation of these two votes. 
    
    
      
       The vote that we are discussing at the present moment is Public Works (Vote 11).  But in order to trace what the liability is on the State in respect of the office of Governor-General we approach page 1 and we see there the total vote on the Governor-General's establishment.  Now as to this £5,000 which was on the estimates for last year, some reason for it appears under sub-head (f).  That item is for fuel, light, water, heating and cleaning, and is a very considerable amount.  The cost of light is a little out of proportion to what the cost of ordinary lighting might be.  And the £5,000 put in this particular estimate will certainly benefit more than that particular establishment.  At present there is a supply of gas down. That works the engine for the manufacture of electricity, and that is an expensive and unsatisfactory method of lighting this establishment.  But there are other establishments that might be lighted if this cable were laid from the North Circular Road connecting up the Viceregal Lodge with other institutions, including the Garda Siochana Depot in the Phoenix Park. 
    
     With regard to the other items, I think the Deputies will see that the amounts of these are relatively less than last year.  It is an expensive establishment, but it was even more expensive during the periods of the Lords Lieutenant.  The average cost in the time of the Lord Lieutenant was £12,500 a year.  Even in these estimates there is a considerable reduction in last year's vote, but in the circumstances,   unless we can get a less expensive residence for the Governor-General, we have, I take it, to carry out our bargain and provide him with an establishment. 
    
      
       Will the President describe the difference between the two votes for maintenance 1 and 11? 
    
    
      
       I do not understand what the Deputy means. 
    
    
      
       In page two, item (b) the note says: &ldquo;provision for maintenance,&rdquo; that is the £3,000 for the maintenance of the establishment of the Governor-General. 
    
    
      
       That vote does not to come into this Estimate 11.  We will discuss that when we come to discuss 1.  It deals with the servants and the officials who are supplied for the use of that particular office of the Governor-General. 
    
    
      
       Would the President say what the £7,500 for maintenance in Vote 11 is for? 
    
    
      
       Buildings, and so on. 
    
     
    
      
       Does that include the maintenance of the garden and its upkeep? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       Would it not be simpler if the question of maintenance in respect of one establishment of this kind were covered under one head, entitled &ldquo;maintenance&rdquo;? 
    
    
      
       Are you proposing to report Progress? 
    
    
      
       Very well. 
    
    
      
       We have a half-minute yet in which to put the vote. 
    
    
      
       There may be others to speak on it. 
    
    
      
       On your invitation I move to report Progress. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported. 
     The Dail rose at 10 o'clock p.m. until 3 o'clock on Wednesday, the 2nd July. 
   
 