 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PAYMENT OF GALWAY AWARD. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state why the amount awarded to Mr. Hastings Lambert, Redmount Hill, Eyrecourt, Co. Galway, by Judge Doyle at the Galway Quarter Sessions held at Galway in July, 1924, has not been paid. 
    
    
      
       The award in this case is at present under consideration, and my Department is in communication with the State Solicitor about it.  I hope it will be possible to dispose of it at an early date. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister aware that the award has been lodged in the office for the last three months? 
    
    
      
       I am aware it has been, but certain difficulties have arisen in connection with it, and we are still awaiting word from the State Solicitor. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ATHENRY (GALWAY) AWARD. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state why the amount awarded to Mr. Joseph Meldon, Coolarne, Athenry, Co. Galway, by Judge Doyle at the Galway Quarter Sessions in July, 1924, has not been paid. 
    
     
    
      
       The report made by the Judge on Mr. Meldon's application for compensation has been received in my Department, and is at present under consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EYRECOURT (GALWAY) ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state why the amount awarded to Mr. Thomas Daly, Eyrecourt, Co. Galway, by Judge Power at the Circuit Court held at Ballinasloe in September, 1924, has not been paid. 
    
    
      
       The decree stated to have been made in Mr. Daly's favour in September, 1924, has not yet been received in my Department. 
    
    
      
       Can the Minister say who is responsible for this neglect? 
    
    
      
       I presume it is the applicant's solicitor. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PAYMENT OF DUBLIN AWARD. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when the award of £20 granted by the Rt. Hon. the Recorder of Dublin in February last to Mr. John Leonard, 17 Lower Bridge Street, will be paid. 
    
    
      
       Enquiries are at present being made regarding possible arrears of rates or income tax and, subject to any deductions which it may be necessary to make in this respect, payment will be authorised at an early date. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DEPENDENTS OF DECEASED SOLDIER. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that Volunteer Laurence Whyte, of Arklow, Army No. 51888, B Company, 5th Battalion, who attested on July 1st, 1922, and who was discharged on April 11th, 1924, died on July 6th, 1924, as the result of having been thrown from a lorry whilst on duty, as can be verified by Captain Coghlan, driver of the lorry; and whether he will favourably consider the immediate payment of compensation to his wife and child, as they are suffering much hardship. 
    
     
    
      
       I am not aware of the circumstances of the death of Mr. Whyte, who was discharged from the Forces on the ground that the period of his engagement had expired.  A form of application for pension or gratuity under the provisions of the Army Pensions Act, 1923, has, however, been sent to Mrs. Whyte, and on its return duly completed the claim will be investigated. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FRANCE AND PROFITEERING. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether any report has been received from the Saorstat Representative in Paris as to the measures undertaken by the French Government to combat profiteering, and whether, in the event of no such report having been received, he will call for one giving details of the measures adopted, and the effects thereof, and will lay the report, when received, on the Table of the Dail. 
    
    
      
       The Report has not yet been received, but inquiries have been made as to what information is available on the matter. On receipt of that information the Minister for Industry and Commerce will consider whether any useful purpose would be served by laying the information on the table. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister notify me when information has been received, so that I may put a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce? 
    
    
      
       nodded assent. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GREYSTONES DISTRICT WATER SUPPLY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that the Rathdown Rural District Council placed a contract for the laying of mains for the supply of Vartry water in Greystones District early in August, 1924; and whether, as the work has not yet commenced, he will take the matter up with the Council with a view to   having the contract carried out and thus relieve unemployment in the district. 
    
    
      
       A tender for the laying of new water mains at Greystones was accepted by the Rathdown No. 2 Rural District Council in July last.  The Council were authorised to borrow the moneys necessary for the carrying out of the work.  I am not aware of the cause of the delay in starting the work, but I will take the matter up with the Council and notify the Deputy later of the result. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PENSIONED TECHNICAL INSTRUCTORS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he can state the number of officers and teachers formerly engaged in technical instruction in the Saorstat who are now in receipt of pensions or superannuation allowances under the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1919, exclusive of those recently awarded in Limerick under the Local Officers Compensation (War Period) Act, 1924. 
    
    
      
       Owing to the destruction of the records of the Local Government Board it will require a little time to obtain this information.  I will communicate to the Deputy the results of the inquiries which are being made. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PENSIONS IN THE SAORSTAT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the amount paid annually by local authorities in the Saorstat by way of pensions and superannuation allowances, according to the latest available returns. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy will understand that this information covers a very wide field.  Owing to the extreme pressure in my Department on a very limited staff the collection of statistical information has been somewhat retarded. The destruction of records centrally and, in many instances, locally, has been an added difficulty.  Some inevitable   delay has also been caused by the transference of the functions and records of Boards of Guardians to County Boards of Health.  The general compilation of data applicable to the financial year ended 31st March, 1924, is in progress.  When it has sufficiently advanced to provide an accurate reply to the Deputy's question, I will at once communicate with him. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GLENAMADDY CHILDREN'S HOME. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that the house which is at present used as a Children's Home at Glenamaddy, Co. Galway, was declared insanitary and unsuitable for such a purpose by his Department some considerable time ago; if the Galway County Board of Health has recommended the transfer of the children to Tuam Workhouse, and if his Department has sanctioned this recommendation, subject to the carrying out of certain slight structural alterations, and whether, in view of the repeated representations made to his Department by the nuns responsible for the health and welfare of the children, he will take immediate steps to have the transfer carried out without further delay. 
    
    
      
       The facts are as mentioned by the Deputy.  I am making every effort to secure suitable alternative accommodation for the Children's Home.  Since sanction to the transfer was given difficulties have arisen in connection with the provision of accommodation for the military, who are in occupation of the Tuam building. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GALWAY ESTATES ACQUIRED FOR DISTRIBUTION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he can state the names of the estates in County Galway which have been, or are about to be, acquired for distribution under the Land Act, 1923. 
    
    
      
       The Land Commission have agreed to purchase under the Land Act, 1923, over 2,700   acres of untenanted land in County Galway, and in addition they have provisionally gazetted 10,193 acres, and negotiations are proceeding in respect of other lands in that county.  That is not the full answer to the Deputy's question; it would require a little more time to get fuller particulars. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say if the Pollock Estate, comprising 5,000 acres, is included in that? 
    
    
      
       The Pollock Estate is, but I am not quite clear whether it is included in the 2,700 acres or the 10,193 acres.  I will find out that and let the Deputy know. 
    
   
   
     EXTENDED SITTING. 
    
      
       I beg leave to move that the Dail sit until 10.30 p.m., after the conclusion of Private Business this evening, for the purpose of considering the Local Government Bill. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister agree to an adjournment for tea, say, for three-quarters of an hour, at 6.30? 
    
    
      
       From 6.30 to 7 o'clock would suit. 
    
    
      
       Will the Private Members' business come on at 7 o' clock? 
    
    
      
       It will be on at 7 o' clock. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     BUSINESS OF THE DAIL&mdash;DAIRY PRODUCE BILL, 1924. 
    
      
       With regard to the Order of Business, what has been arranged? 
    
    
      
       If the Dail will consent, I suggest that the Dairy Produce Bill, 1924 (from the Seanad), be adjourned until to-morrow.  There are 43 amendments, mainly Government amendments to which we have agreed.  I will not find it necessary to make observations on any of the amendments except one.  The Bill is very complicated, and Deputies will be entitled to some time in order to examine the Bill, along with the amendments.  I will suggest an adjournment of that Bill until to-morrow. 
    
    
      
       I am not objecting at all, but I would like to point out to   the Minister that these amendments were received this morning; we are to sit until 10.30 to-night; there are two or three Committees sitting to-morrow morning, and yet we are expected, before three o'clock to-morrow afternoon, to have assimilated and understood all those amendments. 
    
    
      
       I could also detail a time-table for the Deputy, which would be at least as onerous as the time-table he mentions himself now.  Out of the 43 amendments there are at least 35 which are more or less drafting amendments. There are only a few amendments which need to be touched upon in detail.  I think the Deputy will find it will not take more than ten minutes to deal with 35 of the amendments.  I agree, of course, with what the Deputy has stated.  The amendments I have referred to are merely drafting amendments, and there are only a few that will need reference. 
    
    
      
       We will take your word for it. 
    
    
      
       The Seanad amendments will then be considered to-morrow the Minister moving to agree with all the amendments. 
    
    
      
       All with the exception of one.  There is one in which I will ask for a slight alteration.  It is in regard to amendment No. 41.  I am afraid I must ask for an alteration in that.  It does not exactly express the purpose that the Seanad, or I, in accepting the amendment, though it would.  The change which I will ask to make is a change which will, I think, be agreed to automatically by the Seanad.  The point is this&mdash;Section 43 deals with the definition of creamery butter; the words are:&mdash;&ldquo;Premises registered or required to be registered under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act, 1875 to 1907, or any.&rdquo;  Creamery butter should not be taken into premises registered, or required to be registered, under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act.  The effect of that would be that a non-manufacturing exporter, who would be also selling margarine wholesale, could not take creamery butter into his premises.  That was not intended, and   we will have to cover that point.  &ldquo;Non-manufacturing exporters&rdquo; dealing with factory, creamery and any other sort of butter was always intended. But we did not realise that this particular Act covered the sale of margarine wholesale, and we will have to make an alteration in regard to that. 
    
   
   
     THE CHRISTMAS RECESS. 
    
      
       I have to make a statement in connection with the question which Deputy Johnson put yesterday&mdash;that is the question in which the interpretation of the word &ldquo;session&rdquo; as it occurs in the Constitution was involved.  I regret having to inform the Dail that owing to the absence of certain Ministers&mdash;the Vice-President being absent owing to a bereavement in his family&mdash;it was not possible to hold an Executive Council meeting, and I cannot give any definite statement on that point.  I promised a statement before the end of the week. The second question raised related to the date of the Recess and the Dail programme will have to be definitely fixed when the Executive Council next meets.  I may say this, that it is our aim to adjourn about the end of next week, say about the 12th.  It is our aim to adjourn at that time.  It is our proposal not to meet before the end of the year, say not until the end of January or the beginning of February.  That is the most I can say at the moment.  There is just one extra point or two.  It may be necessary to resume for a day, or two even, after the adjournment on the 12th&mdash;that is, if we succeed in adjourning on the 12th&mdash;for the purpose of considering amendments that may come back from the Seanad to Bills proceeding to them now.  I would personally like, and will urge on the Executive Council, the advisability of retaining the Dail in Session until such time as I get a preliminary statements of the views of the experts in connection with the Shannon Scheme. 
    
    
      
       May I raise the point as to whether the question of the length of the Session is not a matter that might well be discussed with the Committee on Procedure? 
    
     
    
      
       I intend to raise the matter at a meeting summoned for Friday morning, the earliest time at which I could get a meeting. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILL, 1924&mdash;THIRD STAGE (RESUMED). 
     SECTION 53, AMENDMENT 83. 
    
      
       There was a discussion on Deputy Thrift's and Deputy Johnson's amendment yesterday evening, and I was considerably impressed by the arguments from the opposing Deputies. I consider that their arguments really arose from perhaps a divergency of opinion as to what would be the result of the insertion of these words, &ldquo;extravagant or unnecessary,&rdquo; and that Deputies in opposition to the measure construed those words more from the layman's point of view, while the words in the Bill are intended to have a legal interpretation, which would considerably narrow down their application.  However, I realise that the words, perhaps, are a source of irritation to certain people, and I am not anxious to go against opinions very definitely expressed in this matter.  This section has been drafted with the intention of meeting a very difficult situation at the present time.  No matter what Deputies on the opposing Benches say, there is no doubt about it that there has been a good deal of extravagance in administration of public bodies within the last few years. 
    
     I am not altogether laying the blame on individual members of the councils for that.  But, at the same time, this is a matter that nobody can really dispute, and I have been forced to adopt very stringent measures in dealing with that extravagance.  I have been forced to appoint commissioners to get over the difficulties arising from it.  I am not anxious to have to continue using such drastic measures, but some protection of the ratepayers' interests is necessary.  There are various ways in which that might possibly be done.   There are ways in which I would not like to act in this matter.  I might limit the franchise, or limit the kind of people who might be eligible for election to these local bodies, or I might adopt the high-handed measure of appointing commissioners on a much more wholesale scale than I have done in the past.  I do not wish to do that, and I thought by putting in a proviso of this sort in the Bill I would be able to get over this difficulty of extravagant payments by making the members of local authorities who were guilty of extravagance and who voted for extravagant proposals responsible, instead of throwing the responsibility on the individuals who signed the advice notes, and who were not morally culpable.  It was with that intention that this section was inserted.  The word &ldquo;illegal&rdquo; is a pretty wide word, and apparently cannot give offence.  I would prefer to retain the words &ldquo;extravagant or unnecessary,&rdquo; and the Bill would be improved by retaining them, but as the Deputies made a strong case against it, and as there is considerable opposition to it, I am willing to accept the amendment. 
    
      
       From the Farmers' point of view, I think these two words are necessary in the Bill.  The people who are paying the rates, of course, will be on the board, but they will be over-ridden, and I contend that the insertion of these words here would be a warning to the people administering the local funds that they must not be extravagant or use money unnecessarily. For that reason it does not do any harm to anybody to retain the words, and they do not do any harm in the Bill, and for that reason I hold they should remain. 
    
    
      
       You were not here to hear the discussion. 
    
    
      
       I was not. 
       Amendment put. 
    
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta, 29; Nil, 13. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan Altun. Sean Buitleir. Seamus de Burca. Bryan R. Cooper. Louis J. D'Alton. Seamus Eabhroid. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. David Hall. Seosamh Mac Bhrighde. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fadain. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Patrick McGilligan. 
             Liam Mac Sioghaird. Tomas de Nogla. Peadar O hAodha. Ailfrid O Broin. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Seamus N. O Dolain. Eamon S. O. Dugain. Sean O Laidhin. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraic O Maille. Domhnall O Muirgheasa.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seoirse de Bhulbh. John Good. John Hennigan. Connor Hogan. Risteard Mac Liam. Patrick J. Mulvany. John T. Nolan. 
             Michael K. Noonan. Sean O Bruadair. Tadhg S.O. Donnabhain. Domhnall O Mochain. Sean Priomhdhail. Nicholas Wall.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared carried. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 53, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Section 54 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     SECTION 55. 
     (1)  In this section the expression &ldquo;county authority&rdquo; means a county council, a board of health, or a committee or joint committee of a district lunatic asylum, and the expression &ldquo;authorised committee&rdquo; means a committee appointed by a county authority and to the members of which the Minister on the application of the county authority, authorises contributions to be paid under this section. 
     (2)  Every county authority shall as soon as may be after the 31st day of March and the 30th day of September in each year pay to&mdash; 
     (a)  every member of the county authority who has attended at least three-quarters of the meetings of such county authority held during the preceding six months, and 
     (b)  to every member of an authorised committee appointed by the county authority who has attended at least three-quarters of the meetings of that authorised committee held during the preceding six months. 
     such contribution (if any) as is authorised by the rules contained in the Fifth Schedule to this Act towards the expenses incurred by such member in attending the meetings of such county authority or authorised committee (as the case may be) during such preceding six months. 
     (3)  No contribution shall be paid under this section in respect of any meeting of a county authority or committee thereof which took place before the election of members to such county authority held next after the passing of this Act. 
     (4)  Any person who knowingly makes or allows to be made a false statement for the purpose of obtaining the payment to himself or another of a sum under or in pursuance of this section, shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds, or at the discretion of the court to imprisonment with or without hard labour for a term not exceeding one year. 
     (5)  Any person who is convicted of an offence under this section shall   thereafter be disqualified from being elected or being a member of any local authority and from being appointed to or holding any office or employment under any local authority. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2) to delete lines 51 to 59 inclusive and substitute therefore the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;passing of this Act, and at its first and subsequent meetings, pay&mdash; 
       (a)  to every member of the county authority who has attended the meeting on the request of the secretary or chairman of such county authority and to whom contributions are payable under this Act, and 
       (b)  to every member of an authorised committee appointed by the county authority who has attended the meeting on the request of the secretary or chairman of such authorised committees, 
       such contribution (payment of which shall be made at each meeting before adjourning) as is authorised by the rules contained in the Fifth Schedule to this Act towards the expenses incurred by the member in attending the meetings of such county authority or authorised committee (as the case may be).&rdquo; 
       and to delete in lines 63-64 the words 
       &ldquo;during such preceding six months.&rdquo; 
    
     As travelling expenses are allowed to members under this Bill, I want to have these expenses paid to the members at each meeting, and not have them waiting for six months for them. The best man in a county may not be in a position to attend meetings regularly owing to inability to pay the expenses. The amendment states &ldquo;to every member . . . . who has attended the meeting at the request of the secretary or chairman,&rdquo; because up to the present five members of any council could sign a requisition to have a meeting called, and if the chairman refuses to sign the order authorising the secretary to call such a meeting, after the lapse of seven days, those five members could summon the meeting in defiance of the chairman or any other members who may not be in favour of it.  It is, of course, often necessary to call such   meetings, but many of them have been called for purposes which are not in the interests of the ratepayers, such as passing resolutions condemning one party or another.  I think if expenses are to be paid, they should be only paid to members who attend meetings summoned by the secretary or chairman. According to the wording of the Bill at present, a member might have to wait six months before he got his travelling expenses.  We have a great many good men in the country who represent the best interests of the community but who are not in a position to wait for payment of their expenses for six months. 
     I may be told that these are honorary positions and that there were hundreds of people in the Saorstat who were very anxious to be elected to represent the people and who were prepared to make sacrifices on that account.  I agree that there were such people, but have the majority of councils so constituted acted in the best interests of the people?  Have the members attended the meetings regularly? We find that in many county councils and committees throughout the country it is impossible to get a quorum, and members who travelled 20 or 30 miles to the meeting have very often to go to members living in the town and ask them to attend so that the business may be transacted.  The non-attendance is due to the fact that some members cannot afford to lose their day's pay, or to provide the necessary expenses.  Members of such bodies who live in the town where the meeting is held cannot very often afford to leave their employment, especially if they are labour representatives, and lose their day's wages. Under this Bill such representatives are in the same position as they were previously, with the exception that they will be entitled to 4d. per mile for travelling expenses. 
     I think it is not fair to pay one man who attends a meeting and not to pay all the members who attend on the request of the secretary or chairman. Under this section, if you have three or four labouring men living in a town who are representatives on the local board, put there by the votes of the people, they are not entitled to get any   travelling expenses when they attend the meetings of that board, simply because they happen to live in the town where the meetings are held.  I say that is a great injustice.  These men may be in employment, and as a result of their attendance at the meetings they lose their day's pay.  Hence, I think, they should be compensated to the extent of getting travelling expenses just the same as the representatives in the country who are to be paid 4d. a mile on the days they attend meetings of the council.  Men who have acted, as I have, in the capacity of representatives of the people, know quite well that it would be quite impossible to hold meetings of public boards such as district councils, county councils, committees of management of various public institutions, etc., if it were not for the attendance given by men living in the towns where meetings are held, or by men who reside two or three miles outside these towns.  We all know that these are the public representatives who attend meetings regularly. If it were not for them you would seldom get a quorum to transact the business to be done at these meetings.  I think I am not asking too much when I make the proposal to have inserted in the Bill words to the effect that payment will be made to every member who attends a meeting on the request of the secretary or chairman. 
     The proposal in the Bill not to pay members for their attendance at meetings until a period of six months has elapsed will leave them in much the same position as they were in hitherto. I know of very few public representatives who can afford to wait for six months for a refund of the expenses they incur in attending meetings. I may say that the county insurance committee in every county has always paid the travelling expenses of members on that committee.  Some Deputies, perhaps, may laugh when I say that at these meetings which I have attended, I have found it almost impossible to get a seat, due to the large number of members present.  There is always a large attendance simply because the members are paid their travelling expenses.  I know of other men,   too, who are paid their expenses for attending public meetings, such as county council meetings, and they always give a good attendance.  As regards the payment of travelling expenses to members, I think the secretary of the public body concerned should be empowered to make the payments after each meeting.  If that is done, I think a good attendance of members will be ensured at each meeting of our public bodies.  In that way you will get men to look after the interests of the people in a proper manner.  I hope the Minister will see his way to accept the amendment. 
    
      
       I may say at once that I have no intention of accepting the amendment.  One of the great abuses in connection with local bodies at the present time is that you have a great many members elected on them who never attend, except when some question of pecuniary interest turns up. At other times they never attend, but leave all the responsibility to a few members.  I think it well to point out that the payment proposed to be made under the Bill will not be made to any member except to one who has attended three-fourths of the meetings.  For that reason, it is impossible to pay members travelling expenses after each meeting. The Deputy quoted an instance of the hardship caused where members turned up, and there was not a sufficient number present to form a quorum to do the business of the board.  If the Deputy took the trouble to read the next section he would see that it is provided in the case of a member who travelled to attend a meeting at which a quorum was not present, that the expenses incurred by such a member in travelling to the meeting will be taken into consideration when payments are being made at the end of the six months.  The Deputy raised another point about paying travelling expenses to people who live almost next door to the place where a meeting is held. I will undertake to meet the Deputy on the point of paying expenses to the people who incur travelling expenses in order to attend a meeting, but I cannot   undertake to pay travelling expenses to people who do not travel. 
    
    
      
       Even though a man lives next door to the place where a meeting is held, I think it is not too much to ask that he should be paid his expenses if by his attendance at the meeting he is obliged to leave his work and lose his day's wages.  The Bill provides that if a man travels twenty or thirty miles to attend a meeting he will be entitled to travelling expenses, but there is no such provision in the case of an elected representative living in a town where the meetings are held.  Apparently he is not to be paid even though he loses his day's wages by his attendance at the meeting. 
    
    
      
       The Bill does not make provision for payment to any man for the time he loses.  A member from the country is in just the same position as a man from the town in regard to the loss of time incurred by attendance at meetings.  It is only proposed under the Bill to pay out-of-pocket expenses. The Bill does not go so far as to pay all the expenses incurred by members, but it proposes to give a contribution towards their expenses. 
    
    
      
       I think Deputy Lyons has made one point that is worthy of further consideration, that is, in respect of a man, who has to pay out of pocket a certain sum so that he may be enabled to attend meetings regularly. Such a man really cannot afford to remain out of pocket the sum that has accumulated over a period of six months.  I think that is a distinct grievance and fault in the Bill.  While I agree that some stimulus is required to ensure regular attendance at meetings, I think Deputy Lyons has voiced a real grievance in the case of a man who may have to pay 10/- in travelling expenses for each meeting that he attends. If he has to attend one or two committee meetings, in the month in addition to ordinary meetings, it would be impossible for him to bear all that expense over a period of six months. Hence, I think that the desire of the Minister to encourage regular attendance at meetings will not, to that extent, be fulfilled.  If the Minister would   agree to the principle we might be able to find some means of agreement later on.  I think that the Minister should try to find some means of paying travelling expenses to members shortly after they have been incurred.  That, I think, is a reasonable point of criticism and one that should be met. 
    
    
      
       There may be something in the point raised by Deputy Johnson.  The same point was raised by Deputy Lyons, but at the same time, I think that, as the lesser of two evils, we must allow the Bill to stand.  There may be cases where individuals may find it difficult to pay their expenses at every meeting and to wait for a period of six months to get a refund of the expenses they have incurred in travelling. It must be remembered, however, that these persons are in a very much better position under the Bill than they were heretofore.  I think it is desirable that we should have this incentive to constant attendance at meetings by not agreeing to make payment unless a member attends three-fourths of the meetings during the period.  We may try later on to cover cases of exceptional hardship where members find it difficult to attend meetings unless they are refunded their expenses after each meeting.  This section has been very carefully considered.  We have gone into it from every point of view, and I do not think there is any good in giving an undertaking that we can effect an improvement on that point. 
    
    
      
       Would you consider making payment after one month rather than after six months? 
    
    
      
       If one month were to be mentioned instead of six months, it would be impossible to find out whether or not members were going to attend three-fourths of the meetings.  If you are to pay every month you would be paying a member his travelling expenses before he had attended three-fourths of the meetings. 
    
    
      
       Would you consider making a payment to him at the end of a month provided he attended three meetings out of four held during that months?  After all, in addition to the ordinary meetings, it is customary to   have a number of committee meetings as well, and if a man were to attend three out of the four meetings held during the month, I suggest that payment might be made to him at the end of the month, as he had attended three-fourths of the meetings held during that period. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister think of the possibility of working out the eligibility of a member to receive his expenses as suggested in the amendment if he had attended three quarters of the meetings of the council in the previous six months?  That might get over the difficulty.  Of course, during the first six months of the council's existence the difficulty would still remain, but after that six months, and as long as a man had attended three-fourths of the meetings of the previous six months, he could be paid for each particular meeting, and that would save a man from lying out of his money for a long time.  It might be that the machinery would be difficult and complicated to work, but I think it might be considered as a suggestion before the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid that to meet that situation it would mean that for the first six months every member would attend in order to qualify to be paid, but after that they would take things easy and the difficulty would be to get a quorum afterwards. 
    
    
      
       But the money would not be paid to those who did not attend. 
    
    
      
       But they might have attended three-fourths of the meetings in the previous six months.  One object of this Bill is to get members to attend every meeting, and not merely to turn up when some pecuniary interest comes before the council. 
    
    
      
       I moved this amendment in order to encourage members to attend these meetings.  That is why I put the amendment down at all.  The section as it stands seems to have been drafted and put together for no other purpose except to deprive labouring men of representation on those   boards.  The Minister knows well working people cannot afford to wait six months for money that they spend in this manner. 
    
    
      
       How does Deputy Lyons attend those meetings in Westmeath? 
    
    
      
       Deputy Lyons was never absent from any meeting, committee meeting or other.  I attend every meeting. 
    
    
      
       That is the best argument against the Deputy's own amendment. 
    
    
      
       No, because every man has not the same kind of an employer I had.  I could work at night and pull up for any time I had lost in the day, and also if I have made a slave of myself on behalf of the people that is no reason why I should ask other men to do the same.  I think the Minister spoke completely in favour of this amendment when he stated that the whole desire of paying members was to get them to attend.  But he says that if they are paid at each meeting there is no guarantee that they will attend three-fourths of the meetings. If they are paid at the first meeting, will not that be an encouragement to them to attend every other meeting? If they are not paid at the first meeting, men in the same position as myself, working men that may be earning a wage that does not enable them to support their families, will not lose the day unless it is made up to them.  These men may be very intelligent, and have the best of brains, and may be well able to look after the interests of people in a proper manner, yet they are deprived of becoming representatives simply because they have no banking account to draw upon. 
    
     I only want the Minister to encourage people to attend by paying them day by day when they do attend.  That is not asking too much, and you will find it is not an unworkable problem that I have put forward.  The Minister will find that it is in the best interests of the Bill and of the people and of local government I put this amendment forward, and in order that men may be in position to attend to look   after the business of the people on the committees to which they are nominated. The Minister cannot tell me that working men can wait for six months for these expenses.  I say workmen will be deprived of the opportunity of attending these meetings at all, and they cannot seek re-election because they could not afford to attend the meetings.  If the Minister reconsiders this matter, I would be quite satisfied to fall in with the views expressed by Deputy Johnson; that members who attend three meetings out of four in a month shall be paid at the next meeting they attend. 
     The most important meetings in the county council are held quarterly.  The council, of course, meets practically every month, and very often, for the past few years, we had meetings every week.  Some meetings were called by five members, unauthorised by the chairman or the majority of the council. It may be necessary to give five members such power, but I think people who attend such meetings should not be paid expenses unless the meetings were authorised by the chairman or the secretary of the council.  I am sure the Minister is not acting justly, and if he himself was in the position of a working man elected on a council, he could not afford to wait six months for the expenses incurred attending these meetings.  I ask the Minister to consider this point, or if not, to consider the suggestion made by Deputy Johnson.  If he does, he will be going a little way to meet us and not acting so doggedly as he has in regard to other amendments.  It is almost useless to put forward amendments here, because the Minister sets his face dead against them. 
    
      
       I should like to reinforce the statement I made already. The Minister has put this section forward as one of the most important regulating attendance.  So far as the class of persons Deputy Lyons has spoken for are concerned, I suppose for 75 or 80 per cent. of such persons, he is going to offer no added inducement or encouragement to them to attend.  If a man spends 5/- or 10/- on   a journey to a meeting, and if he is a poor man and has to wait for six months before payment, he is going to be out of pocket a very considerable sum for that period.  If it is true that non-attendance is caused by inability to pay expenses incurred by attendance, very little improvement will take place in regard to such persons if they have to remain out of pocket to the amount of his expenses for so long a period as six months.  It may not matter much for a few weeks, but I think it is asking too much for a man to spend a considerable sum of money on railway or on car journeys, and have to remain out of pocket to that extent for six months.  If we are going to use this method of paying out-of-pocket expenses or travelling expenses with a view to inducing greater regularity of attendance, I think we are bound to pay these out-of-pocket expenses almost as they are incurred.  A man with reserves will not find any difficulty, but a man who has no reserves is not going to be in a better position for attending meetings at a distance than he has hitherto been. 
    
    
      
       As I said before, there is some substance in the objection of Deputies to this section, but they must realise that members will certainly be in a better position under this Bill than they were before.  This is a very big advance.  I am not quite so sure that Deputy Johnson's argument carries the meaning altogether which he gives to it.  I am inclined to think that many members attending these meetings would prefer to get money in a lump sum than to get it immediately after the meeting. 
    
    
      
       If they can afford to wait. 
    
    
      
       It is likely that if the member were paid immediately after the meeting the money might be spent in some of the nearest houses of recreation, and he might be inclined to indulge in a little more liquid or substantial refreshment than if the money was not paid for six months.  If the member gets it in a lump sum at the end of six months he will probably lay it by and it would then really amount   to a saving.  I think that would be very much to the interest of Labour members attending these meetings.  I think that Labour members at present attend those meetings very well even without this added inducement, and I think they probably compare favourably with other members attending such meetings. 
    
    
      
       We hope that they will attend better in future and in larger numbers. 
    
    
      
       This will help them to attend better.  I think the  pros  and  cons  are equal as to whether they should be paid every six months or at the end of every meeting.  By accepting the amendment there would be no inducement for them to attend regularly. 
    
    
      
       I think that the Minister has not really met the case put up by Deputy Lyons and supported by Deputy Johnson.  There can be no great difficulty in paying once a month. In fact, I think it would be easier for the officials to do it in that way.  I would impress that on the Minister, if Labour makes the point that it is desirable to pay at the end of the meeting. There is a good deal in what has been said, that it is hard on a man, who is not too well off, to wait six months for his money.  As a matter of fact, it would be quite easy to pay the members' expenses at every meeting, but certainly it could be no hardship on anybody to pay them once a month. I would urge the Minister, so far as I can do so, to amend the period and make it every month. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy's speech is an illustration of the difficulty of carrying on when Deputies come in in the middle of a debate and get up to speak on it.  I think if the Deputy were here when I was replying to Deputy Lyons in the first instance he would realise that there was a serious objection to accepting this amendment.  The great objection to it is that at present   you have members elected to the county councils who attend only when matters of pecuniary interest come up, and throw the burden of carrying on the duties of the council on to the remaining members.  For that reason the section provides that no member is to be paid his expenses unless he has attended three-quarters of the meetings during the six months.  It was only a subsidiary argument I was replying to when the Deputy came in. 
    
    
      
       The Minister in his second last statement acted as a kind of good father to the members of the different committees.  He says that if they were to receive these expenses, this huge sum of money they are to get for attending the meetings&mdash;four-pence per mile each day they attend&mdash; they would adjourn to the nearest place of refreshment and make beasts of themselves. 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       That was the meaning of your words&mdash;and that it would be much better to get the money all together, put it in the bank and become multi-millionaires at the expense of the people.  Surely the Minister does not think that the Deputies are a pack of children, and that he has to take care of them, with a cane over them? He tells us we must do exactly as he wants.  Does he imagine that the Deputies have no sense of responsibility in local affairs? 
    
    
      
       On a point of order, how many times can a Deputy speak? 
    
    
      
       I only asked the Minister to try, if possible, to give the opportunity to people of attending these meetings.  The fourpence per mile is not going to put any man in such an improved condition that he will be independent of an employer.  The Minister has not met any part of the amendment, and I have no alternative but to call for a division, and even if I am the only man to vote, I will have the satisfaction anyway of delaying the Bill. 
    
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta, 11; Nil, 34. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. Seamus Eabhroid. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. 
             Tomas de Nogla. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Sean O Laidhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. John Conlan. Bryan R. Cooper. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Desmond Fitzgerald. Seosamh Mac Bhrighde. Seoirse Mac Bhrighde. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. 
             Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus N. O Dolain. Tadhg S. O Donnabhain. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Donchadh O Guaire. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraic O Maille. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig O hOgain (Gaillimh). Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Liam Thrift. Nicholas Wall.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of sub-section (2) the words: &ldquo;But the member shall only be deemed to be in attendance when he is present in the room of the meeting at a time not more than thirty minutes after the hour fixed for the meeting.&rdquo; 
       We have heard a great deal on this question of the payment of members' expenses, and while we agree that it is right and proper, I think we should also agree that it is something we should not permit any individual or number of individuals to trade upon. I can see it will be a very easy matter. Now, when conditions are to be changed with regard to the facilities afforded men who are to be public representatives, we might have individuals seeking representation on public boards largely because their expenses were to be defrayed.  Perhaps to a certain extent also they might feel their position on these public boards would put them in a position to further, will we say, their own interests or the interests of some of their friends.  We might find men who would be elected as public representatives coming to a meeting at an hour when some particular business that interested them in a particular way would be down for discussion.  We might have them coming by the way to a meeting and attending to fairs and markets, and really not coming to transact the business of the county councils or other public bodies at all. 
    
     It seems to me if expenses are to be paid to men who are elected on public boards, the idea behind it is to pay these men because they come to discharge certain duties in the interests of the public.  There should be some obligation on them to come to the meeting and transact the business or to take some part in the business of a body before they can conscientiously claim expenses for their attendance there.  I do not agree that a member of a county council or board of health or committee of agriculture, or any other man in a representative capacity, can be deemed to be in attendance at a meeting if he comes in when you have the business of the day half through, or more than half through.  I do not believe such an individual should be in a position to claim expenses for attendance at that meeting, because I cannot see that a man coming in when the business is   almost finished, can be deemed to be in attendance at all.  It seems to me there is a reason for the acceptance of the amendment, otherwise I believe it is beyond question this section of the Bill will be open to be traded upon.  I think the Minister should be as keen as anybody else to see that there will not be any opportunity for abuses, and I am afraid, as the section stands at the moment, there will be opportunity for abuses, because we know that no matter what effort is made, every individual who will stand in the interest of the public, to represent them on public boards, cannot possibly be of as high a type or as high a standard as, perhaps, the great majority.  It is to prevent abuses which are very likely to occur that I put down this amendment. I hope the Minister will accept it, and if he does not, I want to hear what he has against it. 
    
      
       I would like to support the idea that Deputy Baxter has in mind, but I suggest that his own proposal does not meet the end he has in view.  Even with the proposition included in the Bill, it would be necessary only for a member to attend at the early stages of the meeting, and, having his name recorded as being in attendance, he could leave to go to a meeting of another committee.  Some of us, perhaps a great many members of the Dail, will know of practices even when there is no question of payment of expenses, especially a year before the election, where the councillor would have his name recorded as being in attendance at as large a number of meetings as possible, but would merely attend for the purposes of his record and then leave.  I think something more than that is required, something more than even Deputy Baxter has suggested. I think it would require to have some kind of certificate from the chairman and secretary that the person concerned had been honestly in attendance for the greater part at least of the meeting.  I would like to say, for the whole of the meeting, but that might be used in evidence against members of the Dail on some future occasion. 
    
    
      
       At present. 
    
     
    
      
       The requirement in this matter is that persons claiming payment of expenses for attending at a meeting should be honestly in attendance doing the business for which they are called to attend, and the mere recording of attendance, either for the first half of the meeting or at any subsequent stage of the meeting, would not be enough.  I think some kind of certificate will be required from the chairman and the clerk in attendance before a record for paying purposes would be accepted.  I do not think that the amendment in its present form would satisfy the requirements or meet the end that Deputy Baxter has in view. 
    
    
      
       I, too, look on this amendment from the same point of view as Deputy Johnson.  I sympathise with the idea that Deputy Baxter has in view, but as Deputy Johnson said, I do not think the words will give effect to the idea that is in view.  It would mean that any member of the board could attend at any time between the hour at which the meeting was called and thirty minutes afterwards, and then leave again.  That is not attendance in the proper sense, in the way that it is understood.  I consider an attendance only a good attendance if the member attended during half at least, or two-thirds, of the time taken for the disposal of the business on the agenda. I would even be inclined to go as far as Deputy Johnson and say that he should attend until the whole business on the agenda has been disposed of. Members of public boards know that it is rather a common custom to see at the ordinary meetings a few members who will give almost all the time necessary to dispose of the agenda, but a special meeting is held, or a meeting at which some important matter is being discussed&mdash;an election, or jobs, to use a word that is pretty well understood&mdash;and you find a very fine attendance. 
    
     The moment a certain item on the agenda is disposed of you see a number of people looking for their hats and coats, and you do not see them again. This is the kind of thing that these people, representing the public interest on these boards, should be made to   realise, and if they are to be paid I think the least that might be expected is a proper attendance for that payment. I am greatly afraid that the words of the amendment do not ensure such an attendance.  I would appeal to the Minister to adopt the principle that Deputy Baxter, Deputy Johnson and I have in view, and on the Report Stage to introduce a form of words to ensure that the member attending will give a real attendance, in the sense that we understand the term.  If the Minister would meet the matter in that way I think he would satisfy every Deputy. 
    
      
       It is not often that we have such unanimity on an amendment as we appear to have in this particular case.  I think that Deputy Baxter was wise in bringing forward this amendment, and I am willing to accept the principle of it, but I think that Deputy Johnson and Deputy Gorey have followed a line of argument that is very effective.  The amendment will get over the difficulty of a member only turning up towards the close of a meeting, but we also want to get over the difficulty of a member coming for the first half-hour and then going away before half the business is concluded.  It will take some time to hammer out the best form of words to embody this principle, but I undertake to bring forward some form of words for the Report Stage which will probably meet the wishes of everybody. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 55 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Section 56 agreed to, and ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       
         AN LEAS-CHEANN COMHAIRLE  took the Chair. 
       SECTION 57. 
    
    
      
       The object of Section 57 is to bring the Libraries Acts into conformation with the new legislation which makes the county council the central authority for the administration of the county.  At present the Libraries Acts can only be adopted by   rural district and urban district councils; there is no machinery whereby they can be adopted by the county council, and our experience in Ireland, and the experience in England also, is to the effect that it is much better to have these library schemes carried out by an authority which operates over a larger area.  The circulating library system has been found to be very much the most effective kind, and by allowing the county council to become the library authority we will be able to foster this system.  This section also meets the wishes of the Carnegie Trust, which has allocated a very large sum of money for the purpose of establishing libraries in Ireland.  A sum of £45,000 has been allocated for this purpose between the years 1921 and 1925, and the allocation of that sum is really dependent upon the passing of a measure of this kind which will enable the Libraries Acts to be put in force by the county authority.  Otherwise, this sum of money may be devoted to some other purpose, possibly not an Irish purpose.  Accordingly I would impress upon Deputies the necessity for accepting this section. 
    
    
      
       There is one point with regard to the carrying into execution of the Libraries Acts that I want to raise on this section.  It has been held, I believe, that under the existing Libraries Acts it is illegal for the committee of a library to spend money on anything other than the purchase of books and absolutely necessary administrative expenses, the salary of the librarian, and so on.  In one or two cases library committees organised lectures in order to interest the public in the books in the library and give them some guidance as to what they should read.  Although the cost of the lectures did not carry the amount spent on the library beyond the penny rate, yet they were surcharged with the cost of them. It was not a very great cost; it was only the fee to the lecturer, his expenses, and so on, but I believe it was held to be illegal.  I know that in my constituency, in Rathmines&mdash;I am sorry that Deputy Sears is not here, because he knows more about it than I do&mdash;this was stopped.  The committee has succeeded   in organising children's lectures in the library because they were able to do it by employing to give lectures an official of the library who was paid out of the funds as an assistant librarian.  I have the syllabus which covers the five lectures.  The first was &ldquo;Tain Bo Cuailnge&rdquo;; there was a lecture on &ldquo;How Our Country is Governed&rdquo;&mdash;the Oireachtas, Public Services, Local Government, and Taxation&mdash;I should think that lecture would take more than an hour; I should be very sorry to deal with taxation in less.  Then there were &ldquo;Folk Talks on Shakespeare,&rdquo; and also &ldquo;A Talk on Citizenship.&rdquo;  What the library committees want to do is to carry on that practice and extend it to the case of adults. 
       Children who have got into the habit of attending these lectures should not find when they grow up that lectures will not be any longer provided for them.  The Committees cannot do that merely by employing members of the staffs as lecturers, because for adult lectures you must have outside people who have special knowledge and have studied the subjects, and you could not continue to have the lecturers drawn from the staff.  Were it not for the fact that this section is one of the sections that do not apply to the city and county of Dublin, I should have put down an amendment dealing with this matter, and I propose to put down such an amendment to the Bill dealing with the city and county of Dublin.  At the same time, it would be anomalous to have one law on the matter existing in the county and city of Dublin and another law, say, in Cork and Limerick, and I believe the public library committees in Cork and Limerick are anxious to organise such lectures. 
    
     I would ask the Minister to give the matter his consideration with a view to seeing if on the Report Stage he cannot bring in an additional sub-section to deal with the matter.  This is not a question of the waste of the ratepayers' money at all; the penny rate will not be exceeded.  It is merely a question of whether money ought to be spent on books which may not be read, or in teaching people the kind of books   that will interest them, and the lessons they could learn from them. 
    
      
       I want to support the views of Deputy Bryan Cooper on this matter.  I have sent in an amendment already for the Report Stage. Perhaps if the Minister has had time to look at this amendment he would be willing to accept it now.  It reads as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;The powers of the library authority under the Public Libraries (Ireland) Acts, 1825 to 1920, shall include power to incur expenditure out of the library rate on the provision of public lectures and exhibitions, whether the admission to such public lectures and exhibitions is free or subject to such charges or conditions as the library authority may determine, and libraries in schools.&rdquo;  I think that it may easily be shown that the value of the library will be multiplied several times if there can be added to the actual library work lectures and explanations of assistance to the readers. As Deputy Bryan Cooper said, the proposal will not add to the expenditure but will allow expenditure of a slightly different course than is at present within the statute.  That extension will add immensely to the value of the library, and I think in all respects it is very desirable to make the fullest possible use of, and get the fullest possible value out of money spent on public libraries, and that we should not have, as we see at present, books on library shelves not read, and when read, only half understood.  I think that there are great possibilities in the combination of lectures and reading and that that combination is going to add greatly to the value of the library.  The moneys spent out of the library rate will be very much more valuable with this assistance. Perhaps the Minister would indicate his acceptance of the amendment now and avoid bringing it up on the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       I desire to support Deputy Cooper on this point.  For several years I was a member of the Rathmines Township Library Committee, and I remember how very clearly the wishes of the Committee to do something useful on the lines Deputy   Johnson referred to were baulked by their lack of power in this respect. Many ideas were put before the Committee that might have borne fruit if they had this power.  The question of libraries in schools is an important one.  Deputy Johnson has referred to it.  Even though this Bill does not refer to the city and county of Dublin, I think some such amendment as Deputy Johnson read to us should be included in this Bill.  There are other libraries in the country, apart from the city of Dublin.  I have in my hand here an amendment which runs very much on the lines of that which Deputy Johnson read.  I hope the Minister will see his way to accept an amendment which embodies the ideas of Deputy Johnson. 
    
    
      
       I would like to support what has been said by the Deputies on the matter of those lectures.  It is not possible, in view of the present state of legislation, to hold those lectures, as has been pointed out.  On the other side, perhaps the most important development is on the line of those lectures. They have been found most useful and helpful, and anything that will help towards raising the standard of education amongst our people ought to have the support of the members of the Dail.  Consequently I hope the Minister will favour the proposal put forward. 
    
    
      
       I understand from the statement of the Minister that it is intended to work this scheme of libraries in conjunction with the Carnegie libraries.  I may say that I am a member of one of these branch Carnegie libraries, and I can say that they are of very little educational value. The books they stock are mainly, if not exclusively, the lightest of light literature&mdash;something, I suppose, like what a distinguished prisoner of late complained of being supplied with.  I know that requisitions have been sent in for a different class of books&mdash;books of an instructive nature, such as books of biography and travel.  But these books have not been supplied, and no reasons have been given for the omission. From time to time, books have been   exchanged, but they are all of the same type&mdash;novels and light literature.  I think if the Minister is going to have this scheme worked in conjunction with the Carnegie library, he ought to see that a different class of books is supplied. 
    
    
      
       Before the Minister replies, I would like to say that so far as my experience goes&mdash;and I have been instrumental in securing the circulation of quite a number of Carnegie library book-boxes&mdash;the quality of the literature is not at all that which Deputy Conlan suggests it is. 
    
    
      
       I have personal knowledge of it. 
    
    
      
       I think it is very largely a question of the selector.  It is not the Carnegie Library Trust that says what is wanted.  So far as my experience goes, they will respond to whatever the demand is.  Their general desire is to send educational literature of the heavier kind rather than light literature of the amusing kind that Deputy Conlan speaks of.  I could, within a very few minutes, take Deputy Conlan into two or three libraries where he would find books on constitutional history, economics, the constitutions of the world, the political developments of Europe, Dominion history, philosophy, geography, and other subjects of that character.  There are no other books in these libraries&mdash;no light literature at all.  I suggest that Deputy Conlan got into rather a bad groove&mdash;that the person who made the requisition has not requisitioned the right kind of books.  Certainly my experience&mdash;and it has resulted in the distribution of quite a considerable number of books from the Carnegie Trust&mdash;is entirely different from that of Deputy Conlan. 
    
    
      
       On a point of explanation, may I say that in conjunction with two or three other members of the branch library I spoke of, I made out a list of books, and these books were not supplied.  But there is a continuous stream of light literature. 
    
    
      
       I suggest that the   question can probably be solved.  Deputy Johnson is getting all these books and Deputy Conlan cannot get them. 
    
    
      
       We have all a good deal of sympathy with the opinions expressed here by the Deputies of the different parties.  I myself have always been impressed with the importance of lectures of this kind.  They certainly develop a taste for reading and encourage persons to go more fully into the subjects treated of.  I think it is a very commendable practice, but Deputies are aware that this section does not apply to Dublin at present. Dublin, I think, is more concerned with the application of this amendment than any other part of the country.  That is particularly so of Rathmines.  I had the advantage of spending many pleasant hours in Rathmines Library, and it certainly is a credit to Deputy Thrift and to the other members of that Committee.  I suppose it is one of the most up-to-date little libraries in the country.  At the present time the country districts are very far behind in this matter, and before we can make any advance on this question of libraries we have got to get the books. 
       One of the objections made against the Carnegie system in the past was that they went in for very extensive buildings in which there were no books. We might also incur the danger of having lectures and not having books to enable people interested to pursue their studies to a profitable conclusion.  I think it would be much better to allow this section to operate and to allow the country in general to come up to something approaching the standard attained in the city before applying this amendment.  The country, I may say, is very backward and there are very few of these libraries in existence at all.  Before accepting an amendment of this kind, which would have very far-reaching results, I would like to be able to consult with the Minister for Education. We are all in sympathy with the idea.  Certainly, if we had the books and the libraries throughout the country, these lectures would be a very valuable educational addition. 
    
     
        I am rather surprised at Deputy Conlan's remarks.  The class of books you have in the local library, I think, depends largely on the local committee. Of course, the law of supply and demand governs, to a great extent, these things, and we all know that the demand for light literature is very much greater than the demand for solid literature.  As Deputy Johnson has pointed out, the Carnegie Trust has gone out of its way to try to push the circulation of books of a more solid kind.  But it is not possible for them to overcome the tendency of people to indulge in light rather than in heavy literature.  I would be prepared to look into Deputy Johnson's amendment, but it is a matter that will require very full consideration.  I really think it would be better to allow this section to go as it is, and later on, when we would be applying this Bill to Dublin, we might be in a better position to insert an amendment to carry out the views of the Deputy. 
    
      
       My experience may be rather unfortunate but I stand by what I have said. 
    
    
      
       I would really press the Minister to go the other way about this matter.  I think he would be taking a better line if he introduced the subject in a general Bill of this kind&mdash; in a very tentative way, if he so desires. It would be quite easy to confine the section so as to prevent more than a certain percentage of the total expenditure to be expended in this way.  It would be quite easy to see that the section would not be worked in any extravagant way.  It is really an important matter to get an opportunity of introducing and I would urge the Minister to discuss the matter with the Minister for Education and see to what extent he could proceed on the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       I desire to intervene in this debate for a moment to say that there are many centres with libraries that are not Carnegie libraries.  The Carnegie Trust has nothing to do with them but   they are the same class of library. The library I have in mind is one of the oldest in the country.  It is in existence since the Libraries Act was first passed, and it has never got a grant from the Carnegie Trust or anybody else.  The expense is all met out of rates, and an additional rate of a penny in the £ has been struck this year, with the consent of the Department of Local Government, to provide the people with proper literature.  I think it would be a good thing if these people had authority to provide lectures.  I do not mean to say that there should be a large amount of money spent on lectures, but in the winter season, when the people have an inclination for lectures, it would be a good thing if they had an opportunity for indulging their taste.  I think the Minister should try to see if he could allow these committees to spend a small sum of money on lectures as has been suggested. 
    
    
      
       I would like to impress on the Minister the view urged by Deputy Professor Thrift that he should approach this matter from a different viewpoint to that which he proposes&mdash;that he should seek to introduce some provision such as I have suggested, with whatever safeguard he would consider necessary, after consultation with the Minister for Education. Though it is certainly true that the country is somewhat backward in the matter of libraries, this is only a permissive sub-section, and we want to give the opportunity to the urban council or the county council which is in advance of the other bodies, to do what the Minister agrees would be desirable in the case of, say, Rathmines.  It would be a pity to have to wait for another Local Government Bill to be introduced to grant this power to the country districts. 
    
     I am sorry that the question of this provision regarding libraries should have been made inoperative in respect of County Dublin.  I hope it may yet be found possible to insert an amendment of this kind, so as to make it applicable to the City and County of   Dublin.  But if the Minister feels that that is not possible, in view of the proposed changes, let us give powers to the country districts and to the smaller towns to apply some of their library rate for this purpose, with such limitation as the Minister himself may desire to impose in regard to the proportion of the money which may be spent on lectures, school libraries, the ordinary lending library or the reading room.  I do not want to press the Minister to say definitely now that he will accept this sub-section, but I would strongly urge him, especially in view of the general support that this proposition has received, to consider the matter with a view to inserting such an amendment on the Report Stage. 
    
      
       I rather regret that Deputy Johnson has followed the Minister's bad example in talking about country districts.  This section does not apply solely to country districts. It applies to the City of Cork, to Limerick, Waterford, Sligo, Dundalk and other towns, which have good libraries and which are as anxious to develop their libraries and create interest in them as Dublin or any of the townships around Dublin.  I would urge the Minister to reconsider Deputy Johnson's amendment&mdash;not to accept it now, but to reconsider it before Report Stage and see whether by the insertion of such words as &ldquo;subject to the consent of the Minister,&rdquo; it could not be made acceptable.  We should not impose an absolute legal bar on committees that are anxious to develop interest in their libraries.  I quite agree that in a county where the library system is practically new, it would be a mistake to spend money on lectures.  But the Minister could take power to stop action of that kind.  He has taken such power in a great many other cases, and I cannot see why he should not take it in this case. 
    
    
      
       I did not hear the beginning of this discussion, but I would like to ask the Minister a question about the obligations of the Carnegie Trust Libraries in the counties. As I understand, a county council, by   passing a resolution agreeing to take over the libraries, can do so after a certain period.  The Carnegie Trust for a certain number of years will have the books supplied free to these libraries. What I want to find out is, what happens when the Carnegie Trust hands over the library to the county council. It seems to me that, from the point of view of supplying books to the people in the rural districts, the scheme will not be very satisfactory.  I do not think that there is any machinery for supplying boxes of books to outside districts. The necessity for books exists more in the outlying rural districts than in the towns.  In the towns there are at present other libraries, but in the small villages and in out-of-the-way districts there is no access to books of an instructive type.  I have been rather puzzled as to what shape these schemes will take in the future. 
    
    
      
       The object of this section is largely to bring about what Deputy Heffernan desires&mdash;that is, to facilitate the greater development of the circulating system.  As a matter of fact, the further continuance of Carnegie support for schemes in this country is dependent upon having a centralised system in each county.  It has been found to be more efficient in England and, where it has been adopted in this country, it has also been found to be more efficient. 
    
     Instead of centralising the libraries in one county authority, meaning slower development of the library system in the county, it will bring about a much more efficient and a much more rapid development.  In regard to the points raised by Deputy Cooper and Deputy Johnson, I am in full sympathy with the principles that they have expounded; but there are a great many practical difficulties in the way.  Take, for instance, that in some particular county it is decided to give a lecture touching on the history of the last 10 years in Ireland.  I can imagine that if Deputy Cooper or myself, or perhaps Deputies who are not now sitting in the House, happened to be ratepayers in that particular county, they might have reason to object very strongly. It might, perhaps, be very hard for us   to come to unanimous agreement as to the kind of lecture we should like to hear. 
    
      
       Would not that also apply to the books? 
    
    
      
       It is quite possible that in the case I have instanced, we might object to subscribe for any such lecture. I will, however, take the matter up with the Minister for Education in the meantime, and if we can hit upon a safeguard sufficient to permit of putting this idea into operation, I would be only too pleased to accept it. 
    
    
      
       I am sorry that the Minister has not answered my point.  My difficulty is mainly with regard to the distribution of books amongst people in outlying districts. The Minister has not, so far, indicated any suitable method of distribution.  I would point out that the ordinary postal system is not suitable.  People usually would like to have books available in centres close to them.  Perhaps something might be done in the way of supplying books to co-operative societies, farmers' unions, labour unions, or any other such organisations.  In that manner books could be handed over to responsible officials for distribution amongst the people.  I believe that if books are kept in a central depot, in the principal town of a county, they will not be so available for the people generally as they should be.  Unless some better method of distribution is devised, the people will in future be no better off than they were in the past. 
    
    
      
       They could get them now through societies. 
    
    
      
       Of course I am aware they can get books supplied through societies and by means of the Carnegie Trust; but could not some system be devised of distribution through the county council? 
    
    
      
       I do not propose to lay down any hard and fast rule for county councils.  We will have to assume they will have a certain amount of intelligence and that they   will be able to see that the books are distributed properly amongst the people of the county.  Probably different counties will adopt different systems.  There are a few counties that have adopted the scheme up to the present, and in those counties matters seem to have worked out satisfactorily. In Tirconaill, which is one of the few counties in which a scheme is operating, fully 50,000 books have been distributed in 20 months; equally good results are being obtained in Kilkenny, Wicklow and Sligo.  Tirconaill's record is rather a good one.  I have no idea what particular machinery will be put into operation in the case of different counties.  That, in my opinion, is purely a matter for the local committees. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 57 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 58. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       To insert before Section 58 a new section as follows:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;Sub-section (7) of Section 9 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, shall be amended by omitting all the words in the sub-section following after the words &lsquo;in proportion to,&rsquo; and substituting therefore the following words:&mdash;&lsquo;the average number of lunatics from each county each financial half year, and the committee for the asylum shall be a joint committee of the counties (determined in case of dispute by the Minister) in proportion to the average number of lunatics from each county during the three local financial years which ended next before the last triennial election of county councillors. The resident medical superintendent of the asylum shall within ten days from the expiration of each such triennial period furnish to the Minister and to each council a return showing the average number of patients resident during the said period, and the proportionate representation to which each council is entitled on the basis of such average, provided that no council shall have   less than four representatives.  In the calculation of averages under this section, the nearest whole number shall be taken by discarding fractions less than one-half and reckoning as one fraction of one-half or more than one-half.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
     The Act of 1898 leaves the apportionment of expenses of an asylum, to which patients come from various counties, to a certain system.  That is based on taking an average of the patients for the preceding three years. Now, I understand this system leads to a good many anomalies and injustices, and I can quite see that such could take place.  I imagine that the system proposed in the amendment which would actually apportion the expenses according to the number of patients coming from a county in an existing half-year, would be much fairer and would be a more reasonable way of apportioning such expenses.  I do not think there would be any practical difficulty in working out the half-year plan.  Without going too closely into detail, I am putting the amendment forward in order to hear what is the proposed attitude of the Minister. 
    
      
       This amendment deals with two matters, the apportionment of the cost of maintenance between the councils concerned, and the membership of the joint committee.  The amendment proposes to substitute a half-year for a three years' average as the basis of a contribution.  I am in agreement with that idea, and I consider it is an improvement; but the existing provisions relating to representation have worked very well up to the present, and I do not see any good reason at the moment to alter them.  If the Deputy is agreeable to withdraw the amendment now, I would be willing to bring in an amendment on Report Stage that will probably cover the main points of the argument. 
    
    
      
       I am quite satisfied. I thought the representation point was so unimportant that I did not even refer to it.  The question of basis of apportionment, to my mind, was the principal matter. 
    
     
        Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       To insert before Section 58 a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The grants in aid of the costs of lunatics in district lunatic asylums payable under sub-section (2) (c) of Section 58 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, shall be paid to county councils through their asylum committees.&rdquo; 
       There is no question of principle involved in this at all; it is a question of the mode of payment.  The present practice is that the money goes direct from the Government to the county councils, and very frequently the money is not paid to the asylums until absolutely the last date upon which such payment should be made.  Very often the asylum has to try to work without having any funds at its disposal in order to meet its day-to-day expenses.  This amendment does not interfere in any way with present authorities; it merely suggests that payment should be made direct to the Board which has the actual distribution of the money. 
    
    
      
       I cannot agree with this amendment.  All through this present Bill absolute control of finance by the county council has been insisted upon, and I cannot make an exception in this particular case.  I am aware, in some few instances, there has been a delay on the part of county councils in meeting the obligations with regard to asylums; but these were abnormal cases, and, as things become normal in the country, there is no reason to anticipate that we will have a continuance or repetition of such things.  Subventions in relief of rates are properly made to the rate-making authority, and there is no reason why we should depart from this precedent without some very strong reasons for doing so. 
    
    
      
       Subventions which are made, and which are here called grants-in-aid, have been made on a basis which is not at present in accordance with the cost of the lunatics. That is, they are based on the cost   when the cost of living was very much lower than at present.  I would ask the Minister to agree to accept an amendment on Report that will provide that half the cost of these inmates should be borne by the grant-in-aid. 
    
    
      
       I do not think that the Deputy's question is germane to the Bill at all.  I am not in a position to agree to it.  As I explained on several occasions, we are getting a Commission to go into all these questions of lunacy, and until they bring in a report I am not going to deal with one of the most important points that can be raised before that Commission. 
    
    
      
       I am sorry the Minister has taken this line.  I do not think any control rests with the county council in regard to this particular money that is referred to.  I rather fancy that they act merely as a channel. Perhaps he would say, in corroboration of what I have been saying, whether it is true that certain grants go directly from the Government to the county council now, and that the county council is merely the channel, or whether the grants go directly from the Dublin Department to the asylum board. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 58 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 59. 
    
     (1)  No person shall hold any office of profit under or be employed for remuneration by or under any local authority from and after the holding of the election or appointment of members to such local authority held next after the passing of this Act while he is or within twelve months after he has ceased to be a member of such local authority, or of any other local authority whose functional area is, or is situate in, the same county or county borough as that of or within which is situate the functional area of such local authority   or, save with reference to and sanction of the Minister, in any county or county borough adjoining to that county or county borough. 
     (2)  Any member of a local authority whose membership is terminated by his resignation or otherwise, at or before the next election or appointment of members to such local authority after the passing of this Act shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to have ceased to be a member of such local authority on a date twelve months prior to the date of such election. 
    
      
       I beg to move my amendment, as follows:&mdash; 
       Before Section 59 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       (1)  If the council of any county borough or urban district are of opinion that there is a demand for allotments for the labouring population in their area, and that such allotments cannot be obtained at a reasonable rent and on reasonable conditions by voluntary arrangement between the owners of land suitable for such allotments and the applicants for them, the council shall provide a sufficient number of allotments and shall let such allotments to persons belonging to the labouring population resident in their area and desiring to take them. 
       (2)  The duty of the Council to provide allotments under this section shall not include the duty of providing allotments exceeding one acre in extent. 
       (3)  The council may, for the purpose of providing allotments by agreement or otherwise purchase or take on lease land whether situate within or without their area, and may improve any land acquired by them, and adapt the same for letting in allotments as they think fit. 
    
     (4)  The rents of the allotments shall be fixed at an amount not less than such as may reasonably be expected to ensure the council from loss, but in calculating such loss any expenses incurred in an unsuccessful   attempt to acquire land for allotments shall be excluded, and subject as aforesaid such rents may be from time to time charged as are reasonable having regard to the agricultural value of the land: Provided that if the Minister is satisfied that the rents to be charged for any allotments, if calculated in the manner aforesaid would be greater than the persons for whom the allotments are required could be reasonably expected to pay, and that the need for the provision of such allotments is urgent, he may authorise the council to fix and charge such lower rents as he may think expedient. 
     (5)  Every council which provides allotments under this section shall establish an allotments committee, a minority of members of which shall consist of persons who represent the persons for whom allotments are provided or are otherwise specially qualified, and the allotments committee shall advise the council on the exercise of its powers under this section and the council may delegate to the allotments committee, with or without restrictions, any of their powers under this section. 
     (6)  For the purpose of this section the provision of allotments shall be deemed to include the provision of land for common pasturage. 
     This is a new section, and it is a long one, with six sub-sections. The intention is that where there is a demand for allotments for the labouring population, and where such allotments cannot be obtained at a reasonable rent, and on reasonable conditions by voluntary arrangement between the owners and the applicants, the council should provide a sufficient number of allotments and let them to persons belonging to the labouring population living in the area and desiring to take them.  These allotments are not to exceed one acre in extent.  The rents shall be at an amount not less than what shall reasonably be expected to insure the council from loss, but in calculating such loss, any expenses incurred in an unsuccessful attempt to acquire lands for allotment shall be excluded. 
     
        The general intention is to enable county councils, county borough councils or urban districts to provide allotments for wage-earners.  It has been said that the demand for allotments has fallen off since the slump in prices. It may be that the war period was the high-water mark of the allotment cultivation, but I think we should be hopeful of a revival of the demand for allotments, and it is a demand which we should encourage.  Notwithstanding the fact that there has been some falling off in the use of allotments, there are in many parts of the country people clamouring for an opportunity to cultivate a small patch of garden for their own use.  I hope it is not necessary to make any strong appeal for the principle. It has been adopted in some boroughs. 
     This amendments is to enable county councils and urban councils to do what boroughs have been able to do in the past, and I hope the Minister will accept the general intention, even if the actual language of this section is not acceptable.  Before attempting to enlarge upon the matter.  I would wait, perhaps, for the Minister to say whether he accepts the principle of the proposal or not. 
    
      
       With the general intention of this amendment, I believe that I, with every other Deputy in the Dail, am in full sympathy and agreement. I am sure that it would be impossible to give effect to the intention which this amendment embodies, in this particular form.  Last year this question because urgent, and I had a consultation with the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, and we actually had a Bill drafted to meet this particular situation. 
    
     Owing to various circumstances at the time, particularly the stress of work, and the fact that more important Bills were on, we had to drop the matter. As a matter of fact it was a problem that was being dealt with by the Minister for Agriculture.  It had not come into my particular bailwick. That was a very long Bill.  It ran into seventeen or eighteen sections and a couple of Schedules, as far as I remember. If we were to give effect to that   intention we would have to introduce a special Bill.  We could not do it in this way, as a lot of details have to be considered, and a lot of interests affected to be consulted, before we could give effect to this legislatively. Accordingly I cannot accept this amendment.  But I would be willing to consult with the Minister for Lands and Agriculture as to what can be done to give effect to the intention that has prompted the moving of this amendment. 
    
      
       One has a difficulty in facing this matter in view of the Minister's explanation as to the proposed Bill.  I think, but I am not sure, this was promised in the speech of the Governor-General.  It certainly was promised a long time ago, and it has not yet seen the light.  People from all parts of the country are calling for some Allotments Bill to enable them to carry on the work which they have been carrying on for some time.  They are now being deprived of their opportunities for doing so.  If one could see any possibility of an Allotments Bill to satisfy the requirements being brought forward and passed within a short time so as to enable work to be begun for next Spring, then I would not press the amendment.  In the absence, however, of any assurance of any kind, I feel the need for asking the Dail to include in this Bill some powers for councils to provide allotments. 
    
     Even if there were only twenty people in a small town seeking to use their spare time to grow cabbages and potatoes for the family use, it is beneficial. It would be more beneficial if, in addition, they could be taught and encouraged to grow a greater variety of vegetables.  From the economic and the general cultural point of view, it is important that we should encourage this movement.  It is because one sees no way other than through this Bill that I have brought forward this new section.  As I said, if we could have any assurance that between the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Local Government, perhaps even I should include the Minister for Education, a Bill to provide allotments would   be brought in at a very early date, I should be satisfied.  Without that assurance, however, I would ask Deputies to support the principle involved in the amendment. 
    
      
       I do not think I can add very much to what I have already said.  It is a matter that I would have to take up with the Minister for Agriculture, and I am not sure but that I would have to get the consent of the Executive Council again for the introduction of such a measure.  Really it would be a matter for the Minister for Agriculture rather than for me to decide.  I think it was he who was to introduce the Bill on the last occasion when it had to be dropped.  It is very difficult to say that you will bring in a Bill and have it passed within any particular time.  The course of the present Bill is a sufficient example of that. If anybody told me at the time I introduced it that I would not have it through before next Christmas, I would have laughed at him. 
    
    
      
       Next Christmas is a long time off. 
    
    
      
       I will agree to take up the matter with the Minister for Agriculture   and see what can be done.  Deputy Johnson says he has no other way of making the feelings of the people he represents known except by inserting this amendment in the Bill, but I think that the Deputy and his party adopted a very effective way of making known their attitude with regard to another matter.  They introduced a Railway Bill which met with considerable approval in the Dail.  I do not know but that they will be able to introduce a measure of this kind also.  However, in the absence of that, I will be prepared to take the matter up with the Minister for Lands and Agriculture and see what we can do, but I cannot give any specific guarantee as to having a measure through before a particular time, particularly as I have several other Bills, which are on the tapis for the last six months, which I have not been able to bring forward.  For instance, I have an Electoral Bill applying the present electoral law to local government elections.  That Bill should be brought in and passed before the next Local Government elections, but I have not a chance of doing it.  The result is that we will have to have the Local Government elections on a different system from the recent parliamentary elections. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 19; Nil. 29. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Sean Buitleir. John J. Cole. John Conlan. Seamus Eabhroid. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Risteard Mac Liam. 
             Patrick J. Mulvany. Tomas de Nogla. Ailfrid O Broin. Aodh O Culachain. Tadhg S. O Donnabhain. Micheal O hIfearnain. Sean O Laidhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. P. O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean. Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. John Hennigan. Seosamh Mac Bhrighde. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Liam Mac Sioghuird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. 
             Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Semus N.O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Aindriu O Lamhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraig O hOigain (Gaillimh). Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Sean Priomhdail. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 23, to delete the words &ldquo;twelve months&rdquo; after the word &ldquo;within,&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;one month.&rdquo; 
       According to this section, any member of a council, whether of an urban council or a county council, or any committee, who seeks and is anxious to occupy a position under any public body, is disqualified from doing so. According to the section, he would have to be resigned for 12 months before he would be eligible.  I am sure the Minister will agree to accept this amendment. It merely asks him to delete the word &ldquo;twelve&rdquo; and to insert the word &ldquo;one,&rdquo; that is, if a person who had been a member of a public body happened to be appointed to a position under any other local body he should not have to wait 12 months before he is eligible, but, on the contrary, should be eligible in one month.  If he resigns, say, to-day from his position as a member of a local body, he should be eligible to be appointed to an office of profit in one month.  According to the old Act, not more than six months had to elapse from the time a man resigned until he was eligible for such employment. I think it is a hardship on a certain section of the community that such a period of disqualification should apply. 
    
     It is always necessary to find the best brains and intelligence for such positions such as would be required in the employees of committees of management of county boards of health and so on.  Members of such committees have experience of local administration on which they have been engaged for years, and they know exactly where savings can be made.  If a man who had been a member of such a committee was fortunate enough to secure a position of employment under that committee, I think it would be very wrong to say that a period of 12 months should elapse from the time he resigns his representative position to the time at which he can take up his new employment.  I think this amendment is really necessary, but, of course, no argument of mine will convince the Minister if he does not want to accept   it.  I am really asking the Minister to meet the wishes of people who know the country, and who know how local administration should be carried on.  If the Minister accepts this amendment he will be doing a service not only to those who may be seeking positions but to the ratepayers in general, because they are in a position to know their own business. 
    
      
       As this section is drafted, I fully anticipate it will put an end to jobbery.  As the Deputy wishes to amend it, if his amendment were accepted, it would reduce jobbery to a fine art.  Therefore, notwithstanding the eloquence of the appeal of the Deputy, I must reluctantly refuse it. 
    
    
      
       May I ask the Minister, in the event of this amendment not being accepted, will the section, as it stands, affect a man who is a public representative at the moment, and who holds the position of old age pension clerk to the local authority of which he is a member himself? 
    
    
      
       It will not affect him if he resigns at the next election.  Sub-section (2) covers that. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but what I want to get from the Minister is this: will this not operate immediately against this man who holds a position in the authority of which he is himself a member? 
    
    
      
       Under sub-section (2) he can resign his membership at the next election and that will get him out of the difficulty. 
    
    
      
       But is it illegal at the moment for him to act as clerk to a committee of the authority of which he is a member? 
    
    
      
       He will have to resign one position or the other.  He cannot continue to remain as clerk and remain a member of the local body at the same time. 
    
     
        Amendment put and negatived. 
     Amendment 86 (b) not moved. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 59 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 60. 
     (1)  The Minister may at any time if he thinks fit, order a local inquiry into the performance of its duties by any local authority, and Article 32 of the Schedule to the Local Government (Application of Enactments) Order, 1898, shall apply to every such local inquiry. 
     (2)  If and whenever&mdash; 
     (a)  the Minister is satisfied, after the holding of such a local inquiry as is mentioned in the foregoing sub-section, that the duties of a local authority are not being duly and effectually discharged by such local authority, or 
     (b)  a local authority wilfully neglects to comply with any lawful order, direction, or regulation of the Minister, or 
     (c)  a local authority fails to comply with any judgment, order, or decree of any court in Saorstat Eireann, or 
     (d)  a local authority refuses after due notice to allow its accounts to be audited by an auditor of the Minister, 
     the Minister may, by order, dissolve such local authority, and either order (under the power hereinafter conferred on him) a new election of members of such local authority or transfer the property and the several powers and duties of such local authority to any body or persons or person he shall think fit. 
     (3)  Whenever the Minister makes an order under this section dissolving a local authority, he may appoint such and so many persons as he shall think fit to perform the duties of such local authority, and may from time to time remove all or any such persons and appoint others in their   place, and may fix the tenure of office, duties, and remuneration of all such persons. 
     (4)  The remuneration of all persons appointed under the foregoing sub-section shall be paid out of the revenue of such local authority as part of its expenses. 
     (5)  At any time after a local authority has been dissolved under this section, the Minister may by order cause a new election of members of such local authority to be held, and upon the completion of such new election all the property, powers, and duties of the dissolved local authority shall vest in the body so elected, notwithstanding that the same may have been transferred by the Minister under this section to any other body, persons, or person. 
     (6)  The Minister may from time to time, by order, do all such things and make all such regulations as in his opinion shall be necessary for giving full effect to any order made by him under this section. 
     (7)  Every order made by the Minister or by the Minister for Local Government under Section 12 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923), shall, notwithstanding the repeal of that section by this Act, continue in force as if such order had been made by the Minister under this section, and the provisions of this section shall apply to every such order as if the same had been made under this section. 
    
      
       I beg to move an amendment.  Sub-section (1), to delete the word &ldquo;may,&rdquo; line 36, and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;shall.&rdquo;  This gives the Minister more power than he wants, judging by the wording of the section. The section says the Minister may at any time, if he thinks fit, order a local inquiry into the performance of its duties by any local authority, and Article 32 of the Schedule to the Local Government Order, 1898, shall apply in every such local inquiry.  I do not want the Minister to say he may order   such an inquiry.  I move this amendment to give him complete control over these local authorities, and if a local authority misbehaves in any way, my amendment provides that the Minister shall cause an inquiry.  He cannot argue against this amendment.  It only places more confidence in the officers of his own Department.  It gives him full power and control over local authorities and if they do not act in accordance with his wishes he shall order an inquiry, whether sworn or private as he may think fit, and secure sufficient evidence to thoroughly understand whether that public authority should be allowed to function any longer or not.  If he accepts this amendment he will in a short time be able to find very handsome jobs for a large number of commissioners. 
    
    
      
       I do not know whether there would be unanimity in the voice of Labour on this particular amendment.  I am inclined to think there would not, that is to say, in the intention behind it.  If the Deputy had taken the precaution to give full effect to his intention we might have been able to have some kind of a debate on this, but I am afraid, as the amendment stands, it really means nothing.  The section reads, as amended in the way suggested by the Deputy, &ldquo;The Minister shall, if he thinks fit.&rdquo;  The two terms are contradictory.  If the Deputy had left out the words &ldquo;if he thinks fit&rdquo; we might have been able to have a discussion on the amendment, but as it stands it means nothing, as I have already stated.  I am thankful to the Deputy for the attempt he has made to put more power into my hands. 
    
    
      
       If the Minister is agreeable. I am satisfied to have the words &ldquo;if he thinks fit&rdquo; deleted.  I am sure the Minister will not refuse this privilege, which would place him in a position of such great control over these local bodies.  So far, the Minister has not accepted any amendment that I put forward on this Bill.  I think if he were to accept the amendment he would secure better local administration.  At   present members of public boards act more or less as tools, because they know that anything they do must be sanctioned by the Department of Local Government.  If they persist in carrying out their orders without sanction, then the Minister may cause an inquiry to be held and he has the power to dissolve them. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
    
    
      
       On behalf of Deputy O'Connell, I beg to move amendment 87.  I think it would be well if amendments 87 and 88 were taken together, as one is consequential on the other. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy can move the two amendments now. 
    
    
      
       Amendment 87 reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (5), page 3, line 28, to delete the words &lsquo;at any time&rsquo; and substitute therefor the words &lsquo;not later than twelve months.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
       Amendment 88 reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (5), line 4, to delete the word &lsquo;may&rsquo; and substitute therefore the word &lsquo;shall.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
    
     If the sub-section were altered, as suggested in these amendments, it would read: &ldquo;not later than 12 months after the local authority has been dissolved under this section the Minister shall, by order, cause a new election of members to be held etc.&rdquo;  The sub-section, as it stands, leaves it entirely optional with the Minister whether he shall order a local election or not.  Once the authority is dissolved it may remain dissolved for all time under this section.  We desire to limit the period of non-existence to 12 months, and that after dissolution it shall be incumbent on the Minister to order a new election within a period of 12 months.  I think that unless it is the intention of the Minister permanently to dissolve a local authority the amendment is reasonable and should appeal to the Dail.  It merely seeks to ensure that an election shall be held for a local   authority within 12 months after it has been dissolved.  Perhaps the Minister is content to accept the amendment. 
    
      
       I am sorry I cannot fall in with Deputy Johnson's wishes on this point.  This section is a readaptation of Section 12 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act in a permanent form and is a very necessary section.  It has been found to work very well in the past.  It is not by any means a penal section. Situations often arise owing to no fault of the councils in question.  Their accounts get into a very bad way, and their administration becomes involved and it becomes extremely difficult to put things on a proper administrative footing. 
       The only remedy for such a situation is to appoint a whole-time officer with expert knowledge and training, not only expert knowledge and training of local authorities in the country, but with a knowledge of the working of local government in other countries, that is to say, a man who is in every way capable and efficient of conducting the affairs of local bodies.  It is not with any particular pleasure that I have resorted to the appointment of such officers.  It is only when I find that a situation has arisen which is of such a nature that, if drastic measures of this kind are not adopted, the ratepayers are going to lose very heavily, or that local administration is likely to break down or is on the point of breaking down, that I take this action.  When I do resort to this step and appoint a commissioner, it is absolutely necessary that he should be given a free hand for a certain length of time.  When a local authority gets into a bad mess, a local authority of the importance, say, of the Dublin or Cork Corporations, or a large county council, you cannot possibly remedy all the evils that have arisen perhaps over a course of ten or twelve years in the short space of 12 months. 
    
     That is altogether too small a minimum to insist upon for this purpose.   It is very difficult to say what length of time would be necessary to bring about all the reforms that are necessary when a local authority gets into a really bad economic situation.  Accorddingly, I will have to resist this amendment. The only effect of it would be, first, that a commissioner might be carrying out his duty effectively and have gone a long way to put a local authority on the straight path again when all his efforts might be impaired by putting him out before he had his work thoroughly cleaned up, and instead of allowing him to create a situation that would enable the newly-elected body to carry on with efficiency and success, it would leave a situation which would entail on me the necessity of appointing another commissioner to complete the work that the first commissioner was not given time to perform completely. 
    
      
       I take it from the Minister's answer that he is not prepared to put a limit on the period which a local authority shall be administered by a commissioner, so that when we are passing this section the power will be handed over to the Minister absolutely to say whether a local body shall be administered by a commissioner. We are empowering the Minister to destroy the whole system of government by elected bodies without limit of time.  That is a revolutionary act.  It is completely altering the whole system under which local administration has been conducted. 
    
    
      
       At present in operation. 
    
    
      
       Yes.  It is in operation under the law that we have taken over, but we are asked now to confirm a power which ought never have been given.  I have no objection to the principle that, where a local authority is utterly incompetent or corrupt, the Minister should have power to dissolve that local authority, but I do not think that he should have power to maintain that state of dissolution for ever as he has under this section.  I think that the system of government by elected   bodies, once we adopted it in this Bill, as we are, should be insured, and that if there is to be a dissolution of one body for its corruption then we should elect another.  If we are going to throw upon localities&mdash;this is the essence of my objection to this Bill right through&mdash;responsibility for their own administration, you have got to make them responsible and make them feel that some responsibility lies upon them for selecting competent persons, and, if they make a mistake the first time, the Minister has power to dissolve that authority, and impose upon the local electorate a duty of electing another authority, but let it at all times be thrown upon the locality. 
    
     Once upon a time I thought that that was a principle generally accepted by those who call themselves democrats and nationalists.  I learned, however, that that is only a temporary conviction in special circumstances, but I am of a conservative temperament and am inclined to carry out a principle I hold, so far as it is possible within reason, and not to change with every new circumstance. In this case I ask the Dail to agree that there should be a limit to the period in which an elected body should be non-operative, that there should be always, at least within a period of twelve months, an opportunity given to the local electorate to elect a new authority.  The Minister says that he has power at the present time to dissolve the local authority, to put in a commissioner, and keep him there as long as he likes.  I know he has that power and that he has availed of it to a considerable extent.  I am sorry to learn that from him by inference that he proposes to keep localities deprived of those local authorities.  If there is to be a system of local responsibility for local administration through elected persons, whatever may be their power, whether it is to be enlarged or limited, and if there is to be an elected body we should ensure that it shall not be suspended for more than twelve months and give the electorate a chance to amend its procedure, and to change its representatives.  I ask the Dail to disagree with the Minister's view that he should have this absolute power, and to lay down in a statute that his power   to keep a local authority in suspense should not last longer than twelve months. 
    
      
       The procedure we are adopting at present is triennial elections. If, at the end of a year and a half, one of these elected bodies did something which, in the opinion of the Minister would necessitate its abolition, after twelve months you come within six months of a new election, and am I to understand that you are to have a special election for this particular body with a triennial election following in six months? 
    
    
      
       I imagine that the amendment is fairly clear.  It means that if the Minister deems it necessary to suspend a local authority at any time a new election shall be held for that local authority within twelve months of its suspension. 
    
    
      
       No matter when the other elections are coming on? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       I suggest to the Minister to accept the amendment and to reconsider it between now and the Report Stage, and to add to the clause as it stands a paragraph to the effect that he could reserve the right of postponing such election if circumstances warranted, and so make some fixture as to the holding of an election.  As it stands, it is rather general. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps it would satisfy Deputy Gorey if I said I am concerned with the principle rather than the dates.  If the Minister said two years, or three years, it would go far to meet my point of principle, but I wish to insist that there should be a limit as to the time during which the Minister's power shall be exercisable. 
    
    
      
       I do not know if the Deputy will be satisfied with five years. 
    
    
      
       The Minister seems to   be inclined to accept this amendment with an extension of the period.  I would suggest that the period of three years might be put in, and that would cover the whole period for which a council will be elected.  One must realise the reasonableness of having some limit, and, as far as I am concerned, I view with some apprehension the trend of things that would give a Minister autocratic or unlimited power in connection with any of these matters that affect the country as a whole.  Assuming he has got unlimited power, it may be said that the Dail is always here to rectify or criticise the action of the Minister, but one can quite well see that a situation might arise in which this Dail, as far as the opposition is concerned, would be powerless, and grave injustice, or what would appear to the opposition to be a grave injustice, might take place.  In view of the fact that the Minister seems to be willing to accept the principle that there should be a limitation of the time, I suggest that the amendment should be altered to read three years instead of one year. If Deputy Johnson will accept that, I would certainly support him. 
    
    
      
       I understood the Minister to say that he will be prepared to accept a period of five years.  But the effect of that would be that the people of a locality would be without representatives on a local authority for five years and have in their stead a commissioner. Surely the Minister is aware that if local bodies are dissolved simply because they are not carrying out the duties of their office, if an election is held within 12 months of the dissolution of that body people are not going to vote these same representatives back to office.  A new body altogether will be elected to carry out the business of that body in a proper manner.  I am of opinion that the dissolution of councils, and the putting in of commissioners in their places, is not in accordance with the wish of the people.  Why should you keep these commissioners there for five years against the will of the people? I think it is only right that people should be allowed to elect their representatives.   Twelve months after the dissolution of a body is long enough for any commissioner to act, and I think he ought to be able to make enough in that time to keep him for the rest of his life. 
    
    
      
       I think a period of three years would be quite long enough in which to get a council reformed.  I think if they cannot make reforms in that time they will never make reforms, or there is not much hope for them doing so. 
    
    
      
       I think, on the whole. I would be willing to accept the period of three years, but I am a little doubtful about it.  Take the position in Dublin, with a Commission inquiring into the whole situation regarding Dublin. It may take a long time to bring in a report, as it has wide terms of reference, and then that report will have to be considered and legislation based on it.  There may be a difficulty about bringing in such legislation and having it passed through the Dail in time to have an election within three years of the date of dissolution, but on the whole, I think we may chance that. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps the Minister will include Section 60 among those that do not apply to the city and county of Dublin? 
    
    
      
       I am afraid not.  If Deputy Johnson is willing to accept three years, I would be willing to concede that. 
    
    
      
       The principle is accepted. I think three years too long, but as I see no chance, from such expressions as have been uttered, of the Dail agreeing to twelve months, I will, with reluctance, with the leave of the Dail, alter the amendment to read &ldquo;not later than three years,&rdquo; reserving the right to persuade people in another place to press for the twelve months. The amendment would read:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;In sub-section (5), line 3, page 28, to delete the words &lsquo;at any time&rsquo;  and substitute therefor the words &lsquo;not later than three years.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     Amendment 88 also agreed to. 
    
      
       I move to report progress. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - THE DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported. 
     Sitting suspended, and resumed at 7 o'clock, An Ceann Comhairle in the Chair. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - PROTECTIVE DUTIES&mdash;RETURN ASKED FOR. 
    
      
       I move for: 
       A return showing the number of persons, male and female, employed in the Saorstat in the manufacture of:&mdash; 
       (1)  Boots and shoes; 
       (2)  Confectionery (including jam), 
       (3)  Soap, 
       (4)  Candles, 
       (5)  Bottles, 
       (6)  Commercial Motor Bodies, 
       together with the maximum and minimum wages paid in each industry, on the 1st April, 1924; 1st July, 1924; and 1st October, 1924, respectively, and further, to move that a similar return be rendered to the Dail quarterly in future. 
    
     Deputies will remember that these six trades which I have enumerated, and about which I want information, were the six which were selected by the Minister for Finance for an experiment in protection, and protective duties, varying in degree, were imposed on these articles by the last Finance   Bill.  Now, the chief justification for protection is that it will give more employment in the country, and I have put down this motion in the hope of getting some information as to what has been done already, and in the hope that I may continue to receive information on this very important matter. I have tried to frame it in such a manner that we shall have an absosolutely fair picture of what this will be. 
     I have chosen quarterly periods, one before the duties were imposed, one just after the duties were imposed, and in the case of soap and candles, before they came into force, and the latest the 1st October.  I think if I had only taken these three dates I should not have had the fair picture that I want to get, because these duties cannot be expected to yield an enormous amount of employment at once.  But we ought to be able to say what the tendency is and to what extent the rise in prices which has resulted from the imposition of protective duties is counteracted by the additional employment given, and so I have put down in the motion for the returns to continue quarterly in future, in order that we may follow the whole principle.  There is no dispute, I think, that prices have risen as a result of these duties.  I find in the cost-of-living return for mid-October, for which the Minister is responsible, the statement that between July and mid-October boots increased by 4.3 per cent. in price, candles increased by 4.9 per cent., and soap by .6 per cent.  I cannot find what has been the increase for mid-July; it does not appear to have been placed in the Library, but these are irrespective of certain rises which took place when the duties were first imposed, and show that the tendency is continuing. If we were to judge fairly, and I believe that every Deputy wishes to judge fairly, we ought to have exact statistics as to employment, as well as exact statistics as to increases in cost. I should welcome any further particulars that the Minister may be able to give us, such as the number of people working full time and short time.  The Minister for Finance made a speech at one of the by-elections, in which he said that a number of people working short   time have been put on full time.  Any information of that kind I should be only too glad of, but I did not insert in my motion a request for such information, because I was afraid of making it too cumbersome, and for the same reason I want to know the maximum and minimum wages paid, because it is possible that a protective tariff, while not increasing employment in a particular factory, might enable the owners of that factory to pay better wages.  If so, that would be an advantage that should not be overlooked.  If the Minister cannot give me the return in the exact form in which I ask for it, I am willing, within reason, to modify my request. 
    
      
       I beg to second the motion.  I think it might be useful if we could be given the amount of money which has been gained by the revenue for the period since the imposition of these duties.  That would probably be a matter for the Minister for Finance. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Cooper has tabled a motion asking for a return showing the number of persons, male and female, employed in the manufacture of six groups of certain articles, together with the maximum and minimum wages paid in each industry on certain dates, as stated, and that a similar return be rendered quarterly.  He has explained the purpose, that it is to find out the effect of the tariff experiment on these selected industries.  On that matter of the aim, I do not think you can get a proper indication of the effect of a tariff simply by taking the effect on the industry in question, because the effect of a tariff may be, and ordinarily would be, if successful, to increase employment, and to give employment not merely in the industry concerned but by an increase in trade generally to lead to employment in other industries, which in some of these groups might easily be indicated, but which would be very difficult to indicate in every case,   as the ramifications would be very widespread. 
    
    
      
       He is not asking for that. 
    
    
      
       I see that he is not asking for it.  Therefore, even though I can supply all these details, there would not be the proper material on which to form an opinion as to whether or not the tariff experiment had been successful, even though I could supply the information asked for, because I say the ramifications of the tariff should go outside the six or seven industries individually protected. However, having said so much about the general object of moving for this return, I must confess that as my Department is at present constituted, with its present staff, and with its present powers, it would not be possible to give these figures. 
       The only information which we have with regard to persons employed in industries is that which is obtained from the returns showing the particulars derived from unemployment books, and the exchange of old unemployment books for new in certain industries, grouped in a particular manner. There is a list of 81 classifications of industry, and roughly I could get, by a method of subtraction and addition, some indication of the people employed in any one of these 81 classifications. Beyond that it would be a matter, as far as the figures at my disposal at the moment are concerned, simply of conjecture as to how these were divided in the smaller individual industries in any one of the classifications. 
    
     With regard to wages.  I have not the particulars in the required detail or in the required form.  Particulars as to wages or changes in wages are collected by the Statistics Department only when changes in wages take place as a result of a trade dispute or when big changes, through some other cause, in wages are announced through the Press.  I agree with the Deputy in his general object, that industries which have got the benefit of the tariff should   not be allowed to hide certain essential facts which will at least form some material for judgment in the future, though I hold they will not give material from which a complete and comprehensive estimate can be formed. I could, of course, get the particulars. I could get every particular asked for, if I had, No. 1, an extra staff, and if I get through certain statistical legislation which will come on afterwards, and if I had compulsory powers to demand these figures from employers in certain trades.  But with my present staff, and with the present powers, that is not possible.  What I could do is this.  I could get sufficient material to make a general statement about the position, and the material required for that general statement could be obtained in this way&mdash;that I would undertake to ask the firms concerned in these six lists to give me particulars of, firstly, those in their employment on the 1st April, 1924, and on the 1st December, 1924, and secondly, to give the average wages for an ordinary week in December, 1924, as compared with April, 1924.  I could then present a summary giving the general tenor of these replies.  I could present that to the Dail. 
     I do, however, object to one thing in the motion&mdash;to give a similar return quarterly.  I do not think that you will impress the public that tariffs are being given a fair chance, if you are going to have returns sought for and presented quarterly in a gapped sort of way and with no long period over which the change might be shown.  I think it could be done, at least the summary which I propose to give to the Dail could presumably be given quarterly, but I think an unfortunate impression would be created if that were insisted upon.  That is my own point of view, and I do not say that everybody should hold it, but I have that feeling.  I know that is the view that would be taken by a number of these advisory committees who come into me regularly every week on a policy I adopted some time ago of getting information through these committees. I might answer then to the Deputy that while I cannot agree to supply the details asked for&mdash;and I put it to the Dail that even though they   vote for this return they will have to proceed afterwards to give me an increase of staff and to give me certain compulsory powers with regard to trades&mdash;I will undertake to inquire from the employers the details that I have already described as to the number of people in their employment on the 1st April and the 1st December this year, and the average wages for a week in April as compared with December. If that meets the case, I will set about getting these particulars at once and a return will be made as soon as possible. 
    
      
       I would like to say in this matter that I think this is something that should be engaging the attention of the Ministry so closely that at any period when any information is sought for by any Deputy, the Minister should be in a position to give that information. While the Minister may argue that it is essential that a long period should be given over which tariffs might have a trial, even by this time there should be an indication as to whether tariffs were bringing improvements in these industries in the shape of employment, and employment in other industries as well, as the Minister tried to add.  If any changes had been brought about, it seems to me the Minister should be observing these changes.  He should be watching to see if changes have been brought about and only by that means will the Minister be able to determine when the next Budget is introduced whether the tariffs should be changed or whether they are bringing the improvements in industries that it was believed they would bring. 
    
     Perhaps it is true that the Minister's staff may be inadequate to give the details sought.  The Minister's Vote may be too small to do all that Deputy Cooper seeks, but it seems to me the Ministry ought to be in a position at any time to give a good deal of the information sought for by Deputy Cooper.  They ought to be observing the operation and the effect of those tariffs, and the Dail, and the country as well, should be in a position to have this information placed before them whenever it is sought.  I am not satisfied   that the Minister has put up a sufficient reason for not giving us this information.  Whether or not the numbers of his staff or his want of power may be in fault is something I am not in a position to judge.  Even if he has not those compulsory powers, the firms who would likely benefit under the operation of tariffs ought to be furnishing the Ministry with returns show-the effects week by week.  There is nothing more important than statistics like those in the Minister's Department. Personally, I am not satisfied that the Minister has given us sufficient reason for not having this information to place before the House. 
    
      
       Like Deputy Baxter, I would like to state that I think an important matter of this kind should be receiving the constant consideration of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, especially in view of the fact that we were told, when the Minister for Finance was introducing tariffs in his Budget of this year, that it was merely an experiment.  At the moment, when we have not the information Deputy Cooper asked for, it looks as if it was from the point of view of tariffs the matter was brought into the Budget.  Surely, when trade is at such a low ebb and the number of unemployed is so great, the Ministry should look into matters of this kind very seriously.  This matter of Protection or Free Trade is engaging the attention of a great many people in the country at present.  It is a very controversial matter all over the State, and in view of the fact that it is an experiment, it should warrant most serious consideration on the part of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 
    
     At the same time, I am not of the opinion that the returns we would get now would be any criterion of what Protection would do for this country. That is to say, the figures that might be available now, after such a short period, would not be any criterion of what Protection could do for the country&mdash;especially when places were overstocked with boots and other articles. Some of us pointed out from these benches at the time that too much time was allowed to import boots between   the date of the Budget and the appointed date.  At the same time, a variation or an improvement ought to be apparent now, and the Ministry for Industry and Commerce ought to be in a position to make some sort of report in connection with the matter.  Surely it ought to be apparent to some extent. I believe that the Ministry did not give the matter the close attention it should have given it, in view of the fact that it was looked upon as an experiment, and something even greater than an experiment, so far as Protection is concerned, in next year's Budget. 
    
      
       I thoroughly sympathise with the object which Deputy Cooper had when he asked the Minister those questions.  Like Deputy Corish, I am perfectly convinced that even if the Minister did give every single detail which Deputy Cooper asked for, neither Deputy Cooper nor anybody else would be in any position whatever to form a definite opinion as to the result of the tariffs.  He would have got information as to the increase or decrease of unemployment, but he would not be in a position to say whether that was due to tariffs or not. Another matter which Deputy Corish refers to and which I thoroughly endorse is that the figures, if they were given now, would be utterly useless, inasmuch as they would not give one an opportunity to form a true opinion as to the effect of the tariffs.  I agree with Deputy Baxter that if the Minister has not sufficient powers now in the matter of getting the various firms who have had the benefit of tariffs to divulge information, he ought, at a very near time, apply for those powers. 
    
     If the Dail is to be asked to support a system of tariffs in future or to continue or discontinue the present ones, it should have the requisite information to enable it to form a sound judgment. Unless the Government has compulsory powers to get this information, the information will not be afforded.  I know that a great many business people hold strong views on the question of divulging information which they consider might be availed of by competitors or which they might have other objections to give; certainly   I do not think it is too much to ask, if a certain number of businesses are going to be singled out and protected by tariffs, and if this Dail is going to be asked to support those tariffs, that those firms should be compelled to give this information.  I hope if the Minister has not got sufficient powers in this matter that he will, in the near future, apply for them. 
    
      
       I think it is very desirable that the country generally should have information as to the number of people employed in the manufacture of boots, shoes, etc.  I think it is equally desirable that we should have information of the same kind respecting every other industry.  The requirements of Deputy Cooper are with a view to judging the effect on employment of tariffs on particular industries, but to deal with the question of the extension of tariffs, we should know what number of persons are employed at different dates in other industries. The amount of information that may be necessary to acquire from employers in those industries should be required from employers in other industries. 
    
     I think it is likely that the Minister has already in his possession information which, read inferentially, would satisfy Deputy Cooper's immediate demands&mdash;that is to say, the number of persons in insured trades who normally would be working at those particular industries, but who were unemployed on April 1, July 1 and October 1.  Any reduction in the number of unemployed in a particular trade would allow some fair inference to be drawn as to the effects of changes resulting from tariffs or anything else.  That information, I think, probably is already at the disposal of the Minister.  I am not quite able to understand what is meant by the &ldquo;maximum and minimum&rdquo; charges paid in each industry.  If by that is meant the highest salary paid in any particular industry or the highest rates of wages for particular classes of employees, comparing the best with the worst, I think it might be difficult to get the information from the employers. You could possibly get it from the employees, or from both together.  You   might ask the employer what are the maximum wages paid, including in the term &ldquo;wages,&rdquo; salaries. 
    
      
       And piece-rates. 
    
    
      
       And what the actual maximum earnings may be in piecework trades.  You might then apply to the employees and see whether their returns tally.  Sometimes they would not.  You might possibly, in the case of maximum salaries, apply to the Income Tax Commissioners.  They might possibly help you.  I do not understand the meaning of this term, &ldquo;maximum and minimum wages paid in each industry.&rdquo; 
       A return of this kind for the purpose of judging the effect of the tariffs that were imposed this year, I think would be utterly useless.  If such a return were asked for, say on the 1st April next it would be more useful, because we might then be in a position to say what the tendency was, but up to now, in some of those industries, I rather expect you would be told that the tariff has had no effect whatever; that it might have closed down some factories by virtue of the great stocks imported in anticipation of the coming tariffs.  I do not know whether the candle or soap industry has benefited at all.  I would not be surprised to hear it had declined, purely by virtue of the fact that great quantities of stuff were imported in anticipation of the tariffs. Are we going to base any conclusion at all upon a return of that kind within six months of the imposition of those tariffs? 
    
     I sympathise with the desire for detailed information.  I wish it were possible, particularly in view of the desire of Deputy Baxter's colleagues for economy, that we should be able to have immediately an answer to every question we may conceivably put to any Minister.  I am quite sure there are many questions you would like to have answers to, which could be got if you were prepared to pay for the staff.  But you cannot have that and at the same time cut down the expenditure on staffs.  I would much rather that this request were postponed for, say, three   months.  If the information is to be used for the purpose of judging the effects of the tariffs, as I anticipate the object of the motion is&mdash;to prove to the public before next April that tariffs have been useless&mdash;if such a conclusion is to be drawn, on very incomplete and unsatisfactory returns for this purpose, then I hope the Minister will give us all the information he can, but in doing so that he will make very clear that there is no fair conclusion to be drawn from those figures as to the effect the tariffs may have had upon industry. 
    
      
       I take it that when Deputy Cooper put down this motion he did not expect, nor did any of us expect, a very clear-cut and definite answer.  We have got an answer from the Minister to-night.  I hope when we come to discuss this matter again we will be able to get a different answer. This tariff system was called an experiment when it was being introduced, and the justification of that experiment is the amount of relief of unemployment it has brought about.  We know how much these tariffs increased the price of commodities to the public, and we want to know&mdash;even if we cannot get it now&mdash;how much that increase has been balanced by increased employment. I think the intention was not so much to get an answer now as to put the Minister on his mettle&mdash;to let him know that this answer will be demanded in the near future, and to give him an opportunity of meeting the position. We hear that a more extended form of Protection will be introduced in the next Budget.  We do not know how true that is.  But if such an extension of the protective policy is contemplated, we will certainly want to know what this experiment has done. 
    
     It is to give the Minister an opportunity of collecting the figures and getting clear information on this question that this motion was put down.  We do not want to know so much about how it has affected industries indirectly. Most of us will be able to form a rough idea of that ourselves. The Minister has said that there is not sufficient staff to deal with this question, and he spoke about the amount of   money that would have to be expended in order to obtain the information.  The payment of a staff is a very small matter compared with what the public has to pay in increased prices.  If we have to pay from 3 to 5 per cent. more for our commodities, we will be very cheerful in paying for a staff to know what exactly has been obtained in return for that.  This whole question hinges on how far this experiment is going to be extended.  We want to know&mdash;and I think the public is entitled to know&mdash; what this experiment has done.  If it is going to be extended, we want to know where we are on the question.  When the Budget comes to be introduced, we will require to have some data that we can stand over, and we will require to know what we are talking about. That was, I think, what was intended by Deputy Cooper's motion. 
    
      
       I think, with Deputy Johnson, that the time is not ripe for the information sought by Deputy Cooper.  I was speaking to the manager of a boot factory in Cork, two months after the tariff had been put on, and he said that he had an increase of 10,000 pairs of boots, either weekly or monthly&mdash;I am not sure which.  These 10,000 pairs of boots could not be made without giving increased employment. He further stated that if he got that protection he would enlarge his premises and get in more machinery. I then put the question to him would he increase the prices of boots in his retail shops in the city, and he said he would not. 
    
    
      
       Oh, he would not, of course! 
    
    
      
       I considered that satisfactory, and I thought it my duty now to mention it in the Dail. 
    
    
      
       Why have boots and shoes gone up 4 per cent. then? 
    
    
      
       They have not gone up 4 per cent. in the City of Cork, I take it, or, if they have, people who pay it do not deal with this gentleman.  I think it only right to say that this man assured me that he was going to give largely increased employment in order   to execute these orders for 10,000 extra pairs of boots, and that he was also to enlarge his premises.  I think it my duty to the public to say that the people should deal with such a man who would be giving so much employment. I will get a commission out of that the next day. 
    
    
      
       That is what I was hinting at. 
    
    
      
       But I am not looking for any commission.  I think it right to say that all the good things had their origin in Cork. 
    
    
      
       Advertisement! 
    
    
      
       This motion of Deputy Cooper's would be useful if it only sets us thinking.  I do not quite know what was in the back of Deputy Cooper's mind when he introduced this motion.  The only conclusion I came to, after having listened to Deputy Gorey and to Deputy Cooper, is that they thought evidently it was a very solid move against any form of Protection in this country in the future.  I believe that Deputy Cooper was very much troubled at the time that the Minister for Finance was preparing his Budget about the question of the cost of boots for little boys.  At that particular time, perhaps he did not think of the amount of employment it would give to men and boys who were hungry.  They had not a chance of being able to earn a good deal of money; they were depending on the dole system, on which, unfortunately, so many are at present depending.  The question of Free Trade or Protection is a very big one and one that the people will have to consider very carefully&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Is this in order? 
    
    
      
       I think it is in order, and Deputy Wilson will find that it will be more in order when I am through with it later on.  The farmers of the country are considering what the effect of the tariff is, and they want to know whether it has been satisfactory or not.  A good many farmers, at the moment, are considering the question of Protection, not alone for their barley, but the possibility of the development   of beet-root, which will help to relieve so many of the farmers from the taxation they are paying at present in order to provide doles for the unemployed all over the country.  This is a very important item.  I think the people of the country will have to study most carefully what the past condition of Ireland was when there was a form of Protection.  Farmers, traders and all will find that this is a matter in which they will have to use calm judgment and not prejudice.  Cheap labour markets, with a large number of unemployed to foist upon the dole, and a low living wage, do not constitute a satisfactory state for any country, and I hope it is not going to be the position that will continue to face us in this country. 
       There is one thing that Deputy Johnson has asked for, and that is, that the Minister for Industry and Commerce should be placed in the position that he evidently seeks, of getting accurate information with regard to the numbers of those employed in all the industries in Ireland, agricultural and otherwise.  From those statisties we would be able to deduce the numbers who would be employed and the occupations in which they were employed. If these industries had a necessary form of protection there would be less unemployed.  I hope ultimately that these statistics will be forthcoming for agriculture and the other industries.  I hope that the Minister, when he seeks that power, will get it from the Dail, and that he will be in a position to have all the information which will be necessary for him to secure these returns for the country.  I do hope that he will be enabled to secure that information from the manufacturers and the employers, and that he will be in a position to give the country all the facts it requires.  As Deputy Johnson has stated, the time is not yet ripe to form any fair judgment upon the tariffs that have been put on, unless we also know the particular conditions that prevail, and especially the conditions in any tentative movement towards fostering industrial developments in this country. 
    
     You could not form an opinion on this matter from the additional numbers that have been employed in these   industries since the tariff was put on. No matter what industry it is you must have a good deal of time before that industry finds its markets, and before those engaged in the industry can fit their premises to employ all the numbers they want.  I do not think the time is ripe yet for the Minister to be in a position to give the Dail all the facts they would want.  There is nobody who is engaged in business who would be in a position to develop that business to its fullest capacity in a period of one or two years, and certainly not in six months.  I hope the Minister will get from the Dail the power that he wants, so that at a later date all the information necessary for the Deputies, the numbers employed in those industries, and the possibility of their further development, will be available.  In this way every member of the Dail will have an opportunity of knowing what the possibilities may be in the future, when I do trust and, indeed, am very sanguine, that we will have the results that Deputy Cooper seeks. 
    
      
       Would the Minister tell us, in view of Deputy Cooper's emphasis on the fact that the price of boots has increased by 4 per cent., whether there has been any increase in the price of agricultural products on which there has been no tariff during that same period? 
    
    
      
       I think because of statements of the kind made by Deputy Daly that 10,000 pairs of boots extra have been made in a certain period since the introduction of tariffs, that this statement from the Minister is all the more required.  I heard of stories to the effect that there are anything from 500 to 5,000 extra hands employed in boot factories since the tariff on boots was put on.  We know there are other industries clamouring for Protection, and we are not sure that these industries are not going to get Protection on the introduction of the next Budget.  We are told this is an experiment.  If that is so we ought to know the result of the experiment.  If, as the Minister says, we cannot tell the result of the experiment, and I agree it is very difficult to tell the result of   the experiment within six months or even two years, I would like to get an assurance from the Minister that nothing in the way of an extra tariff will be put on until we know the effect of the tariffs that have already been put on. 
    
    
      
       I agree with Deputy Cooper and Deputy Daly that the debate shows that we might get some very valuable information if these figures had been available.  I think if the figures for the three periods mentioned by Deputy Cooper were given we might be able to see clearly the effect of the forestalling of the duties which took place.  It seems to me the longer the interval that elapses between two periods which you choose for the purpose of getting the figures you wish to compare, the greater the danger there is of some other cause&mdash;perhaps obvious, perhaps not at all obvious&mdash; which may come in to mask the effect of the cause you are trying to find the effect of.  The longer the time elapses the greater the danger. 
    
    
      
       I have listened with great interest, particularly to Deputies Baxter and Corish, and I have been reminded by what they said of the answer given to the inquisitive gentleman who dropped into an American town and found a mark on the wall indicating the greatest height the local river had ever risen to.  He asked them if it had ever come to this mark. 
    
    
      
       More sarcasm. 
    
    
      
       No.  The mark was originally very low on the wall, but the school children had rubbed it out time and again, and eventually, in order to avoid the rubbing out, the authorities had to put the mark up high.  That is exactly what has happened here.  Deputy Cooper has put a question which is too high for my Department to reach, at the moment; I could not reach it yet.  Deputy Cooper has here asked for a return in regard to the number of employees in various industries, with particulars as to their wages.  Because I say I cannot give those particulars, Deputy Cooper and Deputy Baxter say that the Minister should pay more attention to   the matter, that the Minister's Department should be watched, and that some indication should be given that attention is being paid to all those matters. I emphasise that attention is being paid to those matters, but such attention could not be paid that would enable me, as a result, to give all those items asked for here, because to do so would require compulsory powers. 
       I wonder would Deputy Baxter, or any of his colleagues, accept particulars from me if I said that I had received them from an advisory committee in connection with the boot and shoe trade? Suppose that I asked that committee to give me a return to indicate whether or not protection had been a benefit, and that simply accepting what they gave me, I placed that information before the Dail, I wonder would Deputy Baxter take that information without a murmur?  Would he take their statement as to what was the effect of the tariff?  Remember, I cannot make any other examination.  I have no power to go in and examine books, and that is what is required.  If Deputy Corish thinks it is for me to send an official from my Department to find out what is the result of a tariff on boots and shoes, or soap and candles, and if information is refused to that official, what am I to do?  He dare not come back without having an answer, because Deputy Corish would criticise me very severely in the Dail for not paying attention to the matter.  I cannot pay any attention to it beyond what my powers enable me to pay. 
    
     To get on to the point that Deputy Johnson and Deputy Egan touched upon, powers of that sort will be looked for under the statistical legislation that will soon come before the Dail. At the moment, I cannot go in and, by any threat of compulsion, acquire the information that Deputy Cooper asks for.  If I say that now, and say it again, let it not be taken as a confession that the Statistical Branch of the Department is sitting with its arms folded and not getting any particulars or information.  I have already stated to Deputy Cooper what information I believe I can get.  I can get material on which I could present a summary to   the Dail.  Deputy Johnson did draw attention to one point.  That is, the question of maximum and minimum rates.  I think the question of piece-rates is going to cause difficulties. Piece-rates are known in the first, second and sixth items on this list.  I do not know how, exactly, I am to arrive at a maximum or a minimum wage where those things operate.  If the Deputy will clear up that matter I will see what I can do to meet him. 
     I could quote the district rate of wages for a particular class of worker, and I could quote the changes of wages where the changes have been brought about by wage disputes, or where they have been considerably altered by conferences. With regard to the items that have been asked for, I have, actually, particulars in regard to the number of persons employed in one instance. To be more correct, I have figures for only one of the groups mentioned, the first one.  There were over 1,800 insurable workers in the boot and shoe trade at the end of June of this year.  As for any of the other groups, the confectionery group is included in the industry group, which is known as the manufacture of food and drink group.  Soaps and candles, curiously enough, are included in the explosive and chemical group.  While I could give numbers of insurable workers employed in any of these eighty-one classifications, I could not get, at the moment, the numbers employed in any of these cases, with the exception of the boot and shoe group, which happens to be set apart by itself. 
     I quite agree with portion of what Deputy Johnson has said.  I go further, and I think it is better, in this country, not to give incomplete returns, particularly when they are so liable to be misunderstood.  If one is to give figures which are very indefinite and incomplete, and attempt to guard against misconceptions by setting forth all the points that have to be attended to, immediately people fly into a frenzy and they say that something has to be cloaked, and there is a detective search commenced with a view to finding out what has to be cloaked.  It is impossible, innocently, to give out any information actually incomplete, without falling under suspicion.  I do not agree   with the Deputy's conclusions, which I take to be that he approves of the return as an aid to a certain conclusion. I give it as a warning that the conclusion, if drawn, would be wrong.  That is, I think, what his words amounted to. If we give an incomplete figure, the object would be to lead to a certain judgement, and that would be completely and almost necessarily wrong.  Deputy Thrift raises a point in answer to my own.  The longer the period the greater the opportunity for incalculable factors to come in.  That would be so, clearly.  I quite agree that is an arguable case normally, but at present the conditions are altogether the other way. Take the point of forestalling.  There is no doubt in soap and candles sufficient stuff was brought in, in the period, that had, unfortunately, to be allowed, to make it absolutely certain that this trade has lost by the application of the tariff this year&mdash;this trade has definitely lost. 
     Quantities of goods brought in are now being sold, and are being sold at an enhanced price, and as far as the individual case was concerned the tariff was an absolute loss.  Where the tariff was not put on at the particular date, the opportunities for forestalling could not be provided against.  I do not think in the circumstances a return for the period that Deputy Cooper looks for, for this year, would be at all satisfactory. I think the likelihood is that over, say, one or even two years, other factors, more or less incalculable, would crop up.  The factors that are there at the moment, and would have to be calculated on, are very considerable.  As Deputy Johnson pointed out, it may be argued that because the cost of living shows an increase on the price of certain manufactured articles, it is due to the tariff.  That does not just hold as a simple argument, because the increase in the cost of living, as evidenced in this report of October, came through the changes in the retail price of eggs, butter, fresh milk, bread, flour and bacon. 
     If there is going to be any argument on Deputy Gorey's lines, it will not be one that will be very satisfactory to his Party.  I would again offer to Deputy   Cooper that I will get the information, such as I have described already, and lay a summary of that before the Dail; but I would ask the Dail, in considering this motion, to realise that they may ask me to make this return, but they cannot force me to make it, because I cannot force employers to give figures.  I cannot do that at present, though I may look for the powers afterwards.  I believe I shall have to. I would ask the Deputy to consider the undesirability of pressing for a quarterly return; a yearly return, in my opinion, would be quite sufficient. 
    
      
       Perhaps the Minister will tell us why boots jumped up three or four shillings in price within a week after the tariff was imposed? 
    
    
      
       Both Deputy D'Alton and Deputy Johnson imputed certain motives to me in putting down this motion.  I had no such motives as they suggest.  I had not the faintest idea what the result of the return would be, if granted, and I put it down simply for one purpose alone&mdash;to gain information.  If I wanted to discredit a Protectionist system I should go and put down a motion frankly saying so. It is not my practice to go about things in a back-handed way and try to slip Protection in under cover of what appears to be an innocent motion.  We have got to make up our minds on this question, and I do suggest that the more facts we have the more justly we shall be able to make up our minds. Therefore, I think such facts as I ask for would be educational to us. 
       I agree with Deputy Egan and Deputy Corish that this return would not give a complete picture of the effect of the tariffs.  It could not.  But if you do not get these facts you will never have a complete picture at all. A complete picture on economic questions should be built up by accumulated facts, and these facts, amongst others, are very essential to the construction of that picture. 
    
     With regard to the point made by Deputy Johnson about maximum and minimum wages, I was, perhaps, rather unduly vague on that point.  What I   wanted was some data which would show the movement of wages: whether there was a tendency to increase or decrease, and I was more or less intending to leave the Minister to decide how he would obtain the information.  The suggestion he has made on the point is perfectly satisfactory to me.  It will give the necessary idea of the trend of wages.  I agree with the Minister that the effect of a tariff cannot be measured only by its effect on a particular industry; but, to obtain its effect at all, you must know what effect it has on the protected industry.  For instance, if it is proved that one particular duty has given no additional employment at all, in that case obviously it is not stimulating other trades.  So that I think this return I moved for would have been a valuable contribution. 
     Take the question of forestalling. We know that there was great forestalling in candles, and we also know from the Minister's official figures that the price of candles has gone up.  If it can be established that there has been no increase in the manufacture of candles, or in the employment given in manufacturing candles in the city, then is not that clear evidence that there is profiteering somewhere? 
     I think that this return would be a valuable and useful additional to our knowledge.  The Minister says that it is impossible to give the figures, and one or two Deputies twitted Deputy Gorey and Deputy Baxter with the fact that the making out of the figures would involve increased expenditure and staff.  We voted, I think, £26,000 for the cost of the Statistical Department for the year.  All that we ordinary Deputies get for the money are the monthly figures of trade returns.  I would suggest to the Minister, even if it involved some reorganisation of the Statistical Department, that this information about the increase or decrease in employment is as important even as the trade returns, and that some of the attention of his Department might be directed to it. 
     At present the Minister has not got the figures or the powers to get the figures.  I wonder where the figures came from that the Minister for Finance used in Cork.  Did he get   them from Deputy Daly?  Were they not official figures?  The Minister for Finance goes to Cork with the full sense of responsibility that Ministers always feel when they are speaking at by-elections, and gives certain figures about how many people were working full time and short time.  I, naturally, took these to be official figures.  I suppose they were due to private information of some kind.  I suggest that the Minister for Finance should not be left to rely on the gentleman who informed Deputy Daly that he was turning out 10,000 extra pairs of boots, but he was not sure whether it was per week or per month he was doing it. 
    
      
       I am glad you called him a gentleman. 
    
    
      
       I am sure that he is a gentleman; he comes from Cork.  I humbly suggest that the Minister for Finance ought to have the figures; that the whole Executive Council ought to have the figures, and that, if the figures are not available, then this motion of mine will at least have served some good end if it makes it easier for them to become available in future. 
       I cannot quite appreciate the Minister's objection to quarterly returns. After all, the returns made by his Department in very many cases are monthly.  The trade returns are monthly.  Are they misleading?  The cost of living return is quarterly.  Is that misleading?  I think that once you get the quarterly returns established, as my motion intended, on a regular and systematic basis, they are no more misleading than any figures.  If people want to make a distorted or dishonest case, they can always find figures that will support them by a little selection or adaptation. I do not see that quarterly returns would be unduly misleading. 
    
    
      
       Would the Deputy proceed to base any argument say, upon quarterly returns of imports and exports, over the whole year?  Does he not realise sufficiently well that any argument based upon a three months' return, simply multiplied out for the year, would be wrong? 
    
     
    
      
       I agree.  But I was providing to have a series of returns. I think the Minister would be perfectly entitled to attack me if I had moved for these returns and not for future quarterly returns.  In that case I agree that I would have been drawing a misleading picture.  It was for that reason I was careful to move that the returns should continue so as to get information which would enable us to correct any misapprehensions we might have derived from the first returns. 
       The Minister has not got the figures. I want to get this information in some form and I am not very particular as to the form.  The Minister, has not got the figures I asked for, but he has offered me a statement showing the effect of these tariffs up to 1st December. I would sooner have them up to the 1st January, if he can see his way, because that is an eight months' period, and seven months is an uneven period. If he could give it up to the 1st January, with any figures as to wages that he can secure, that will enable us to see the trend and movement of wages, whether up or down; then I would accept that and withdrawn the motion. 
    
    
      
       I simply mentioned December because I thought the Deputy wanted to get the return as soon as possible. 
    
    
      
       I think, on reflection, January would be better.  I suppose we should get it after the Christmas Recess, some time about the middle of February. 
    
    
      
       You might get it after the next Budget. 
    
    
      
       Now we are beginning to find things out. 
    
    
      
       If you leave it December you might have it before then. 
    
    
      
       Well, leave it December.  One gratifying features is that the Dail is unanimous that in future, when an industry comes and asks for protection, we must take power to obtain this information.  If we are   going to impose tariffs, let them be scientific tariffs, and let us have a clear knowledge, as far as we can obtain it, as to their effects and consequences&mdash; whether it be an increase of price or an increase of employment.  I feel sure that when the Minister comes to the Dail to obtain the compulsory powers, if they are necessary, he will find that the ground has been well prepared for him by my motion. 
       Motion, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - LAND ACT OPERATIONS. 
    
      
       I move: 
       That the Dail disapproves of the delay which is taking place in carrying out the provisions of the Land Act, 1923. 
       As I understand that I have only ten minutes I would wish to have the motion adjourned until Friday, as I could not deal with the subject in that time.  I would ask that the motion be postponed now and taken up at 2 o'clock on Friday. 
    
    
      
       I think there is ample time to dispose of the motion. 
    
    
      
       I am prepared to go on with the motion, and talk all night if the Dail wishes. 
    
    
      
       If the Deputy would talk until 8.30. 
    
    
      
       Are only ten minutes to be given? 
    
    
      
       The idea is, if the Motion is taken now it will be automatically adjourned at 8-30 until Friday. 
    
    
      
       If the Government have such anxiety to get through the Local Government Bill&mdash;an anxiety they showed to-day&mdash;they should agree to postponing the Motion. 
    
    
      
       Does that mean that this Motion will be the first business on the Orders of the Day on Friday? 
    
     
    
      
       No; in Private Members' time. 
    
    
      
       I will go on until 8-30 but nothing will be gained. 
    
    
      
       Let us hear the case. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy can make his case until 8-30 and resume on Friday. 
    
    
      
       We were told during the different Stages of the Land Act of 1923, that wonderful results would be achieved.  The uneconomic holders, and the landless people, willing and able to work, were to get land, and the Land Commission was to have power to take land, whether tenanted or untenanted, ranch or residential land.  That Act is now over eighteen months on the Statute Book and not one acre has been distributed, and not one uneconomic holder has suceeded in getting land.  When questions were asked in the Dail, Deputies were told that the Land Commission were making inquiries, or that lands had been vested in the Land Commission.  We have never got a statement as to what amount of land has been vested in the Land Commission, nor the date at which it is likely these lands will be divided amongest the people.  During the passage of the Bill, several Deputies contended that it was not really one that the people would derive much benefit from, and that it was not as good as the Act passed by the British Government in 1903.  At the time, the Dail was led to believe that there would be no delay on the part of the Minister or his Department in putting every section of the Act into operation.  I expect I will be told that it is much better, from a financial point of view, to allow the ranchers to remain in possession and in the country.  The Minister for Lands and Agriculture may tell me&mdash;he probably will&mdash;when replying. 
    
    
      
       Will the Deputy not allow me to make a reply? 
    
    
      
       I will, but not to-night. I may be told that owing to the amount of small and uneconomic holdings, and   the number of landless people, if the land was divided amongst them they would not be in the position the rancher is in to-day of paying Income Tax.  In that case naturally the finances of the Government would be losing a considerable amount.  That may be one of the reasons why there is such delay on the part of the Land Commission in dealing with the Land Act of 1923.  I may be also told that according to the provisions of that Act, when the Land Commission acquires lands, all tenants living on them must get two months notice in order that they may say if they have any valid objection to the taking over of the lands.  The Minister may probably say, the same as his colleague in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, that his staff is too small. I want a definite statement from the Minister.  I speak on behalf of the people who are suffering and who have no other means of livelihood.  I know the feelings of those people, having gone amongst them.  They are not contented, and I warn the Minister for Lands and Agriculture that unless he wants to have agitation through the country which will cause him and the Land Commission a great deal of annoyance, he will advise his officials to have the lands handed over and divided amongst the people. 
       In 1901 and 1902 we had a regular campaign of &ldquo;The land for the people&rdquo; throughout the country.  In 1903 a Bill was introduced into the British House of Commons that enabled the landlords to sell out.  In 1923 the agitation again started in order to secure land for the people, and the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, on behalf of the Government, introduced a Bill which, he said, was going to do justice and that the people would benefit from. Has one citizen of the Saorstat benefited in any way by that Act up to the present?  When is it likely that any lands will be divided?  If you write to the Department you get a reply that your letter has been received, and that it will receive prompt attention. 
    
    
      
       In fairness to the Land Commission, I do not think they ever put in the adjective &ldquo;prompt.&rdquo; 
    
     
    
      
       I can show it to you. 
       Debate adjourned: to be resumed on Friday, at 2 p.m. 
    
   
   
     LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILL. - COMMITTEE STAGE (RESUMED). 
     The Dail resumed the Committee Stage of the Local Government Bill, 1924 (Section 60). 
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment 89: 
       Before sub-section (7) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(7) Every order dissolving a local authority made by the Minister under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and shall not have any effect unless and until it has been approved by resolution of each House.&rdquo; 
       The dissolution of a local authority is not a mere matter of routine departmental administration, about which the Minister might expect not to make any special report to the Oireachtas.  It is a very drastic, almost a revolutionary measure, particularly when applied on a large scale.  The drastic nature of the measure was recognised by the present Minister for Finance (Mr. Blythe) when he was Minister for Local Government, when the power to dissolve was taken in the Local Government Temporary Provisions Act, 1923.  In asking leave to introduce that Bill the Minister said:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;It is not a power that will be lightly or readily used.  It is a power which from the use of it the central authority or Minister responsible will naturally shrink.  He is bound to incur an enormous amount of criticism on account of the particular type of administration carried on by his appointees. The small extent to which it has been used in respect of boards of guardians in the past indicates the degree of reluctance with which it will be used.  It is much easier for the central authority to criticise the administration of a local body and check it and refuse sanction to this or that which it regards as illegal   rather than to take up the burden of administration and face all the local criticism which will arise.  It is a power which is essentially a drastic power, but it exercises its own checks because of the difficulties it imposes and because of the criticism which arises in respect of any act of administration. Consequently, though a drastic power, it is a power which nobody will fear will be used unduly or very frequently.&rdquo; 
     The Minister then used as an argument, to secure sanction from the Dail, that his sole reason in asking this power was that some local authorities had refused to collect rates, that members of local authorities were intimidated from attending or carrying out their duties, and that it was necessary to secure this power to appoint Commissioners. We know that the power given and included under the Act of 1923 has been used in many cases of a very different kind from what the Minister stated when he introduced the Bill.  No less than 17 local authorities have been dissolved.  Why have they been dissolved? 
    
      
       Because they deserved it. 
    
    
      
       That may be my friend, Deputy Connor Hogan's, point of view, but the general opinion is that it was because some of them had men on them who admittedly were appointed or elected in 1918, not because of their qualifications for administration, and not because they had any ability, but simply because they belonged to one political organisation and were elected solely to break the power of the British Government in Ireland.  That was their qualification, and subsequently they did not approve of certain work of the Government of the Free State, and the Government of the Free State dissolved these public boards because they disagreed with their policy and because they had the idea that these men would use the same power to defeat the Irish Government as they used to defeat the British Government in Ireland. 
    
     Many boards, according to the inquiries that have been made, have been   dissolved on account of maladministration. Some of them have been dissolved because they appointed Republican Lord Mayors, others because they passed resolutions protesting against certain actions of the Irish Government. For that reason, and no other, I think many of them have been dissolved by the Government.  They thought it better to dissolve these bodies and appoint commissioners instead, that would carry out the orders of the Government. 
     If that is true, and if there is nothing to hide, then, in my opinion, it would be necessary after inquring into the conduct of the boards to place the report upon the Table, and to leave it there for members of both Houses to see whether the Government was justified in dissolving these boards or not.  If the Government say they dissolved them for mismanagement, then they have a clear case, and I am sure no Deputy in this House is going to get up and approve of the action of any council or corporation that mismanaged its affairs or the affairs of the rate-payers. Deputy Connor Hogan, of course, is out, if he had his way, to appoint all commissioners.  Probably commissioners are necessary in some cases, but if they are necessary and the Government have a good case, surely they need not be afraid to bring their case here for approval of the Dail. These commissioners are men who are authorised by the Free State Government to carry out all their orders. Under the present Bill, if a local body refuses to carry out an Order, even to administer the Vaccination Act, they are liable to be dissolved and commissioners put in their places.  If there is mal-administration or anything else of that kind, no Deputy in this House would get up to support any body or corporation guilty of it.  Therefore, I have great pleasure in moving this amendment and would ask the Minister to adopt it. 
    
      
       I do not think the facts support the Deputy in his statement that political motives have influenced me in my action in dissolving boards throughout the country during my administration.  I think anyone   who has gone critically into the cases that I have dealt with will see that I have dealt with them in a very impartial way.  I have dissolved boards for various reasons, sometimes because of extravagance, in some cases because of bribery and corruption, and in some cases because boards refused to appoint existing officers and insisted on appointing new officers, thus saddling the ratepayers with the cost of the salaries of the new and inefficient officials, and at the same time with the cost of the pension of the old and efficient servant. I have dissolved local boards for very many reasons, and I have done so irrespective of whether the members of these bodies were supporters of the Government or not.  At the present time, on the benches behind me, are two distinguished representatives of bodies that I found it necessary to abolish. 
       It certainly caused me pain to have to deprive the country of the services of such distinguished representatives, and if I were to look at the matter from a Party motive I would have stayed my hand in these particular cases, the case of the Dublin Corporation and that of the Cork Corporation. I have also dissolved a board of health, the chairman of which was a prominent supporter of our Party and was at one time a member of this Dail.  On the whole, I have acted quite impartially in the matter and have administered my Department solely on non-political lines. 
    
     This amendment is altogether unnecessary. The powers that I am taking under this section are not legislative, they are purely administrative. If they were legislative or quasi-legislative, there would be justification for insisting that the Orders should be Tabled in both Houses of the Oireachtas, but in cases that are purely administrative there is no reason or justification for doing so.  My Department is continually open to criticism.  If any Deputy has reason to find fault with, or to disapprove of, my conduct in dissolving a board he can raise a discussion on the matter here in the Dail, while he has also got ample opportunities of concentrating public opinion on   my delinquencies, if he regards them as such, in matters of this kind. 
    
      
       On a point of personal explanation, I desire to make it perfectly clear that I did not, nor was it my intention to, make anything in the nature of a personal attack on any officer in the Department of Local Government. I can assure the Minister&mdash; and in this I am sure many Deputies will agree with me&mdash;that the most courteous officials we meet in any Department of the Government are the officials attached to the Local Government Department.  I can say that from personal experience.  I have always found the officials in the Local Government Department most courteous and obliging and always ready to assist.  I desire to remove any impression that may have been created that I was making a personal attack on the officials in the Minister's Department.  That was not my intention, and I am anxious that such an impression, should it have been created in the minds of anyone, would be removed at once.  It was not the officials I was attacking, but the policy of the Government, and, of course, in that, the Minister is only carrying out the Government's orders.  In conclusion, I may say that I have not anything personal against the Minister at all. 
    
     
    
      
       I am thankful for the compliment that the Deputy has paid to my Department.  I am not dealing with this in a personal way, but I am just reminding the Deputy that he can deal with the attitude, conduct and policy of my Department by raising the matter in the Dail, and that it is not necessary to have these Orders Tabled in both Houses of the Oireachtas. When it comes to the question of dissolving a public body, it is generally necessary for me to act quickly.  That would be specially so if I had to deal with a very bad type of local authority. because it can easily be understood that such a body could create difficulties if it were allowed to remain in office for two or three weeks while the matter was being discussed in the Dail and Seanad.  It could create so many difficulties and throw so many monkey wrenches into the administration of the machinery of a local authority that it would be practically impossible, when I did appoint a commissioner, to clean up the mess in a reasonable time.  It is necessary, when I do take power to dissolve these authorities&mdash;the power is only taken in cases that are considered very serious&mdash;to act promptly, and for that reason I could not agree to have my hands tied up in this particular way. 
       Amendment put. 
    
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta, 11; Nil, 44. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. Seamus Eabhroid. David Hall. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Ailfrid O Broin. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg P. O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. Bryan R. Cooper. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. John Hannigan. William Hewat. Connor Hogan. Seosamh Mac Bhrighde. Donchadh Mac Con Uladh. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Patrick McKenna. Risteard Mac Liam. 
             Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick J. Mulvany. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus N. O Dolain. Tadhg S. O Donnabhain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraic O Maille. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig O hOgain (Gaillimh). Sean Priomhdhail. Liam Thrift. Nicholas Wall.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I beg to move the amendment which stands in the name of Deputy Davin:&mdash;To delete sub-section (7).  There is not much hope of this amendment being accepted, but the object is to secure some indication from the Minister as to how long the suspension of about seventeen local authorities is likely to last.  I would like the Minister to give that information now. 
    
    
      
       The object of sub-section (7) is to enforce the Orders issued under a previous Act, which is a temporary one, and the section, of which this is a re-enactment, is being repealed by this sub-section, namely, Section 12. This sub-section is necessary in order to get these Orders enforced.  The Deputy has put a question which is extremely difficult to answer.  There have been several local authorities dissolved, and I think the Deputy mentioned that there were seventeen dissolved altogether. Each local authority was dissolved under a different set of circumstances. It would probably be possible to hold elections for some of them when the next general election for local authorities takes place.  In other cases, such as that of the Dublin Corporation, it would be impossible to have them reinstated until I get a report from the Dublin Commission which is now considering that matter. 
    
     That report will also have a bearing on the situation in Cork.  I could not undertake to reinstate the council in Cork until the report of the Dublin inquiry has been received.  Each case will have to be considered on its merits. Where a council has got into difficulties the prime consideration is to see that it has been put straight, and put into such a condition that when a new council is elected they will be able to go ahead with a clean sheet and will not have any insuperable difficulties to contend with.  If I were to allow new bodies to be elected before the commissioners completed their job, it would probably mean that I would only have to dissolve such a body again, and again appoint a commissioner to finish the job.  It would be impossible for me to state how long I will allow commissioners   to remain in each particular case.  I could not lay down any particular rule which would govern all these cases. 
    
      
       Could the Minister give us any indication as regards boards of health which have been dissolved? I think his reference have regard to bodies that would be elected in the ordinary way in January or February, when the elections will be held. 
    
    
      
       The same argument holds good with regard to boards of health as to the other bodies.  I am very anxious that the local representatives should be in control of these authorities, but if commissioners have been appointed, and if they have difficulties to get over which I consider a local council could not get over, it would be necessary for me to leave them in office, but I would prefer, where possible, to allow the councils and boards of health to be elected at the next general election, as a general line of policy. 
    
    
      
       In the event of that not being feasible, would the Minister consider the advisability, in cases where commissioners have been appointed in the place of boards of health, of having advisory committees set up consisting of people in touch with the recipients of home help, as you cannot expect one man to attend to all these matters? 
    
    
      
       We have given that matter a good deal of attention, and proposals have been put up in several specific cases, but we have not thought it desirable to adopt them.  Later, if the situation justifies it, we will consider the matter. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister consider it advisable to have an advisory committee to assist the commissioner in regard to the administration of home help?  The commissioner has only an outside knowledge of the conditions that exist in these areas, with the result that many of the unfortunate destitute poor are suffering owing to the fact that they have   not got anyone to make representations on their behalf to the commissioner who is the supreme authority for the time being.  I think it would be advisable if the Minister would think out some scheme whereby there would be advisory committees set up to advise and assist the commissioners in the different localities where such commissioners are functioning. 
    
    
      
       The constitution of the committee would, I believe, be a very difficult matter.  It is very hard to pick out people who should get representation on such a committee, and the commissioner is in a much better position to attend to such matters than the local council, which is only a part-time body, and cannot devote its whole time-to the business.  The commissioner is there to receive representations from all classes, and is ready to give them a sympathetic and disinterested hearing. The case was made on another section by Deputy Morrissey that home help in my own particular country is being administered on political lines.  If you have a commissioner administering home help, there is no danger that that will occur.  From every point of view, I think the administration of home help would be better carried out by a commissioner than by local men, who would have local and, perhaps, political interests to bias their opinions. 
    
    
      
       May I say that is a most extraordinary argument.  It would lead anybody to believe that it was the Minister's intention to have commissioners operating for evermore.  He seems to have a bad opinion of the representatives who will be elected at the next election.  If the Minister suggests that the commissioner is available at all times to people who have representations to make that they are entitled to home help, I think that is a big order so far as the commissioner is concerned.  I do not think it would be a difficult matter for him to find an advisory committee.  There are various voluntary committees set up in different areas for the purpose of helping the poor, and I do not think anybody would object to a commissioner taking   members for an advisory committee from bodies such as those.  I think the Minister should seriously consider this whole matter, because it is too much to ask that one person in each county health area would be in a position to deal effectively with the representations that would be made to him on behalf of the deserving poor. 
    
    
      
       Under this section, or under the law as it stands, there is nothing to prevent the commissioner, if he so desires, from setting up such a committee.  We are altogether in favour of his receiving advice in every possible direction from which he thinks he can get suitable advice.  I do not wish to make it mandatory on him to set up such a committee, but he has power to do so at present. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister consider it advisable to have the chairmen of each rural council acting on an advisory committee?  I do not think that would cause much trouble.  A man representing each district would be in touch with the district, and could give advice to the commissioner administering the affairs of what was known as the board of health. I do not think that there could be much objection to that. 
    
    
      
       I understand that the Minister has stated that I said here some days ago that home help in Tipperary was administered on political lines.  I wish to say that I made no such statement whatsoever, but I said that when the superintendent of home help, or other officers, were being appointed by the county board of health, it was probably because of their political opinions, which is a different matter. 
    
    
      
       It was I who made that statement referred to by the Minister, and I am in a position to prove it.  I know that in certain areas in Tipperary people of a certain political belief were receiving better attention from the relieving officers than others.  Certain parties make representation to the relieving officer in a certain area and they get better attention than people of another political party.  The commissioner   is just as open to corruption as any other person. 
    
    
      
       I would like to know if any member of the political party the Minister represents is ever in any need of home assistance? 
    
    
      
       Judging by the correspondence I get, I am afraid they are. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister consider the advisability of appointing chairmen of rural district councils as members of the committee? 
    
    
      
       They will cease to exist after this Bill becomes law. 
    
    
      
       They are not dead yet. 
    
    
      
       They are dead but not buried. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       The question is: That Section 60, as amended, stand part of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       In this connection, of course the Minister refused to accept the amendment put forward by Deputy Everett, but I think he ought not to be so hasty as far as the abolition of councils is concerned.  I wonder would he consider the advisability of setting up some sort of arbitration board of members of the Dail to review the evidence submitted at an inquiry? Something of that kind might be desirable, for I think the Minister has acted rather hastily in abolishing certain councils. 
    
    
      
       I do not think that this is in order.  We have already decided this matter, but I think Deputy Corish will realise that it would be really taking responsibility out of my Department's hands and putting responsibility on the Dail, which would be, perhaps, unfair to the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I understand all about that, but I do not see where I am out of order.  We are discussing a section which is giving the Minister certain powers. 
    
     
    
      
       But we debated that particular point. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but we are debating the whole section now. 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
       SECTION 61. 
       (1)  Subject to the provisions of this section, the Minister may by order add any urban district not being a borough to a county health district adjoining and in the same county as such urban district, and from and after the date on which such order comes into operation, such urban district shall be part of such county health district as aforesaid. 
       (2)  Where any urban district is, by an order made under this section, added to a county health district, such urban district shall be deemed to be a town in which the provisions of the Towns Improvement (Ireland) Act, 1854, have been adopted in whole, and until the next election of commissioners of towns, the council of such urban district shall be the board of commissioners of such town. 
       (3)  Subject to the provisions of this section, the Minister may by order dissolve the board of commissioners of any town and transfer the powers, duties, property, and liabilities of such board to the board of health of the county health district of which such town is a part. 
       (4)  No order shall be made by the Minister under this section adding an urban district to a county health district or dissolving a board of commissioners of a town unless either&mdash; 
       (a)  the council of such urban district or the board of commissioners of such town as the case may be applies to the Minister to make such order, or 
       (b)  the Minister is satisfied, after the holding of a local inquiry into the performance of the duties of such council or board, as the case may be, that such duties are not being duly and effectually performed. 
    
     (5)  Any order made under this   section shall contain such provisions as may seem necessary or expedient for adapting the provisions relating to public works contained in any enactment, and for making adjustments of property, rights, and liabilities. 
     (6)  Any order made under this section in respect of an urban district may declare the whole or any part or parts of the indebtedness of such urban district to be payable by the county health district and the payment thereof to be either general expenses or special expenses of the county health district, and in the latter case may declare that such payment shall be a separate charge on the area upon which such expenses would have been charged if such order had not been made, or on such portion of the county health district including that area as the Minister shall think fit. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (4) to delete paragraph (b), lines 47 to 50, and consequently in lines 43, 44, and 46 to delete &ldquo;either,&rdquo;&ldquo;(a)&rdquo; and &ldquo;or.&rdquo; 
       After all that has been said, I do not know that there is much use in moving this amendment.  It is an attempt to save some remnant of representation from the tomahawk of the Minister.  He has quite enough scalps on his belt at present without rushing in on the urban councils and endeavouring to destroy them, but he evidently seems determined to do it.  It will be noted that this is something that should receive very serious consideration before he is allowed to wield his tomahawk in that direction.  It is that the expenses that would have been charged if such an order had been made remain, notwithstanding the fact that he seeks to merge such councils into other boards, to degrade the urban councils to the position of town commissioners. If that is what the Minister proposes to do with popular representation, it reduces popular representation to a farce. 
    
     I can quite understand that the Minister could produce arguments to show that bodies previously functioning were not elected, but were selected, but this   Bill seeks to deal with future representation, and it is to be hoped that on or some time after the 15th January the bodies that will be in power and functioning will be properly elected bodies and that they will be capable of exercising all the functions of local government.  For some years the Minister himself has been very assiduously propagating the idea that we were capable of governing, and yet one of the first acts of the Government is to say that we are not able to manage a town, to put power into the Minister's hands to take away the right of people who seek to put in certain representatives and to embody that power in the Minister.  I think that is a very serious infringement of popular representation, and I think that the Minister would be well advised to reconsider this before he would ask that it should become part and parcel of the Bill. 
    
      
       The Deputy accuses me of wielding a tomahawk and of having a lot of scalps dangling from my belt, but in this particular case I have quite a number of willing victims, strange as it may appear.  There are quite a number of small towns that are not business propositions, and they find it very difficult to carry on.  In practice, small sanitary authorities are not a success, and now under the provisions of the Bill the tendency will be to a much greater extent that these small authorities should be amalgamated with the county boards of health.  Some of the most flourishing towns at present are towns that are disurbanised, or were never urbanised.  In my own county there is Roscrea, which is very progressive, and which is not an urban authority at all.  The overhead charges in these small towns often prevent them from progressing, and they are very often anxious to become disurbanised. 
    
     Then take the cases of Granard and Westport, for example, where the people wanted to be disurbanised on several occasions, but it is a very difficult process; we have to get the authority of the Parliament, but that takes too long; it means introducing legislation, and for that reason a number of these small bodies which are most anxious to be relieved of the responsibility   of administering their own affairs cannot be relieved.  In some cases there are urban areas of that kind which cannot even elect a council, and they are not in a position to ask me to disurbanise them, even though they might be anxious to do so.  For that reason it is necessary to retain this particular section, and it is by no means a repressive or an autocratic section.  It is really helpful, and such large powers are given for the appointment of committees that I think there will be a general tendency on the part of a number of these towns to seek disurbanisation. 
    
      
       Am I to understand from the Minister that except in some few cases where it has not been found impossible to elect a local council, he is prepared to limit his powers in this direction, that he is prepared to wait until such council applies to the Minister to make such an order?  The whole of his argument, almost would lead the House to assume that all the Minister was seeking was power to respond to the request of the council to be deurbanised. If that is all, I wonder why the Minister did not say that he accepts the amendment because that is what the amendment seeks to ensure. The amendment proposes to deprive the Minister of power to abolish a council or to degrade an urban council into town commissioners at his option, but so far as the amendment is concerned, it allows the Minister to respond to a request from an urban council or a board of commissioners that such council or commissioners should be abolished. 
    
     Now, if the latter is the Minister's desire, he should accept the amendment. But, apparently, he desires something more; he desires to have power to dissolve an urban council, in the same way as he has dissolved other councils, for other reasons than corruption or incompetence.  He wants power to dissolve a council when he is satisfied after holding a local inquiry, that the duties of the council are not being duly and effectually performed. Already he has powers under the last section to dissolve a local authority where he is satisfied, after holding certain   inquiries, that its duties are not being discharged.  He wants now to dissolve the urban council, to merge it in the county health district, and to degrade an urban council to the position of town commissioners.  I submit that that is simply adding to the powers of the Minister to revolutionise the whole system of local government at his within and fancy, and that we should not give the Minister those powers.  So far as the amendment goes, it would leave the Minister power to make an order of the kind desired at the request of such a council, but it would deprive him of the power to merge an urban council into a county district at his wish, leaving him still power to dissolve a council, under Section 60.  This whole section is a further indication, added to the many in the Bill, that the Minister wants to centralise authority, and though he says that he is going to satisfy the desires expressed by different councils, I suggest that minorities of these councils, possibly even majorities, in the present circumstances are being stimulated by his activities in asking that they should be dissolved and that they should not be encouraged in their wrong doing but should be encouraged in their desire to be relieved of responsibility.  The whole tendency of the Bill is bad in that respect; this is one of the worst of the sections, and I hope the Dail will agree to the amendment at least. 
    
      
       I do not think that Deputy Johnson can fairly read into this section any autocratic intentions on my part.  Under the previous section I have power to appoint commissioners for such towns, and that would be, presumably, the most autocratic thing I could do.  As things stand at present if it were necessary to abolish an urban council, even though the urban council may be anxious to be dissolved, or the town itself may be anxious to be disurbanised, but through apathy, or some other reason, they do not make such a recommendation to me, or if a very bad council happens to be in control and happens to be driving the council towards bankruptcy,   the only way I have of interfering at present is to appoint a commissioner. 
    
    
      
       Or order a new election. 
    
    
      
       A new election will not get over the difficulty if the finances of the town are in a hopeless situation, as they generally are after a long run by a bad council, and it is a much less autocratic thing to allow this body to be absorbed in a larger area.  I think on these grounds alone, that Deputy Johnson should allow me this alternative instead of having to appoint a commissioner in the few cases.  I do not believe that there are or will be many cases of towns which are not willing to be disurbanised and which have allowed their affairs to get into such a state that it is necessary for me to step in. I do not think it is good from the point of view of Deputy Johnson's own policy to appoint a commissioner&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Am I to understand that the Minister is only seeking powers which would enable him to tack on an urban area to the county health area temporarily and not permanently? 
    
    
      
       In practice it would be only temporary because that area always has power to appeal again to be urbanised.  After being disurbanised, at any time they have power to get urbanised again on the request of a certain proportion of the electors.  I am not sure of the exact proportion. 
    
    
      
       I do not like the Minister to say disurbanised and re-urbanised. If he had something to make clear that it was only a temporary expedient because of the fact that in his opinion they had not done the right thing in a particular area, and that it would be merely tacked on to the county health area until such time as there would be an election, or that the finances could be made right again, that would be an entirely different matter, but there is nothing to show that that is the Minister's intention in this section. 
    
    
      
       It is quite likely that once an urban area became disurbanised there would be no desire in   that town to be urbanised again.  They have power any time they want to become urbanised again, once the situation is cleared up and they feel that they can make a success of the urban council to appeal.  A certain proportion of the electors can appeal to be urbanised again. 
    
    
      
       Are there powers to enable the Minister to urbanise them, without coming to Parliament? 
    
    
      
       There are. 
    
    
      
       The Minister has said nothing about councils who have expressed no desire to be disurbanised. He has only referred to the little towns which have no councils which request to be merged in the county area.  He has not given any sufficient reason, to my mind, as to why the councils which do not demand that should have their privileges taken from them, and then who is to see they get back their positions as urban areas? What is everybody's duty is nobody's duty, and once a council comes to lose its status it is very hard to restore these privileges. 
    
    
      
       I think, when it is of so little account to the community in general that their town should become urbanised, that they have no interest one way or another, it is pretty good evidence that they do not wish to be urbanised.  If they wish to be urbanised again they have only to appeal to the Minister&mdash;a certain proportion of the electors. 
    
    
      
       What proportion? 
    
    
      
       I could not state that definitely at the moment. 
    
    
      
       In view of the confusion that evidently exists both in the Minister's mind and in our minds, I think it would be an advisable thing if the Minister were to give an undertaking to re-draft this section.  I think he should be satisfied to have power to tack on an urban area temporarily to a county health area in the event of any corruption being proved against that body or in the case of bad finances or something of that kind.  I think he should be satisfied with that and that   he should not disurbanise an area because of some temporary thing that arose there. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid that I for one could not agree with Deputy Corish about withdrawing opposition if the Minister is prepared to re-draft this section, because I am against the whole principle of the thing.  To my mind the further we get on this Bill the more it becomes clear what are the intentions of the Minister, and I do not think there could be any doubt in anybody's mind that his intentions are to abolish all local representation.  I repeat, to abolish all local representation. The Minister may shake his head but I can tell the Minister that not only is that the belief of a number of Deputies, but it is the belief of a big section of the people in the country. 
    
    
      
       And the desire of a big section more. 
    
    
      
       Exactly.  And the desire of another fairly large section. I, of course, am not a bit surprised that the Minister has not any confidence in the councils of the country at the moment, considering that the Farmers' Party have no confidence in them &mdash;absolutely none.  The Farmers' Party have much more confidence in a commissioner than even the members of their own Party, who man the councils. 
    
    
      
       Where? 
    
    
      
       I would ask the Deputy to point out one county council in the Free State on which there is not a majority of farmers.  I think it is perfectly clear that it is the Minister's intention to try to get into his own hands as much power as he possibly can, and it is also clear that the Minister has a sort of pet idea of his own of having local administration carried on something on the same lines as it is carried on in America, and that it might be a very nice thing to have a county run by three or four gentlemen paid very large salaries. 
    
     Of course, that would put an end to corruption from the Minister's point of view, but from my point of view it would make corruption much more easy.  It is easier to corrupt one or two   individuals than to corrupt 20 or 30 individuals.  As far as I am concerned. I do not care whether the Minister is   satisfied to alter the section as suggested by Deputy Corish.  I am against the section, because I think the principle is a bad one. 
     Amendment put. 
     The Committee divided: Ta, 10; Nil, 37. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. Seamus Eabhroid. Tomas Mac Eoin. Aodh O Culachain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. 
             Sean O Laidhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg P.O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Risteard Mac Fheorais. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John Conlan. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. M. Egan. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. John Hennigan. Connor Hogan. D. Mac Conn Uladh. Seosamh Mac Bhrighde. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. 
             Risteard Mac Liam. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Ml. K. Noonan. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar O Donnell. Peadar S. O'Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dughain. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Aindriu O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Domhnall O Mochain. Sean Priomhdhail. Liam Thrift. Nicholas Wall. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I move to add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       (7)  Any order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and shall not come into effect unless and until it has been approved by resolution of each such House. 
       It is hardly necessary for me to say much on the matter, because it has been discussed on other amendments.  I move this amendment because there is a general feeling down the country that the Government want to centralise all local authority in the Dail.  It is not too much to ask the Minister to have some consideration for amendments put forward here by Deputies on the Labour benches.  Amendment after amendment has been put forward in this connection and they have been all overlooked as if the Labour Party has no say at all, or as if what they do say is untrue.  It would seem as if we had a Government in this country who have no faith in the Labour Party. 
    
    
      
       The substance of this amendment was debated before, and I do not think it is necessary to go into the merits now.  The arguments that held good previously will hold good now.  I do not think the Deputy has ground for complaint, as to the treatment of amendments from his Benches. A good many more amendments have been accepted from his Party than from any other Party in the House. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
       Question proposed:&mdash;That Section 61 stand part of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       A section which proposed to abolish rural councils was opposed on these Benches and by very large numbers of people in the country. Notwithstanding our opposition, that proposal was accepted by the House.   We then said that that was only part of the general movement inaugurated in this Bill towards centralisation of authority and deprivation of local bodies of their power and responsibility. It is another step in that centralising process.  Having got the sanction of the House to the abolition of rural district councils, it is now sought to give the Minister power to abolish urban district councils and to merge them in the county authority so that we shall have, if the Minister uses the powers which this section gives him, as the local administration: borough councils, county councils and the Minister, the county councils having devolved their authority on boards of health, who, in turn, will devolve their functions upon local nominated bodies. 
       The urban elected bodies are to be abolished at the will of the Minister&mdash; not only abolished, but their powers are to be merged in the county council. That, I say, is giving the Minister powers which we ought not to give him. It is simply a step towards the abolition of local government by elected bodies.  I shall mark my protest against this tendency by asking the House to vote against the section. 
    
    
      
       I would like if Deputy Johnson would read sub-section 4 (a). (Sub-section quoted.) 
    
    
      
       Read sub-section (b). 
    
    
      
       I will not.  You have it in the sub-section that I quoted that the local authority&mdash;the urban council in this case&mdash;must apply to the Minister for the power to dissolve. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Wilson, I think, a moment ago, voted against an amendment which would give him what he now pretends he is asking for.  He voted against an amendment which would give the Minister power to merge the urban council in the county council at the request of the urban council. Deputy Wilson voted against that, and now uses that as an argument against my motion. 
    
    
      
       I wish to protest against that statement of Deputy Johnson's. There is no intention in the Bill to do anything of the kind that Deputy   Johnson suggests.  There is no intention to abolish these urban councils wholesale.  It is only a power, in case an urban council gets into financial difficulties or otherwise, and it enables us to get them out of that difficulty and to come to their rescue in a great many cases in which they are willing to welcome assistance.  I am subject to public opinion while holding office here. I am subject to the criticism of this Dail.  I may not be very much of a politician, but I have political horsesense enough to know that if I go riding rough-shod over the urban authorities in the country there is not much prospect of my remaining in the Dail very long.  I think Deputy Johnson ought give me credit for having that much sense. 
    
    
      
       The Minister seems to misapprehend his own and my position in this matter.  When we have given him power to do these things, we are responsible if he exercises that power.  We are responsible to the extent that we have assisted in giving him the power which we think ought not be given to him, and I object to giving a Minister these powers to exercise them at his discretion, powers which, if exercised, will mean the abolition of local responsibility for local government.  Now, it may be a good thing to do that.  It may be a bad thing, but whether it is good or bad to do it, it certainly is bad to hand over that power to a Minister.  We can take the line that some people would like to do away with general administration throughout the country over all local affairs and hand it over to a commissioner whom we shall call a Minister, as Deputy Hogan and his colleagues, or some of them, would like to have in the case of a local authority.  We can call the Minister a commissioner for local government, and hand to him those powers.  That may be quite defensible. I have no doubt that the Minister could make a case which would convince possibly the majority of the Deputies, if they had a meeting beforehand and decided to support the Minister.  But we have not yet been told that that is the intention of the Minister. 
    
     We are being told time and again,   that the Minister does not intend to do these things.  But he asks us to give him the power to do them, and that is what I protest against.  I protest against the Minister being given powers to administer local affairs in the country in the way he wishes.  That, right through this Bill, is what we are being asked to do.  This is one of them, to hand over to him powers to merge urban districts in the county district. He can hold an inquiry, and if he is satisfied he can do it by order.  He has even declined to submit his Orders to the Dail, so that we are really asked to hand over to him the power to use his discretion with regard to the abolition of urban councils.  I ask the Dail to vote against that. 
    
      
       The Minister stresses the point that it is not his intention, but of course the point has often been made here that it is not the Minister's intention to do so and so.  We may have another Minister.  For instance, I can imagine Deputy Connor Hogan with this power in his hands as Minister for Local Government, gleefully getting his hands on the neck of the bane of his existence&mdash;the Clare County Council, or the Ennis Urban Council, or the Kilrush Urban Council. 
    
    
      
       Or maybe the Tipperary County Council. 
    
    
      
       I am inclined to think he would make his first dart at Clare.  Really, it is not a question of what the Minister's intention is now,   but what may be the intention of another Minister in the future, and the Minister will not deny that if this section is passed as it is a Minister would have the power to abolish urban district councils.  Deputy Wilson gets up and apparently he has not read the section at all.  He simply came down along and read as far as sub-section (a), and then he said to himself: &ldquo;I have got Johnson at last, and he has made a mistake.&rdquo;  He forgot to read sub-section (b).  If he read that he would see why we object to allowing this sub-section to stand in the Bill. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Morrissey wants to have it both ways.  Now, there are two alternatives; the council and the urban district can, of their volition, ask the Minister to merge them. If on inquiry it is found maladministration or something else occurs, the Minister then will have power of his volition to merge them.  Now, that is a very reasonable proposition.  You have democratic representation worked out to its fine edge.  On the one side you have people wishing to merge; on the other side you have the public applying to the Minister to merge.  That is the Bill. 
    
    
      
       It is a pity you did not make it a one-clause Bill. 
    
    
      
       Better let Deputy Wilson draft out the whole Bill. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 61 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
    
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta, 33; Nil, 12. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John Conlan. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. John Hennigan. Connor Hogan. D. Mac Conn Uladh. Seosamh Mac Bhrighde. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Risteard Mac Liam. 
             John T. Nolan. Ml. K. Noonan. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O'Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Fionan O Loingsigh. Domhnall O Mochain. Liam Thrift. Nicholas Wall. Bryan R. Cooper. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus O Leadain. Peadar O hAodha. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. Seamus Eabhroid. Tomas Mac Eoin. Aodh O Culachain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Laidhin. 
             Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg P. O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Risteard Mac Fheorais. David Hall. Ailfrid O Broin. 
           
         
       
     
     Question declared carried. 
     SECTION 62. 
     In any town in which the Towns Improvement (Ireland) Act, 1854, is in force, the amount of any assessment under section 60 of that Act may, notwithstanding the limitations in that section, amount to but shall not exceed the amount of two shillings and six pence in the pound where the provisions of the said Act with respect to water have been adopted, or the amount of two shillings in the pound where such provisions with respect to water have not been adopted. 
    
      
       This is an obvious section. The existing limits of 1/- and 1/6 that were due to the enactment of the Towns' Improvement (Ireland) Act, 1854, with regard to water, have been found totally inadequate and, as a result, many towns are approaching bankruptcy.  Accordingly it has been decided to increase this amount by 1/-. 
    
    
      
       That is agreed. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 62 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 63. 
       (1) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 16 of the National Insurance Act, 1911, shall be amended by the omission in each of the said paragraphs of the words &ldquo;other than Poor Law Authorities.&rdquo; 
       (2) Sub-section (3) of Section 64 of the National Insurance Act, 1911, shall be amended by the omission of the words &ldquo;not being Poor Law Authorities.&rdquo; 
       (3) Sub-section (4) of Section 64 of the National Insurance Act, 1911, shall be amended by the omission of the words &ldquo;other than a Poor Law Authority.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       This is another section which is purely consequential on the abolition of the poor law guardians. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 63 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 64. 
    
     (1)  The provisions of any enactment in force at the passing of this Act relating to any of the powers. duties, properties, or liabilities transferred   to a county council or a board of health by this Act, shall be construed with such modifications as may be necessary to give effect to this Act. 
     (2)  If any doubt, dispute, or question shall arise, or, in the opinion of the Minister, be likely to arise, as to whether any power, duty, property, or liability is or is not transferred by or under this Act to a county council or the board of health, such doubt, dispute, or question shall be decided by the Minister, and if such doubt, dispute, or question relates to the construction of any statute, order, or regulation, the Minister may by order specify the modifications which are to be made in such statute, order, or regulation under sub-section (1) of this section. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       To insert before Section 64 a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       (1)  From and after the passing of this Act it shall be lawful for any county council to contribute towards any county infirmary which is situate in their county, or to which though situate elsewhere they are by Statute empowered to contribute an annual sum not exceeding Four Hundred Pounds as a salary or salaries to the surgeon or surgeons thereof. 
       (2)  In Section 86 of the Grand Jury (Ireland) Act, 1836, as adopted by the Local Government (Adaptation of Irish Enactments) Order, 1899, the words &ldquo;Four Hundred Pounds&rdquo; shall be substituted for the words &ldquo;Ninety-four,&rdquo; and that section shall be and is hereby amended and shall have effect accordingly. 
       (3)  The annual contribution authorised by this Act shall be in addition to the annual amount which may be contributed by a county council to any such county infirmary under any other Act. 
    
     When the County Infirmaries Act was passed in 1765 the salary of surgeons to infirmaries was fixed at £94 per annum.  It is proposed to repeal Section 5 of that Act and Section 86 of the   Grand Jury (Ireland) Act, 1836.  I think the Minister will admit that a salary of £94 per year is not sufficient for the services of any surgeon to a county infirmary, and I hope he will accept the amendment. 
    
      
       I think I will be able to meet the Deputy, but only to a limited extent, in this matter.  This amendment will only affect very few of those county infirmaries.  I think there are only seven of them at present. Some of them will be taken over and become county hospitals, but in the case of the few others it will be impossible to take them over.  The committee of a county infirmary is not a local authority within the meaning of this Bill.  The county infirmary is managed by a committee appointed partly by the governors of the infirmary and partly by the council.  The revenue is derived from various sources.  Some of it comes from paying patients, some is raised by subscriptions, and some of it comes out of trust funds, and more is paid by the county council.  Included in the latter payment is a sum not exceeding £94, paid as salary to the surgeon under Section 86 of the Grand Jury Act, 1836.  So long as the county infirmary will not be run in opposition to the county hospital under a county scheme, I am in agreement that this sum of £94 is not adequate, and I would be prepared to have this sum increased if the local authority is in favour of increasing it and makes a recommendation to me to that effect, but the sum would want to be subject to my sanction. I would introduce an amendment to that effect on the Report Stage if it would meet with the Deputy's wishes. 
    
    
      
       I accept the undertaking that the Minister will bring in an amendment on the Report Stage to meet the case. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 64 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 65. 
    
     (1)  Where the business of any council or committee is transferred   by this Act to any county council, the existing officers of that council or committee employed in that business shall, from and after the appointed day, become the officers of such county council in like manner, subject to the provisions of this section, as if they had been appointed by such county council, and any such officer may be transferred by such county council to the board of health of any county health district in such county. 
     (2)  For the purposes of the enactments relating to superannuation or to compensation for loss of office, the services of any existing officer of any such council or committee before his transfer under this section to a county council or a board of health shall be reckoned as services under that county council or board of health. 
     (3)  If any existing officer of a rural district council is removed from office in consequence of changes effected by or under this Act, the cost of any compensation granted to such officer for such loss of office shall be charged on the area of the county to the council of which the business of such rural district council is transferred by this Act, exclusive of the area of any urban district in such county. 
     (4)  In this section the expression &ldquo;existing officer&rdquo; means any officer who is in office on the appointed day. 
     Amendment No. 93 not moved. 
    
      
       On behalf of Deputy Cole, I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of sub-section (1)  the words: &ldquo;and existing officers of district councils shall where eligible and able to perform the duties get first preference in order of seniority as officials of any county council or board of health.&rdquo; 
    
     I do not think this amendment needs very much arguing.  It is intended to reduce the burden of pensions on the ratepayers by providing that where existing officers of rural district councils are suitable for employment under the county council or board of health they shall get first preference when there is a vacancy.  A similar amendment was   moved by Deputy Cole earlier in the Bill, and I understand that the Minister promised to make some statement on Section 65 as to the possibility of carrying through this policy.  I, therefore, move the amendment, which, I think, merely on its own merits, is justified, but I have moved it to give the Minister an opportunity of making a statement. 
    
      
       I support the amendment. I understand what was in Deputy Cole's mind, and I am sure the conditions would be similar in every county.  We shall have clerks of district councils, young men in many cases, eligible and capable of filling positions which will be created under this Bill.  I am afraid there would be a tendency on the part of some of our councils or boards of health or some members, at any rate, to say: &ldquo;We will leave that man; he has got a pension and we will give this position to a new man.&rdquo;  That will naturally entail further expenditure on the ratepayers, which might be saved by the acceptance of the amendment, because it would then be an obligation on the council or committee to give preference to ex-officials of abolished local authorities, where they were capable and eligible to discharge the duties.  If the Minister accepts the amendment he will be putting in a safeguard that will protect the ratepayers, and where that can be done, it is the Minister's duty to do it. 
    
    
      
       I support the idea embodied in this amendment, although I am afraid that it will have to be recast in some way.  But it is very desirable that men who have been displaced and are fit and eligible should have the refusal at least, and preference over persons who have not been hitherto employed in local government, in any posts that are being created by this Bill under the county council or board of health.  I am not quite sure how the test of seniority is going to be applied in respect to officials of different rural district councils, but I support the proposal that existing officers should be absorbed into local government administrative offices before any outsiders are brought in.   As Deputy Baxter has pointed out, one effect would be the minimisation of the charge for pensions.  Above that, and more important to the officers concerned, is that they should not be relegated to the chances of the unemployed market because the county council desires to appoint either political favourites or personal friends to these new offices that will inevitably be created by this Bill. 
       
         AN CEANN COMHAIRLE  resumed the Chair. 
    
    
      
       The section as it stands amply meets the point.  Under this section officers of the rural district councils automatically become officers of the county council who can either continue them as their officers have them appointed to the board of health, or, if they find it necessary, can pension them.  It would certainly be a very extraordinary thing if the councils were to dispense with the services of men who were their own officers, to make room for new appointments.  In order to reassure Deputies, I am willing to accept the principle of the amendment. I could not accept it in its present form as there will have to be several changes made in it, and it will be a matter of some difficulty to give effect to its intentions, without actually doing more or less than is intended. Several of these expressions are not capable of proper legal interpretation, such as &ldquo;giving first preference,&rdquo;&ldquo;in order of seniority,&rdquo; and various phrases of that kind.  The working out of that, as it stands, will be extremely difficult.  I will look into it between this and the Report Stage and undertake to bring in some amendment that will embody that principle. 
    
    
      
       I would like to remind the Minister that there are some extraordinary county councils.  There were some extraordinary county councils, and there are now commissioners instead.  It is possible that the cases contemplated by Deputy Cole might have arisen in which county councils would have loaded the ratepayers with pensions, and then proceeded to appoint new officials from outside.  As   the Minister has accepted the principle of the amendment, I agree that this amendment could not go in as it stands. As a result of the Minister's undertaking I will withdraw the amendment on Deputy Cole's behalf. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (4), line 55, to insert after the word &ldquo;day&rdquo; the words &ldquo;after the passing of this Act.&rdquo; 
       I want to find out from the Minister what is &ldquo;the appointed day.&rdquo;  Does the sub-section mean an officer who was in office at the passing of the Bill, or does it mean an officer who was in office in the year 1898, as mentioned in Section 49.  I put down the amendment in order to get an explanation from the Minister as to what is meant by &ldquo;the appointed day.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I cannot see anything in the Deputy's amendment. 
    
    
      
       If there is no meaning in it then it will do no harm. 
    
    
      
       It will be a job for the lawyers. 
    
    
      
       Does not &ldquo;the appointed day&rdquo; occur after the passing of the Act?  &ldquo;The expression &lsquo;the appointed day&rsquo; means the day appointed by the Minister to be the appointed day for the purposes of this Act.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Does &ldquo;the appointed day&rdquo; mean after the passing of the Act?  It may refer to officials in office in 1898, which is &ldquo;the appointed day&rdquo; mentioned in the other part of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps the Deputy will withdraw the amendment, and if he is not satisfied before the next stage he can bring it on again. 
    
    
      
       It would certainly give the Minister more time to read the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I was looking to see what part of the section it was, in order to tell the Deputy where he could find information that I think all the other Deputies have.  It is definition 10. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
     
    
      
       Before we pass this section I would like to remind the Minister of a half-promise he gave me to consider the case of a certain class of officials, very few in number, who do not seem to be adequately dealt with under this section or Section 37.  All officials, old and young, can look forward to a continuance of employment at any rate in an equal status under this section.  It is all right for young officials, but for those getting on in years it will be a considerable strain to undertake new and heavy work.  Under Section 37 those who are 65 years of age and who have 20 years' service may retire with the permission of the Minister. The other class, few in number, that have about 30 years' service, but who have not reached the age of 65 years are, probably, not capable of taking up this new work.  I think they ought to have the right to retire subject, of course, to the decision of the Minister, if they feel they are not able   to go on with the work.  I would ask the Minister to be kind enough to redeem his promise and to consider the matter on the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       Under the Bill there is ample power to deal with cases of that kind.  There is no reason why men should be compelled to perform duties under this Bill that they are not able to perform.  There is ample power, under the Bill, to give them pensions. 
    
    
      
       These officers have long service, but they have not reached 65 years. 
    
    
      
       If their office is abolished their case is dealt with under Section 37. 
    
   
   
     LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILL. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported.  Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     The Dail adjourned at 10.30 p.m. 
   
 