 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 12 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - AMALGAMATED ENGINEERING UNION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the headquarters of which are in London, have a Superannuated Reserve Fund for the benefit of its members for the purpose of facilitating them in the purchase of their houses; whether he is aware that citizens of the Saorstat who are members of this Union and who have contributed to the said Reserve Fund through its Irish Branches are now deprived of the advantage of securing loans for that purpose owing to the difficulties that exist with the Saorstat regarding Income Tax; if he will state whether the Reserve Fund from which such loans are advanced is exempt from Income Tax under English law, and if he will consider the matter of granting similar exemption of payment of the Income Tax on mortgage interest, viz., 5s. in £1, to citizens of the Saorstat for the purpose referred to. 
    
    
      
       The difficulties referred to in the question arise from the operation of Section 39 of the Income Tax Act, 1918, in the altered circumstances resulting from the setting up of the Saorstat.  The Section referred to exempts,  inter alia,  from Income Tax under Schedule D, all mortgage interest forming part of the funds of a trade union, registered in the Saorstat, which are applicable or   applied solely for the purpose of provident benefits.  As the Amalgamated Engineering Union is not registered in the Saorstat, the interest on the loans made by it to its Irish members does not come within the exemption conferred by the said Section. 
       I understand that the reserve fund out of which the Union advances loans is exempt from British Income Tax under the provisions of Section 39 of the Income Tax Act, 1918.  This results from the fact that the Union is registered in Great Britain and that the Income Tax authorities in that country are in a position to see that the other provisions of the Section referred to, as to the application of the funds, are complied with. 
       There is no authority in the law prevailing in the Saorstat for granting the exemption from Income Tax referred to in the last part of the question. 
    
    
      
       Can the Minister say whether he has in contemplation any legislation to regularise the position of trades unions and friendly societies regarding registration in the Saorstat? 
    
    
      
       I understand that the Minister is prepared to consider the question of bringing in legislation with that object. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - CO. WESTMEATH POOR LAW OFFICIALS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if he will state (a) the number of relieving officers employed in County Westmeath prior to the amalgamation scheme and their total salaries; (b) the total amount paid in pensions in respect of the relieving officers whose services were dispensed with; (c) the total amount of salaries paid to persons who replaced the relieving officers; (d) the total salaries paid each of the officials in Mullingar, Athlone, and Delvin Workhouses prior to the amalgamation; (e) the total amount of pensions paid to the officials whose services were discontinued in those Unions on amalgamation; (f) the total salaries   at present paid each of the officials in Mullingar County Home, and Athlone District Hospital; (g) if it is a fact that each retained official has now a bigger salary for the same work than that received prior to amalgamation. 
    
    
      
       The assembling of this information would occupy considerable time in my Department.  If the Deputy would in the first instance address his inquiries to the local authorities concerned, I will be pleased to assist him as regards any matters which may remain on which information is desired. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister aware that it costs over £3,000 more under the present system of amalgamation than it cost under the old system? 
    
    
      
       I was not aware of that fact, and I am surprised to hear it. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister cause an inquiry to be held into the matter of whether the amalgamation in Westmeath is costing more or whether it is working successfully? 
    
    
      
       I am aware that the Deputy's statement is not correct.  I am a member of the Board. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - SCARIFF (CLARE) O.A.P. CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if he will state why an old age pension granted in 1923 to Mr. James O'Brien, Coolagoree, Scariff, Co. Clare, was recently withdrawn, and if he will state what fresh evidence came into the possession of his Department to disprove the evidence of the applicant that he was over 70 years of age, and if he will outline what evidence will be accepted as proof of age where names cannot be found in Register of Births or in Parish Registers. 
    
    
      
       The grant of the old age pension to James O'Brien, Coolagoree, Scariff, County Clare, was cancelled on the 4th instant on the ground of insufficient evidence to show that   he fulfilled the statutory condition of age. 
       As regards proof of age in cases where baptismal certificates are not available, the Deputy might be referred to the answer given to Deputy Doherty on the 26th instant. 
    
    
      
       In the answer given to Deputy O'Doherty some time ago I understand that the Minister said he would outline in the near future his definition of what is considered sufficient evidence of the statutory age. How soon may we expect that definition? 
    
    
      
       I expect I may be able to give that information within a week. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister give us an idea of what is to happen in a case where no evidence of age is forthcoming? 
    
    
      
       In that case I should say there should be no pension.  If there is no evidence of age there can be no question of a pension. 
    
    
      
       Even though the applicant was born in the year of the Big Wind. 
    
    
      
       A man must sometime or other reach the age of 70 and&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       The Deputy must put down a separate question. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - LIMERICK CO. COUNCIL STAFF. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government whether he can state the number of the permanent staff employed in the Limerick County Council Office on the week ending 1st March, 1924, with total salaries for either the week, month, or year, and, further, whether he will state the number of the temporary staff engaged on that week, and their total wages. 
    
    
      
       For the week ended 1st March, 1924, it has been ascertained that 14 permanent officials were employed in Limerick County Council Offices, including the Surveyor's Office. The annual salaries involved   amount to £4,876 10s.  In the same week there was one temporary official employed at £3 12s. weekly. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - CROOKHAVEN (CORK) OLD AGE PENSION APPLICATION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if he will state the reasons for the rejection of a claim for an old age pension made by Michael Driscoll, of 7, Rock Street, Crookhaven, Co. Cork. 
    
    
      
       A decision has now been given allowing the full pension to Michael Driscoll, Crookhaven, County Cork, from date of receipt of the claim. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - BLIND PENSION CLAIM (CLONAKILTY). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if he will state when the medical examination in the case of Owen Wade, McCurtain Hill, Clonakilty, Co. Cork, a claimant for a blind pension, will take place. 
    
    
      
       The medical examination of Mr. Owen Wade, MacCurtain Hill, Clonakilty, a claimant for the blind pension, will take place about the 9th proximo. 
       Notice will be sent to him in the course of a few days of the Centre at which he should present himself for the examination. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - DUNMANWAY R.D.C. ENGINEER. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government whether he is aware that the Dunmanway Rural Council recently appointed an engineer to the Council; whether sanction has been given to this appointment, and whether he will state the qualifications for the position of the man appointed. 
    
    
      
       Sanction to this appointment made by the Dunmanway Rural District Council was refused on the 26th instant. 
    
     The qualifications for the post are set out fully in Rule 48 (1) of the Labourers' (Ireland) Order, 1912, a   copy of which I am supplying to the Deputy. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - JANINA AND CORFU INCIDENTS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether he has received the report of the Committee of International Jurists appointed by the League of Nations to enquire into the incidents at Janina and Corfu, and whether, if he has, he will lay a copy of the report on the Table of the Dail. 
    
    
      
       The Report of the Committee, which was completed on the 24th January, was not considered by the Council of the League until the 13th March.  It was sent out to the Member States by the Secretariat of the League on the 22nd and was received here about one and a half hours ago.  A copy will be laid on the Library Table next week for consultation by the Deputies. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - REMUNERATION OF ATHLONE OFFICERS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that Captains P. Connell, Black Road, Athlone; P. Rattigan, Patrick Street, Athlone, and M. Carroll, Main Street, Moate, recently demobilised, were only in receipt of £1 4s. 6d. per week during their period of service in the National Army; further, whether in view of the fact that this amount is not the rate of pay applicable to the rank held by these men, he will issue instructions to have arrears of pay expedited. 
    
    
      
       Claims made by the persons mentioned that they should have been graded as Captains of the National Army and paid accordingly are under consideration and will be decided as quickly as possible. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - RE-OPENING OF ATHLONE CASE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state whether the case of Thomas Mannion, of Berries, Athlone, who was arrested on September 17th, 1922, and subsequently tried and sentenced to five years' penal servitude, will be re-opened; whether he   is aware that there are good grounds for believing that Mannion was wrongfully imprisoned. 
    
    
      
       The case of Thomas Mannion, of Berries, Athlone, who was arrested on the 17th September, 1922, appears to have been confused with the case of another Thomas Mannion of Berries, Athlone, who was arrested on the 26th March, 1923.  The detention of the prisoner referred to by the Deputy is no longer considered necessary, and he will be released forthwith. 
    
    
      
       That is very satisfactory. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - KILRUSH INTERNEE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will expedite the release of Bernard Lowe, Kilrush, Co. Clare. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Lowe is about to be released. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - HAREPARK CAMP INTERNEES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state the number of prisoners interned at present in Harepark Camp, also, the number of internees detained in the Camp hospital, and whether any and how many of those are dangerously ill; further, if he is aware that the food, clothing, housing, and sanitary arrangements are inadequate, and the general conditions are such as to endanger the health of the prisoners, and whether it is intended to permit civilian doctors to visit the prisoners and to report as to their health. 
    
    
      
       There are 661 prisoners in Hare Park Camp, of which 23 are in the Camp Hospital.  None of these prisoners is dangerously ill.  I am not aware that the arrangements referred to are inadequate.  They are inspected periodically, and are found to be sufficient.  Civilian doctors are only permitted to visit prisoners for consultation with Army Medical officers in cases of serious illness. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say   if these 661 prisoners or internees in Hare Park Camp have been tried, or is it likely that they will be tried with a view to their release, or what is the meaning of keeping them there without trial so long? 
    
    
      
       The first question was of a more or less hygienic nature and this question is of a different character.  I would ask the Deputy to put down a question on the matter. 
    
    
      
       Will the Deputy say whether there has been any visits from medical doctors, who were not military officers, in accordance with the understanding that was arrived at some time ago, and will a report of their visits be made to the Dail? 
    
    
      
       The third paragraph of the answer says: &ldquo;Civilian doctors are only permitted to visit prisoners for consultation with Army medical officers in cases of serious illness.&rdquo; I have no direct information on the subject. 
    
    
      
       In regard to the general condition of camps and prisons, there was an understanding, I think, that the Ministry would appoint a Medical Board or Committee of medical men to visit these camps and prisons? 
    
    
      
       I understand there are statutory regulations with regard to that, and I will inquire further into it. 
    
    
      
       Inasmuch as these prisoners are prisoners of the Dail, would the President consider the advisability of nominating one Deputy from each Party to visit this camp to consider the complaints that have been made, and with very good reason? 
    
    
      
       I am afraid that raises another question altogether. 
    
    
      
       If the President will not allow a representative from each Party in the Dail to visit these prisons or camps, will he try to hasten the release of the prisoners? 
    
    
      
       That is a new matter.  The Deputy must put down a separate question on the subject. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - NAAS ARMY ACCOUNT. 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that the money due to W. Gaul, Rathasker Road, Naas, and which was sanctioned by the Department some time ago, has not been paid, and in view of the fact that the man in question has great need of the money, he will see that the amount is paid forthwith. 
    
    
      
       A cheque finally settling Mr. Gaul's account was issued on the 26th instant. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - NAAS POSTAL ARRANGEMENTS. 
    
      
       asked the Postmaster-General if he is aware that, with the exception of the Main Street, there is only one delivery of letters in the important county town of Naas; that this is the cause of serious inconvenience and loss to the business and general community, and whether he will consider the advisability of adjusting the local postal service so as to help the trade and business interests of the town. 
    
    
      
       Inquiry has been made into the question of extending the Second Town Delivery at Naas, but it is found that the volume of traffic is not sufficient to justify the additional expense which would be involved.  I may add that the Second Delivery at Naas, which does not commence until 7.0 p.m., is maintained as an exceptional arrangement. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of this question, may I ask the P.M.G. if it is his policy to provide two or three daily deliveries for certain citizens of the Saorstat, and to provide none at all, practically, for other citizens who equally bear the burdens of the State? 
    
    
      
       No, my policy at the moment is one of general retrenchment. 
    
    
      
       May I explain to the Postmaster-General that I understand the second delivery at Naas does not take place until much later than the hour mentioned.  It does not take place until about 10 o'clock at night.  The want of a second delivery is very much felt, by the commercial classes, particularly,   in Naas.  The Urban District Councillors are exercising their minds exceedingly on this matter. 
    
    
      
       Deputies will have to give information to Ministers in the form of questions. 
    
    
      
       Is the Postmaster-General aware that the result of his retrenchments is keeping the citizens of the Saorstat from doing their correspondence and, nevertheless, his estimates are almost the same as last year? 
    
    
      
       That is a general question.  It would have to be brought up separately. 
    
   
   
     QUESTION ON ADJOURNMENT. 
    
      
       I desire to give notice of my intention to raise on the adjournment certain matters arising out of the announcement by the President yesterday of the terms of reference for the Army Inquiry with a view to eliciting more precise information regarding the scope of the Inquiry. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE BILLS. 
    
      
       I have a report from the Examiner of Private Bills stating that in the case of the applications for leave to introduce the following Bills the Standing Orders have been complied with:&mdash;The East Leinster Electricity Supply Bill; The Dublin Electricity Supply Bill; and   the Sligo Lighting and Electric Power Bill.  In accordance with Order 47 of the Standing Orders for Private Business, the Report will be laid upon the Table and stands referred to the Joint Committee on Standing Orders (Private Business). 
    
   
   
     WIRELESS BROADCASTING REPORT. - FINAL REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE. 
     1.  Since presenting its Second Interim Report the Committee has held seventeen meetings, and has taken further evidence bearing on the subject-matter of its inquiry.  The Committee has confined itself mainly to evidence on the scientific or technical aspect of the subject. 
     2.  The Committee has taken into consideration also the further reference contained in the Resolution adopted by the Dail on Wednesday, the 27th February, 1924, as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;That the evidence and documents submitted to the Special Committee on Wireless Broadcasting at any stage of their proceedings be printed and circulated, except such Departmental Minutes as, in the opinion of the Committee, are not necessary to be published.&rdquo; 
     The Committee presents in a Volume accompanying this Report&mdash; (1) all the evidence taken since its investigation; (2) copies of all documents submitted to it; and (3) Minutes of the Proceedings of the Committee. 
     3.  In its Second Interim Report the Committee expressed itself unable, without further evidence and consideration, to give determinate answers to the following questions, viz.:&mdash; 
     
       (a)   Should Broadcasting be a State service purely: the installation of the apparatus and the entire working of it in the hands of the Postal Ministry? 
     
       (b)   If not reserved as a State monopoly, should it be at least partially so, and in such case to what extent? 
     
       (c)   If, on the other hand, the provision of a broadcasting service for   Ireland be made over to private enterprise, should the concession be given to an individual firm, or to a group of otherwise separate companies associated as constituent units of an Irish Broadcasting Company? And further, how should such Irish Broadcasting Company obtain its revenue? 
     4.  The Committee would draw attention to certain basic considerations affecting any decision in regard to these questions concerning Broadcasting by wireless telephony:&mdash; 
     
       (a)   Wireless telephony, by which everyone within range of a central station (or a subsidiary &ldquo;relay&rdquo; station) can hear messages by means of receiving apparatus, depends for its effective range upon the power employed at the station and upon the receiving apparatus used by the listener-in.  Thus, for a central station the power usually employed under present conditions is about one and a-half kilowatts, and a &ldquo;crystal&rdquo; receiving set (costing from £2 to £3) suffices for a listener distant not more than ten or twenty miles; a &ldquo;single-valve&rdquo; set (costing from £5 to £6) brings in listeners up to fifty miles; while more expensive sets employing two, three or more valves, extend the radius of reception to hundreds of miles.  The science of wireless telephony is merely in its infancy&mdash; it became of interest to the general public in a practical way little more than a year ago, and, so far, its principal application has been to the broadcasting of musical programmes. Of this provision many who live at a distance from the usual places of entertainment have been eager to take advantage. 
     
       (b)   Already important advances have been made both in the methods of providing entertainment and in the application of Broadcasting in other and more important directions. Whereas at first only musical programmes specially provided for the purpose were broadcasted, to-day actual theatrical performances and operas, concerts in concert halls, lectures and speeches are regularly broadcasted; and in more   practical matters meterological information, weather forecasts, markets and trade reports, financial news and lessons on languages form items in the normal programmes of the principal stations.  Moreover, improvements in methods, and especially improvements in apparatus are continuous and rapid.  The probability, then, is that further great advances will be made in the immediate future, and it is impossible to forecast how important this progress may be, or how much more easily accessible to the general public the advantages of wireless transmission may soon become. 
     5.  Now it is precisely because of these probable developments and their manifest applicability to the national service and expansion that the Committee considers Broadcasting to be of incalculable value; it views the use of wireless telephony for entertainment, however desirable, as of vastly less importance than its use as ministering alike to commercial and cultural progress. It would be difficult to over-emphasise its value as an instrument of popular education.  In connection with the spread of the national language and of the phonetic teaching of modern languages, so necessary to commerce, there is no agency which lends itself so readily to the wide and cheap propagation of knowledge; the voice of one teacher may be made clearly audible in every quarter of the country at the one moment; a lecture, which otherwise would require to be repeated at different centres involving no little inconvenience and multiplied cost, can be heard simultaneously in a thousand schoolrooms and in the home of all who desire to learn; an eminent lecturer can put his erudition at the service of every listener-in, with all the added attraction of the living voice as contrasted with the printed page.  In this way pupils may learn the elementary principles of hygiene, of gardening, of fruit-growing, beekeeping, poultry-raising and the like direct from men of recognised authority in the subjects.  Similarly,   exposition of the reasons for and the application of new laws, lessons on the institutions of government and civics generally might be widely disseminated in an attractive fashion.  Adult education, more particularly for those obliged to leave school at an immature stage, might well be supplied through the agency of Broadcasting.  Its manifold applications in the service of agriculture, industry and commerce have already been outlined.  As compared with its power of promoting such valuable ends the Committee regards the employment of Broadcasting for entertainment purposes as quite subsidiary, and worthy of consideration here, rather as a possible source of revenue than as an essential element in the problem. 
     6.  Convinced that these advantages from the installation of a Broadcasting Station would accrue to the Ministries of Agriculture, of Fisheries, of Industry and Commerce, and above all of Education, the Committee returns as its answer to Question (a): Broadcasting should be a State service purely&mdash; the installation and the working of it to be solely in the hands of the Postal Ministry. 
     7.  Expenditure of State funds on the installation and the working of a Central Station would be well justified.  As a commencement, one station should be equipped in or near Dublin.  Thereupon the following practical question arise:&mdash; 
     (i)  What would be the cost of setting up and installing such a station; (ii) what would be the annual cost of the station; (iii) what estimate might fairly be made of the number of licences; (iv) from what sources would the broadcasting station draw revenue, and what would be the probable amount of that revenue? 
     8.  Dealing with these questions in detail:&mdash; 
     (i)  The Committee is of opinion that for some time, while experience is being gained and further scientific developments awaited, an existing building, the property of   the State, should be utilised for a station.  Expert evidence estimates the cost of the installation in this manner at less than £5,000. 
     (ii)  The cost of working such station has been similarly estimated at £5,000 a year.  The cost of providing concert programmes and such like entertainments would, of course, be extra. 
     (iii)  Witnesses varied widely in their estimate of the probable number of licensees; one per cent. of the population may, however, in view of British experience, be taken as a basis for an estimate. This would mean that the number of licensees within crystal set range of the Dublin station would be about 4,000, and initially, perhaps, there would be 1,000 users of &ldquo;valve&rdquo; sets throughout the rest of the country. 
     (iv)  In addition to the revenue derivable from the various Ministries using the service, the licence fees would be one constituent of broadcasting revenue.  On the estimated number of licensees £1 per set would produce £5,000 per annum. A broadcasting service in Ireland might, in the beginning at least, have to be run at a loss, unless there were other sources of revenue.  But other sources of income are in sight.  The user of the installation (worked by the official staff) for broadcasting approved matter at specified times or over prescribed periods might be rented by societies, firms, companies or individuals desirous of broadcasting statements or speeches or advertisements. This would yield income on a considerable scale.  Advertising by this method would supplement rather than supersede newspaper advertisement, but even if broadcasting were to become a serious competitor the Committee cannot support the contention that the interests of the newspaper as an advertising medium ought to be protected from competition.  So far as regards the broadcasting of certain categories of news some such arrangements as those indicated in the White Paper could no doubt be made with the existing agencies   for news collection and distribution. 
     9.  The Committee has considered the Postmaster-General's objection to the establishment and working of a broadcasting station by the Post Office as a State Department and his reluctance to make the provision of entertainments to the public through broadcasting a function of the State; and it does not regard his objection as sound.  No new principle would be introduced.  The State has for a long time subsidised national culture, combined with entertainment, through its National Library, National Gallery of Painting and Sculpture and National Museum, not to speak of the Tailteann Games, and in the enlightened municipalities on the Continent, the same principle has been applied more directly and extensively to the cultivation of operatic and dramatic art as well. 
     10.  In the present case the Postmaster-General, through the agency of a Director working in conjunction with a non-paid Board, might undertake the provision and control of the entertainment side of broadcasting. This unpaid Board would consist of chosen representatives from various scientific societies and other bodies interested in the diffusion of knowledge, from linguistic, musical and other cultural associations&mdash;with possibly representatives of licensees. The salary of the Director, who would be charged with the duty of preserving a proper standard of taste and morals, as well as an adequate and continuous programme, should be met out of the funds of licence fees.  The power of appointment and dismissal of this Director should be exercised by the Postmaster-General in consultation with the Board.  The task of the Director in securing a continuous and regular programme would be considerably lightened&mdash;indeed reduced to a comparatively simple matter&mdash;if arrangements were made to supplement the Irish programmes by &ldquo;relaying&rdquo; suitable items broadcasted from other stations; it is probable that on the scientific side there would be no   difficulty in the way of such &ldquo;relaying.&rdquo; 
     11.  Should the recommendation of the Committee in respect of Question (a) be not acceptable to the Dail it would become necessary to refer explicitly to Question (b).  In such event the Committee would recommend, as next best to the State-owned station, that broadcasting should be developed by means of a Company in which the State would have, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest.  To the Postmaster-General falls the task of framing, for submission to the Dail, the conditions under which such a Company could be given the Broadcasting concession, whether it were a Company specially formed for the purpose, part of its capital publicly subscribed and part provided by the State, or an existing company conforming to conditions imposed by the State; and in this connection the Committee suggests that fuller consideration be given to the scheme propounded in the documents Nos. 28 and 44 of the Appendix I. of the accompanying volume.  It believes that with some modification such a scheme might be advantageous to the country and would safeguard the national interests. Over any such Company the Committee considers it essential that full State control should be insured, and it would approve of a Company which over and above the mere promotion of broadcasting would develop Irish electrical industry in general. 
     12.  As its answer to Question (c) the Committee recommends that Broadcasting should not be handed over to enterprise wholly private. 
     13.  By the original terms of reference the Committee was asked to report on the White Paper proposal as to a Clearing House.  As the Committee does not recommend that a tax on the sale or manufacture of apparatus should be sanctioned for the benefit of a company, the question of a Clearing House of the kind proposed in the White Paper, therefore, does not arise.  If, however, there were question at any time of imposing such a tax it should be discussed   as a fiscal tax and as a matter of fiscal policy. 
     (Sighnithe), 
     PADRAIC O MAILLE 
     (Cathaoirleach). 
     26adh Marta, 1924. 
    
      
       Is feidir linn indiu an tuarasgabhail deiridh ar an gceist seo a chur os comhair na Dala. Geobhfaidh lucht na Dala imleabhar on Choiste indiu agus ins an leabhar san geobhfaidh siad an fiadhnaise uilig agus na paipeiri uilig a bhi os comhair an Choiste.  Ta an leabhar beagnach reidh anois agus cuirfear idir lamhaibh agaibh i gcionn cupla uair.  Bhi 36 cruinnithe ar fad ag an Coiste agus tugadh a lan fiadhnaise.  Ar an gCoiste bhi Teachtai a bhi an-gnothach acht d'fagadar a g-cuid oibre ar leathtaoibh chun bheith i lathair ag cruinnithe an Choiste.  Ba mhaith liom a radh fosta go n-dearn na Tuairisgeoiri Oifigiula a gcuid oibre go maith agus go curamach.  Mar a dubhras cheanna, tugadh a lan fiadhnaise agus chuir sin obair trom ar na Tuairisgeoiri.  Ta fhios againn uilig an meid oibre ata ar na Tuairisgeoiri le dheanamh.  Ta orra a bheith i lathair ag cruinnithe na Dala agus cruinnithe an t-Seanaid agus tuarasgabhail ar imheachta an dha thighe a chur isteach.  Taobh amuigh de sin, rinneadar an obair seo go beacht, curamach.  Ta athas orm an meid sin a radh. 
       I wish to state at the outset that this Report will be circulated to Deputies during the course of the Sitting, with the mass of evidence and documents that came before the Committee.  A recommendation was made by the Dail to the Committee to delete certain Departmental files from the volume, but we thought it well to publish every single document that came before the Committee, and that has been done. As this Report is in the hands of Deputies, it will not be necessary for me to read it through.  I must say that a few members of the Committee, who are amongst the busiest members of the Dail, left aside other important work of their own to come and devote their energies to the work of the Committee. 
    
     It is also well, in face of the large amount of evidence that has been taken   and the number of documents and papers that are being produced, to pay a tribute, of behalf of the Committee, to the excellent manner in which the Official Reporters did their work.  We all know that these Reporters have very heavy duties.  They attend here in the Dail and in the Seanad.  I regret the volume is not already in the hands of Deputies, but it will be before the Dail rises this evening. 
    
      
       I suggest that the Deputy should read it. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid if I were to read it the Sitting to-day would be a rather long one. When Deputies have an opportunity of reading this volume they will be able to appreciate the very heavy task which was thrown on the Official Reporters, and I think that their work does them credit.  It will take Deputies a certain amount of time to read through this volume, and I am suggesting, therefore, that it would be well to postpone discussion on this matter until, say, Tuesday week.  I beg to move the following motion:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Final Report of the Special Committee to consider the Wireless Broadcasting Report be received, and that Tuesday, the 8th April, be fixed as the date for its consideration.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I second. 
    
    
      
       It seems to me that this large volume which is going to reach our hands will create very little interest.  I have had an opportunity this morning of reading through the Report of the Broadcasting Committee, and that seems to contain, within its four corners, the whole essence of the matters that are important as far as we are concerned, and to expect that any more than a controversial interest will centre around the documents ordered to be published by the Dail is to expect something that I think will not be realised.  It seems to me that in this Report the Broadcasting Committee have dealt very comprehensively with the general position, and I think we ought not to delay longer in considering the Report than is necessary&mdash;certainly not for such a length of time as would enable us to absorb this volume. 
    
     
    
      
       The proposal is that the consideration of the Report be taken on Tuesday week. Will the Deputy suggest an earlier date and if so what date? 
    
    
      
       I think some day early next week. 
    
    
      
       It is merely a matter for arrangement. There is nothing particularly controversial in the question of dates. 
    
    
      
       I think it depends very much on how much Government business there is next week and whether any new Bills will be brought in.  There does not appear to be an enormous amount of business, unless we get back the Courts of Justice Bill and the Ministers and Secretaries Bill from the Seanad. 
    
    
      
       There is not much business next week up to Thursday or Friday, but I do not know whether we would be in a position to discuss it because we have not considered it at all yet. 
    
    
      
       The simplest thing would be to fix next Thursday.  Deputies will in the meantime receive the volume containing the evidence and the documents, and if any considerable body of opinion wants to have an earlier date fixed the order could be discharged and another date fixed.  The Leas-Cheann Comhairle is not standing on any particular date. 
    
    
      
       We have no objection at all.  The object of the Committee was to give Deputies an opportunity of going through this volume. 
    
    
      
       I think I have some responsibility for suggesting to the Chairman that Deputies should get an opportunity of perusing the heavy volume of material contained in this Report.  After all, if it was found necessary for a Committee of the Dail to sit on well over a score of occasions, possibly nearer to two score of occasions, to thoroughly understand this subject and to enable them to arrive at what in their opinion was a satisfactory conclusion in relation to the subject, then I venture to   say it is the duty of Deputies in this House to take sufficient note of the contents of this volume to be in a position to give an intelligent view on it. It is not sufficient, I submit, for the Committee merely to put forward the report.  The Committee's report is in direct conflict with the representations submitted by my Department.  For that reason there necessarily must be two sides to the question, and it should not be assumed that the matter is not worthy of being carefully considered, or one that should be rushed.  But a few weeks ago every one was satisfied the subject was of some importance to the country.  I do not think its importance has diminished in the interval, and I respectfully suggest to the Dail that a few extra days will, perhaps, be of advantage in enabling Deputies to come to a more mature opinion upon this subject. 
    
    
      
       There has been already a great deal of delay in dealing with this matter, and I do not think there should be any further unnecessary delay. 
    
    
      
       I take it that Deputy Hewat moves as an amendment to substitute &ldquo;Thursday, the 3rd of April,&rdquo; for &ldquo;Tuesday, the 8th April.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Motion, as amended, put and agreed to. 
       Consideration of Final Report of Special Committee on the Wireless Broadcasting Report ordered accordingly for Thursday, April 3rd. 
    
   
   
     WIRELESS BROADCASTING REPORT. - OLD AGE PENSIONS BILL, 1924.&mdash;FOURTH STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment No. 1:&mdash; 
       Section I., line 25, to delete the words and figures &ldquo;May 1st, 1924,&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words and figures &ldquo;the 2nd day of May, 1924.&rdquo; 
    
     The 2nd May, 1924, will fall on Friday.  Friday is the day of the week on which old age pensions are   paid.  It is convenient, therefore, that for administrative purposes the first appointed day should fall on a Friday. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I move amendment 2:&mdash; 
       Section I., lines 26 to 28, to delete all from and including the words &ldquo;such day&rdquo; to the words &ldquo;this Act,&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words and figures &ldquo;the 5th day of September, 1924.&rdquo; 
       The intention of this amendment is that the second appointed day should be fixed by the Act, and not by the Minister, and the 5th September is suggested as being the most convenient date to the purpose. 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment 3.  In Section 1 to delete lines 29 to 33 inclusive. 
       This amendment deletes from the Bill the definition of the expression &ldquo;third appointed day.&rdquo;  The expression &ldquo;third appointed day&rdquo; occurs only once elsewhere in the Bill, namely, in sub-section (2) of Section 3.  That sub-section provides for the continued payment of old age pensions payable at the rate of one shilling per week until the third appointed day.  It is not considered necessary to appoint a special day for this purpose other than the day already fixed as the &ldquo;second appointed day.&rdquo; 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment No. 4, Section 3 (1), line 42, immediately after the work &ldquo;week&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and is payable to a person who, on the first appointed day, shall not have attained the age of eighty years.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to take out of the operation of the Section old age pensioners at 80 years of age or over.  The intention is that the first reduction shall not apply to old age pensions payable on the 2nd of May, 1924, to old age pensioners of 80 years of age or over. 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment 5, in Section 3 (2), line 49,   to delete the word &ldquo;third&rdquo; and insert in lieu thereof the word &ldquo;second.&rdquo; 
       The reason for this amendment has already been given. 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move amendment No. 6.  In Section 4 (1), line 10, after the word &ldquo;week&rdquo; to insert the word &ldquo;and,&rdquo; and after paragraph  (b)  to insert an additional paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
       
         (c)  are payable to persons who on the first appointed day shall not have attained the age of eighty years. 
       This amendment also is intended to exclude existing pensioners of over 80 years of age from the operations of the Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment 7&mdash;To delete Section 4 (2). It is not considered advisable or necessary that the return required by the sub-section should be presented to the Oireachtas by the Minister, and consequently it is proposed to delete the sub-section. 
    
    
      
       I may say that when I accepted the amendment to this sub-section I had not fully adverted to the effect of my promise made to Deputy Cooper to have a fixed day for the appointed day. There is no longer any point in putting a sub-section such as this into the Bill, as there will now be a statutory Appointed Day in the Bill, and there could not be a question of review of that except by legislation.  There is also the other matter, that it might be possible, at that particular time, if we fixed the 5th September, that the Dail would not be in Session, that is if we succeed in getting our summer recess at all, and, therefore, there might be a charge of bad faith if it happened at the time this cut came into operation there was no opportunity of discussion.  I will undertake, however, that as soon as possible, returns shall be submitted without any necessity for a motion in the Dail for a return. I said when it was first put forward it was unnecessary because the information could be got by any member who moved for a return at any particular   time, and it is not a return one usually finds in legislation. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment 8, in Section 5 (2), line 57, to add after the word &ldquo;pension&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or who shall after the passing of this Act become entitled to receive a pension under Section I. of the Act of 1920.&rdquo; 
       The effect of the amendment is that this exception should be extended to blind persons who hereafter become entitled to pensions under the Blind Persons Act of 1920. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment No. 9, Section 5 (3), line 59, to delete the words &ldquo;is hereby repealed&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words, &ldquo;shall not apply to any case to which this Section applies.&rdquo; 
       This is a drafting amendment; it is not considered logical to repeal a clause which will continue to apply to some cases. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move Amendment 10&mdash;In page 3 to insert before Section 6 a new Section as follows:&mdash; 
       6.&mdash;(1) In calculating the income mentioned in paragraph  (b)  of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Act of 1911, no account shall be taken of any amounts received during a period of not more than six months in any year by a person or by the husband or wife of a person (as the case may be) under a medical certificate as sickness benefit or disablement benefit from a Friendly Society or Trade Union or under the National Insurance Act, 1911. 
       (2) Clause  (b)  of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act of 1919 is hereby repealed. 
    
     Clause B of Sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act of 1919 provides that in calculating means, account should be taken of any amounts received during a period of not more than three months in any year by the persons named under a medical certificate as sickness benefit from a Friendly Society or Trade Union, or under the National Insurance Act, 1911.  The amendment proposes to extend   the period of three to six months, and to include disablement benefit in the exemption from calculation. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     Motion made&mdash;That the Bill, as amended, be received for final consideration. 
    
      
       On this motion I want to acknowledge one or two amendments to the Bill which are really amendments, not merely alterations&mdash;perhaps I should say amendments in respect to a reduction in the punishment.  I will not divide the Dail on this Stage, which is merely to receive the Bill for final consideration, but when we come to the next Stage I hope we shall be able to consider it. 
    
    
      
       May I express pleasure that the Minister has been able to make the Bill more satisfactory to Deputy Johnson? 
    
    
      
       A little less unsatisfactory. 
       Question put and declared carried. 
       Fifth Stage ordered for Wednesday, 2nd April. 
    
   
   
     WIRELESS BROADCASTING REPORT. - LOCAL GOVERNMENT (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1924&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill.  As I explained previously, the object of the Bill is to keep in operation certain provisions of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, which would otherwise lapse on the 31st March, during the life of the principal Act, which is until the 31st December of this year. Section 2 has the effect of keeping in operation the various County Schemes that came into force under this Act. Section 3 keeps in operation the present borrowing powers of local authorities, and Section 4 continues the powers to local authorities to strike a penny rate for the teaching of Irish. 
    
    
      
       I wish to ask the Minister for Local Government, before this Bill goes through, whether he is in agreement with the provisions of the original Act in respect of Clause 14. That leaves a person who is in the employment   of a local authority the right to remain there until after the next election.  Why does he hang on like grim death to that particular provision, having regard to what I pointed out to him before, and why does he not embody an amending clause to that clause? 
    
    
      
       I do not think that question arises on the discussion of this Bill.  There is no provision in the Bill to amend Section 14. 
    
    
      
       It is an amending Bill to the principal Act, and I think I am quite justified in raising the point.  This is a Bill to amend Act 9, of 1923.  If you have the right to amend the provisions that suit you, why have I not the right to amend the provisions that suit me? 
    
    
      
       You are not a Minister. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Wilson can bring in an amending Bill. 
    
    
      
       Can I bring in an amendment on this Bill to amend the particular clause that I object to? 
    
    
      
       No.  If this Bill gets a Second Reading in this form, a Deputy cannot bring in on the Committee Stage amendments which have nothing to do with the Sections which are proposed to be amended in the Bill as it now stands.  The Deputy could bring in a Bill himself to amend any clauses of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Bill. 
    
    
      
       We have not a majority. 
    
    
      
       How do you know? 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister explain why he still clings to that particularly objectionable Section? 
    
    
      
       I was not responsible for introducing that Bill, and I do not see any particular objection to leaving it in force now. 
    
    
      
       I suppose the Minister is aware of the provision? 
    
     
    
      
       I take it from what the Minister said that he is quite agreeable to support Deputy Wilson if he introduces a Bill to further the object he seeks.  The Minister does not see any reason for keeping the Act on the Statute.  Can we get an assurance from him that he is prepared to use all his endeavours with his Party to secure support for Deputy Wilson? 
    
    
      
       I will have to wait until I see the form of Deputy Wilson's Bill. 
    
    
      
       To delete all the words after &ldquo;Local Government.&rdquo; 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       When shall the Committee Stage be taken? 
    
    
      
       This Bill had rather hard luck owing to exceptional circumstances. It has been held up, although it is a Bill which should be passed before the 31st of March.  I think the House should be inclined to facilitate me in taking the Committee Stage now and agree to suspend Standing Orders. 
    
    
      
       Even if the Dail were willing to suspend Standing Orders, I do not think there is a sufficient number of Deputies present to do it. 
    
    
      
       If the Dail agrees, can it not be done? 
    
    
      
       I am afraid the Minister will have to make arrangements to have 53 Deputies to support his motion, whether the Dail is agreeable or not.  If he has not made arrangements for that support I am afraid he cannot suspend Standing Orders. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps it might be possible to consider the question later to-day. 
    
    
      
       Does the Minister suggest leaving over the making of the Order until some time later in the sitting? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       We will do that. 
    
   
   
     WIRELESS BROADCASTING REPORT. - TEMPORARY ACCOMMODATION OF THE OIREACHTAS. 
     
    
      
       The next item on the Orders of the Day is consideration of the Report of the Joint Committee on the Temporary Accommodation of the Oireachtas.  It was practically agreed last night to discharge this Order and to put it down for some day next week.  The Order Paper for to-day had, however, been printed then.  We could decide definitely to-day as to when we would take up consideration of the Report. 
       Order discharged.  Consideration of Report fixed for Friday. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - MONEY RESOLUTION. 
    
      
       I move: 
       &ldquo;That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to prevent the obstruction of legal remedies and to provide additional powers for enforcing the payment of judgment debts and otherwise for the enforcement of law, it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of the salaries or remunerations of persons acting as Deputy Under-Sheriffs, of persons employed to carry out the duties of bailiffs as regards the execution of writs, decrees and orders, and of Assistant Under-Sheriffs appointed under such Act; and of any other expenses incurred in carrying such Act into effect.&rdquo; 
       Resolution put, and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported and read a Second Time. 
     Motion made and question put&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the Resolution.&rdquo; 
     Agreed. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ENFORCEMENT OF LAW (OCCASIONAL POWERS) BILL, 1924&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     Section 1 put and agreed to. 
     
        SECTION 2. 
     (1)  From and after the passing of this Act it shall not be obligatory upon any under-sheriff to employ any bailiff to assist him in the execution of a writ of fleri facias or writ of habere or other writ, or to employ any bailiff appointed under Section 5 of the Civil Bill Courts Procedure Amendment Act (Ireland), 1864, to assist him in the execution of his duties under that Act, but in lieu of or in addition to such bailiffs it shall be lawful for any under-sheriff to employ such and so many suitable persons as he shall think fit to assist him in the execution of any or every writ of fleri facias or writ of habere or other writ and of any or every decree or order (whether for debt, possession of lands or otherwise) of a Civil Bill Court. 
     (2)  Any person employed by an under-sheriff under this Section may be employed at a weekly or other wage to assist him generally in the execution of such writs and decrees or orders as aforesaid, or may be employed specially to assist the under-sheriff in the execution of a particular writ or decree or order. 
     (3)  Wherever persons are employed by an under-sheriff under this Section to assist him generally in the execution of such writs and decrees or orders as aforesaid, the number and rate of remuneration (to be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas) of such persons shall be subject to the approval of the Minister, and the sanction of the Minister for Finance. 
     (4)  Wherever any persons are employed specially by an under-sheriff under this Section to assist him in the execution of a particular writ or decree or order, the number and remuneration of such persons shall be in the discretion of the under-sheriff subject to the sanction of the County Court Judge on appeal by the debtor. 
     (5)  Every person employed under this Section by an under-sheriff to assist him in the execution of a writ of fieri facias or a writ of habere shall have all the powers which are by law vested in a bailiff employed by an under-sheriff for that purpose,   and every person employed under this Section by an under-sheriff to assist him in the execution of any decree or order of a Civil Bill Court shall have all the powers which are by law vested in a bailiff appointed under the Civil Bill Courts Procedure Amendment Act (Ireland), 1864. 
    
      
       I move Amendment 1:&mdash; 
       In Sub-section (1). line 44, after the word &ldquo;persons&rdquo; to insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;approved by the County Court Judge.&rdquo; 
       The meaning of the amendment is obvious.  I think it should commend itself to the Minister in charge of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       The amendment is, I think, wrongly printed.  It should be to delete the words in lines 44 and 45 &ldquo;as he shall think fit,&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof &ldquo;approved by the County Court Judge.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I am not proposing to accept this amendment for the reason that the County Court Judge has no real means of checking the under-sheriff's selections.  A judge is not usually personally acquainted with the men who are likely to volunteer as special bailiffs and, in practice, he would simply take the under-sheriff's word as to the suitability of the person he proposed to appoint.  The amendment has all the outward appearance of a sound amendment drafted with a vigilant eye to the protection of the rights of citizens, but it would simply be a futility in the Bill.  The County Court Judge would accept, as a matter of course, the recommendations of a responsible official such as the under-sheriff and the thing would work purely automatically in that way. 
    
    
      
       There is the difference that the County Court Judge might like to see the persons who are to be employed by the bailiff, and if he saw some of the persons chosen he might not give them his certificate. (Section 2, as above, quoted).  We are not quite convinced that the under-sheriff is going to be very choice in the selection of the persons who will assist   him in the execution of these writs. It has not been unknown that the persons who have been employed in this work have been the most undesirable sections in the community.  It is not a difficult thing to say that under-sheriffs shall submit the names and perhaps the qualifications of persons applying for the post, and perhaps even pass under personal review those who are to be appointed to assist him in the execution of this duty. After all, if it is proposed to give the under-sheriff full liberty to employ any person whom he likes for this operation, we ought at least to have some check upon the character of the persons who are to be employed.  They are going to occupy decent premises sometimes; they are going to be placed in possession of decent houses, and come in contact with decent children, and unless we have some check upon the under-sheriff, there is no knowing what class of person will be engaged in this most unpleasant of duties.  It is very often the most unpleasant of persons who will undertake to put into operation these unpleasant duties.  The pay is high enough, the chances of loot are good enough, and persons of distinctly bad character may be chosen for this operation.  I think there should be some little check upon the under-sheriff in the choice of his assistants.  After all, the bailiff and the assistant-bailiff have hitherto at least been known. 
    
    
      
       took the Chair. 
    
    
      
       The public, or those members of it who made it their business to find out, or were able to find out, knew who were the assistant-bailiffs and who would be placed in the temporary possession of premises.  In this case you are throwing the onus entirely upon and giving the discretion, to the under-sheriffs to employ such persons  ad hoc  for the special job at any time, and to take any class of person of any character.  I suggest that it is not quite sufficient protection for the honest debtor, the decent debtor, who has a writ against him.  We ought at least to have a little check upon the character and the qualifications of persons whom the under-sheriff may employ to assist him.  I think the amendment is   probably as good a check as could be suggested, and it would really mean that a panel would have to be approved before-hand, so that such persons could then be chosen by the under-sheriff as his assistants. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy's speech suggests that he has been rereading Dickens.  My information is that under the normal law for which the Deputy has a certain remembrance&mdash; 27 and 28 Vic., Cap. 99, Sec. 5&mdash;the under-sheriff appoints and dismisses bailiffs at pleasure, and consequently there is no distinction between that position and the position of persons specially employed under this Act.  If the Deputy were to be logical and consistent he should add: &ldquo;Approved by the County Court Judge after inspection and special examination as to character, morals, antecedents, heredity,&rdquo; and so on.  That is out of the question, and if we were to accept the Deputy's amendment it would simply add another fiction and another sham to the procedure and the trappings of the law.  The recommendations of the under-sheriff would be accepted automatically by every County Court Judge, and every County Court Judge would be right in so accepting them. 
    
    
      
       That may be true, but I happen, perhaps, to have a little more confidence than the Minister appears to have in the County Court Judges.  I do not think they would approve automatically; at least they would realise they were approving with a certain responsibility, and that responsibility would be borne by them.  According to the temperament of the County Court Judge, and his confidence in the under-sheriff and the under-sheriff's discretion, he would exercise his own discretion as to whether he would approve of these nominees or not. 
    
     The Minister appears to think the County Court Judge, under the circumstances, would act as an automatic typewriter   and do exactly what the under-sheriff suggested.  But, if the Minister is right in saying there is no necessity for imposing any check here, and that under the old law the under-sheriff might employ whom he liked, what is the reason for this Section?  Perhaps if the Minister could explain that, it might not be necessary to press the amendment. 
    
      
       Might I point out that the County Court Judge, as an institution, is passing, and it will be necessary for Deputy Johnson to put in what we call a Judge of the Circuit Court instead? 
    
    
      
       When the new Bill is passed we will alter our phraseology. 
       Amendment put, and negatived. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       To add at the end of sub-section (2) the words&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The employment of any person specially to assist in the execution of a particular writ or decree or order shall not relieve from any responsibility the under-sheriff by whom he is employed.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to make it quite certain that the ultimate responsibility for the actions of those special persons employed by the under-sheriff will remain with the under-sheriff. 
    
    
      
       The amendment is unnecessary and, therefore, unacceptable. It would not be any useful addition to the Bill and would not effect any purpose that was not effected already.  No lawyer would succeed in convincing a Court that because this Act allows an under-sheriff to get his bailiffs in one way rather than another, his responsibility is less than it always has been. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 19; Nil, 36. 
    
     
       
        Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Sean Buitleir. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Risteard Mac Liam. Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Micheal R. O hIfearnain. Sean O Laidhin. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Padraig K. O hOgain (Luimneach).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. Sir James Craig. Louis J. D'Alton. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Martin M. Nally. 
             Peadar O hAodha. Ailfrid O Broin. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Aodh O Cinneidigh. Parthalan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loinsigh. Thomas O Mahony. Risteard O Maolchatha. Ailfrid O Raithile. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 3, as follows:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (5), line 15, after the word &ldquo;powers&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and be subject to all the obligations,&rdquo; and in line 16, after the words &ldquo;vested in&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or imposed upon.&rdquo; 
       If the facts are, as the Minister for Home Affairs states, that the appointment of these special bailiffs does not relieve in any way the under-sheriff of any responsibility which attaches to his position, I think he will have no difficulty in accepting this amendment, the object of which is to make that position quite clear. 
    
    
      
       I am prepared to accept the amendment, with the saving clause: &ldquo;So far as it is consistent with the provisions of this Act.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I wonder do the draftsmen of the Minister approve of that kind of provision being put into a Bill?  The Minister is prepared to accept an amendment on behalf of the Government, which says: &ldquo;So far as it is consistent with the provisions of this Act.&rdquo;  He is imposing upon judges this obligation, which is really our obligation. Has that the approval of the Attorney-General, I wonder? 
    
    
      
       But, without this saving clause, the amendment would have a ring of intimidation about it. We are quite frank on the matter that it is necessary, in the existing circumstances, to give increased powers to under-sheriffs and to lean rather towards those officers who, in the face of very special and very abnormal difficulties, are trying to clear off arrears which are so large as to constitute a weakness in the whole internal credit and, to some extent, the external credit of the country. 
       Now, I do not question at all that it is right to state that these people are subject to all the obligations that are imposed normally on the under-sheriff, but to balance that I want to put in that we are not imposing any additional obligation on them&mdash;any special obligation on them&mdash;and that the other provisions of this Act hold. It is just as reasonable for me to ask the Deputy to accept a saving clause as it is for the Deputy to ask me to accept an amendment, and it is not because of their cancelling out or anything that way, but just to keep the balance. 
    
     
    
      
       I confess I cannot understand the object the Minister has in mind, or what purpose he seeks to gain by insisting upon the saving clause, unless it be to soothe the feelings of the under-sheriff's bailiff or special bailiff.  That seems to me to be the only thing it can accomplish.  Surely the words that the Minister proposes in the saving clause are inconsistent with the Bill and do not apply here at all. 
    
    
      
       I would be satisfied with the saving clause with these words: &ldquo;Subject to the provisions of this Act.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister tell us what this will mean?  This is one of the provisions of this Act, and if this is inserted what other provisions of the Act can be referred to? Will the Minister tell us what the effect of such a phrase would be, and we, perhaps, could consider it then. 
    
    
      
       I think the amendment that has been moved is a reasonable one.  The attitude of the Minister seems to be that it may be a wolf in sheep's clothing.  Where the wolf appears I do not really see, but there may be a reason for considering the addition that the Minister for Home Affairs thinks is necessary. 
    
    
      
       I would like to explain that it may not be possible to be sure that all the obligations applying to permanent bailiffs could hold in the case of these special people temporarily engaged.  There are certain obligations as to place of residence and publication of names, and so on, which apply normally and which may not apply and may not be possible to apply in all cases under this Act.  I am perfectly prepared to accept the Deputy's amendment only in such a way as to ensure that it could not be read or interpreted hereafter to cancel or militate against any of the other Sections or provisions of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I am certainly mystified by the attitude of the Minister. The claim of the Bill is that the under-sheriffs should have power to appoint   assistants to the bailiff or himself to assist him in the execution of decrees.  These assistants are to have all the powers of the bailiffs, but unless some provision is made that the granting of the powers also impose responsibilities it will leave the position this way, that the assistants will have the powers but no responsibility, and the amendment seems to be not only reasonable, but eminently necessary to ensure that the under-sheriff will be careful in his selection of his assistants. 
    
    
      
       I am accepting the amendment. 
    
    
      
       As it stands? 
    
    
      
       I am accepting the amendment with the addition. 
    
    
      
       One cannot understand the addition because the addition seems to be intended to deprive it of any force.  If there are provisions in the Act which the Minister can point out would be weakened by the acceptance of the amendment as it stands, then let us know where they are.  I suggest to the Minister that, if he accepts the amendment as it is put down and then finds there are loopholes he would like to stop up that he could find another occasion for putting in a further amendment and explain why it is required.  So far he has only suggested that there may be a possibility of loopholes, but he does not say there are any. 
    
    
      
       If the Deputy will agree to the addition of the words &ldquo;Subject to the provisions of this Act,&rdquo; I will accept the amendment; otherwise I am opposing it. 
    
    
      
       I would be quite prepared to accept the amendment in that form if I could understand the object of making the insertion suggested by the Minister.  The Minister has not given any explanation as to the necessity for that insertion, and therefore I will not be responsible for an amendment with what I regard as an unnecessary addition. 
    
    
      
       Neither will I. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 19; Nil, 29. 
    
     
       
        Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. John J. Cole. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Risteard Mac Liam. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Micheal O hIfearnain. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Louis J. D'Alton. Patrick J. Egan. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Sean Mac Giolla 'n Riogh. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Peadar O hAodha. Criostoir O Broin. 
             Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Parthalan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Sean O Laidhin. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Thomas O'Mahony. Ailfrid O Raithile. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Motion made: &ldquo;That Section 2 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I wish to refer to a statement that was made by the Minister for Home Affairs on the Second Reading of this Bill in my absence.  I regret I was not present when the Minister made the following statement: 
       Deputy Davin, in the late general election, did me the honour of writing me up in his election literature as the bailiff's pal.  He referred to me in &ldquo;my new role of the bailiff's pal.&rdquo; 
       I was surprised when I was told of this, and was much more surprised when I read of it in the Official Report.  Whatever my opinion may be with regard to the Minister and his associates, that statement, so far as I am concerned, is both unfounded and untrue.  The many good qualities of the Minister and my failings and shortcomings are known to the people of the Division that sent me here.  I cannot see how the Minister could draw on his imagination to the extent of making that statement without any proof in support of it.  I have never seen any document that would bear out the statement.  Such a document was not issued by me.  Even if I held that high opinion of the Minister which his words convey, I had not the money at my disposal to give him the advertisement which he apparently would desire.  Therefore the statement is absolutely unfounded and untrue, and if the Minister is not generous enough to withdraw it I hope he will take the necessary steps to prove the statement. 
    
    
      
       I do not see how the matter arises directly on Section 2 of the Bill.  I have only to say this, that I had the leaflet which I spoke of in my pocket for quite a long time, intending to speak privately about it to the Deputy.  I had it in my pocket until it went to bits there.  It contained the words I quoted and several other remarks, and concluded with an appeal to the honest and intelligent electors of Leix to vote for Davin. 
    
    
      
       Quite untrue. 
    
    
      
       It is not untrue that I had such a poster sent up to me from Leix by a friend of mine there, and that it concluded with an appeal to vote for Davin.  Far too much has been made of the matter.  If the Deputy were here when I was speaking he would realise that I was not taking it very tragically or losing much sleep about it.  It is certainly true that a leaflet of the kind was sent up to me from Leix, and that the Deputy's name appeared on it. 
    
    
      
       I ask the Minister in fairness then, as he does not withdraw what he said, to try to procure a copy   of that, because it was not issued at my expense or with my knowledge. 
    
    
      
       You are subject to the obligations of the law. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 3. 
       It shall be the duty of a bailiff and of any other person employed by an under-sheriff pursuant to this Act, immediately upon entry and before seizure, to produce on demand to the defendant (or other the person in apparent possession of the lands and premises upon which he or they shall enter) the warrant of his or their authority from the under-sheriff, and to deliver a true copy thereof to such defendant or other person. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In line 24, to delete the words &ldquo;on demand.&rdquo; 
       The intention of the amendment is that the bailiff when he comes to make a seizure will be required to produce his warrant without a demand from the person upon whom the seizure is made, or from the person upon the premises at the time.  I think the necessity for this is obvious: many people who are not accustomed to have these seizures made upon them will be in a state of excitement at the approach of the bailiff, and they may not think of asking him for his warrant, with the result that the bailiff would not be bound to produce it.  The amendment would also have the effect of preventing people, who are not authorised to act as bailiffs, pretending they were bailiffs and making seizures on that pretence.  I ask the Minister to accept the amendment. 
    
    
      
       I do not agree with the Deputy as to the obvious necessity for the amendment.  My view of the amendment is that it is unnecessary.  The first and most natural thing for a person to do, when his house is entered by a stranger who proceeds to take away property, is to ask him who he is and why he is taking the property.  That is a demand within the meaning of the Section.  I cannot visualise anyone refraining from asking such a   question except for the deliberate purpose of evading the law.  These words were in the Act of last year, and I know of no case of hardship that occurred under the Act which was in force for six months of last year.  If the Deputy knows of any case I will be glad to hear it.  I think there is a possible consequence of the amendment to which the Deputy did not advert.  If the amendment is inserted, and if the debtor purposely refrains from asking, or purposely makes it impossible for the bailiff to show his authority, just as men succeed every day in evading the personal service of a writ, then under the amendment nothing more could be done to execute the judgement.  In that way the Deputy quite unconsciously would put a very powerful and effective weapon into the hands of a fraudulent debtor.  He would only have to refrain from making any demand for the authority of the bailiff, and then the bailiff or other officers would simply have to wait there in the hope that at some time the debtor might decide to ask the bailiff for his authority. 
    
    
      
       The effect of the amendment is that it will not be necessary for the owner or occupier to ask for the production of the warrant.  It does not necessarily follow that the debtor is supposed to have the warrant produced to him. Anyone who is in apparent possession will do.  That is how the Bill reads. We all know what views people take about the strong arm of the law and what effect the entry of a sheriff and his bailiffs has on many people.  At such a time some people might forget their rights.  It should be the business of bailiffs or others to produce the warrant.  The entry of a posse of men with the sheriff has an effect on the mentality of many people, and as a result they might not ask them for their authority.  I think it should be the duty of the State to see that persons entering should produce their authority. 
    
    
      
       The explanation of the Minister with regard to what is meant by demanding would   not, in my opinion, comply with what is meant here.  I think the whole tendency of the Bill is to throw the onus on the debtor rather than on the bailiff or whoever is responsible for the seizure.  The tendency, I think, should be that the debtor is protected as far as possible and within reasonable limits.  The onus of doing everything according to law should be thrown on the officers of the law. 
    
    
      
       Certainly.  I agree, but we should not put any weapon into the armoury of fraudulent debtors.  If you say that in all cases the warrant of authority must be produced to the defendant or to the person in apparent possession of the land and premises and if the bailiff is given no opportunity of producing that authority, then he will simply have to mark time until some such opportunity presents itself.  On demand no one is going to let one, two or three men into a house to take away property without asking who they are and what right they have to remove the property. 
    
    
      
       Visualise a widow as a defendant. 
    
    
      
       I put the case to the Deputy of a debtor purposely refraining from asking for the authority or purposely making it impossible for the bailiff to show his authority.  That is the kind of case you have to guard against.  The routine thing, in practice, when people come along to make a seizure under a writ or judgment is to say, &ldquo;We are So and So, and we have come on such an errand.&rdquo;  If that is not so&mdash;of course it is so, and every   Deputy knows it&mdash;there is no person who, when a man goes into premises to take property, is not going to ask what right he has to take his property.  The words in the Bill are perfectly proper, and to eliminate them leaves an opportunity to a cunning debtor to refrain from giving the bailiff an opportunity of producing his authority.  The obligation on the bailiff should be merely to comply with the demand which will be forthcoming in every case by officers going to effect a seizure on foot of a writ or judgment. 
    
    
      
       Still I am not convinced.  I do not think that the deletion of these words would prevent the sheriff from serving the writ.  The fact that a person does not ask does not prevent the sheriff from serving the writ. The only thing, as I would visualise it, is that the debtor and the sheriff would both be there, and the sheriff might be running after the debtor to serve his writ. 
    
    
      
       It means simply that if a person keeps a careful watch for the under-sheriff's men and happens to be not at home every time they call no seizure can be effected. 
    
    
      
       Or other person in possession. 
    
    
      
       The baby in the cradle. 
    
    
      
       Or the poor widow who might be nervously excited and who might be afraid to say a word. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 20; Nil, 33. 
    
     
       
        Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Risteard Mac Liam. Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Micheal R. O hIfearnain. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig K. O hOgain (Luimneach). Nicholas Wall. Sean O Laidhin. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John J. Cole. Louis J. D'Alton. Patrick J. Egan. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Sean Mac Giolla 'n Riogh. Eoin Mac Neill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. Peadar O hAodha. 
             Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Thomas O'Mahony. Ailfrid O Raithile. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 3 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and declared carried. 
     SECTION 4. 
     &ldquo;It shall be the duty of every under-sheriff under whose authority execution shall be levied upon goods, animals or other chattels to cause itemised inventory of the chattels seized to be made out, and within 48 hours of seizure, and, if practicable, before any removal to cause to be furnished to the defendant (or other the person in possession of such chattels) a duplicate of such inventory signed by the under-sheriff or by a person acting on his behalf.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I propose an amendment: In line 32 to delete the words &ldquo;if practicable.&rdquo;  The idea of this amendment bears a certain amount of relationship to the idea of the previous amendment.  I want to throw on the officers of the law the responsibility of doing everything required.  I believe the use of the words, &ldquo;if practicable,&rdquo; takes away any advantage there is in this call for an inventory. That is, who is to judge what is practicable and what is not?  The retention of those words, in my opinion, practically destroys the advantage in the portion of this Section with regard to the inventory. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy's amendment may be taken to mean that the inventory must be furnished whether it can be furnished or not. That is scarcely reasonable on the part of the Deputy.  I thought better of him.  Another interpretation would be that if the inventory cannot be furnished, then things come to a standstill, and there could be no removal. That, I think, is also unreasonable, though not quite as unreasonable as the other interpretation.  If the Deputy has, say, five cows and a goat on grass ten miles from his house, and the sheriff decides that it is his duty to seize those, on foot of some writ or judgment, the position that is created, if the amendment is accepted, is that the sheriff's men must proceed to the place, round the five cows and the goat up to a corner of the field, and send a dispatch rider to the Deputy to tell him that they had seized these five cows and a goat and that they proposed to remove them.  Is not that so? 
    
    
      
       Within fortyeight hours.  Does not &ldquo;removal&rdquo; mean removal from the bailiwick or something of that kind? 
    
    
      
       If the Deputy will make it clear that &ldquo;removal&rdquo; means removal from the bailiwick&mdash;&mdash; 
    
     
    
      
       That is the intention, but I think that the Section itself is not clear as to what &ldquo;removal&rdquo; means.  What is the meaning of fortyeight hours?  It would not take fortyeight hours to remove these cattle. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but taking it even as a case of removal from the bailiwick, the Deputy does not at all advert in this, as in his previous amendment, to the possibility of a deliberate attempt to make it impossible for the under-sheriff or his officers to comply with certain provisions that are or may become statutory.  I cannot believe that it is entirely due to innocence on the Deputy's part.  Tipperary has not, any more than Clare, a tradition of complete reverence for law and all its forms, and the idea of dodging service of a particular document is not unknown there.  Under the terms of the Deputy's amendment, it would merely become necessary for a person whose property has been seized to make it very difficult or to make it impossible to have such an inventory furnished to him, and no removal could take place. If the under-sheriff, under this Bill as under existing legislation and under the Act of last year, seized wrongfully, in excess, if there is fraud or negligence, he is liable.  But to say that he must not seize, he must not take steps to remove the property until a full inventory has been served on the owner, puts him in the hands of a fraudulent debtor, and the whole basis of this Bill is that there is on a large scale in the country something like a campaign as between fraudulent debtors and under-sheriffs, and a very deliberate and persistent attempt to defeat the law, and the practices of the law.  I think the acceptance of the Deputy's amendment would help towards that end, and I could not accept it. 
    
    
      
       The Minister says that the whole basis of this Bill is the assumption that there are a large number of people criminally intent upon evading legal obligations.  That may be, but running right through the Bill is an assumption that all persons who may at any time be brought into the employment of an under-sheriff are upright, honest discriminating,   careful citizens.  I deny that, and I am not prepared to agree to the Minister's view that the law should be such as to leave in such persons' discretion, as he apparently intends, the duty of taking a careful record and inventory of the goods seized.  Let us take the incident that the Minister adduced for Deputy Heffernan's consideration&mdash;five cows and a goat.  One of these cows may be a prize shorthorn, but the under-sheriff or his assistant will care nothing about the value of that beast.  It is a cow; it may be worth £20 or £200, but it is a cow to him.  If the under-sheriff or his officer is obliged to submit an inventory, then the debtor's position will be very much more secure against what I think is a likelihood of indiscriminate seizures and irresponsible action, not to say illegal, or criminal, or immoral action on the part of the sheriff's officers.  The necessity for submitting an inventory is clear.  The use of these words &ldquo;if practicable&rdquo; leaves a loophole to the sheriff's officer not to do a thing if he wishes and if he finds an excuse for not doing it. 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       But it does.  &ldquo;If practicable&rdquo; raises the whole question of whether he can prove it was practicable. 
    
    
      
       It is not a question of having an excuse; it is a question of having an explanation that would satisfy the court. 
    
    
      
       Yes, and the explanation he would give would be one word against another, and if he had, as he probably would have, the State Solicitor behind him, his explanation would be received much more readily by the court than that of the debtor who was assumed to be evading the law.  The objection that the Minister has raised could easily be met if he would propose to insert a provision which would allow the under-sheriff to submit that inventory by registered post within 48 hours.  But this term, &ldquo;if practicable,&rdquo; is too loose altogether. It is like the last proposal of the Minister, to insert the phrase, &ldquo;so long as it is in accordance with the   Bill.&rdquo;  These loose phrases in Acts of Parliament are very likely to lead to much litigation and expense, and I think that this phrase, &ldquo;if practicable,&rdquo; should not be embodied in the Bill. 
    
    
      
       My reading of the Section is quite different from that of some of the Deputies.  An inventory of the chattels shall be made within 48 hours of the seizure.  I can understand objection to the words &ldquo;if practicable&rdquo; if they come immediately after the word &ldquo;seizure,&rdquo; but between &ldquo;seizure&rdquo; and &ldquo;practicable&rdquo; comes the one little word &ldquo;and.&rdquo;  To my mind, the inventory must be made out within 48 hours after the seizure, and, if practicable, before removal. 
    
    
      
       &ldquo;Seizure,&rdquo; I take it, is the act of taking particular property into custody.  There can be no seizure effected while the goods are still on the man's premises, in his house, or in his field.  The Deputy's amendment, if he strikes out &ldquo;if practicable,&rdquo; would mean what I have said; that if he had stock on grass ten miles from his house they might be rounded up in to a corner of a field, but they could not be removed from the field until he had been served with an inventory. 
    
    
      
       What is the intention of introducing 48 hours?  It should not take 48 hours to make the seizure.  You give 48 hours after the seizure to make an inventory. 
    
    
      
       Yes, 48 hours. Within 48 hours from the seizure he must present his inventory.  If possible he must present his inventory before he removes the goods&mdash;if practicable&mdash;and if he removes the goods without presenting an inventory, if it could be shown that it was practicable for him to give such inventory before removal, then obviously he has broken the law and is liable. 
    
    
      
       The punctuation of the Section is wrong then.  Should there not be a comma after removal? 
    
    
      
       I do not think that is very material; but as I said before, the Deputy's amendment puts on the under-sheriff and his officers the duty   of performing an impossibility, or else he puts a very real weapon into the hands of a fradulent debtor.  He may dodge the furnishing of the inventory, and then there may be no removal.  Deputy Johnson complained of vague and loose words such as &ldquo;if practicable,&rdquo; and referred to a previous amendment where I wished to insert &ldquo;subject to the provisions of this Act.&rdquo;  I rather fancy that I have seen that in a great many Acts. 
    
    
      
       You have seen references to specific sections. 
    
    
      
       My contention is that the debtor whose goods were seized, and who was not served with an inventory before the removal of the goods, can sue the under-sheriff, provided he can prove it was practicable to serve such an inventory on him. 
    
    
      
       I do not wish to persist, but I can see that the actual amendment I have put down may have effects it was not intended to produce. I think the Minister can see what I am aiming at.  I would be willing to accept Deputy Johnson's idea, that the inventory should be served by registered post, but not having a legal mind and viewing it purely from a layman's point of view, I object to the insertion of the words &ldquo;if practicable,&rdquo; as I think they render the Section quite useless. I think they are words which should be very rarely used at all in an Act, for they throw on somebody the decision as to what is practicable and what is not.  Who is to decide? 
    
    
      
       The Court. 
    
    
      
       I would ask the Minister if he could see his way to meet my suggestion without actually accepting my amendment. 
    
    
      
       I do not see any way in which I could meet the Deputy. An under-sheriff removing property without having furnished an inventory over his name, or the name of his agents, must do that with full advertence to the fact that if it can be shown to the Court that it was practicable for him to serve the inventory, then he is liable. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided; Ta, 18; Nil, 35. 
    
     
       
        Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Risteard Mac Liam. Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhlin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal R. O hIfearnain. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). John J. Cole. Bryan R. Cooper. P. McKenna. Domhnall O Mochain. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Louis J. D'Alton. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. 
             Aodh O Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon E. O Dugain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loinsigh. Thomas O Mahony. Ailfrid O Raithile. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Mac Giolla 'n Riogh. Liam Mac Aonghusa. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 4 stand part of the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 5. 
     From and after the passing of this Act, the necessary wearing apparel and bedding of a person against whom an execution shall be levied, and the necessary wearing apparel and bedding of his family, and the tools and implements of his trade, not exceeding in the whole the value of £15, shall be exempt from liability to seizure. 
    
      
       I wish to move the amendment standing in my name. It is: In Section 5, line 43, to delete the words &ldquo;not exceeding in the whole the value of £15.&rdquo;  The intention of this amendment is that the Sheriff should not have power to seize from artisans and others the tools and implements of their trade, and that the value should not be restricted to £15. My intention in putting down this amendment is not in any way to support people who wish to evade the law, and who wish to get credit without incurring the liabilities involved by the getting of such credit.  But I think there is a fault on the other side of the case also, and that is that a good deal of harm has been done in recent years by the excessive credit that has been granted to people of very little means.  We think it would be a very great hardship that the under-sheriff should have power to come and seize the tools of a trader or such persons.  Credit is sometimes thrown at such persons, and it should rather be that persons should not give credit, because it means that there must be recourse to harsh means to get redress. 
    
    
      
       The limit under the existing law is, in fact, very much lower than £15.  It is £5. To raise that to £15 is a considerable concession in an Act of this kind.  It was a concession made last year in the Act which was in force for six months, and if my recollection is right, it was a concession to the combined eloquence of ex-Deputy Gavan Duffy and of Deputy Johnson.  I think Deputy Heffernan is somewhat of an optimist if he expects to drive me to greater flights of generosity than ex-Deputy Gavan Duffy and Deputy Johnson did. 
    
    
      
       Under the old Act of Parliament, which covered this particular question, £5 is allowed to be kept by the defaulting debtor.  £5   worth of machinery or tools in prewar days would not be purchased for £15 to-day. 
    
    
      
       The cost of living has fallen since the Act of last year. 
    
    
      
       The cost of machinery or tools has not fallen.  But that is not the point.  The Minister made a statement of fact that under the old Act of Parliament the limit was £5. I am not talking about last year's Act, which was temporary.  This is going to be a permanent Bill.  The annuities are fairly well paid now, but there are £150,000 of debts outstanding, principally for shop goods. Those who give these people credit should have known perfectly well that the law would not give them the power to take away from the debtor his means of existence.  I cannot understand why the law should give power to the under-sheriff to come in and take away, for instance, a man's plough.  A man's plough may cost £9. Does the Dail think that the machinery on the farm would be sufficiently provided for by £15?  It is ridiculous to say so.  Of course, we all agree that debts should be paid; but we also agree that the man giving credit is to blame in many cases.  In the inflated period through which we have passed the shopkeepers actually pushed these goods on to the people, now defaulting debtors, and they want under this Bill to take away their tools and implements and send the unfortunate people into the County Home. 
    
    
      
       I do not know why the Minister for Home Affairs would not accept the amendment from Deputy Heffernan if it is a reasonable one, even though it does exceed the demand made by ex-Deputy Gavan Duffy and Deputy Johnson.  I am afraid that it is not a reasonable amendment, because if you leave out &ldquo;the total value of £15,&rdquo; it might be construed that almost everything on the farm was a tool or implement of the farmer's trade.  Take the case of a man with a dairy farm, and he might almost say that the cattle were necessary to his trade and that he could not carry on his business without them. 
    
     
    
      
       Cattle are not tools or implements. 
    
    
      
       They are implements in a sense. 
    
    
      
       They are not implements. 
    
    
      
       The danger to the farmer is, if this amendment of Deputy Heffernan's is carried, that it will cause a restriction of credit. 
    
    
      
       A good job. 
    
    
      
       A good thing. 
    
    
      
       I do not agree with the Deputies who say that it is a good thing.  In my opinion the farmer will need credit for the next year or eighteen months very badly indeed. We all know that farmers are carrying on on bank overdrafts.  If you once lessen security you restrict credit, not merely from merchants but from the banks.  At this time, above all other times, to frighten creditors and make them feel that by one device or another the debtor may be able to exempt his property from distraint, would be to do the whole country very ill-service, and I oppose the amendment. 
    
    
      
       I agree that credit is of vital importance to the farmer at the present time; but the type of credit that he is getting at present is the worst possible form of credit and it would be a good thing for the farmer if it could be restricted.  It is very unlikely that banks and other credit institutions will have to be forced to resort to seizing a man's wearing apparel and bedding.  I think the £15 set out in regard to farming implements is ridiculous, because a reaper and binder will cost at least £50. Hardly any machine can be bought under £15.  It would be a disgrace that any creditor would be put in the position of sending a bailiff to seize a man's wearing apparel or bedding. 
    
    
      
       It should be remembered that these Acts which fixed £5 were passed at a time when farmers either never got credit or always paid their debts.  Therefore farmers or their implements were never considered as possible subjects of seizure.  Times   have changed.  On this score of credit, I would ask Deputy Cooper and the Minister to look at the question from a slightly different angle.  If the farmer's tools and implements are liable to be seized on foot of the tradesman's debt, what bank is going to give that man credit if he has not the means of making his farm productive?  It is the possession of his tools and implements that allows him to be worthy of credit. If they can be seized, then his occupation is gone and he can get no credit. 
       After all, a man's fingers are not able to do very much in the way of turning up soil.  In a long time he might manage to grow a little garden crop of potatoes.  If the farmer's tools and implements of agriculture are liable to be seized, then his credit is gone.  The Section sets out a person's necessary wearing apparel and bedding and the necessary wearing apparel and bedding of his family, and the tools and instruments of his trade.  Surely it is desirable to relieve from molestation the tools and implements of a man's trade?  Otherwise the chance of his carrying on and paying debts for which he might not yet have been sued, is nil. It would mean an increase in the number of decrees and less opportunities for the man paying his debts.  If one creditor can get a decree and seize a man's ploughs and machinery, then other creditors will be left without a chance of recovering their debts. 
    
    
      
       , at this stage, resumed the Chair. 
    
    
      
       The insertion of this reference to £15 is almost useless in reference to a farmer's implements and of very little value when one is dealing with a man's wearing apparel and bedding. I am sure the Minister will be inclined to bring other Acts of Parliament into operation.  If a debtor was reduced to £15 worth of wearing apparel and bedding for himself and his family, he would be almost in the position of a vagrant and a vagabond, probably going through the streets almost naked and sleeping on straw.  I cannot see the sense of leaving in this limit of £15, which I last year endeavoured to raise to £25 or even £50. I agree with Deputy Heffernan that it   is better to alter the Section so that it would secure immunity from the seizure of necessary wearing apparel and bedding and tools and implements which are necessary to enable a man to pay off debts, either the debt in question or future or existing debts that might be incurred.  I, therefore, support the amendment. 
    
    
      
       We are beginning now to see just where we are.  Deputy Heffernan mentioned a plough and a mowing machine, and if a mowing machine why not a reaper and binder, and if a reaper and binder why not a threshing machine, and why not a Fordson tractor?  All these are tools and implements of the farmer's trade. Therefore, no matter what he owes these must not be touched; they are necessary, to him at least, for his occupation, so that we get down to the position that Deputy Heffernan may get his threshing machine, his Fordson tractor, and his reaper and binder, his plough and his mowing machine and, when confronted with writs or judgments, he will sternly forbid the creditor to lay a hand on any of these necessary tools and implements of his trade.  The creditor, the person who sells these things to him on credit, fits him out with the plough and the mowing machine and the binder and the threshing machine and the Fordson tractor, but he cannot touch any of these things by way of recovering the amount due by the debtor.  That is an impossible position. Let us now move into another sphere.  A taxi-cab worth two or three hundred pounds might possibly, I suppose, be taken to be an implement of the proprietor's trade.  A printing plant worth one thousand pounds or thereabouts might equally be interpreted to be a necessary implement of that particular trade, and running over these few examples which naturally I have taken in a rather exaggerated form simply to emphasise my point, you can see that there must be a limit, and that there must be a price limit.  I submit that trebling the amount that was fixed under the ordinary law is a very substantial concession.  That concession was made last year when the temporary Bill of last year was going   through.  I am not prepared to advance on that.  I am not prepared to take the line that Deputy Heffernan may order expensive machinery in the county town through an agent, and then when sued for the price can sternly forbid the creditor to lay hands on any of these things.  That would create topsy turvydom in commercial life.  In the Bill of last year £15 was the amount.  The cost of living has decreased since then, and the wisdom of the Dail has increased. 
    
    
      
       I would refer the Minister to recent statements in the Dail by the Minister for Agriculture and the ex-Minister for Industry and Commerce on the cost of living which, as between June of last year and now, has certainly not decreased. 
    
    
      
       When you have the cumulative effect of a decrease in the cost of living and an increase in the wisdom of the Dail, I sincerely hope that we are not going to interfere with the figure fixed last year. 
    
    
      
       The Minister has made out his case that the deletion of the words suggested in the amendment would carry the thing to absurdity and that any man purchasing implements of this kind could entrench himself in a formidable position if this amendment was carried. But would the Minister consider the advisability of a change in this figure of £15 and an extension of it?  I would remind him that the increase in this figure was argued very cogently and very ably in the last Dail by Mr. Gerald Fitzgibbon, who advocated that the figure should be advanced to £20&mdash;I am speaking from memory, but I think that was the figure.  I think it would be extremely difficult for any person in modern circumstances to hold any equipment sufficient for living at £15.  When the original figure was fixed at £5 it must be remembered that that was not in the years immediately preceding the war.  It was fixed a good many years ago, when the cost of living was very much lower than it is now, and particularly when the cost of tools and implements was very much less than they are now. 
    
     
    
      
       And production was largely domestic. 
    
    
      
       And, as I am reminded, when production was very largely a domestic matter.  Production to-day is not a domestic matter. I suggest that £15 is too low a figure. I had intended to make particular reference to a certain part of the speech which was delivered by Mr. Gerald Fitzgibbon last year when he suggested the figure should be raised to £20, and now I suggest that £20 should be the minimum.  I think a higher figure might be sufficient to enable a man to entrench himself as suggested by the Minister.  His exaggeration was just exaggeration.  Still, because the amendment carries the position to one extreme, there is no reason why we should go to the other extreme.  There is no reason why we should consider £15 is an adequate figure to enable a person both to live and to conduct his ordinary livelihood and meet his social obligations&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       I think Deputy Heffernan's amendment is what is before the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I agree. All I ask the Minister to do is, even if Deputy Heffernan's amendment be rejected, to still consent to increase the figure of £15. 
    
    
      
       I think the Minister for Home Affairs is undoubtedly obsessed by the mechanical side of life, because Deputy Heffernan will bear me out when I say that the majority of farmers in Ireland have not got Fordson tractors, and depend really upon horses.  I gathered from Deputy Wilson, when he interrupted me a while ago, that farmers' stock is not exempt from seizure.  What is the use of having a plough if you have no horses to pull it?  If your horses or your donkeys are taken away and are seized, what is the use of having a plough? 
    
    
      
       The neighbours are always very kind. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but I never knew neighbours being too willing to draw a plough through heavy land. 
    
     
    
      
       They would send their horses. 
    
    
      
       That would mean that the farmer, having carried on some unsuccessful borrowing in one direction, now borrows his neighbours horses, which may be also seized.  I do not think it is a practical proposition that farmers could go to a bank with, or that they would improve their credit in the bank by saying they have a plough but no horses to work it. 
    
    
      
       But if he says he has no plough&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Unless you make the animals that pull the instrument exempt, as well as the instrument itself, I do not think that there is any case for Deputy Heffernan's amendment. 
    
    
      
       I am sure the real intention of the Minister is not to be absolutely inflexible.  I do not say what should be the absolute limit of this amendment, but I do think that a limit of £15 is too narrow and ridiculously low in view of present prices.  I am willing to withdraw my amendment if the Minister would advance a little to meet me in the matter. 
    
    
      
       I accept the   Deputy's apologies and will consider a figure between this and the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister give us some indication of what that means?  We have often had these promises.  If we had a promise that the Minister will consider it favourably we would probably be justified in accepting it, but without some more assurance of a favourable consideration and a hint as to the range of the concession we must press the amendment. 
    
    
      
       When I say I will consider a figure, I mean just that and no more.  I am not willing to give any undertaking or what would be equivalent to an undertaking that the figure would be increased.  If it can be increased, I should say the range would be very small.  It would be a matter possibly of £5. 
    
    
      
       I ask leave to withdraw the amendment. 
    
    
      
       No, we refuse. 
       Leave to withdraw the amendment refused. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided; Ta, 17; Nil, 39. 
    
     
       
        Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             John J. Cole. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Risteard Mac Liam. Patrick McKenna. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Micheal O hIfearnain. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig O hOgain (An C ar). Nicholas Wall.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Bryan R. Cooper. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Darrell Figgis. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. 
             Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Aodh O Cinneidigh Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O. Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Thomas O'Mahony. Padraig O Maille. Risteard O Maolchatha. Ailfrid O Raithile. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 5 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Section 6 put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 7. 
     (1)  It shall be lawful for any under-sheriff who shall after the passing of this Act take any goods, animals or other chattels in execution under a writ of  fieri facias  or under a decree of a Civil Bill Court to sell by public auction such goods, animals or other chattels at any time after the expiration of a period of twenty-four hours after he shall have taken the same in execution, but so that he shall not allow any unreasonable delay to occur, and it shall not be necessary for the under-sheriff to publish or announce that any such is a sale by an under-sheriff or is a sale of goods, animals or chattels taken in execution. 
     (2)  So much of Section 28 of the Civil Bill Courts Procedure Amendment Act (Ireland), 1864, as prescribes times within which goods or cattle taken in execution under any decree of a Civil Bill Court shall or shall not be sold is hereby repealed. 
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       In sub-section (1), line 56, to delete the words &ldquo;twenty-four hours&rdquo; and to substitute therefor the words &ldquo;seventy-two hours.&rdquo; 
       I understand that in the old Statutes the limit was 72 hours, and that 24 hours is an innovation.  I think it is very inadvisable that such a short limit should be retained.  Take the case where a seizure has taken place, perhaps from an honest person who found himself or herself in an unusual position. What attitude would such a person take towards the seizure?  The only attitude would be to get busy at once and try to collect by some means or another the amount of the debt and to release the stock or chattels, having got the necessary amount.  As the Section stands they have only got 24 hours to do that.  I think it is quite reasonable to ask to have the period extended to 72 hours. 
    
    
      
       I would wish the Deputy had been clearer as to the reason for the delay which he requires from 24 to 72 hours.  It seems to me   that the only honest reason could be to give the debtor time to raise the money. 
    
    
      
       That is the reason I gave. 
    
    
      
       Yes.  It would be the only proper reason.  But the debtor has already had more than sufficient warning.  He has been decreed; he has been asked by the plaintiff's solicitor to obey the decree, and in addition to that the Under-sheriff has probably asked him three or four times.  So that from the point of view of warning he will have had adequate notice before things come to this stage.  It would be only in a very exceptional case that a debtor would not have at least a month after the decree has been given&mdash;that is, between the granting of the decree and the making of any seizure.  I am sure the Deputy will agree with me that even in naming a month I am giving a very conservative estimate indeed.  It is probably in the great majority of cases nearer to six months.  All that period must be counted as a period of notice and of warning, during which the debtor might be busy, and should be busy in exhausting the resources of civilisation towards raising the money. I have tried to deal with the Deputy's reasons for an extension to 72 hours.  I would like to touch briefly on our reasons against that.  It involves the tying up of two bailiffs day and night over that period.  It involves in that way additional expense; and additional expense, the Minister for Finance explains to us from time to time, is to be avoided wherever possible.  I submit that clearly it could be avoided here. You have a position where arrears of about £170,000 exist throughout the country.  That problem involves a busy time for Under-sheriffs and their officers, and I can see no case whatever for coming to an arrangement whereby two Sheriff's officers will be tied up for three days, day and night, simply, according to Deputy Heffernan, because the debtor has not got sufficient notice and time to raise the money.  That is one reason. 
    
     I will give another reason against this 72 hours.  We are living in rather turbulent times and the tendency is to   settle every question on the physical plane.  Seventy-two hours' notice gives to the debtor time to organise his  posse  wherewith he will meet and argue the point with the sheriff's  posse.   That may not seem to the Deputy a very serious objection, but to us who have responsibility for seeing that the judgments and the writs of the Courts run freely, or as freely as possible, it is a very material factor in the situation. 
    
      
       I could have understood the Minister's argument as being logical and sound if he had argued, as he has done, in favour of 48 hours.  I refer back to Section 4, and I remember the Minister's defence of the Section as it stands.  Bear in mind that these two propositions are his own:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;It shall be the duty of every under-sheriff under whose authority execution shall be levied upon goods, animals or other chattels to cause an itemised inventory of the chattels seized to be made out and within 48 hours of seizure and, if practicable, before any removal to cause to be furnished to the defendant (or other person in apparent possession of such chattels) a duplicate of such inventory, signed by the under-sheriff or by a person acting on his behalf.&rdquo; 
    
     Under Section 7 he suggests to the under-sheriff that after 24 hours he may take these articles and sell them.  What is the reason for suggesting that before removal, which may be within 48 hours, an inventory should be supplied to the debtor?  It seems to me the suggestion to supply an inventory is to let the defendant know what goods are being taken so that he may protect himself. If that may extend to 48 hours, after the goods are sold, as it may under Section 7, where is the protection?  The sheriff's officers seize, say, cattle which may, as I suggested earlier, be pedigree beasts as to the value of which the under-sheriff knows nothing.  Under Section 4 he is obliged within 48 hours to submit an inventory of the goods seized and, if practicable, before any removal.  But within 24 hours, or at least after the expiry of 24 hours, he may have sold these animals, before having supplied the inventory.  There is a contradiction in these two Sections, and I suggest if Section 4, which has been   adopted by the Dail, is to be maintained in its present form Section 7 should be altered at least to accord with it.  You cannot defend the 24 hours after passing Section 4.  Deputy Heffernan thinks that 72 hours is the minimum notice that should be given, and I am inclined to support him. 
    
      
       There are one or two points that I think the Minister has overlooked in regard to the limit. Is it not quite possible if chattels, goods, or cattle are sold within, or at the expiration of, 24 hours that the notice that can be given is altogether too short?  What will happen in actual fact is that surrounding the sheriff's bailiffs will grow up a body or a very undesirable type of people who   will watch sheriff's sales and buy goods at a ridiculously low figure. Ordinary people will not know of these sales nor take advantage of them.  The effect of the Section will be that goods will be sold greatly under their real value.  I believe that is very undesirable.  I think the main aim of the law is to see that goods seized realise a price as close as possible to their actual value.  It is well-known that such has not been the case at sheriff's sales.  I am trying to avoid that state of affairs.  I intended to ask the Minister if it was not a fact that under previous Statutes the limit was 72 hours and that it was only recently restricted to 24 hours. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 16; Nil, 34. 
       Ta. 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. David Hall. Connor Hogan. Pilib Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Patrick McKenna. 
             Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal R. O hIfearnain. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Louis J. D'Alton. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Darrell Figgis. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. William Hewat. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Sean Mac Giolla 'n Riogh. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. 
             Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Parthol an O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Thomas O'Mahony. Padraig O Maille. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported. 
     Committee ordered to sit again on Tuesday, 1st April. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ADJOURNMENT&mdash;THE ARMY INQUIRY. 
    
      
       I move the adjournment of the Dail until Tuesday, 1st April, at 3 o'clock. 
    
    
      
       In connection with the Terms of Reference of the proposed Committee to inquire into recent Army events, I want to draw attention to the fact that the Terms of Reference, as they stand at present, do not appear to contemplate arrangements for the hearing by the Committee of any charges, complaints, or rumours that led up to the removal of   three officers&mdash;the Chief of Staff, the Adjutant-General, and the Quartermaster-General. In the speeches that have been made in the Dail during the last week or so, charges of various kinds have been implied against those officers.  The Minister for Finance yesterday stated that the decision to remove them was come to on account of particular incidents on Tuesday, 18th March, and on account of the dissatisfaction felt by various members of the Executive Council for a considerable period.  Various Ministers implied general charges of one kind or another against those officers.  I take it that it is not the President's intention, nor the intention of the Executive Council, that there shall be no examination of what is behind this general atmosphere of charge, and that it is not their intention that officers who have given such distinguished service to the State, such as those three officers have given, shall be removed in the way in which they have been from their offices, and no reason be given, whether publicly or otherwise, except the rough and ready charges which have been made here.  I, therefore, ask that the Terms of Reference should be so framed that the Committee dealing with this Inquiry shall receive evidence of any complaints, charges, or rumours, because rumours apparently form the greater portion of the charges against those officers, and that the Committee shall be able to ascertain whether the removal of those officers, in the manner in which they were removed, is justified or not. 
    
     In the matter of the inquiry, generally, there are certain points I would like an assurance upon.  A personnel has already been nominated for the Committee.  I have already stated that that is inadequate.  As a matter of fact, certain persons nominated on that Committee of inquiry have, as a result of recent happenings or subsequent happenings, had their positions as impartial inquirers rather prejudiced. I personally do not want to object to any of the names that have already been mentioned, but I do think, if the Executive Council consider that they are proper persons to nominate on that Committee, that   the Minister for Education has made statements here in the Dail that might be regarded by Deputies as somewhat prejudging the position.  As to Deputy McGilligan, a second member of the Committee, in view of the statement made by the Minister for Home Affairs that one of the things which the Ministerial party are unanimous in was that the Army Council should be removed from their position, I think that that, to some extent, prejudices his position to be regarded as an impartial inquirer.  I say that if the Executive Council do consider&mdash;&mdash; 
    
      
       I am sorry to intervene, but it is right that I should say that I had no positive grounds for that statement.  I had the negative grounds that there was a complete absence of dissent, so far as I know, within the Party, from the step that has been taken, but it was perhaps not right and not fair that I should make a positive statement that they were unanimous about it.  I qualify that now by saying that no evidence of dissent within the Party came to my knowledge. 
    
    
      
       I should have qualified my statement by a reference to the absence of dissent.  I had that absence of dissent very much in my mind. I mentioned the matter to Deputy McGilligan himself.  If the Executive Council thinks these are proper persons to be on the Committee of Inquiry, I have no objection; but I do consider that these persons, or whoever may be the nominees of the Executive Council on the Committee, should be supplemented by a representative from the Labour Party, a representative from the Farmers' Party, a representative from the Independent Party and, if necessary, a representative from Deputy McGrath's Party.  Given that, there are certain other things that I require to have attention drawn to.  We should like to know if witnesses before this Inquiry shall be examined on oath; whether there shall be power to compel witnesses to attend and give evidence if required; whether a verbatim report of the evidence would be taken; what will be the form of the Committee's Report; whether they will be expected   to fix responsibility for any matters involving mutinous conduct, and whether they will undertake to define the nature of that responsibility. If it is intended that the Committee will make recommendations, what will be the scope of these recommendations? Will persons who may be involved be allowed to be present constantly at the Inquiry or to depute persons to represent them or, alternatively, will any person involved be given a copy of any evidence implicating him in any way, and may he appear before the Inquiry for the purpose of rebutting any such evidence?  I fully appreciate the arguments for or against a public Inquiry at present, but if the Committee will consist of representatives of the Parties I have mentioned as well as nominees of the Executive Council, if varbatim reports are taken, if the persons against whom charges or complaints are made will have an opportunity of replying, if the Committee will investigate the charges, complaints and rumours against the officers who have been removed, and if it appears to the Dail for any reason that the publication of the evidence taken before the Inquiry is advisable, that the evidence will be made public, then I would not propose to press the President that the Inquiry should be a public one.  I would also urge that steps would be taken to have the Inquiry start its work at once.  I do not know how long it will take, but there are obvious and many reasons why the work of the Inquiry should be begun at once, and concluded at the earliest possible moment. 
    
    
      
       It seems to me that the request of Deputy Mulcahy for precision and a clear understanding as to the scope of this Inquiry is very reasonable.  The officers concerned, and he himself, are involved in what amount to charges, and as the public is very widely concerned and, in a direct sense, involved, the scope of the Inquiry should, I think, be a little more definitely stated than appears in the Terms of Reference, and the tribunal should be, as I have already claimed, a wider one than that which is appointed.  I took note, for instance, of the last few lines in the   covering letter which the President read yesterday:&mdash;&ldquo;and in addition to report on such specific matters and replies to such specific queries as may from time to time be referred to them by the Executive Council.&rdquo;  That, of course, suggests a possible interminable inquiry, and nobody will know what the Inquiry is about.  The letter which professes to indicate the Terms of References is intended to cover everything, I think, but I believe that Deputy Mulcahy is right in saying that it does not necessarily include an inquiry into the conduct of those officers who were called upon to resign. It may be held by the Committee to include that, but it may be held by the Committee not to include it.  It is not clear; it is certainly not laid down in the Terms of Reference, and I think that there should be a very definite reference to the charges alleged against the officers who have been removed, because, presumably, of their conduct.  The circumstances are not normal.  If they had been transferred from one post to another I do not think that any such demand could reasonably have been made, but they were dismissed, called upon to resign from certain administrative posts, and charges were suggested against them. On these grounds I think that Deputy Mulcahy is justified in making the claims for precision in the Terms of Reference, a very carefully conducted Inquiry, and that the court should be a wider one than that which has been appointed. 
    
    
      
       I think the request of Deputy Mulcahy is not only reasonable but very proper.  The Deputy takes exception to the constitution of the Committee set up to inquire into this matter. I think it is open to question.  It is a Committee appointed by the Executive Council in a matter which, as far as the Executive Council is concerned, I think they carry some responsibility themselves.  In other words, it is clear that for a considerable period this state of affairs has been within the knowledge of the Executive Council, and how far they as a collective body have been to blame is a matter on which I think they cannot entirely free themselves from responsibility.  But   incidentally one of the members of the Executive Council is on this Committee, and any of us who listened to this Minister on the occasion of the debate on the Army matter, while we can give him personally full credit for perfect honesty, cannot, I think, following that speech look on him as an unprejudiced judge on this matter.  I do not know what the feeling of the Dail will be, but I think I may express my own opinion, at all events, that the request by Deputy Mulcahy is perfectly justified and ought to be accepted. 
    
    
      
       I should like to make my personal position quite clear in this matter.  I have studiously refrained from taking part in the debates, either in the Party or the Dail, since I received the intimation that I had been appointed to act on this Committee of Inquiry.  I did that, as I say, deliberately, although I believe a distinction could be made between the events leading up to and ending on Tuesday night which form the subject matter of the Inquiry, and the events after that day which were more immediately the subject of discussion at the Party meetings than at the Dail.  But after listening to the remarks made in the Dail on two or three occasions I felt it would be unwise for me to continue at this Inquiry, and I had actually drafted the following letter for the President:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Since considerable stress has been laid in the Dail lately on the fact that the Committee appointed by the Executive Council to inquire into recent events in the Army is drawn completely from the political organisation to which the Government owes its existence: and as there has been so much insistence on the necessity for reconstructing the Committee and changing the personnel, I thought it right to let you know that my resignation from the Committee can be had on a moment's notice.  I am quite willing to serve on the Committee if required, and I am equally ready to withdraw if such withdrawal in any way eases the situation.&rdquo; 
    
     I did not send that letter to the President, because I felt that the Executive Council would not feel themselves   estopped from calling for my resignation if any point such as that now urged by Deputy Mulcahy were put forward, but I think it is better, on the whole, that the Dail and the President should know that as far as I am concerned I am quite ready to withdraw from the Committee at a moment's notice. 
    
      
       There is no motion before the Dail, but I propose to let Deputy Gorey speak before the President replies. 
    
    
      
       I agree with other Deputies who have spoken, that the request of Deputy Mulcahy is only a fair and reasonable one.  If this Committee is to do justice to the crisis that has arisen, it should be impartial and give fair play all round to every section and every individual involved, I do not care what side of the Dail or section of the Army they come from, or even if they do not come from any section of the Army at all.  Every person concerned ought to get fair play, and all sections of the Dail should have representation, and thereby make the Committee more impartial. I think the request is most reasonable and it has my support and the support of every member of our party. 
    
    
      
       I want to ask the President if he deems it advisable to give way to the wish expressed by Deputy Mulcahy, and if as a result it is necessary for State servants, whether soldiers or civilians, to come forward to give evidence with regard to rumours or charges made, can he give assurance that any such persons will not be victimised as the result of their action? 
    
    
      
       I am not in a position to make any announcement on the matter raised by General Mulcahy. There has been no meeting of the Executive Council since Monday, and as the Dail understands, attendance here and attention to ordinary administration has occupied the entire time of the Minister during the week.  I must, therefore, ask the indulgence of the Dail for a few days before making any announcement on this matter.  With regard   to the question raised by Deputy Davin, I think it is unnecessary to say that there would not be victimisation of any servant or officer of the State who gives evidence at such Inquiry&mdash;that is, with the reservation that there may be statements which may possibly give rise to very serious considerations, if there be an admission of any dereliction of duties, or perverse conduct, or anything of that kind.  I am sure I am not asked to give a guarantee that if, by reason of evidence submitted, an officer convicted himself, he should be relieved from any disciplinary action with regard to that matter. 
    
     
    
      
       Will the President say whether the Committee has entered on its duties in any way? 
    
    
      
       The Committee held one sitting to consider the procedure, I believe, but it took no action beyond that. 
    
    
      
       I take it that until the President has made his promised statement no further action will be taken by that Committee. 
    
    
      
       No. 
       The Dail adjourned at 4.30 p.m. to Tuesday, 1st April, at 3 p.m. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DUNGARVAN BLIND PENSION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if he will state why a blind pension granted by the Dungarvan Sub-Committee to James Flynn, Ballyknock Lower, Dungarvan, is being withheld. 
    
    
      
       The Dungarvan Rural Pension Sub-Committee on the 1st instant allowed the claim of James Flynn, Ballyknock Lower, Dungarvan, to a pension of 10/- a week under the Blind Persons Act, 1920.  The Pension Officer has appealed, and it will be necessary before a decision is given that the Medical Inspector should examine the claimant's eyesight. 
       There will be no avoidable delay in making the medical examination. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DUNGARVAN GARAGE CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state when the balance of claim for billeting, motor hireage, petrol, oil, detaining and damage to motor, due to William Dunne, Devonshire Arms Hotel, Dungarvan, will be settled. 
    
    
      
       It is hoped to effect a speedy settlement of the balance of Mr. Dunne's claim, on receipt of certain particulars which both Mr. Dunne and his solicitor have been asked to supply. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - WATERFORD MOTOR COLLISION. 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he has received a claim for compensation from P. Sinnott, 50 High Street, Waterford, for damage to a Ford motor, caused by collision with a Military tender, and, further, if he will have a settlement in this case expedited. 
    
    
      
       A claim has been received from Mr. Sinnott and is under consideration.  Every effort is being made to expedite the matter. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ALLOTMENTS FOR LABOURERS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he can state whether occupiers of labourers' cottages living on, or in the vicinity of, ranch or other lands that are to be divided by the Land Commission, are entitled to portion of said lands, and, if so, whether he can indicate what acreage is likely to be so allotted. 
    
    
      
       In the distribution of lands acquired by the Land Commission due regard is had to the cases of labourers living on or in the vicinity of the lands, whom the Land Commission consider competent to work land. The area of land which may be allotted to such persons will depend on the amount of land available and their capacity and means to work the land. 
    
   
 