 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLOTMENTS BILL. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether it is intended to introduce an Allotments Bill, and, if so, when. 
    
    
      
       It is not intended to introduce an Allotments Bill this Session.  The present position is that there are far more allotments than applicants for them. 
    
    
      
       Was there an Allotments Bill promised? 
    
    
      
       Yes, certainly, there was an Allotments Bill promised about a year ago, but experience has since proved that for every one applicant there are two or three allotments vacant. 
    
    
      
       In view of the fact that some of those who have allotments are being threatened with eviction, would the Minister take steps to safeguard them for this season? 
    
    
      
       I am not aware that tenants, if you call them tenants, the people who took allotments at the beginning of the season, are being threatened by the owners with eviction before the crops are taken away, and in the middle of the season.  I think that is most unlikely, but I will have inquiries made into the matter. 
    
     
    
      
       Does the Minister consider that it is desirable to keep in being the allotments in places where they are, as a matter of fact, occupied and taken up still? 
    
    
      
       So far as the country is concerned, there are ample powers under the Land Act which they are exercising to keep in being allotments, and advances are being made to trustees for the purpose of acquiring areas of land which can be let to labourers and other suitable people for allotments. If experience, as we go along, shows the necessity for further legislation, the legislation is there ready. 
    
    
      
       I will give the Minister particulars of a case which I have in mind. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF TIPPERARY ESTATES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what estates have been acquired in County Tipperary by the Land Commission for the purpose of division, and when it is proposed to proceed with the work of dividing those estates. 
    
    
      
       The Land Commission are negotiating for the purchase of 3,732 acres of untenanted land situate on six estates in County Tipperary. The proceedings have not yet reached the stage at which the lands can be vested in the Land Commission. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether an invitation has been received from the French Government to participate in the International Exhibition which is to be held in Paris next year; whether he is aware that this will be the principal exhibition in 1925, and that nearly all countries intend to participate, and whether he will take steps to see that the Saorstat is adequately represented. 
    
    
      
       An invitation has been received to participate in this exhibition, but the estimated cost of participation renders it doubtful whether without very substantial support   the invitation can be accepted.  If it appears that a sufficient number of firms engaged in the decorative industries would be prepared to participate in a representative display and to bear their share of the expenses the necessary arrangements could be made. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, the Minister is probably not aware that the last day for sending in acceptances is next Saturday, and I do not see how this information can be obtained by them. 
    
    
      
       I was not aware of that. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A DERELICT FACTORY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that an extensive building in which cotton goods were manufactured some years ago is now lying derelict at Portlaw, County Waterford; whether he would be prepared to arrange for an Inspector to visit the place, and report on the accommodation, etc., so that the Minister may be in possession of all the facts in the event of inquiries for such premises being made to his Department; and whether the opening of this factory would not relieve the unemployment and consequent distress now prevailing in the locality. 
    
    
      
       If the Deputy will give me the name of the owner of these premises and particulars as to its precise situation, I will see if an inspection can be arranged. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BILLETING ACCOUNTS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that there is money due to Mrs. Nora O'Sullivan, West End, Millstreet, Co. Cork, in respect of part of a billeting account, and if he will state when this account is likely to be paid. 
    
    
      
       The only account received from Mrs. O'Sullivan amounted to £84, and was duly paid&mdash;£50 in August last, and £34 in November. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister aware   that the amount has not been paid in full, that in fact it was only paid in part?  Is he aware also that the amount for billeting is 6s. 6d. a day, and that on the instructions of the local military officer this lady changed her original claim to 3s. 6d. a day, and was paid on the 3s. 6d. per day basis, and that after she had been paid the Army Finance Officer allowed 6s. 6d. per day all round?  There were two or three changes made in the account, but she was promised she would be paid the remainder, that is to say, the difference between 6s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per day, but she has not yet been paid. 
    
    
      
       I have no information. As I have already said, this lady was paid £50 in August last and £34 in November. 
    
    
      
       On the 3s. 6d. per day basis? 
    
    
      
       I could not say, really. 
    
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state when it is intended to pay Mr. Joseph Howard, Railway Hotel, Millstreet, Co. Cork, his account of about £43 due for billetting troops. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Howard's claim was assessed and paid at the rates authorised for the billetting of troops.  The deductions were made in respect of overcharges and are being explained to him. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A MACROOM ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state when it is intended to pay Miss Nora Riordan, McCurtain Street, Macroom, her account, amounting to about £136, due for goods supplied to the Army. 
    
    
      
       Accounts amounting to £121 8s. 11d. have been received from Miss Riordan.  Portion of the accounts will be paid forthwith, and the remainder as soon as possible. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE NOTICE QUESTION. - INDEMNITY BILL TO BE INTRODUCED. 
    
      
       I beg to ask the President   the following question of which I have given him private notice:&mdash;If he is aware that legal proceedings have been instituted against certain individuals in County Leitrim for acts done by them during the period of the Anglo-Irish War; if he is aware that these acts were done by Irish Volunteers in the discharge of their duties, acting under orders issued with the authority of Dail Eireann; and whether he will give an assurance that indemnity will be given to all persons  bona fide  concerned in the doing of such acts? 
    
    
      
       I am aware of the fact that proceedings have been instituted in the County Leitrim in connection with the matters mentioned.  As regards the second part of the question, I have not been able to ascertain, but I am taking it that what the Deputy says is quite correct.  As regards the third part of the question, it is intended to introduce an Indemnity Bill, which is at present in the hands of the Parliamentary draftsman, and I anticipate an early introduction of this measure. 
    
    
      
       Is that an additional Bill to the list that we have had placed before us, and is it expected to pass before the adjournment? 
    
    
      
       Yes; I think this will be a rather simple Bill.  I gave some information to the Committee on Privileges about it, and I do not think it will occupy very much time.  I think all parties in the Dail will be anxious to facilitate its passage. 
    
    
      
       If these acts were done under the authority of Dail Eireann there is no need for an Indemnity Bill. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy may not be aware that while Dail Eireann may have authorised certain acts, it did not give the necessary legislative authority for certain acts, and these omissions were scarcely of a character which would reflect upon the Dail.  It was not in a position to meet regularly. Its meetings were crowded with a very copious agenda, some matters on which may have had to be left over. I take it, it is not necessary to make   any apologies on behalf of that very eminent body during the very difficult period in which it met. 
    
   
   
     NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT DEBATE. 
    
      
       I would like to raise on the adjournment, the matter of the position of Ireland in regard to the International Exposition in Paris next year. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE MEMBERS' TIME. 
    
      
       I move that the proceedings on the Railway Bill be not interrupted for Private Members' business, and that the Dail sit later than 8.30 p.m. this evening. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask whether we cannot get rid of Private Members' Business on the Order Paper to-day.  This motion, to take Private Members' time in favour of Government measures after certain legislative steps have been taken with regard to a Private Members' Bill, seems to be rather an undesirable course to follow if we could avoid it.  I think it would be very much better to have a decision taken on the Town Tenants Bill rather than to have it adjourned from Wednesday to Friday and from Friday to Wednesday and Wednesday to Friday again, not knowing whether it is going to be accepted by the majority of the House or not.  I suggest it would be much better and more satisfactory for everybody concerned, if we were to finish the discussion on the Second Reading, and take a division on the matter. 
    
    
      
       I informed Deputy Redmond that the Bill could not be taken this evening, and asked him to postpone it until next week.  He agreed, and made certain arrangements, and I think he is out of town, and it would not be fair to take the Bill now, having told him that it would not be taken to-day. 
    
    
      
       How does this arrangement apply to the motion standing in my name? 
    
    
      
       I would prefer to make a bargain with the Deputy.   If we finish the Railway Bill this evening I would propose to allow him to go on with his motion. 
    
    
      
       At the request of other Deputies interested in the motion in my name, I would ask to have it postponed until next week, as I understood I was to get time for it on Friday or Wednesday. 
    
    
      
       I would be prepared to meet the Deputy to-night if we finish the Railway Bill, or else to take the discussion on his motion on Friday next. 
    
    
      
       I accept that. 
    
    
      
       The question is: &ldquo;That the proceedings on the Railway Bill be not interrupted for Private Members' business.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       Ordered: That the Dail sit later than 8.30 p.m. this evening. 
    
   
   
     DUBLIN POLICE BILL, 1924&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I ask for leave to have printed and circulated a Bill which makes certain administrative changes in connection with the Dublin Metropolitan Police.  These changes, while important, and necessary administratively, will not, I think, be considered as calling for very much discussion or raising any controversial points, but it is necessary for the proper regulation of the force that we should have legislative sanction for certain proposals which we will put before the Dail. I move, therefore, for leave to introduce this Bill. 
       Leave granted; Bill read a First Time and ordered for Second Reading Wednesday next, June 4th. 
    
   
   
     NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE BILL, 1924&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I ask leave to introduce a Bill to establish a Medical Certification Fund under the control and management of the Irish Insurance Commissioners, and for that purpose and also   for other purposes to amend, and extend the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 and 1923.  Hitherto the cost of medical certification under National Health Insurance has been paid solely by State contribution.  In the Estimates 1923-24 there is an item of £51,200 for that.  There is no such item in the Estimates for the coming year, and it is proposed to find the amount necessary for paying for medical certification out of the various items of the Insurance Fund itself.  There would still be a certain State contribution towards medical certification, but that will amount only to 2-9th of the entire payment, so that the amount of the State contribution will be less by something like £35,000.  I think I need not at this stage indicate the details or the way in which it is proposed to find the money. The amount allowed to societies for administration is 4s. 10d., and it is proposed to reduce that to 4s. 5d.  Five-pence will be found in that way. Various other sums will be found inside the insurance scheme for the purpose of meeting the necessary expenses. 
       Bill read a First time.  Ordered for Second Reading Tuesday next, June 3rd. 
    
    
      
       I take it there will be plenty of time to examine the Bill after it is printed, because it is rather an important matter affecting very large numbers of people. 
    
    
      
       The Bill is in print, and will be circulated tomorrow. 
    
   
   
     COMPANIES (RECONSTITUTION OF RECORDS) BILL, 1924&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill, which is a Bill for the Reconstitution of the Records of certain companies whose records were destroyed in the office of the Registrar of Companies.  As the Minister explained last day, owing to the fire in the Custom House on the 25th May, 1921, the records of these companies have been destroyed, and it is necessary to have them reconstituted. There are statutory duties, which include the production for inspection of documents filed with the Registrar of   Companies, and the giving of such documents in evidence in the courts, furnishing copies and extracts from them and giving various certificates based upon the records.  The object of the Bill, in short, is to provide for the reconstitution of these records.  For companies that have ceased to exist, no records are necessary in these cases, and for companies which are now in liquidation, it will not be necessary to make up a list of them.  They are excluded in a sub-section of Section 1 and in Section 2.  It is also unnecessary to include in the reconstitution those companies in respect of whom there are records in London with the Board of Trade.  Section 3 provides that the secretary of every company to which the Act applies, shall furnish the Registrar with all information and documents necessary to reconstitute these records.  I move: &ldquo;That the Bill be now read a second time.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I would ask the President to say if there is any change in the form of the Schedule, whether any new questions have been inserted, or whether any of the questions that used to be asked have been deleted.  Further, what provision is made for the public obtaining information regarding companies whose records are in London? Did the Minister say it was not necessary that such companies should be required to send in particulars required of other companies?  Is it to be expected that we should get copies of these records from London, or how is the public of Ireland to get the information in regard to companies whose records ought to be here? 
    
    
      
       I take it it is possible to get records from London if and when required.  I am not aware of the particular details of the measure in respect of the other questions.  As far as I am aware, there has been no departure under this Bill from the regulations that were in existence.  The only point in respect of which there might probably be a departure would be that under this Bill there is no provision for recoupment of costs, but the costs are inconsiderable, and I do not think any grave question would arise on that issue. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps I   should say this, in reference to the companies in London.  From the time the Free State was established, the companies registered in London, and not registered here, became foreign companies for the purposes of the Companies' Act, and where they are registered in London, we have, under the Adaptation of Enactments Act, 1923, made an order requiring them as foreign companies to deposit all particulars that are required from foreign companies, and that would include most of the particulars that can be required by any persons wanting information, such as the Articles of Association, and so on, and it is for that reason that certain companies are excluded. On the other hand, companies that want to be registered here as Irish companies will still be required to deposit full particulars, their Articles of Association, their Certificate of Incorporation, and all particulars of mortgage and debentures, and so on. As regards the other question that Deputy Johnson asked, I do not quite know what he was referring to.  There is a very exhaustive schedule of enquiries here, and I do not know what Deputy Johnson had in mind when he asked if any particulars were omitted. 
    
    
      
       Take, for instance, particulars of share capital and so on. These were required under British law. What I want to know is, are the same requirements contained in this Schedule as were required under the British law, or was there any addition or omission? 
    
    
      
       There have been no designed omissions.  As a matter of fact, it was intended to have this as complete as possible, because it was absolutely essential that the Registrar of Companies should provide all information that the public could have available on payment of a small fee.  If the Deputy looks at the Schedule he will find amongst the inquiries particulars as to capital are required to be given under No. 7.  I think the Schedule really covers all possible particulars. 
    
    
      
       I am really curious to know whether we can rely that those companies which originally registered in London will, under the new   law, be required to deposit their records here or only some of them. 
    
    
      
       The companies the Deputy referred to will become the same as foreign or dominion companies.  They will have to deposit under the Adaptation of Enactments Act all the particulars that will be required of foreign companies in London. Will that meet the Deputy's requirements? 
    
    
      
       It may answer my question but it does not meet my requirements. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a second time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Tuesday, 3rd June. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - RAILWAYS BILL, 1924.  (COMMITTEE STAGE) RESUMED. 
     (1)  Save as in this Act, expressly provided, nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect the rights or liabilities of any amalgamating or absorbed company under any Act or agreement or arrangement (whether made under statutory powers or otherwise) in existence at the passing of this Act, but from and after the passing of this Act it shall not be lawful for any amalgamating or absorbed company or for the amalgamated company, without the consent of the Minister, to enter into agreements with any other railway company or other transport undertaking for the allocation or routing of traffic or the pooling of receipts or otherwise for affecting a combination which would contravene the purposes of this Act. 
     (2)  Before giving his consent under this section the Minister shall, unless it appears to him that the matter is one of such small importance that it is unnecessary to do so, refer the matter for consideration and report to the railway tribunal. 
     (3)  Every amalgamating company and every absorbed company, and also every other railway company   whose or any part of whose railway lies within Saorstat Eireann shall, 
     (a)  within one month after being required in writing by the Minister so to do, furnish to the Minister a schedule containing written particulars of all agreements and arrangements to which this sub-section applies in existence at the date of such requisition and to which such company is a party, and 
     (b)  within one fortnight after the date of any agreement or arrangement to which this sub-section applies made after the date of the said requisition and to which such company is a party, furnish to the Minister written particulars of such agreement or arrangement, and 
     (c)  within one week after being required in writing by the Minister so to do, furnish to the Minister such further particulars and information as the Minister shall so require in respect of the contents of any agreement or arrangement of which particulars shall have been previously furnished under either of the foregoing paragraphs. 
     If any company shall fail to furnish any particulars or information in accordance with this section or shall furnish under this section any false or misleading information, such company shall be liable to pay to the Minister for the use of the Exchequer such penalty not exceeding twenty-five pounds together with, in the case of a continuing offence, such further penalty not exceeding five pounds for every day during which the offence is continued, as the railway tribunal shall on the application of the Minister, impose. 
     This sub-section applies to all agreements and arrangements (whether made under statutory powers or otherwise) whereby provision is made for the allocation or routing of traffic by railway to or from any place in Saorstat Eireann or for the pooling of receipts from such traffic. 
     (4)  After the passing of this Act it shall be lawful for the Postmaster-General or any of the amalgamating or absorbed companies or the amalgamated   company to apply to the railway tribunal for a revision of any agreement whether statutory or otherwise, which at the date of the passing of this Act is in existence between the Postmaster-General and any of the amalgamating or absorbed companies. 
    
      
       I move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       To delete sub-sections (1) and (2) and substitute therefor the following three sub-sections:&mdash; 
       (1)  From and after the passing of this Act it shall not be lawful for any amalgamating or absorbed company or the amalgamated company to vary or rescind any agreement or arrangement (not being an agreement or arrangement confirmed by or scheduled to a statutory enactment) with any railway company or other transport undertaking for the allocation or routing of traffic, or the pooling of receipts, or for differential rates on traffic passing by sea to or from Saorstat Eireann, or to enter into agreements for any of those purposes, except so far as authorised or required by an order made with due regard to the provisions of this Act by the railway tribunal. 
       (2)  No such order as aforesaid shall be made by the railway tribunal save on the application of 
       (a)any party to such agreement or arrangement, or 
       (b)of the amalgamated company, or 
       (c)of a representative body of traders, or 
       (d)of a body of persons representative of trade or a locality. 
       (3)  Subject to the foregoing prosions of this section, nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect the rights or liabilities of any amalgamating or absorbed company under any agreement or arrangement (not being an agreement or arrangement confirmed by or scheduled to a statutory enactment) in existence at the passing of this Act except in so far as such rights or liabilities are inconsistent with the express provisions of this Act. 
    
    
      
       This amendment is only circulated since 3 o'clock,   although we hoped to have it an hour or two before in order to find out what it means so that we might discuss it intelligently. I would like to ask this question before entering on further discussion. What is meant by the exception in line 4&mdash;&ldquo;not being an agreement or arrangement confirmed by or scheduled to a statutory enactment?&rdquo; I think I understand what the Minister meant when he promised that special provision would be made in the Bill in regard to agreements which were not statutory.  This new section, however, seems to suggest that any agreement which is a statutory one or scheduled to an enactment, whatever the terms of the agreement may be&mdash;an agreement which may give powers to the companies by common consent to alter the agreement&mdash;such agreement may be altered without notification to the Minister and without any control by him. I cannot understand why there should be that exception.  Surely if we are going to ask for all agreements which are not statutory to be registered with the Minister, and we make provision that none of them may be altered without his consent, we ought to include in those, agreements, even though they are statutory and even though they are scheduled to enactments, as otherwise we invite the companies which have statutory agreements to make new ones and to vary existing ones without notification. 
    
    
      
       I may, as an outsider, say that I have listened to most of the debate so far, and I understand the Minister's position here is that those statutory agreements are covered by Clause 29, and are deliberately excluded from this particular section. I think the meaning of the parenthesis which has been put in is to exclude statutory agreements.  That is that all statutory agreements are included in Section 29, and I think the Minister says that he excluded from Section 29, and devoted this whole Section to, agreements, but this Section was not to touch statutory agreements. I think that statutory agreements are covered by Clause 29. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but this amendment says that those statutory agreements shall continue in full force and   effect.  Supposing these statutory agreements are altered by the consent of both parties&mdash;I am not saying that they are empowered to alter, but I think they are&mdash;in such a case I want the Minister to have control of such alterations.  I imagine that this exception in the new section removes that control from the Minister's hands. 
    
    
      
       I have explained the meaning of the amendment, as I understand it, but the question raised by Deputy Johnson is another matter. 
    
    
      
       I was not present during the discussion last evening, but I take it that what Deputy O'Sullivan has stated is the case.  There were some objections when we came to Clause 29, that agreements were not the same as statutory enactments.  We dealt with statutory enactments in Clause 29, and now we are proceeding to deal with agreements.  My interpretation of the amendment is to the effect that any alteration that may be made, or is proposed to be made, by agreement or otherwise, between the absorbed companies on the one hand, and any person on the other hand, must be ratified by the railway tribunal, and that in order to make such alteration legal it must be authorised by the tribunal.  I think the statutory enactments are met so far as Clause 29 is concerned, and that other agreements, about which there was much discussion, are dealt with in this amendment more satisfactorily than they were in the original clause of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       Are we dealing with the whole of this amendment, or are we dividing it? 
    
    
      
       It is one amendment, in substitution for sub-sections 1 and 2. 
    
    
      
       In connection with sub-section (2) of the amendment, which reads:&mdash;&ldquo;No such order as aforesaid shall be made by the railway tribunal save on the application of (a), (b), (c) and (d),&rdquo; I think it would improve   the sub-section, in order to safeguard any interest that may be effected, if we added these words: &ldquo;And after giving all parties interested an opportunity of being heard.&rdquo;  That means in other words, that the application, although received by the tribunal from, say, a representative body of traders, should ensure that if the proposals put forward effect some other interest, they should get some due notice of it.  One of the companies operating on the other side of the water might, for instance, want to get due notification of demands which might effect them through the operation of any change which might be made.  I would like to acknowledge that the Minister has apparently met some of the objections put forward, and that the amendment now is, in my opinion, a distinct improvement on the original clause. 
    
    
      
       Clause 18, sub-section (d) covers the point made by the Deputy. 
    
    
      
       I am not quite satisfied as to the effect of this amendment. I want to make sure that any changes in agreements we are dealing with appear, whether dealing with ports or with the routing of traffic or any other matter whatsoever between company and company, and that if agreements have to be made, the Minister shall be notified of them.  I thought that the revised section was to ensure that all agreements at any time between company and company would be registered with the Minister.  Section 29 says that all the terms and conditions of any statutory enactment or schedule shall continue in full force and effect. If that only refers to agreements relating to the forwarding of traffic, I think it is necessary that any other agreements that may be entered into between company and company shall also be notified to the Minister and registered with him, and approved by him&mdash;and that is not provided for in this section&mdash;more especially when an exception is made in regard to amalgamated companies, that is, statutory agreements.  Unless there is some other provision in the Bill which provides that all other agreements of any   kind whatsoever, whether dealing with the routing of traffic or traffic at all shall be notified to the Minister, I think that is a provision which ought to be omitted. 
    
    
      
       Might I point out that &ldquo;statutory enactment&rdquo; in Clause 29 applies to the forwarding of traffic, and then it says &ldquo;for any other purpose.&rdquo; I contend the statutory enactments would have the power of interfering in anything which would be in the nature of agreements between the companies. 
    
    
      
       It may be part of the agreement that the existing agreement shall be varied.  I want any variation to be notified to the Minister.  It is quite right to say that Section 29 deals with agreements relating to the forwarding of traffic or any other purpose, but further agreements may provide for alterations in one matter or another to be made all subject to agreement.  If any alterations are to be made, then they ought to be registered with the Minister. 
    
    
      
       I would be prepared to look into the matter between this and the Report Stage, as to whether the Minister should come in, but personally I do not like to bring in the Minister where the railway tribunal is concerned.  Sub-section 2 sets out the various persons concerned. 
       (a)  any party to such agreement or arrangement, or 
       (b)  of the amalgamated company, or 
       (c)  of a representative body of traders, or 
       (d)  of a body of persons representative of trade or a locality. 
    
     That, to my mind, practically exhausts the subject as far as persons concerned are affected, and obviously it scarcely concerns the Minister.  It is a matter for the railway tribunal.  If the Minister comes in he ought to have a purpose in coming in.  If arrangements of this sort were made without notice to anyone, then there might be some useful purpose served, but here all parties are bound.  They should know that they can bring their application before the railway tribunal.  To that   extent I cannot conceive where the Minister would have any office to perform. 
    
      
       All I want to ensure is that any agreement of any kind that may be made henceforward shall be filed with the Minister, and that it shall be made public. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       That disposes of 9 (a), 10, 10 (a), 11, 12. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 13 to Section 58 as follows:&mdash;In sub-section (3) to delete in line 6, page 28, the words, &ldquo;date of the said requisition&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words, &ldquo;passing of this Act.&rdquo;  Clause (a) will cover the new agreement, and Clause (b) will cover the old one. 
    
    
      
       My opinion of this is that it is unnecessary.  It is provided for in sub-sections (a) and (b), and simply duplicates the procedure. 
    
    
      
       I think the object of the amendment would be better obtained if we went back to paragraph (a) If through some oversight the Minister failed to require this in writing the companies would not be obliged to furnish to the Minister the particulars.  If we said one month after the passing of the Act in paragraph (a) then we could amend paragraph (b), saying within one fortnight after the date of any future agreement.  I take it that the intention of paragraph (b) is that any agreement that may be made after the requisition referred to in paragraph (a) will have to be filed. If the Minister failed for some reason to require in writing that the companies should furnish these particulars then neither (a) nor (b) would come into operation.  We should make it obligatory on the passing of the Act for the particulars to be furnished and not wait for the discretion of the Minister, or the possible lapse of the Minister, in requiring such information. 
    
    
      
       There is always a danger in applying for everything that one is never able to make up one's mind on a particular point.  What is intended in the Bill is that agreements which are relevant should be furnished on requisition.  All and every agreement   would mean a mass of documents, perhaps, which would have no particular reference to the matter in question, would take a considerable amount of time in filing and so on, and effect no particular purpose which the Minister would have in mind when he would want a particular agreement. 
    
    
      
       This sub-section applies to all agreements and arrangements made under statutory powers or otherwise, whereby provision is made for the allocation or routing of traffic to or from any place in the Saorstat or the pooling of receipts from such traffic.  Any such agreement is of concern to the public, whose interest the Minister is to look after.  It should not require that the Minister is to be made aware of such agreement before he requires that he should be informed of it. Supposing it is a private agreement, how is the Minister to require that it should be submitted to him?  He does not know anything about it.  If they were to wait until he sent in a requisition, then he may never know anything about it.  If, on the other hand, we say that on and after a certain date fixed in the Act, the companies shall forward particulars of all such agreements, the public may be safeguarded and the chance of the Minister's lapse is obliterated.  At present the section is too loose and too easily evaded, provided there is any omission on the part of the Minister. 
       Presumably &ldquo;the said requisition&rdquo; in paragraph (b) refers to the requisition mentioned in paragraph (a), so that unless paragraph (a) is complied with and the Minister sent in a requisition to the company regarding a set of agreements which he may have known about, any future agreements will not be required to be sent into the Minister. Everything in this matter respecting the agreements, and the notification of companies, will depend on the Minister requiring of the company that he should be acquainted with the particulars.  I say that the companies should be obliged to forward the particulars at a date specified in the Act and not to wait until the Minister requires them. 
    
     
    
      
       The amendment certainly would not effect that purpose. As I take it, it rather defeats than achieves the purpose of the Deputy's statement.  Whatever the agreements may be, the latest date would be the date of the requisition ordering them in writing to be furnished to the Minister. If you put in the date of the passing of the Act, any subsequent agreements after the passing of the Act would not be within the right of the Minister to get. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say what these words in paragraph (b) &ldquo;of the said requisition&rdquo; refer to? 
    
    
      
       The requisition which is made by the Minister under sub-section 3 (a). 
    
    
      
       Supposing the Minister does not send any such requisition what will happen? 
    
    
      
       The President appears to assume that these agreements are only of importance when some complaint arises which the tribunal has to consider.  Apart altogether from any complaint that may be made by a body of traders or by any company, arising out of the existence of any particular agreement, I think that all these agreements, both private and public, should be filed on the records of the registrar of this tribunal.  It is very difficult to say how many agreements are in existence at present or between whom they exist.  It is very desirable in the interests of the public that all agreements that do exist should be submitted to the registrar of the tribunal immediately after the passing of the Act, so that it may be discovered how far they are prejudicial to the public interest. This amendment will secure for the Minister the necessary powers, so that the amalgamated company will be compelled by law to send in copies of all existing agreements.  As to the sanctity of existing agreements previously referred to by the President, it may be desirable even at a later stage for some or all of these agreements to be amended in the public interest. 
    
    
      
       The trend of this discussion shows what a helpless position the amalgamated company will be in   in connection with competition.  We all know that in any ordinarily conducted enterprise a certain amount of latitude must be given to meet emergencies which may arise.  I would like the Committee to realise that all this legislation for the amalgamated company is going to make the company itself a very red tape concern.  It cannot exercise any initiative and must, in connection with everything it enters into, as far as agreements are concerned, table everything.  I do not know whether Deputy Johnson wants to go as far as that, but that will be the effect of the amendment, still further to tighten up and surround with red tape all the operations of the amalgamated company.  I do not think that is in the interests of the public generally.  It certainly is not in the interests of the amalgamated company to be so powerless in a matter of coming to an arrangement as regards traffic. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Hewat appears to ignore the fact that many existing agreements, as well as agreements likely to be entered into in future, are agreements for the purpose of killing competition.  In view of that fact I think it is desirable that the Minister should have power to secure copies of these agreements, whether they refer to the past, or are ones that may be made in the future.  We know that there are agreements in existence between railway and canal companies, arrived at as a result of cut-throat competition. In order not further to cut rates certain railway and canal companies came to an understanding that one company would pay so much to the other company to stop competition for certain classes of traffic at certain points. That is not in the interests of the trading community.  I daresay Deputy Hewat would not support any agreement arrived at for the purpose of killing competition.  The public are entitled to know the nature of these agreements, why they were entered into, and especially, if it was for the purpose of killing competition.  I suggest that Deputy Hewat should not object to the amalgamated company tabling any agreement entered into if it was for the purpose of killing competition. 
    
     
    
      
       I must confess that I am not quite clear, now that I have considered the matter, what the purpose of the amendment is.  After reading sub-section 3 (a) I take it that there is a definite date fixed, after which the Minister will make a requisition to the amalgamated company, or absorbed company, as to the agreements then in existence.  I presume he will naturally do so to all the railway companies in the ordinary course of business.  That is one date fixed.  He makes that requisition.  Supposing he makes it one month after the passing of the Act to the amalgamated company and to the absorbed companies, he has to get in return from the companies to whom he makes the requisition an account of the agreements.  That requisition will deal with all the agreements in existence up to that particular date.  Subsequent agreements are dealt with in sub-section 3 (b).  As the requisition will be made already, I cannot see the purpose of the amendment. Any subsequent agreement made must be handed in. 
    
    
      
       The position is very clear, if it is understood as Deputy O'Sullivan has explained it.  Provided that within one month, after the passing of the Act, the Minister sends in this requisition everything is plain sailing, and there is no need for any amendment.  But supposing the Minister fails to put in that requisition, one month after the passing of the Act, all I desire is to set out in the Bill that on and after a certain date, it will be required of the railway company not to wait for a requisition from the Minister, but by law they should put in the terms of any agreement.  I want to avoid the risk that the Minister may fail to send in a requisition. 
    
    
      
       I think it is very unlikely that the Minister will fail.  He is not limited to time, and it need not be within one month. 
    
    
      
       Nor one year. 
    
    
      
       In the ordinary routine of the office it seems that he will send out a requisition of this kind to the different companies. 
    
     
    
      
       Deputy O'Sullivan confirms the necessity for fixing a date. You may make it one year hence, if you like, but do not leave a possibility of the Minister omitting to do so. 
    
    
      
       Would it not be better to try and amend sub-section 3 (a) than to amend sub-section 3 (b) for that purpose? 
    
    
      
       If the Minister would agree to put in these words, &ldquo;one month after the passing of the Act shall be required to furnish a schedule.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I see the Deputy's point and I would like time to consider it.  If we put in the words &ldquo;within a year&rdquo; the company could take up to the very last day to furnish the agreements.  As the Bill stands, unless the Minister absolutely failed in his duty, he can get the information within a month.  If we accept Deputy Johnson's suggestion the time might possibly run to a year before the necessary information would be secured. By the Bill the Minister can get particulars of the agreements within a certain date.  I would undertake to get the Minister to look into the matter between this and the Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       I do not want the Minister to insert &ldquo;a year.&rdquo;  I suggested that period merely as an illustration of a definite date.  I would prefer if it was a shorter period.  All I want is to have a definite date fixed. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash;In sub-section (3), line 30, after the word &ldquo;traffic&rdquo; to insert the following words: &ldquo;or for differential rates on traffic passing by sea to or from Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo;  That amendment is necessary to bring sub-section 3 into line with sub-section 1 in which the same words are used. 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
    
     13b.  In sub-section (4), line 34, after the word &ldquo;tribunal,&rdquo; to insert in brackets the letter &ldquo;(a),&rdquo; and line 37 to add after the word &ldquo;companies&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or (b) where   no such agreement is so in existence, for the determination of any difference or dispute which may exist or arise between the Postmaster-General and any of the amalgamating or absorbed companies or the amalgamated company as regards the remuneration to be paid for services rendered by such company to the Postmaster - General, such services (notwithstanding any statutory or other provision to the contrary) to continue to be rendered by such company pending the decision of the railway tribunal.&rdquo; 
     This amendment has been asked for by the Postmaster - General.  This amendment is necessary owing to the fact that with some of the smaller lines there is no agreement between the Postmaster-General and the companies as to the conveyance of mails, and there is no statutory obligation on the company to carry them. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 58, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     PART VI. 
     SECTION 59. 
     In this Part of this Act, 
     the expression &ldquo;baronially guaranteed dividends&rdquo; means the dividends on the paid-up share capital of included baronial railways which at the passing of this Act are guaranteed by certain baronies or parts of baronies in Saorstat Eireann under guarantees given under the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, or any other Act or any Order in Council made under any such Act; 
     the expression &ldquo;guaranteeing barony&rdquo; means a barony or part of a barony by which baronially guaranteed dividends are guaranteed under any guarantee given under any such Act or Order in Council as aforesaid; 
     the expression &ldquo;included baronial railway&rdquo; means a railway or section of a railway the dividends on any part of the paid-up capital of which are baronially guaranteed dividends and which is to be included (whether   by amalgamation or absorption) under the provisions of this Act in the undertaking of the amalgamated company. 
    
      
       In the absence of Deputy Cooper, I beg to move this amendment:&mdash; 
       Before Section 59 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The loans to the amalgamating and absorbed companies set out in the Eleventh Schedule hereto shall be taken over by the amalgamated company when formed in accordance with the provisions of Part 1 of this Act; but the capital of such loans shall not be called in until the expiration of ten years from the date of amalgamation and interest shall henceforth be payable on the said loans at the rate of four pounds per cent. per annum.&rdquo; 
       My special purpose is to get information as to what the proposed position of these lines is to be.  I do not see that they are referred to in the Bill sufficiently explicitly, and I would like to have it made clear what is proposed to be done.  It seems, in view of the extra liabilities proposed to be put on the principal railways, that they should receive fair and generous treatment in respect of the loans and it might be urged, in addition, as regards some of the loans, that their position might be difficult in view of the extra security the Government may think they are getting in this amalgamated company, if it is all they claim it is going to be in the future.  I may say the amendment does actually propose in a definite way that the loan should be transferred to the amalgamated company, and that an undertaking should be given that the capital would not be called in for ten years, and that they should be liable at the rate of four per cent. 
    
    
      
       Does not this come within the statutory obligations of the Companies Act?  Section 29 is supposed to deal with the obligations, and is it not a fact that all statutory enactments and agreements are protected by Section 29? 
    
    
      
       I think I must ask that this amendment be left over,   or not pressed just now, as I understand it raises two questions; one is the period of repayment of the loan, and the other is the different rates of interest to be charged under the amendment. The rate is set out in the Schedule.  It appears at the end of the page in an amendment by Deputy Bryan Cooper, to add a new Schedule. The rate of interest is six per cent. in respect of £197,400 for the Dublin and South-Eastern Railway Company; four per cent. in respect of £65,000 for the Cork, Blackrock and Passage Railway Company, and four per cent. in respect of £54,694 for the Great Southern and Western Railway Company.  Now it is proposed that there should be a flat rate of four per cent. in respect of these, and I am not in the position at present to agree to this.  I would rather that some time were given to consider it. 
    
    
      
       I am prepared not to press this if the President will make a clear statement about the matter. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 59 agreed to. 
       SECTION 60. 
       (1)  The Minister shall during each of the ten years mentioned in Part I of the Ninth Schedule to this Act pay to the amalgamated company by equal half-yearly instalments the sum specified in the said Part I. of the said schedule as payable in each of such years respectively. 
       (2)  The councils of the several counties mentioned in Part II. of the Ninth Schedule to this Act shall, during each of the years specified in the said Part II. in respect of the said counties respectively, pay to the Minister by equal half-yearly instalments the sums specified in the said Part II. in respect of the said counties respectively, such sums being the amounts raised and paid by the said councils respectively for the period of account ended next before the 1st day of January, 1914, in respect of the liability of guaranteeing baronies in the county for baronially guaranteed dividends. 
    
     (3)  The several sums to be paid to the Minister by the council of a county under the foregoing sub-section   shall be raised by such council off the same areas and in the same proportions and manner as the sum paid by such council for the period of account ended next before the 1st day of January, 1914, in respect of the liability of guaranteeing baronies in the county for baronially guaranteed dividends was raised: 
     Provided that the Minister may, on the application of any such council and with the concurrence of the Minister for Local Government, by order authorise such council to enlarge the area off which or to vary the proportions or manner in which the sums so to be paid by such council to the Minister shall be raised. 
     (4)  The liability (whether present, future, or contingent) of the several councils of counties in which guaranteeing baronies are situate in respect of baronially guaranteed dividends or the completion, working or maintenance of included baronial railways under any guarantee given under the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, or any other Act or any Order in Council made under any such Act shall cease as from the 31st day of December, 1924, but such cesser shall not prejudice or affect any such liability as aforesaid of any such council in respect of any period previous to the 1st day of January, 1925. 
     (5)  The liability (whether present, future, or contingent) of the several included baronial railways to the Minister for Finance or the councils of counties in which guaranteeing baronies are situate under the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, or under any other Act under the authority of which the dividends, completion, working, or maintenance of an included baronial railway are guaranteed, or under any Order in Council made under any such Act, shall cease as from the 31st day of December, 1924. 
     (6)  No moneys shall be payable out of the Local Taxation Account under sub-section (4) of section 58 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, to the council of any   county for any period after the 31st day of December, 1924, in respect of any included baronial railway, and in lieu of such payments there shall be paid to the Minister out of the Local Taxation Account during each of the ten years mentioned in Part III.  of the Ninth Schedule to this Act, the sum specified in the said Part III. of the said Schedule as payable in each of such years, respectively. The provisions of sub-section (5) of section 58 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, shall not apply to any sum paid to the Minister under this sub-section. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1) to add immediately after the word &ldquo;instalments&rdquo; in line 60, page 28, the following words, &ldquo;out of monies to be provided by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       This is a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), line , after the word &ldquo;instalments&rdquo; to insert &ldquo;on such dates as may be fixed by the Minister.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       In the absence of Deputy Good, I move the amendment in his name:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (2) to add in line 6, after the word &ldquo;being&rdquo; the words &ldquo;fifty per cent. over and above.&rdquo; 
       I am not quite clear as to what it means. 
    
    
      
       I suppose the meaning of this amendment would be that inasmuch as the payments by councils are to be limited by a term of years the annual payment for that term should be appreciably increased.  The amendment would appear to me to be that for that period of ten years, for instance, the payments would be appreciably increased. 
    
    
      
       I think the amendment aims at making the counties pay less, while it was in the Deputy's mind they should pay more, 50 per cent. over and above what they paid in 1913.   Speaking from memory, I should say the amount they paid in 1913 was substantially less than the amount they are to be called on to pay for ten years. This amount we are calling on them to pay makes their contributions to end absolutely at the end of ten years.  One may say it is a question of a bargain, and that they will be in for a considerable amount for ten years.  We are limiting it so that after ten years no further sum will be payable by these counties. I think Deputy Good had it in his mind that they paid this maximum contribution in 1913 or 1914.  That is not the case, and the acceptance of the amendment would complicate the matter and would not achieve the purpose he has in mind, that is that we should call on the counties to pay a little more in order that the equities of the case might be discharged by these counties. 
    
    
      
       Would this amendment require an amendment to the Schedule in order to make it intelligible? 
    
    
      
       Yes, it would require to be set out in a further amendment later. 
    
    
      
       It appears the President's explanation is the right one, and the object of the amendment is that there should be an increased contribution. 
    
    
      
       It does not effect the purpose. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Before sub-section 4 to insert a new sub-section: 
    
     &ldquo;At any time after the expiration of three years from the 1st day of January, 1925, the council of any of the several counties mentioned in Part II of the Ninth Schedule to this Act may apply to the railway tribunal for a reduction or cancellation of the payments required to be made by it to the Minister in accordance with this section, and if the tribunal is satisfied that the revenue earning capacity of the included baronial railway in respect of which the payments are made, as a constituent of the amalgamated company, is such as to render an alteration of the payment to be made to the amalgamated company, is such as to render an   alteration of the payments to be made to the amalgamated company equitable, it may make an order specifying the amount by which the payments shall be reduced, and the date from which the reduction shall take effect, and the amounts to be paid by the council to the Minister shall be reduced accordingly and the payments to be made by the Minister to the amalgamated company shall be reduced by the same amount and from the same date.&rdquo; 
     The objection against the clause governing the baronially guaranteed lines is the case for this amendment&mdash; the case against the imposition for 10 years on these counties through which the baronially guaranteed lines pass. First of all we must take into account the non-representative character of the bodies that imposed these guarantees. Whether these people wished to get a guaranteed dividend for those of their friends who had money or not it is not my province to try and discover, but anyway the fact is that for 40 or 50 years the ratepayers of these districts have been paying the deficiency on the working of the lines, and four per cent. dividend.  There is a further point as to whether the guaranteeing of dividends makes for efficiency in the management of these lines, because if the managing directors, or the people responsible, know that the shareholders will get four per cent. out of the pockets of the ratepayers, and that any deficiency that may occur in the management or mismanagement of the lines would be made good, then they are not interested in managing the lines for the benefit of the shareholders.  I dare say when the President said that we should take over the responsibility he was saying what is legally correct, but the object of the amendment, as may be seen, is to give an opportunity of seeing that these lines pay, so that the ratepayers may be relieved of the liabilities put on them by non-representative bodies. 
     Surely, at the end of three years, it would be quite possible to say whether under the efficiency we are promised by the new management, under the unification system, these lines will pay or not.  It is only right that those ratepayers   who have been paying dividends, and the loss on the working of the lines, should ask that the railway tribunal should be put in the position of deciding whether they should not be relieved of their responsibilities at the end of three years.  Regarding the perpetual succession of responsibilities, while we accept it as a legal matter it would be well, I think, that we should take into consideration that the bodies that are representative in these areas are entirely against the continuance of this burden on the ratepayers.  I have in my hand a statement to that effect from a representative body one hundred per cent. more representative than the body that imposed the liability upon the ratepayers of the district.  I think the amendment is reasonable and practicable, and I hope the President will give it the consideration it deserves. 
    
      
       I think very few people will deny that these baronially guaranteed companies we have included in this Schedule are capable of being managed so well as to relieve the ratepayers of the district in question from any liability.  I mentioned here, I think on the Second Stage, that the loss in respect of 1921-22 was something like £107,000, and that last year the loss on working was something like £30,000.  A circular issued on behalf of the companies in the proposed amalgamation states that the loss would be something like £90,000.  I mention those facts to show that there is very little ground for assuming that the Deputy's intentions in the first part of this amendment are likely to be realised; in other words, that after a year, or two, or three years' experience of the unified undertakings there is a probability that the loss in connection with the baronial lines will be reduced to such an extent as to qualify the guaranteed areas for a remission of this particular debt. 
    
     The only objection I could urge to this amendment is what I have stated. Many years' experience has shown us that these lines are uneconomic, and that the amendment if it were passed would mean that very elaborate accounts, balance sheets, and so on, would have to be kept in respect of those   lines.  It may seem a very small objection. But it may be that the cost of that, if it were to be put against these baronial lines, would still further increase the loss.  We have considered these baronial lines.  In fact, they were one of the problems in connection with this whole business of railways.  But apparently we have not satisfied anybody neither the new unified company nor the guaranteed areas, nor the county councils, and I think that is fairly safe.  The new unified company, or the principal persons concerned in it, are not at all satisfied with the taking over of the companies even with the amounts that we have specified.  On the whole I am not disposed to favour this amendment.  It is not an amendment on which the Government would resign if it were beaten on it.  I would say, if we consider the real economy of the situation, while it would afford some satisfaction to the guaranteed area to know how the lines were going, other than that satisfaction, I do not believe any useful purpose would be effected.  I certainly congratulate the Deputy on his ingenuity in producing such an amendment as this in regard to which it is rather difficult either to make a case for or against. 
    
      
       I suggest that it is quite easy to make a case for it.  It is not so easy to make a case against it. 
    
    
      
       Make a case against it then after what I have said. 
    
    
      
       Therefore it might be passed unanimously.  I think the Minister would be one of those who would think it would be very desirable to hold out an inducement to the people of the locality to encourage a railway company in such a way as to make it economically managed and profitable. This is one way of holding out that inducement. The President spoke yesterday, I think, of the twenty per cent. inducement to the railway company as something, at least, to look forward to, and a stimulus to economical working. Here you have the possibility that if the people of the locality encourage the baronially guaranteed railway and assist in its working, and generally add to its earning power, they may be, as ratepayers, relieved of something of   the present charges.  That is one of the inducements.  After all, this amendment simply requests that the locality and the county shall have an opportunity to make its case before the tribunal, and if it is proved that the earning capacity of one railway&mdash;not the whole of the baronially guaranteed railways&mdash;is increased, they should get the advantage of it.  Here is where I want to point out the difference between the President's argument and ours.  He is thinking of them all as if they were managed by some one concern working under the same conditions. One or other of these railways may be able to show a better return, in three, five or seven years' time than another, and surely it would be reasonable to say to any of these baronies that are guaranteeing railway companies, that if they can improve conditions of working and improve the revenue and earning capacity of the railways for which they are partly responsible, there is some chance of their being relieved of their present liability.  They should have that opportunity, and this would be accomplished by this amendment.  That would enable the country, or the barony, through the county, to look forward to a period when the current charges would be reduced by virtue of the encouragement that they have given to their own railway to be a better revenue earning property.  I thought that this amendment would surely be accepted by the Minister as one encouraging that sense of local responsibility which he, at least, has so often proclaimed as desirable, notwithstanding what his fellow-Ministers are apt to do. 
    
    
      
       Most of the arguments used in favour of this amendment are rather far-fetched.  Those baronially-guaranteed railways have been largely managed in the past, or controlled, by the very bodies who have been called upon to pay. 
    
    
      
       Three to five only. 
    
    
      
       I have never observed any very great enthusiasm on any of those lines, either in regard to improving them or working them, and I have never seen any very active steps taken to reduce the deficit.  Is it not rather   much to expect a new order of things, when they are already being relieved&mdash; totally relieved&mdash;of a considerable amount of the burden after a period of some years?  Does it not seem that that is a very good bargain for them without asking any more, on the assumption that the railways have been so uneconomically managed in the past that it will be all wiped out by proper management in the future?  As regards the amalgamated company, I am afraid they are more sanguine than they have any right to be in connection with the savings that are to be effected. The President said that the amalgamated company will not be very pleased with the bargain, and I think he said that nobody was pleased with it.  One begins to wonder why the Bill is before us at all. 
    
    
      
       The Bill is one thing and this particular part of it is another.  There are fourteen concerns here in respect of which payments will have to be met from the county.  This means practically 14 new officers appointed to do this particular class of work, keeping accounts and other matters for each one of those lines.  That is one of the things it was hoped this unified company would effect some economies in&mdash;that is, a multiplicity of officers doing the same amount of work.  I have had experience during my period as Local Government representative of running a particular establishment after the manner and style suggested in Deputy Hogan's amendment; that is, costings on each article&mdash;what each article cost&mdash;and I found that the overhead charges in respect of such costings, and the officials employed in order to keep an exact account of every article, were responsible for a good deal of the non-success of the particular establishment in question. 
    
     If we are going to overload those establishments right off with extra officials, in order to be able to see at the end of six, seven or eight years whether or not any liability should be removed from the local authorities, it would probably mean at the end of the seventh or eighth year, supposing we were to anticipate the very best results possible, that they were getting near   having no liability to meet.  I am anticipating that.  Having met liabilities for the seven years, it would be a great satisfaction to people to know then that it was getting good, just as their liabilities were also getting less and disappearing altogether.  There would be the usual complaints that &ldquo;now that the level was being reached, what about all the money they had paid out?&rdquo;  On the other hand supposing   the railway companies were to show at the end of seven, eight or ten years that they were still meeting with a deficit, we would have them coming along asking what the Government was to do to make that up.  So far as this proposal of ours is concerned, it is a bad dream for about ten years, but at the end of that time everybody will waken up to realise that it was a wise and a sound bargain. 
     Amendment put. 
     The Committee divided: Ta, 16; Nil, 30. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Sean Buitleir. John J. Cole. Sean de Faoite. John Good. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Laidhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Padraigh Mac Fadain. Eoin Mac Neil. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. 
             Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Aindru O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraig O Maille. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I move amendment 16 to add after sub-section (5) a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The contingent liability (if any) of any amalgamating or absorbed company to the Minister for Finance or the Council of any county under the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, or under any other Act under the authority of which the dividends, completion, working or maintenance of the railway or any section thereof of such company are or were guaranteed or under any Order in Council made under any such Act, or under any judgment, decree or order founded on any such Act or Order shall cease as from the 31st day of December, 1924.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is complementary to sub-section (4), which deals with liability in connection with railways where a baronial liability now exists. The amendment deals with a particular liability which may arise in connection with railways that had a baronial guarantee but which is now lapsed. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 60, as amended, agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 61. 
    
     Where the undertaking of any included baronial railway and the property of any company connected with it have become the property of a grand jury or county council under provisions contained in an Order in Council purusuant to sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Tramways and Public Companies   (Ireland) Act, 1883, then for the purpose of the application of Part I. of this Act to that included baronial railway, 
     (a)the shareholders for the time being of the company to which the said undertaking and property belonged immediately before the same became the property of the grand jury or county council, shall be deemed to be the proprietors of the said railway, and 
     (b)the consent of the county council shall not be necessary to any scheme for the absorption of the undertaking of the said railway by the amalgamated company. 
     The section was agreed to, and added to the Bill. 
     PART VII. 
     GENERAL. 
     SECTION 62. 
     (1)  Where under this Act an application may be made by a representative body of traders or by a body of persons representative of trade or a locality, the application may be made by any of the following authorities or bodies:&mdash; 
     (a)  any harbour board, or the council of any county or borough or district; or 
     (b)  any chamber of commerce or association representative of shipping, agriculture, traders or freighters which may obtain a certificate from the Minister that it is a proper body to make such an application. 
     (2)  Subject as in this section provided, no company, body, or person not directly interested in the subject-matter of any application shall be entitled to make such application. 
     (3)  Any authority or body as aforesaid may appear in opposition to any application, representation, or submission in any case where such authority, or the persons represented by them, appear to the Minister to be likely to be affected by the decision on any such application, representation, or submission. 
     
        (4)  The Minister may, if he thinks fit, require as a condition of giving a certificate under this section, that security be given in such manner and to such amount as he thinks necessary, for costs which may be incurred. 
     (5)  Any certificate granted under this section shall, unless withdrawn, be in force for twelve months from the date on which it was given. 
     (6)  Any expenses incurred by any such authority in or incidental to any such application or opposition shall be defrayed out of the rate or fund out of which the expenses of the authority in the execution of their ordinary duties are defrayed. 
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment 17.  In sub-section (1) after the word &ldquo;application&rdquo; in line 9, to insert the words &ldquo;to the railway tribunal.&rdquo;  The intention, of course, in this matter is to make clear that the application must be made to somebody.  I was hoping that it would be to the railway rates tribunal, but in any case I think it is necessary to say to the railway tribunal.  It is only a verbal amendment, but I suggest it is important. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 62, as amended, agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 63. 
       Any notice, application, request or other document authorised or required by this Act to be sent to a railway company may, unless some other manner is prescribed by the railway tribunal, be sent by post in a prepaid letter addressed to the secretary of the company at the principal office of the company. 
       Amendment 18 not moved. 
    
    
      
       On behalf of Deputy Heffernan I beg to move amendment 19:&mdash;In line 41, after the word &ldquo;prepaid&rdquo; to insert the word &ldquo;register.&rdquo; 
    
     The amendment is merely verbal, but I think it is an amendment that might be accepted, and if it is accepted it might improve the section.  The fact that a letter is registered will be a guarantee that the letter was received,   as a receipt will have to be given for it. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     Section 63, as amended, agreed to and added to the Bill. 
     SECTION 64. 
     Any document required by or authorised by law other than this Act to be served on the amalgamated company may be so served by 
     (a)handing it to the secretary of the amalgamated company at the principal office in Saorstat Eireann of the amalgamated company, or 
     (b)leaving it at the principal office aforesaid in an envelope addressed to the Secretary of the amalgamated company, or 
     (c)sending it by post in a prepaid letter addressed to the secretary of the amalgamated company at the principal office aforesaid. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 20:&mdash;In line 52, after the word &ldquo;prepaid&rdquo; to insert the word &ldquo;register.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 64, as amended, agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 65. 
       (1)  The accounts to be rendered by the amalgamated company under the Railway Companies (Accounts and Returns) Act, 1911, shall be compiled in such manner as may be prescribed by the Minister after consultation with the amalgamated company. 
       (2)  It shall be the duty of the amalgamated company to compile and render to the Minister in such manner and form as he may direct such statistics and returns as he may require. 
    
     (3)  For the purpose of this Act the Minister or any officer duly authorised by him shall have power to make such investigations into the affairs of the amalgamated company as he may deem necessary, and shall have access to the books, accounts, and returns of the amalgamated company,   and the officers and servants of the company shall afford to the Minister or any such duly authorised officer such facilities as he may require. 
     (4)  The powers of the Minister under this section shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any powers of holding enquiries conferred on him under this or any other Act. 
     (5)  In the event of non-compliance on the part of the amalgamated company with any requirements of this section, the requirements shall be enforceable by order of the railway tribunal on the application of the Minister. 
     (6)  Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to authorise any limitation of or interference with the control of the proprietors of any undertaking over the purposes to which its expenditure is to be applied. 
     Amendment 21 not moved. 
     Section agreed to, and added to the Bill. 
     SECTION 66. 
     As from the appointed day the enactments specified in the Tenth Schedule to this Act to the extent mentioned in the third column of that Schedule shall not apply to the amalgamated company. 
    
      
       Amendment 22 stands in my name as follows:&mdash;Before Section 66 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Nothing in this Act contained or in any bye-laws or regulations to be made thereunder shall in any way extend or be construed to extend to repeal, transfer, alter, affect or interfere with the rights, interests, powers, privileges, lands, property, buildings, other than dwellings, works, authorities, jurisdictions or duties of the Dublin Port and Docks Board or shall be applicable thereto anything hereinbefore contained to the contrary thereof in anywise notwithstanding.&rdquo; 
    
     This is obviously a Port and Docks amendment, and after what the Minister said the other evening I am afraid   I am not likely to persuade the President, who is in charge of the Bill this evening, to do anything for me.  I am not moving the amendment. 
     Amendment not moved. 
    
      
       On behalf of Deputy Nagle I beg to move Amendment 23: &mdash; 
       Before Section 66 to insert a new section as follows: &mdash; 
       &ldquo;(1)  With a view to promoting the extension of the use of electric power and facilitating its distribution the Minister may apply to the railway tribunal to make an order requiring the amalgamated company to permit electric power transmission lines to be erected on, under or over its lands or works, at such places and in such manner as may be specified in the application, and to grant such rights of way and access and other easements or facilities in connection therewith as may be necessary and reasonable. 
       (2)  The railway tribunal shall consider and hear any objections made by the amalgamated company against the making of an order under this section and may make an order in accordance with the application or in such other terms as it may think proper, and may determine the compensation (if any) to be paid to the amalgamated company in respect of its compliance with the order, and by whom such compensation shall be paid so however that no compensation shall be payable except in respect of expenditure rendered necessary or actual loss incurred as a result of compliance with the order.&rdquo; 
    
     The proposal of the new section is to compel railway companies to permit electrical power transmission lines to be laid over their systems, to provide for certain compensation to be paid, such compensation to be in respect of actual loss or expenditure rendered necessary.  I would imagine that this amendment would be quite generally acceptable, because if we are looking forward to the development of electrical power schemes this is clearly the simplest and best way to provide for the transmission lines, that is to say, that the permanent way on the railways should be accessible if required. Even from the point of view of the   railways it would be an advantage to have the transmission lines laid upon the railway track, and I think in every other respect it is the most obvious course to arrange for beforehand.  I think we should insert in this Bill a section which will make provision for that, if it be required at a later stage. The new section provides that the railway tribunal shall hear the companies and all concerned in this matter, and that it shall determine the compensation. I hope it is not necessary to make any strong plea for the principle of this amendment inasmuch as the railway system seems so well fitted for utilisation for this purpose, and I therefore beg to move. 
    
      
       This amendment appears to me to fall under two heads &mdash;one, in its effect on the railway tribunal, and, secondly, in its effect on the railway company.  It seems to me that in the event of any electricity extension, such as is contemplated by this amendment, that such a work ought to be the subject of consideration by a Bill itself, and that to put in this amendment here would be simply staking a claim in respect of any rights or privileges that it might be sought to get from a railway company in the future.  I do not think it would be fair to the railway company.  After all, although a railway company is, so to speak, a public utility, it must be remembered that they pay for the land they have got, and they have to earn a certain amount of money and to provide a service.  Now, to enter into possession of a right, and to run electrical cables or anything of that sort over their lines appears to me to be scarcely fair, because while I have already admitted that the development of electrical power in the country is most desirable, it is at the same time a matter for consideration for the whole country.  If lines are to be laid, the persons affected, or the persons whose property is affected, such as the public company in question, ought to have their rights maintained just the same as the holders of the land had their rights acknowledged when the railway company got possession of that particular land.  If this amendment were accepted it would look as if whoever   had rights had got them to give them away now for any improvement that would be made.  On the face of it I would not be prepared to say offhand that we are entitled to entertain an amendment of this sort. 
       The railway company would have a right to make its case for a certain charge, and it ought not be a matter for the railway tribunal to fix what that charge should be.  The other question as to whether it is a most suitable place is really of some importance.  I think it all comes to this, that an electricity Bill ought to consider that question which is in a compartment of its own, and ought not to be brought in on this question of a unified railway scheme. 
    
    
      
       I am surprised at the line taken by the President.  After all, the State has already used its power to require the railway companies to do certain things, and I would remind the Minister that I think that the Electricity Supply Act of 1919 has been adapted by the Saorstat, and under that the Electricity Commissioners have power to command way-leaves for transmission lines over ordinary private property, and fix the amount thereof.  So there is nothing unprecedented.  We are saying beforehand in a Bill in respect to railway property that if it is found desirable, as it seems so obviously desirable, that the railway tracks should be used for this purpose, provision should be made for it, and for the method by which the railway companies shall be recouped for any loss.  The President seems to be making way for the possibility. If, at any future time, the State undertakes electricity supply and power, and wants to use the railway tracks, he is now inviting the amalgamated company to put in big claims for compensation and charges beyond actual costs.  The amendment quite clearly provides for recompensing the company for any actual loss on cost incurred.  It endeavours to guard against that new amalgamated company charging a profit for the use of its tracks for electrical transmission purposes, but the President unfortunately   is telling the companies in advance, &ldquo;When the time comes I think you are entitled to make the State or the Electrical Supply Company pay a rent over and above costs for the use of this track.&rdquo; 
       I am almost certain if there is to be a Shannon Electrical scheme the rails will be used for the purpose of transmission of power, and in advance the President has told the company that they can get what they can from the Electrical Supply Company.  They may have to go to the Oireachtas for powers, but in the meantime he is warning them to charge these people, and to make a profit out of it.  That may be satisfactory for the users of the railways because they may make the point that the more profit the companies make out of the electrical supply scheme the better chance there will be for reducing railway charges.  I suggest that the better course is to make provision beforehand that the railway track shall be available on payment of costs and recompense for damage, but that for the purposes of any electrical supply company or State organisation the track should be available for the laying of transmission lines.  Inasmuch as this amendment does not introduce any new principle, inasmuch as the railway service should be considered as a public service, even as in this case, farmed out to a company, and as electrical power supply ought equally to be a public service even though it may be farmed out to the company&mdash;those two services should be co-ordinated in some degree, and this is the least degree to which one might expect the President to agree.  Surely when you have railway tracks over which the only traffic is a railway train, room can be found without inconvenience, and with the least possible expense, for the laying of electrical power lines.  One would think that it was only taking time by the forelock to have a little provision in having a clause of this kind in a Bill of this kind.  I ask the President to accept the amendment, and make sure that the future electrical supply in this country is going to be facilitated in every possible way. 
       
         AN LEAS CHEANN COMHAIRLE,  at this stage, took the Chair. 
    
     
    
      
       I think that Deputy Johnson has fallen into the very obvious error of dealing with this Bill as one for the nationalisation of railways. It is not quite that; at least, we understand that it is not.  The proposal here is that an entirely outside company, assuming it is a private enterprise, or even a public enterprise, should have the right to go in and deal with other people's property.  In legislation in the past it has always been the practice to let everything stand on its own bottom, but to mix up electrical propositions with this Bill might lead to complications much greater than you can anticipate at present.  The amendment again makes the great triumvirate the judge.  In this case you make them judge and jury, because they are going to have control of the railways, and you are putting them in the position of deciding on what terms another company should have power to operate along their lines, possibly to the detriment of the whole railway organisation. So far as electricity legislation is concerned, I do not think that Deputy Johnson is right in saying that we have adapted the 1919 Act, nor have we, as I understand, taken over the legislation that provides for Electricity Commissioners.  There is, I understand, in the pigeon holes of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce a Bill dealing with the whole electricity problem of the Free State, and I suppose we will have it at a later stage.  I would suggest to Deputy Johnson and to the House that if any provision of this sort were to be made it would be more fitting that it would be provided through the procedure laid down in the Act, providing for the electricity supply as a whole within the area of the Free State.  I think that this amendment is really not necessary, because assuming that the Shannon power scheme for electrical supply developed on the lines on which we are led to believe it can be developed, the transmission lines would, I think, naturally run along the railways, and possibly it would supply the motive power for running the trains on the railways.  In that way this whole question would arise when the Shannon scheme or any other scheme follows the usual order of procedure and gets its authority.  If   any scheme for an electrical undertaking or for any other purpose comes before this House, I take it that the House will lay down the lines within which the company, or whatever it may be, will operate, and the House will then have power to deal with the question of transmission lines.  I am voting against this because, in the first place, I think that it is unnecessary, and, in the second place, I think it is dangerous. 
    
    
      
       In the last few sentences which Deputy Johnson uttered in connection with this amendment he really gave expression to what was in my mind in regard to it, and that is that the railway users are a very important element in this matter and it is their interests, as well as those of the railway companies, which are affected by this particular amendment. The Railway Company, as such, granted there is efficient management &mdash;and I am sure Deputy Hogan agrees with that&mdash;has a chance of running its line in such a way as to earn dividends laid down in the Bill and, if other advantages accrue, it is hoped that the railway users will get the maximum benefit out of that and consequently any rights which the railway company have over their track or premises ought to be conserved in the interests of these railway users.  Looking at the railways as a problem by themselves, I think it will be admitted that if they come up against other methods of locomotion that will seriously reduce their probable receipts, certainly the receipts which they were almost bound to make some years ago.  Motor traffic both for goods and for passengers must have had a very serious effect on railway receipts.  Now, here is a new thing coming along&mdash;electricity&mdash;and if it is sound it has a right to exist by itself.  Surely if it requires way-leave or anything of that sort, we cannot expect this particular company, the unified company, to give all facilities and to get none.  Whatever rights it has ought to be made the subject of consideration by each service.  That is my only objection to it.  If a new electricity concern is entitled to way-leave for anything, I have no objection, but I am not satisfied that this is the place to raise questions of that   sort, nor is it proper that we should give such a right as this without hearing what the new unified company would have to say on the subject. 
    
    
      
       I think there is a good deal to be said in favour of the idea in the amendment provided that the two parts of the amendment are taken together. 
    
    
      
       I am moving them both together. 
    
    
      
       I think it is important that due consideration should be given to this suggestion, which might prove in the future to be a most useful one.  The reason that I urge that it should be considered is that it   might turn out to be the case that the railway tribunal would not have power to permit a railway company to make such arrangements with a new electricity company as would be advantageous to both. 
    
    
      
       Is the President in the position to say what arrangements exist between the Post Office and the railway company for the use of facilities which railway companies give to the post office to put up telegraph posts along their lines? 
    
    
      
       I could not say. I am sure I do not know. 
    
    
      
       I think it is a question of way-leave. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 12; Nil, 37. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean Buitleir. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Ailfrid O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. 
             Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg P. O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. John J. Cole. John Conlan. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Artuir. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Risteard Mac Liam. 
             Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. Patrick J. Mulvany. Martin M. Nally. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 66 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       Before Section 67 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Nothing in this Act shall authorise the amalgamated company or any other body at any time to acquire by compulsory powers any part of the lands, premises, works, or undertakings in possession or occupation of the London Midland and Scottish Railway Company or of the Dundalk, Newry and Greenore Railway Company, or either of them, or of which they are respectively the owners, or any rights or powers over or in regard to the same.&rdquo; 
    
     My reason for moving this new section is because under the Bill the London, Midland, and Scottish Railway is a foreign company, and as such I think   it only reasonable and fair to ask that some measure of protection should be afforded to their property. 
    
      
       I cannot accept this amendment in the circumstances. 
    
    
      
       Is there any reason why it cannot be accepted? 
    
    
      
       I would like to hear some reason why I should. 
    
    
      
       resumed the Chair at this stage. 
    
    
      
       I think the Deputy should give some reason why this amendment is required and why special provision should be made for either of these companies.  Does he think it is necessary that these companies, because they are wholly owned by a British company, require special protection in this Bill, and from whom?  Who are they to be protected against, and what are his reasons for thinking that there is any risk for these companies, over and above the risk to any other person who owns an industrial undertaking or any other property?  It may be, if the Deputy had good reasons, that one could support the amendment, but without the reasons I do not know whether it is desirable to support it or not. 
    
    
      
       Under the Bill they are described as a foreign company, and as such it is not unreasonable to ask that some protection for their property should be given.  If there is any reason why it cannot be accepted I should be told so. 
    
    
      
       I have asked a prominent official of this company what protection they wanted, and I got no reply.  Perhaps the Deputy is in their confidence.  If he is he ought to tell us what is required. 
    
    
      
       I am not.  I might be able to tell you if I was. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       Amendment 24a is to insert a new part.  The amendment must be taken in conjunction with the proposed new schedule, called the Eleventh Schedule, and I think is therefore out of order. 
    
     
    
      
       I am sorry to hear that you ruled this out of order.  I do not want to ask you to give your reasons but I assume it is because it seeks to bring within the Bill certain companies outside the present exclusive jurisdiction of the Government and Parliament of Saorstat Eireann.  I think it is a fact that the powers of the Saorstat do apply in some limited and peculiar measure to railways outside the Saorstat, inasmuch as the Northern Government has not such powers. The object of this new part was to ensure that as the area of jurisdiction shall extend, and as one would hope in a very short time cover the whole country, there would be no need for fresh legislation of a railway kind, and that all that would be required would be for the Parliament and Government of Saorstat Eireann to appoint dates for the extension of the powers under the Act. 
    
    
      
       The amendment, I think, is framed to do more than that. 
    
    
      
       The amendment is framed so that the Executive Council of Saorstat Eireann may, by order, appoint a day on which this Act shall apply to other companies outside the present jurisdiction.  Of course, the Council of the Saorstat as an Executive Council, is precluded from so acting until the powers of the Government of the Saorstat are clearly extended over the whole country.  I am differentiating between what the Executive Council may do and what the Oireachtas may do. 
    
    
      
       I think the amendment in its present form is out of order.  It could not be proposed in its present form. 
    
    
      
       I suppose the matter of the powers under the Railways Bill and the extension of the number of companies affected will come forward on a later amendment, and that the whole question can then be discussed. 
    
    
      
       I am not prepared to agree in advance to the definition of the &ldquo;whole matter.&rdquo; A certain part will arise in amendment 4 (b) to the First Schedule. 
    
     
        Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 67 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I move to report progress. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported. 
    
      
       I move that the Dail adjourn until 6.45. 
       The Dail adjourned at 5.55, and resumed at 6.45 p.m. 
    
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - RAILWAYS BILL. 
     FIRST SCHEDULE. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To insert in the second column (Absorbed Companies), after line 28, the words &ldquo;Dublin and Blessington Steam Tramway Company and the Blessington and Poulaphouca Tramway Company.&rdquo; 
    
     The amendment is to insert amongst the absorbed companies the Dublin and Blessington Steam Tramway Company and the Blessington and Poulaphouca Tramway Company.  I assume this is an omission inasmuch as the Bill generally is to deal with the railways in the southern portions of the Saorstat as a whole, and all other lines of a similar kind to the Blessington line have been included.  It has been suggested that objections have been made because of some imagined difference between the Dublin and Blessington Tramway and some of the other railways such as the Cork and Muskerry, the Cork, Blackrock and Passage Railway, and others; but so far as I can see there is no difference, except a difference in name.  This is called a tramway company, though as a matter of fact the circumstances connected with the Dublin and Blessington Company, and the powers that have been obtained, are similar to these other companies.  The Dublin and Blessington Steam Tramway Company has not been treated by the Government in the same way as other companies have been, and I can see no reason why an exception should be made in this case.  Many reasons could be adduced in favour of inserting this amendment, if there was any objection to inserting it, but I am assuming that the omission is quite an unintended one, and that all that is required is to   bring it before the notice of the Government to allow this company's name to be inserted in the schedule. 
    
      
       In supporting the amendment I cannot understand why a distinction is made as regards the Dublin and Blessington line out of the other baronial guaranteed lines.  If it is excluded on the ground that it is not either physically in connection with or does not run into the stations of main lines or branch line railways the same argument applies to other railways that are proposed to be absorbed. But I want to deal with the special point of view of my own constituency. In 1882 authorisation was given for the construction of this line, and in 1884, when the Grand Jury of Wicklow passed a presentment guaranteeing 5 per cent. on the £20,000 paid up capital on taxing the guaranteeing area, etc., that presentment contained a clause limiting the liability of the ratepayers in the guaranteed area, to an annual sum not exceeding the proceeds of 1s. in the £ assessment upon the valuation of the guaranteeing area of County Wicklow.  In November, 1916, it was decided in the Court of Chancery that the bond given by the company to the Wicklow County Council and the limiting clause in the Wicklow County Council presentment were  ultra vires  and had no force.  The result of this was that the two countries were made jointly responsible for all liabilities incurred in the working of the tramway in addition to the guaranteed dividend.  Consequently, the unfortunate ratepayers in this portion of County Wicklow have had to pay up to 4s. in the £ to keep up this tramway, and it is calculated that the demand this year will amount to about 5s. 8d. or 5s. 9d. in the £, more than these unfortunate ratepayers are asked to pay for the upkeep of the whole administration of the county.  Both Counties Dublin and Wicklow are now held jointly responsible for this tramway, but the tramway runs over 10 miles of County Dublin, and the valuation of that area is £53,353, while it only runs over 41⁄2 miles of County Wicklow and the valuation of that area in County Wicklow is only £14,916.  But when we remember that this tramway is practically very little use to a big   per cent. of these ratepayers, who live up in the hills, it will be impossible to ask them to continue to pay this huge rate, and if the County Council collect it they will have to do so at the point of the bayonet.  In fact, I do not know how they are going to collect it, except they make what I might describe as &ldquo;another clearance&rdquo; of this part of the county.  Therefore, I will appeal for the acceptance of this amendment, as I believe there is no other way of helping the harassed ratepayers in this area. 
    
    
      
       The amendment is supported by every shade of opinion in the Dail, and therefore I take it that the observation made by Deputy Johnson, that it was an omission on the part of the mover of the Bill not to have included the Dublin and Blessington Steam Tramway Company, requires only to have attention drawn to it to have the omission remedied.  The case for it is simply that all the baronially guaranteed lines in the Saorstat are being absorbed, and there is no reason why this one should not be absorbed. What we ask for is that this particular company ought not to be asked to pay more than those other absorbed railways will pay.  I believe if it was not an omission, that the reason why this line was not absorbed is because it is not supposed to be in physical contact with any of the other big companies. In the Bill there is an instance where a railway not in physical contact with a big company has been absorbed. We have a fair case for the absorption of this line, and we hope now that the Minister has had his attention directed to it that he will allow this amendment to be inserted in the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I think it must be generally agreed that the amalgamating companies under the new railway scheme will have their work cut out to get along with some of the companies that are to be absorbed into them.  It will make it more difficult for them if the Dublin and Blessington Tramway and lines like that&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Will the Deputy say what he means by &ldquo;lines like that?&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I think there are two in the same amendment. 
    
     
    
      
       No; the Dublin and Blessington, and the Blessington and Poulaphouca. 
    
    
      
       Let the Deputy proceed. 
    
    
      
       The companies are different. 
    
    
      
       I thought you were referring to lines like the Dublin and Blessington, and Blessington and Poulaphouca. 
    
    
      
       Let the Deputy make his meaning clear; we can have no more interruptions. 
    
    
      
       These lines are unique. Deputy Byrne explained that the lines are paid for practically by County Dublin, and County Wicklow.  When the matter was before the local governing bodies of the old days they thought it was a good thing, and they gave the guarantee.  When the matter was brought before the Kildare County Council in 1886 they declined to have anything to do with it.  They were asked to guarantee the new company who were to run the line between Blessington and Poulaphouca, and they declined to have anything to say to it. As the matter turned out, I think they were very wise.  I have a very intimate knowledge of that line, because its terminus was at my gate, and sooner than travel by that line I made it a point of driving three or four miles, and anyone who could did the same thing, the disadvantages of travelling by the line were so great.  For one thing, there was the uncertainty of arriving at your destination.  I remember one winter's evening having to walk home ten miles from Brittas because the engine driver had forgotten to put in water. The consequence was the fire had to be raked out at Brittas, and all the passengers had to walk home&mdash;not at all an unusual occurrence.  Anyone who travels on that line may see little tombstones that mark the whole line from end to end, while numbers of animals have been run over, and on occasions have put the tram off the line.  I think before a line like that is put on any railway you will want to consider very well, not once or twice, but a good   many times, before you put such a handicap on any new system of railway. I think that many lines like that put on under the new railway scheme would dish it. 
    
    
      
       Would it not be in the interests of the State to prevent those lines continuing in existence any longer?  Would it not be more desirable to prevent them running their so-called services?  The question would not then arise as to the State stepping in and taking over the liabilities that the unfortunate residents of the districts affected have to bear.  It would be a good thing, in my opinion, if you scrap some of those lines and take the debt off the shoulders of the ratepayers. If what Deputy Wolfe has stated is correct, then this particular line at Terenure has killed more people than it has carried all through its existence. 
    
    
      
       I am sorry that Deputy Johnson worked on the assumption that he did, because, otherwise, he might have put forward an argument for the amendment other than the implied argument that the line was bankrupt.  Beyond that I do not see, that there was any other argument. What economies can be effected if this line is brought into the new Amalgamated Company?  In the other baronially-guaranteed railways, economies can be effected.  I think that Deputy Johnson's chief desire was to bring in this railway because he thought it was out in the cold.  How could the Amalgamated Company undertake, with any prospect of making any economies, a company of this kind?  It would mean putting on a load in addition to the load that it has already taken.  I think that is a very important matter to consider. 
    
    
      
       If we divide this line into two, although it is run by the one company, there would be altogether four such concerns which we do not bring into the Bill.  It was not our original intention to include them.  This is called a steam tram, and, as such, it differs very materially from either the Amalgamated Company or the absorbed companies.  The only advantage that would be derived by amalgamating this   company with the others would be to reduce the liability of the baronies in question.  The incidence of the charge in the two counties is to my mind very unfair.  Wicklow, with something like a £13,000 valuation, bears one-half the upkeep of the line as against a £50,000 valuation in the County Dublin.  Apart from that, I think, speaking relatively, the Dublin portion is much better off than the Wicklow portion, the question of valuation notwithstanding.  To that extent, a very unfair burden does fall upon County Wicklow. 
       This concern differs very much from either the absorbed or the amalgamating companies, not alone in respect of being a steam tramway, but also in the fact that its terminus is very far away from any of the termini of the other companies in Dublin.  It is stated that much the same thing is the case with regard to the Blackrock and Passage Railway, but the termini of the Passage and Bandon Railways are closely adjoining one another in Cork, and the terminus of the Muskerry Railway is not so inconvenient to the Cork railway. There is no such difference as between this company's terminus at Terenure and the termini at Harcourt Street, Kingsbridge or any other termini in Dublin.  As Deputy O'Sullivan has stated, we have no intimation as to what possible economies can be effected, even if this company were amalgamated with the others.  My information, as Minister for Local Government, was that this company arrived at the period of de-control much better circumstanced than it was when control was imposed on it.  The imposition of control, I am informed, was effected for political reasons rather than reasons of business.  To that extent, the only possible argument that could be urged in favour of including it is because it was controlled.  My information is that the reasons for control were political. 
    
     I am satisfied this is a problem for the Minister for Local Government; it is more so than it is for the railway concerns.  They can get on with their business quite independently of this company.  This company is not an offshoot of any of them.  It serves a place which is within a few miles of railway stations along its length.  I suppose   Naas is not more than four miles from Blessington, and there are many parts of the country in which rather important towns are three, four and six miles away from a railway station. 
     I think there could be opportunities for economies on this line, independent of its being amalgamated with any other company, and some attempt ought to be made to effect those economies. It seems to me, if there were to be any amalgamations, this particular line ought to be amalgamated with the Dublin Tramways Company.  I am not disposed to accept the amendment.  I would, if Deputies thought it would meet their case, undertake to go into the matter with the Minister for Local Government, but it would be as a Local Government problem rather than as a railway problem that I would go into it. 
    
      
       The Minister is thinking in terms of a railway company as a company, when he makes use of the well-known American slang. &ldquo;as a business proposition.&rdquo;  I would ask him to look at this problem as part of the problem of transportation within the Saorstat.  The whole Bill is supposed to have in mind better organisation of transport services.  Everything that he has said in regard to the &ldquo;uneconomy&rdquo; of the new amalgamated company absorbing this Blessington Company, has been said by the railway companies themselves against the absorption of many of those other baronially-guaranteed companies.  You cannot use any argument in favour of the absorption by the amalgamated company of those other baronially-guaranteed lines, or some of them, that will not apply to the Blessington Tramway. 
    
    
      
       Oh, yes. 
    
    
      
       You have not done so. 
    
    
      
       It is not a feeder. 
    
    
      
       The Company was formed, and the railway built, under Act of Parliament. 
    
    
      
       Is it a railway or a tramway? 
    
    
      
       It is a railway, sir, and the other Companies that we are   dealing with are all built under the Tramways Act, even though they are called railways.  If you prefer to give your dog an Irish name or an English name, it does not make any difference to the dog.  The company was formed and the service provided under an Act of Parliament.  Obligations were undertaken just in the same way as obligations were undertaken by other counties and other baronies.  The service has been rendered, badly if you like, but at any rate a considerable portion of the population believed they were being served, and were to be served by this method of transportation in Dublin and Wicklow just in the same way as they were being served in Clare, Kerry, and other parts of the country.  The same procedure has been gone through.  The same service has been rendered more or less.  You are now engaged on a Bill to consolidate and amalgamate the transport service and the railway service into one amalgamation. And you say that because this one does not run into a terminus associated with, and in direct contact with, one of the larger companies, therefore it must be left out.  Now there is no logical justification at all for any such omission.  I submit that in dealing with this Bill as a Bill to facilitate and improve the railway service of the country, we have to provide for an improvement of this railway service.  And to save the risk of further loss of life for mankind and animals, and to ensure better management, and shall I say, to save public loss, it would be better that this company should be managed by the Board of this amalgamated company rather than by the board which is at present managing it.  Deputy Wolfe certainly argued in favour of better management and better construction of the line.  That is what we are aiming at&mdash; that the amalgamation will lead to better management and better construction of the line.  There will be more expenditure, but it will be profitable expenditure, and, in any case, it is bringing the transport service in the Saorstat into some relation, and not leaving out a line which in every other respect, has conformed to the procedure which has been set before the   other lines which are being brought into the Bill.  I can see no reason why there should be this omission, except the reason that the companies do not like it.  The companies do not like having to take over the West Clare Railway; the companies do not like having to take over the Tralee and some other lines.  But the Bill is obliging them to do so.  Why, then, should we draw the line at the Blessington Tram? 
    
    
      
       Because it is burdening commerce. 
    
    
      
       That is what the railway companies say about the other baronially guaranteed lines. 
    
    
      
       That is why we object to bringing them in, too. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy can claim consistency in this.  He has objected to take in any of the companies to be absorbed in the Bill.  He is objecting to the Bill as a whole, and he would prefer if you would strike out any and all of the companies in the schedule. 
    
    
      
       We are objecting to any uneconomic proposition being put on the Amalgamated Company. 
    
    
      
       Exactly, and the railway companies say that all these baronial railways are an uneconomic proposition.  The fact that they have been a burden on the baronies bears that out.  Deputy Good can consistently oppose this amendment, notwithstanding the desire of his constituents.  But I cannot understand how the other supporters of the Bill can oppose the amendment. Every supporter of the Bill who really wants to think consistently with regard to the Bill has a right to support this amendment, or certainly to give his reasons for opposing it. 
    
    
      
       I want to supplement Deputy Johnson's argument in respect of management.  Deputy Good is not aware that up to 1914 this particular line balanced its accounts, and that it had not become a charge in regard to its working on the ratepayers.  It is quite possible that with superior management which a combination   like the Amalgamated Company would be able to give to such a concern it would be brought back to the state in which it happened to be up to 1914; because in the years 1914-15 a contribution had to be made towards its working expenses by the County Councils, and the County Councils were empowered to take it over.  I want to impress this upon Deputy Johnson, that here he has an example of what State management or County Council management is, as contrasted with what private management has done on this particular line.  Up to 1914-15 under private management this line paid its way.  Since the County Councils got it, it has been a burden on the ratepayers, and at the present time it is such an incubus on the ratepayers of Wicklow that the rates cannot, and will not, be paid in that particular area. There are only 1,200 or 1,300 rateable properties in Wicklow contributing to the upkeep of this railway, and if the President has thought fit to subsidise the baronies in the case of all the other railways in Ireland where these baronially guaranteed railways exist, he has not shown any reason why he should not subsidise the baronies through which the Blessington Steam Tram runs.  That is an argument that he has not met.  If you refuse to place this line on the Amalgamated Company, then I say subsidise it to the extent that you are subsidising the others.  Pay off the capital expenditure and levy a rate for ten years on that area, and then we are satisfied. 
    
    
      
       Why stop at the baronies in that argument?  Why not go to the other local authorities? 
    
    
      
       But you are agreeing to subsidise 13 or 14 other baronies, and I want to know why you are singling out this barony for special neglect? 
    
    
      
       That is just the proper word to use. 
    
    
      
       That is the point I want to make clear.  A Deputy here representing the very constituency where the people are burdened with this rate has the temerity to stand up and ask that they continue to pay that burden.  I hope, at the next election,   the ratepayers of the County Dublin will understand that.  The deficiency on the Cork, Blackrock and Passage Railway was £4,500 a year and it was amalgamated by the direction of this Government.  It was not taken over. What is to prevent the President taking it over?  The loss is nothing.  It is a loss which eventually will come to nothing if the system is properly managed and the amalgamated company will have at its disposal an opportunity of putting the affairs of this company in proper working order, and there is no reason why it should not be a paying concern. 
    
    
      
       I am not convinced by the arguments of those supporting this amendment.  Looking at it, not as Deputy Johnson wants us to look at it, as a problem between one railway company and another entering into an arrangement for transport as between a narrow strip of land in County Dublin and West Wicklow, but as what it is, namely, the question of transport in the whole of Ireland, this would be putting an additional burden not merely upon the amalgamated company but an additional burden on the whole of Ireland which must affect the rates of the whole country.  If you take over this concern it is not, I suggest, quite on the same level as some of the other baronial guaranteed railways taken over.  If they are taken over they can form one system with the amalgamated companies, but if you take this over you will have two systems. It is regrettable that here you have a geographical difficulty, the difficulty of connecting up Terenure to Kingsbridge, and unless you absorb the Dublin United Tramway Company you cannot have a unified system out of it.  That is the only means by which you could unify the system.  Otherwise you would have two systems working and if that is so where will you get the economy?  In the case of the other baronially guaranteed railways it is hoped that when they are taken over you will effect economy, but here I do not see where you will have economy. The extra cost which will be involved by taking over this company will react not only upon the other companies but on the whole of Ireland as well. 
    
     
    
      
       I would like to congratulate Deputy Wolfe on the fact that his predecessors on the Kildare County Council, and on the Kildare Grand Jury, had sense in their generation, because I understand they refused to have any part in the guarantee in 1886, and I think I am justified in saying that Kildare benefited more than our unfortunate people who have been paying 6s. in the £. 
    
    
      
       I think that is not correct.  The station at Harristown is only three miles away. 
    
    
      
       That is so, but I know something about Kildare, and I know that Kildare used the line very considerably.  I would like to say, in support of Deputy Wilson, that while this line paid for itself up to 1914, the Wicklow County Council never took over the working of the line.  There has been a suggestion of a joint board for Wicklow and Dublin, but so far we declined.  We have no responsibility whatever for the mismanagement of this line.  I would like to meet the President in the suggestion he made of having a conference with the Local Government Department on the matter, and also the suggestion of getting the Dublin Tram Company to take it over. For years we have been hammering away at this question, and waiting to get relief for these people.  I see no alternative to supporting this amendment and I ask the President to accept it. 
    
    
      
       The question arises whether it would not be better economically in these days of modern transport to scrap this line altogether. Modern motor traffic will do away with the usefulness of this line, and will prove it to be an obsolete undertaking altogether.  I think it would be much the better way to meet the situation to decide to scrap this whole system and try to relieve the ratepayers of the district of the burden that is on them. The other railway system to which Deputy Good referred in his interruptions serves somebody, but I have yet to learn that this little steam tramway serves anybody.  What is the position? How is their balance-sheet made out?   What is the profit and loss?  I see no reason to hope that this could be a paying proposition at all in the future. The other referred to goes through the same district, and is used by someone. I went out the other evening to see this tram line, and I think it would be a good thing in the public interest to remove it off the face of the earth altogether. 
    
    
      
       About three years ago we took a plebiscite of the people living in that area using the line, and the overwhelming majority of the people were in favour of scrapping it. We found, if they did scrap it, they would have to pay 1s. 6d. in perpetuity, so that the cure was as bad as the disease. Still, I am afraid, we will have to scrap it, because it would be better to pay 1s. 6d. in the £ than 5s. or 6s. in the £.  My position is that I would agree to scrap it for I can see no other hope except indeed to absorb it in the way suggested here. 
    
    
      
       There are £40,000 sunk in this railway, and a dividend of 5 per cent. has to be paid on that. That represents another sum of £2,000. I understand that last year the loss of the company was something like £7,000. At least that is what I am told.  If we are to put that blister on this new company what does it get in return, because that is really what the matter comes to?  If we pass that question by for the moment and ask what does anybody else get in return, whom does it serve, and does it serve to the extent of a loss of £7,000?  If the rest of the country is prepared to put up £7,000, is this part of the country from Dublin to Blessington and Poulaphouca benefited by reason of good service to the extent of this loss of £7,000?  I do not think it is.  There is another important question that arises on this.  It is in regard to the 5 per cent. baronial stock which apparently is a good investment. I looked up the records of the Stock Exchange some two or three years ago, and I found that the £10 stock in this undertaking was for sale at something like £3.  There was very little of the stock offering for sale at the time I made the enquiries.  The person who bought that stock within   the last few years is certainly not in the position of a person who invested money originally in the undertaking and put down the full par value of the stock.  It was from that angle that I was considering that the Minister for Local Government might consider this question rather in the light of a Local Government question than as a railway question, because I have grave doubts that it would pay the new company in any way to undertake the more efficient management of this particular institution.  The line, I was informed, was never very well constructed, and did not lend itself to any thing like an efficient cost of running. There were twists, bends and gradients and so on, and I was informed that from Tallaght to Blessington, where the least amount of money came in for transport&mdash;the receipts there are mainly derived from passenger traffic &mdash; it was utterly and entirely uneconomical, but that from Dublin to Tallaght there were some prospects of making it a line ball. 
    
     But as regards the other end&mdash;that is, the Wicklow end&mdash;I was informed that it was utterly and entirely uneconomical. Somebody mentioned about the line having been well run and that no charge was made on the County Councils up to 1913.  That is not my recollection.  As well as I remember, I think Dublin was in for about three-pence in the pound of a rate to maintain this line.  I know that I saw that on a warrant for rates, although it was not in the total.  In any case, somewhere about the years 1914, 1915 or 1916, the company got into such difficulties that the Dublin County Council, I think, went into Court, and it was open, I think, to the other two County Councils to apply for a Board of Management.  In any case, Mr. Collen, the late County Surveyor of the Dublin County Council, was appointed manager, and from the examination I made of this company and its misfortunes a couple of years ago, I should say that the management under Mr. Collen was excellent.  At any rate, at the period of de-control it was much better off than it was before, and there was no loss to the ratepayers in that particular period.  When de-control took place it was much better off, both   as regards rolling stock, management and everything else, than it was before it passed under Mr. Collen's management. I think as regards these light railways that high prices would be bound to react, considering the circumstances of the time, more against this particular concern than perhaps against any of the rest.  Looking at the thing as a railway problem I do not think there would be any justification for asking the new unified company to take over a liability so large as this one which gives so little return for the money expended on it, and one offering so few advantages to the unified company. It is by itself, as if one drew a circle, and within the circle drew a straight line someway or other which did not reach the end of the circle and remained some distance from it.  It is not a feeder, as some of the other baronial lines are.  Some of the other light railways are feeders, in the sense that you can connect them up, and I think it will be the policy of the new undertaking so to connect them up.  There is no such possibility as regards this line. Once you leave Tallaght it taps a very poor country, and there is really no money to be made on it.  From the point of view of business, I do not see that there is any justification for putting it in here, but if you ask me is there a case for giving some relief to the unfortunate ratepayers who have guaranteed this money, I say &ldquo;Yes, by all means.&rdquo; 
    
      
       If in everything the Minister said he applied the same reasoning to the other railways named in the First Schedule of column 2 as he did to this he would arrive, I think, at the same conclusion.  He has not subjected to the same examination at all the Cork and Muskerry line, the South Clare Railways, and the Timo-league and Courtmacsherry extension. If he did so could he show that they were economical and that they were going to be advantageous to the new company?  I think he could not.  As a matter of fact, the amalgamated company said decidedly he could not.  It is quite certain that they will not be economical, and it is perhaps in their case that new methods of traction will supplant the present method of traction   on these light railways.  It is expected that changes will be made, and so I suppose we may expect that changes will be made here.  It is quite probable that this line could be adapted to the proposed changes, and that even a terminus could be made to run into one of the new companies if that were thought desirable. 
    
    
      
       How would you do it?  It is a long way from Terenure to the Kingsbridge. 
    
    
      
       That is quite true, but if you are going to adopt this line of motor traction one never knows what may happen.  I suggest in regard to the burden upon the company that that will very largely depend upon the scheme of amalgamation that is prepared. In the earlier sections of the Bill the companies are asked to prepare schemes, and only in the final stages is the tribunal obliged to prepare a scheme, and that scheme of course will take into account all the financial considerations. I would suggest to the Dail that if every one of the proposed absorbed companies were to be examined with the same minuteness that the Minister examined this Blessington company, the Dail would come to the same conclusion that, considered as business propositions, they were uneconomical, and the Dail would approve and support the view that the companies themselves have taken in regard to them.  Notwithstanding that we propose to insist upon amalgamation of these sundry uneconomical companies with the new amalgamated company, the Dail is asked that that should not be done in connection with this Blessington company.  I would suggest that it should be kept in being if only to show how the course of revolution in transport has developed in this country.  The Minister for Posts and Telegraphs has invited thousands of people from the ends of the earth to come to Dublin.  When they come you will want to show them something.  It may be that in six years, eighteen years, or even thirty years it will be thought desirable to repeat the invitation, and that many more thousands of people will come to Ireland.  When they come you will want to have something   for them to see.  I suggest that you should keep this line in being as an example of the locomotion that Ireland has passed through.  I think even from that point of view this very small burden on the company should be accepted. 
    
    
      
       If we are to believe the statement of the directors of the amalgamating companies, the burden of the present absorbed companies on their resources will run to the extent of £90,000 per annum.  If you eliminate from the absorbed companies the companies which are paying, and one is the Dublin and Kingstown line, and take those on which there will be a burden, I maintain that there will be less of a burden on this particular line than there will be on many of the other absorbed companies, and a less average burden on the lot taken together. 
    
    
      
       That is not so. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid the President does not understand my reasoning. I am assuming that the figures   quoted by the directors of the amalgamating companies are correct, and I am taking also the contributions which we are to give over a series of years to this particular undertaking.  I am eliminating from the absorbed companies the companies which are properly paying concerns, and then I am taking the remainder and dividing them into this sum of £90,000.  In that way I find that this particular railway company is a paying concern in comparison to some of the others.  We ask for similar treatment to what the other baronially guaranteed people are receiving.  We say that no case has been made as to why we should be left out in the cold; that if the amalgamated company is put in possession of this property it can produce it at the other end and not bring it up from Terenure at all, and that therefore it could become a feeder. How are you going to bring visitors to Poulaphuca if you have not a railway? There are quite a number of considerations in this matter which prove that it is not fair treatment to leave this railway out, and I respectfully submit that we have stated a fair case. 
       Amendment put.  The Committee divided: Ta, 20; Nil, 32. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padrig F. Baxter. Sean Buitleir. John Conlan. Connor Hogan. Domhnall Mac Carthaigh. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Risteard Mac Liam. Patrick J. Mulvany. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Criostoir O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Duinnin. Domhnall O Mochain. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Patrick K. Hogan (Luimneach). 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean. Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. 
             Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Sean O Bruadair. Proinsias O Cathail. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Aindriu O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraig O Maille. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Patrick W. Shaw. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
        Amendment 2 not moved. 
    
      
       I move to insert in the second column (absorbed companies) the following railway companies: &mdash; The Fishguard and Rosslare Railway and Harbour Company, and the Cork City Railway Company. 
    
    
      
       I think there is good reason for moving this amendment inasmuch as there does exist a Fishguard and Rosslare Company and a Cork City Railway Company, and until we have some reason for omitting them from the list, I would say there is every reason for including them. The Cork City Railway Company is one that links up railways, and surely that ought to be included in the absorbed companies.  We should not allow that link line to be entirely independent when we are amalgamating companies. For what reason is the Fishguard and Rosslare Railway Company omitted?  Is it because it has English capital?  If that is the reason the reason will apply to one at least of the other companies.  I think it is necessary to know why those two small companies have been omitted. 
    
    
      
       The Cork City Railway Loop Line is a very valuable line, so valuable that there has been a loss on working for many years which has been borne by the Great Western Railway Company of England, and the Great Western Railway Company of England are so enamoured of it that they are very anxious to get rid of it. We are in a position under clause 57 of the Bill to meet them, when we are in a position or when the undertaking is in a good position to make a bargain. There is no reason why it should be taken over at the moment.  It is scarcely possible as it is a British company. The Fishguard and Rosslare Company is also a British company with its head office in London, and again there is a provision made in Section 57 of the Bill for the after acquisition of those railways at a time that is convenient and suitable to the amalgamated undertaking and to the interests of Irish railway users. 
    
    
      
       I would like the Minister to enlarge a little upon his   statement that he cannot take them over because they are British railways. Is that a considered statement or is there any good reason for that statement? Is that the reason why they should not be taken over? 
    
    
      
       It is a considered view.  You cannot take over the company because it is registered as an English company at the moment. 
    
    
      
       Now we are getting into deep water.  The Government of Ireland Act provided for certain things.  The Treaty provided for other things, and the Constitution provided for still further things.  I have been up till now under the impression that the Oireachtas had authority over everything within the Saorstat.  Now it appears, if the Minister is right&mdash;which I doubt very much&mdash;that we have a say, except in the case of companies which have their headquarters in England. Surely that is not right. 
    
    
      
       You can do what is the equivalent of confiscation. 
    
    
      
       We have power to tell the G.S. and W.R. shareholders who live in Ireland that we may confiscate their property, but we have no power to take the property of shareholders in the Great Western Railway Company. The question of the residence of shareholders is the test as to whether it is confiscation or not.  Really, this is rather serious.  The Government of the Saorstat has not power to legislate regarding the amalgamation or absorption of companies and undertakings operating in the Saorstat, because the shareholders live outside the Saorstat. We are precluded from doing any such thing, because it is alleged to be confiscation. It is not confiscation if the shareholders live in Ireland.  Is that the position? 
    
    
      
       It is wrong to have regard to the residence of shareholders in dealing with companies. The residence of shareholders does not affect the position of the company or the place where the company exists. The company is a person created by law, and the jurisdiction to deal with the company, as a company, depends upon where it is registered.  What the Minister meant when he spoke of confiscation   was this: you must look at an English company as if it were an English individual, living in England, who has a railway in the Saorstat.  You can make a law to take over his permanent way, if you like, and so much of his rolling stock as you can get hold of, but he has been running his company from London with his own capital and his own means, and that you cannot get after.  The only thing you can touch is the tangible property that happens to be within your jurisdiction. The assets, the investments and all the rest, of the company, are completely outside the jurisdiction.  It is as if a person living in France was running a railway line in Ireland with the resources which he held in France.  The only thing your jurisdiction can extend to is the permanent way, and so much of the rolling stock as happens to have rolled into your jurisdiction at the moment. 
    
    
      
       Again I think the Attorney-General has raised a very serious question.  I read in the morning paper that certain persons living in London want to set up a business in Ireland called a Casino.  We may not interfere with that, because it is the property of people resident in London. 
    
    
      
       You can make laws that will regulate the Casino and say how the Casino is to be carried on, but, when it comes to taking the property and amalgamating it with somebody else's Casino, all you can get hold of is the plaster walls and the minarets.  The finance and the capital, and the other properties that go to the running of a concern of the kind, happen to be outside your jurisdiction. Last year a Private Bill was promoted in the British Parliament, which acts for the Council of Ireland as regards Northern Ireland, to enable the Lough Swilly Railway to borrow money.  The Lough Swilly Railway is registered as a Company.  Consequently it is, as it were, an individual living in Northern Ireland.  The greater part of its permanent way is in the Saorstat.  When the British Parliament, during the Private Bill procedure, came to consider the matter from that point of view, they cried a halt upon the Bill.   They had the matter considered and brought officially to our notice.  I do not know if, in the end, the Bill did pass into law.  But, at the stage at which it was raised, they introduced a clause preventing the legislation affecting the permanent way or any of the assets of the company that lay within the Saorstat, and declaring that they were subject to our laws.  The position is that, so far as the person, whether it be a company&mdash;that is to say a composite person&mdash;or a private person, is outside your jurisdiction, you cannot touch him, but you can regulate the thing within your jurisdiction, that is, the tangible part of it that you can get after and deal with. 
    
    
      
       I gather the position is that if you take over this Cork railway, you would, as if you were taking over any other railway, naturally compensate the company for it.  But what you are buying in the present case is a loss in reality. You cannot get at the capital which is behind the railway, because it is in England. All you can touch is the actual lines and the carriages which are here. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy is dealing with one point, but the discussion has rather taken another turn.  It may be undesirable to take over a losing company.  But, to say that we have not the power to deal with the business and material possessions of a company within the Saorstat&mdash;which is what I take from the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and what I think, even the Attorney-General has said&mdash;fills me with astonishment.  I think the difficulty that would be created would be very great if you had not any control over the business side of a company and can only take its possessions.  I suggest that the very fact that a person retains possession, while living in another country, means that he has taken the risk of whatever laws will be passed in this country, and he must abide by them. 
    
     I do not know whether the Minister's explanation with regard to the non-paying nature of these two companies is satisfactory.  The amendment was put down rather to find out why they were left out.  It seems to me that in leaving them out you are placing the   owners who happen to live in England in a position perhaps to destroy the efficiency of the new amalgamated company. If they can frustrate your actions or any linking up of one line with another, by retaining complete control over these linked lines, you are leaving very great powers in their hands and confessing that you have no power over them because their ownership is in England. 
    
      
       It is necessary to be quite clear as to what Deputy Johnson wishes to take over by this amendment. Let me confine myself to the first part&mdash;the Fishguard and Rosslare Railway Company.  You are going to take over what that company owns, portion of a railway in Ireland, a harbour at Rosslare, a harbour at Fishguard, steamers plying between both ports and a line of railway in England. If Deputy Johnson thinks we have power to do that and realises that that is the import of his amendment, he can press it.  On the second point, as to how far the efficiency of the amalgamated undertaking will be impaired by leaving what he calls control in the hands of an English company, it may be news to Deputy Johnson to know that their Irish lines are worked by the Great Southern and Western Railway Company. There is an arrangement by which the Great Southern and Western Company works them, so that anything in the way of efficiency or inefficiency depends on how the Great Southern and Western Company, which is to be part of the amalgamated undertaking, runs the lines. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move: &mdash; 
       To insert in the second column (absorbed company), after line 29, the words &ldquo;Listowel and Ballybunion Railway Company.&rdquo; 
    
     Most of the Deputies and the public generally know that the Listowel and Ballybunion Railway is a line extending over ten miles, and that it is known as the Lartigue mono-rail system.  The cost of acquiring or converting it to the ordinary gauge would not be excessive. The Great Southern and Western Railway   Company.  I believe, were contemplating, and would not object to acquiring it.  The people of the district are anxious that the railway should be taken over under this Bill.  It has been suggested that a difficulty arises in applying the terms of the Bill to the Listowel and Ballybunion Railway Company. The people in the district took legal advice recently and were informed that there would be no difficulty whatever in that respect.  The entire interests of both companies have been for many years vested in one person, who is the owner of all the debenture stock issued.  This debenture holder, it is understood, is ready and willing to treat for the taking over of his company at a very reasonable payment, and this being so, an agreement come to with him would be sanctioned by either the English or Irish courts as a matter of course, on the hearing of an application for the purpose.  I believe it is generally felt in Kerry that the interests of every class there would be served by taking over the railway.  For that reason I commend the amendment to the Dail. 
    
      
       The Minister will realise that this is on an entirely different footing from the Blessington Steam Tramway Company.  This railway goes through fields and not along the side of the road.  It is a unique railway.  In another respect it is different to the Blessington Steam Tramway Company inasmuch as it does not really run parallel with the Great Southern and Western Railway Company but serves an isolated district.  I understand that there is a tremendous legal difficulty in the way, and that the Minister explained that difficulty to a deputation that interviewed him.  If the legal difficulty could be got over I hope the Minister will see his way to meet the wishes of the Deputy.  If that difficulty cannot be got over at the moment I would like an assurance that there are powers in the Bill to take over the company when the proper time comes. 
    
    
      
       The difficulty about this line is a distinctly legal difficulty. It is true that it is not so bankrupt a concern as the Dublin and Blessington Tramway, as the loss on the   working of the Dublin and Blessington Tramway, I think, runs into as many thousands per annum as the Listowel and Ballybunion runs into hundreds. There is this difficulty, that while the Dublin and Blessington Tram Company would be glad to get rid of the loss per annum, and not ask any reward, the gentleman who holds control over the Listowel and Ballybunion Railway thinks he is entitled to ask for several thousands of pounds for the purchase of a loss of £700 yearly.  I do not think that strikes anybody as a business proposition. The legal difficulty is the big difficulty.  Here we have a Bill which provides that if agreement with regard to amalgamation be not reached, the tribunal shall settle the terms. Agreement cannot be reached with regard to the Ballybunion Railway.  The only remedy under the Bill is that the tribunal shall settle the terms.  There the difficulty arises.  The Ballybunion Railway is mixed up with the Lartigue Construction Company, and that is in the English Court of Chancery. 
    
     The tribunal could not settle the terms under the present position, and I am informed that one extra peculiarity arises from the position of the Listowel and Ballybunion Railway.  It is this: If the Ballybunion undertaking were included in the amalgamated undertaking the receiver and manager of the present Lartigue Railway Company would become automatically manager of the amalgamated undertaking.  That is the legal position.  These are difficulties, and they cannot be set aside. There is a way out and that way out is provided in the Bill.  If the debenture holder can be brought to an agreement which will be sanctioned by the English Court then Clause 57 will operate.  There is a post-amalgamation power for this company to be received into the united undertaking.  It is not possible to have it received at the moment under the peculiar legal position. Under the terms of the Bill that determination must be made by the tribunal, but that determination is   blocked by the Court of Chancery.  Provision is made under Clause 57 for a line being taken over afterwards, if agreement be reached.  It is now for the Listowel and Ballybunion Railway to see that an agreement will be reached which can be made operative, post-amalgamation, under Clause 57. 
    
      
       Why call this a railway at all?  It would be just as sensible to say that a circus or merry-go-round was a railway.  This is only a single rail raised about a yard from the ground.  It would remind you of a person trying to ride a wheel of a bicycle. I do not think it is a railway at all. 
    
    
      
       I am still unfortunate in not being able to pick up these points regarding the legal difficulties. I thought we were making laws on these matters.  I thought if we decided to make special provisions in this Bill to meet any difficulty, by this amendment and such consequential amendments as will be brought forward on the Report Stage, that that would be the law.  However, the point is that we would be making the law regarding this railway as other railways.  While it may not be politic to enter into that process, I think it is very undesirable for the Minister to put forward as a reason that because certain Chancery proceedings are taking place we are prevented from legislating here regarding any railway within the country. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       The next amendment is 3 (a), marked 4 (b) in type.  It deals with railway companies which are party within the Saorstat.  I take it the amendment refers to the parts that are in the Saorstat. 
    
    
      
       I move amendment 3a: &mdash; 
       To insert in the respective columns the names of the following railway companies: &mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Amalgamating Companies. 
             
               Absorbed Companies. 
           
         
         
           
             Great Northern Railway (Ireland). 
             The County Donegal Railways Joint Committee of the Great Northern Railway (Ireland) and the London, Midland and Scottish Railway. 
           
           
             
             
             Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway Company, including the Letterkenny Railway, the Letterkenny and Burtonport Extension, the Carndonagh Railway, and the Strabane and Letterkenny Railway. 
           
           
             
             
             Sligo, Leitrim and Northern Counties Railway Company. 
           
           
             
             
             Dundalk, Newry and Greenore Railway Company. 
           
         
       
     
     The intention of the Government in introducing this Bill was to provide a scheme for the unification of all the railways within the Free State area. Apparently they have proceeded to assume &mdash;I am sure it was wrong for them to assume&mdash;that the present artificial boundary was to be the guiding influence in determining what railways were to come within the scheme. One never knows when the Boundary Commission, which was supposed to come into operation as a result of Clause 12 of the Treaty, will set about doing the work it was intended to do. It is reasonable, at any rate, to assume that if the Boundary Commission determines the future boundary of the Free State territory in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants, that railways such as those now suggested to be brought in with the absorbed companies will be wholly within the Free State area.  I think it is only reasonable to assume that that will happen, and in that case it is very desirable that this Bill should make provision for the inclusion of the companies named.  The intention of the Bill being the unification of the railways within the Free State area, and assuming that all the mileage of the railways mentioned will come within the Free State area, as a result of the Boundary Commission, I think the Government should also decide and determine that these railways will become part of the new amalgamated company.  It is very desirable that in any readjustment of the boundary line any system of railway organisation that may be decided upon should be, so far as it is possible to have it, a self-contained system within the Free State area. 
     As regards the Great Northern Railway and the present artificial boundary, the Great Northern Railway is cut at 16 or 18 different points.  With the readjustment of the boundary in the way one may anticipate, I think that that will disappear and that it will become a clear line.  Therefore, it would be very desirable that that section of the Great Northern line which would come into the Free State territory as a result of the readjustment of the boundary should also be included in the amalgamated company.  I have never yet heard any reason from the Government as to why they did not anticipate such a state of affairs as a result of the Boundary Commission.  I have never heard, either, why they have allowed to remain outside the companies to be amalgamated or absorbed, railway companies the greater portion of whose mileage is at present even inside Free State territory and whose headquarters as a matter of fact are in the Free State area.  I would like to hear reasons why the Government have overlooked these things and I would like to know whether it is possible for the reasons I have stated to include these companies in the companies to be amalgamated and absorbed as the result of the operation of this Bill.  The Government, of course, are the only people who know the real reason for the delay in bringing about some definite result arising out of clause 12 of the Treaty.  I hope   it is not unreasonable to assume that the whole question will be settled to the satisfaction of the Free State Government by the 1st January, 1925.  If it is ever to be settled it will be settled by that date, and if it is settled by that date in the way that I anticipate it will, then I do not see that there is any great difficulty in the way of the Government accepting the amendment which I desire to move. 
    
      
       I am very much amazed to hear from Deputy Davin that he has not, so far, heard any reason from the Government as to why these railway were not brought in. I think he attended here and spoke on the Second Reading of the Bill, and the President very definitely devoted several paragraphs of his statement on Second Reading to the reasons for leaving out, for the moment, those portions of these railways named, which are inside the Saorstat.  The reasons were mainly based on grounds of economy.  Is it considered desirable to take the Great Northern Railway, which crosses the boundary at some fourteen or fifteen places, to split it up, to make a new series of small lines, presumably link those up with portions of line running inside the Saorstat boundary, as at present defined, or as may be defined at some time later, revalue all the stocks and shares, rolling stock and permanent way, divide up the value of the rolling stock and everything else between the new Saorstat line of the Great Northern and the Six-County side of the Great Northern? Then at some later date, when we get to a further revision of the boundary line, as Deputy Davin hopes, we will have a new revision, a new handing over of assets, and a new valuation.  It is for that reason, and that reason alone, those railways, or those portions of railways, have been excluded&mdash;on grounds of economy, and an appreciation of the trouble that would be caused now and at some time hereafter in readjusting the split portions of these railways to meet the altered conditions later. 
    
    
      
       The Minister's explanation is rather bewildering.  The Great Northern Railway Company has   been cited.  It is a company having its headquarters in Dublin.  It has part of its business concern outside the present jurisdiction of the Saorstat.  But it may not be amalgamated with another public company in the Saorstat, because to do so would necessitate splitting up this undertaking.  There is never happened with hundreds of other concerns which have branches in Belfast. They have not necessarily had to split up their undertakings.  There is no reason that I can see why the line should be broken and new lines built because the company is amalgamated. After all, what is proposed to be done but amalgamate the stocks in some way?  Some financial changes are to take place and a new control is to be exercised.  That is the change proposed in this Bill.  Does that necessitate the cutting of the railways at the boundary?  I cannot understand that. The legal position would be exactly the same as it is to-day.  The only difference would be that the directorship would be changed and the holdings of the shares would be changed.  A new name would be attached to the company.  If the Minister had said that, with the coming of the Saorstat into existence, it had been necessary to split up the Great Northern Railway already, because of the boundary, then he would be right in regard to this proposal.  But it has not yet been necessary to do that.  Therefore, it will not be necessary under the amendment.  Whatever other reasons there may be, surely this is not a good reason. 
    
    
      
       I looked on this amendment as having imported into it something of Deputy Davin's root and branch methods, and that in order to arrive at a correct estimate of what were the receipts flowing from the amalgamated company or that portion of the line of the Great Northern Company which was inside the Saorstat, he would come to the point ultimately of saying: &ldquo;In order to know where we are, it is better to make this a complete Saorstat line.&rdquo;  That is not now the proposal.  The proposal is, apparently, to let the actual permanent way run in and out across the boundary, and to make a division of receipts.  I suggest that you are not lessening your difficulties   very much by that.  The difficulties will remain&mdash;the difficulties of finding what proportion of traffic which runs in and out on this line should be credited to the amalgamated undertaking and what portion of it should be credited to the portion of the great Northern line which is outside the Saorstat. 
    
    
      
       Why would that be necessary?  What happens to-day? What happens is, that the takings or revenue come into Amiens Street.  That would happen in the future.  There need not be any division of any kind, so far as the Great Northern Railway is concerned.  The legislative or administrative jurisdiction would be under two authorities, but the finances would be exactly as they are to-day until the amalgamated company would get the benefit of the Northern traffic.  That, I think, should entice the Minister to agree to this proposal.  If the Northern end of the line is to be detached by the action of whatever is the legislative authority or administrative authority which exercises jurisdiction over the Six-County area&mdash;and I am doubtful as to what is that authority&mdash;the onus of cutting the line will be upon them, and inasmuch as the company has its headquarters in Dublin the finances and takings will simply follow the usual course.  If there is any demur from people in the Six Counties against that course, the onus of splitting the line will be upon them, and if there is any loss it will be theirs.  I suggest, for the consideration of the Dail, that that is one good reason why we should accept this amendment.  It will be a more effective method of bringing the people interested in Great Northern Railway stock to appreciate the advantages of unified control of the railways than any other method I can suggest.  It will be an advantage to the amalgamated company inasmuch as the authority exercising administrative and legislative control over the Northern part of the railway will be slow to make that physical division.  But if they dare to do it, the chief loss will be upon the Great Northern Railway Company and the Northern traders.  I do not think they would do any such thing or attempt any such thing.  I suggest that if there is no other reason for advocating unification   of all the railways in the Saorstat and amalgamating them into one company, that is a very good reason, and it is a very good reason why we should legislate in this direction at this stage, and bring the Great Northern and those other companies which run through Saorstat territory within the scope of this Bill. 
    
    
      
       There is a word or two I wish to say on this amendment.  First of all, the Great Northern Railway is the railway more particularly subject to the provisions of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, and these were kept alive as regards the Council of Ireland.  It is a railway which covers ground both in the Six Counties and in the Twenty-six Counties, and so much of that railway as operates in the Six Counties is under the jurisdiction that was substituted for the Council of Ireland in Northern Ireland.  The operations of the Council of Ireland provisions were by agreement postponed for a period of five years. 
    
    
      
       By agreement between whom? 
    
    
      
       The two Governments, the Provisional Government and the Northern Government. 
    
    
      
       Was that authorised by the Act itself? 
    
    
      
       It was given effect to in a statute I will mention in a moment.  The entire of the jurisdiction of the Council of Ireland so far as the Free State was concerned was transferred by the Treaty to the Free State Government.  The entire of it was transferred.  We have absolute control, and I do not think that Deputy Johnson is quite serious when he says that the Minister conveyed that we had not full legislative authority in the Free State in dealing with the railways. We have, absolutely.  But so far as the Six Counties were concerned the setting up of the Council of Ireland was postponed for five years, and the jurisdiction was to be exercised by the British Government.  That has been given effect to in an Act that was passed by the British Parliament at the same time that it gave statutory recognition to the Constitution that we had passed   here.  It is an Act called the Irish Free State (Consequential Provisions) Act. 
    
    
      
       What was the Irish Act approximating to that? 
    
    
      
       There is no Irish Act. 
    
    
      
       On what powers was the agreement made? 
    
    
      
       No powers were necessary.  The entire functions of the Council of Ireland are vested in the Free State Government so far as we are concerned.  It only needed the Northern Government to assent to the powers of the Council of Ireland being exercised by the British Government, and in so far as joint action would be taken with reference to a railway affecting both parts of the country, it would be a matter for agreement between the British Government and our own Government. That is the position as regards the Great Northern Railway.  We have absolute jurisdiction to legislate for the Great Northern Railway in so far as it is within the Twenty-Six Counties. The British Government has power to legislate for so much of it as is within the jurisdiction of the Six Counties.  The other railways proposed to be absorbed in this amendment, or a couple of them, are much in the same position as was mentioned on another amendment.  That is to say, they are run by companies registered in Northern Ireland, as in the case of the Lough Swilly Railway, or in England, as in the case of the Dundalk, Newry and Greenore Railway.  I refer to them specially in order to repudiate any suggestion that we cannot legislate for railways so far as they are in the Saorstat. We can.  The running of the railways, their permanent way, rolling stock, everything connected with their traffic, are absolutely within the jurisdiction of the Oireachtas.  The owner of the concern may be outside the jurisdiction.  He may be an American. We cannot legislate for him.  We cannot compel him to part with the assets he holds, say, in New York.  The true way of looking at this is by taking any other country.  There is no peculiar position as between an English   company and the Free State.  The position is exactly the same as if, say, a French company, or an American company, owned, we will say, the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway. You have complete jurisdiction over their permanent way, their rolling stock, their management, everything connected with their traffic, regulations of their tariffs and everything like that.  But you have no jurisdiction to get hold of the French owner or the American owner and compel him to deal with the property that he holds outside the Free State, in the same particular way as, for instance, by blending it into an Irish company, and transferring the shares of his French or American company and amalgamating them with the stock of an Irish company. 
    
    
      
       If the Government decided to nationalise the railways inside the Free State on a revised boundary, do I take it then that they would not have power to include in the scheme of nationalisation railways with their offices registered outside the Free State area? 
    
    
      
       The easier way to get the thing clear is to regard it not as a company but as a private person who is the owner.  You can nationalise the entire of their permament way, the rolling stock, everything that is within your territory, but you cannot nationalise the individual who is in Paris and compel him to part with the assets and investments by which perhaps he finances that railway. 
    
    
      
       Then the answer is that you cannot nationalise these railways? 
    
    
      
       Yes, you can nationalise the property in so far as it is within your jurisdiction, but you cannot nationalise the individual owner, who is a foreigner.  That is to say, you cannot touch the company as such; you may strip it of its railway. It would be purely a matter of international impossibility.  It does not depend upon the relations between England and Ireland at all.  It is identically the same if you take an American, French or any other company. 
    
     
    
      
       I do not think there is any need to tell us that if a man has scrip in Adelaide or San Francisco he can keep it there; it is no use until it comes here in some way or other. But the thing behind the scrip is surely within our control.  The thing the scrip represents is surely within our control?  If that represents tangible assets in this country, surely that is a railway and the railway company in fact.  I would like if the Attorney-General would explain the procedure whereby the powers of the Council of Ireland were exercised by the Provisional Government.  As far as I can read it was the Parliament that gave powers to the Council and not the Executive.  And if there had been any transfer or any agreements regarding the transfer of power, or postponing action for five years, these agreements and decisions should have been made by the Parliament, and not by the Executive. Perhaps the Attorney-General might be allowed to give us a little explanation on that point? 
    
    
      
       I do not know if the Ceann Comhairle will allow this subject to be discussed.  I am afraid I have either misled the Deputy or else he has misunderstood me.  The Provisional Government gave nothing away; they could not.  The entire functions of the Council of Ireland, so far as that element that was to have been set up in respect to the Twenty-six Counties was concerned, are vested in this Parliament.  That was not affected or modified in any way whatever. The Northern people, who were entitled under the Act of 1920 to appoint certain persons to constitute a Council of Ireland from their own end, preferred to let the British Government exercise the powers sooner than nominate those individuals.  It seemed a more feasible scheme, and for five years they have elected to let the British Government act in the position of a Council of Ireland for them, but nothing else has been touched.  It is their business, not ours. 
    
    
      
       Had not the Free State some right to speak in that matter? The Council of Ireland was a unity when it was set up and the Free State are had, by means of that, a   joint control.  At least no other authority, even the British authority, had any more control over railways in Northern Ireland than the Free State had, except in so far as the construction or extension of existing lines was concerned.  It seems to me that if the Ministry have agreed to allow the British Parliament and Government to act for the Northern Parliament in respect to the Council of Ireland, they have agreed to something they had no right to agree to. 
    
    
      
       I do not wish to convey that they agreed.  I have tried to convey that the Northern people preferred to be represented for that purpose by the British Government for a temporary period until other matters might work themselves out.  I do not want to commit myself to any statement that might seem an agreement with the suggestion that the Council of Ireland remained a unity after the Treaty. 
    
    
      
       If it remained anything at all it was a unity surely? 
    
    
      
       Deputy Johnson must remember that the Council of Ireland was the creation of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, which we have always refused to recognise. 
    
    
      
       Only in the Treaty. 
    
    
      
       No.  We have only agreed to recognise the Government of Ireland Act of 1920 in so far as it is concerned with Northern Ireland&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Hear, hear.  Therefore&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       It has been repealed as regards the Free State, and under the Treaty it was specifically provided that all the powers that were reserved from the projected Government of Southern Ireland, under the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, and given to the Council of Ireland, were taken from that Council and given to the Government of the Free State.  I do not want to assent to the proposition that the Council of Ireland, as a unity, continued to exist after that, and I will point out to Deputy Johnson the very   grave result that that would have: it would give the Northern Government representatives a voice in ruling our railways, our fisheries, our Diseases of Animals Act, and the other matters that were reserved for the Council of Ireland.  I would ask Deputy Johnson, before he commits himself to the preservation of the unity of that body, that he would weigh carefully the effect it might have. 
    
    
      
       I think we have gone far enough from the amendment.  This whole question of constitutional interpretation of Acts and Treaties should arise in a different way.  We have travelled a certain distance from the railways. 
    
    
      
       But it all affects this amendment. 
    
    
      
       If the Attorney-General's interpretation is correct, it certainly does not.  We are getting into a deeper question than the railways, even.  The subject is quite worthy of discussion, but not exactly at this stage. 
    
    
      
       My complaint is that the Attorney-General, like the Minister, is looking at a scheme for the unification of the railways with the present arrangement of the boundary.  He is taking the Twenty-Six Counties as a unit to be dealt with separately.  I put it to him that if, as we all hope, in the very near future&mdash;before the 31st July next perhaps, and certainly before the 1st January, 1925&mdash;there is a revision of the boundary, which will bring into the Free State territory the railways mentioned as additional railways for the absorbed companies, then I contend that the Government are not treating this scheme of unification in the way that it should be treated, if they leave out companies which, as a result of the boundary revision, will come wholly into the Free State.  It is news to discover from the Attorney-General&mdash;although I know we have&mdash; that we have power to legislate on all matters dealing with the railways; but simply because a railway company has its registered office outside the   jurisdiction of the Saorstat, we cannot deal with it in a scheme for nationalisation or unification. 
    
    
      
       We can. 
    
    
      
       That has not been said, Deputy Davin.  The Minister and Attorney-General have been weary explaining that that is not the case.  If we get on to that again we will go round in a circle.  If the Deputy does not understand the legal difficulty in the matter he should make an endeavour to understand it, somehow. 
    
    
      
       I certainly admit that I have not got the legal mind.  I am only trying to look at it from the practical point of view and to get the Minister to explain why, under certain circumstances that it is possible to anticipate, he will not make provision for the unification of railways mentioned in the list of companies to be absorbed.  I have been fully alive to the fact all along that the Belfast Parliament has not the power to deal with the scheme of railway unification so far as it affected railways or railway mileage in its area in the same way as we are dealing with the scheme here. As a matter of fact, if the statement made by the President on a recent occasion, that as a result of the refusal of the Northern people to appoint a commissioner on the Boundary Commission, we have reverted to the position the Free State occupied previous to the Six Counties being voted out of it, is correct, then I contend that we should be dealing with all the railways and the railway mileage in the 32 counties.  If that is the position we occupy to-day, then the question of splitting the Great Northern line on its present temporary boundary does not arise and should not arise.  The main point is this: if the scheme is a scheme for the unification of all the railways in the Free State territory, not the territory with its present artificial boundary but with a boundary we may anticipate as a result of clause 12 of the Treaty, then I say a case has been made for the inclusion of the railways mentioned in the list to be absorbed, and also so far as it affects the Great Northern line up to the new   boundary line that we may anticipate will arise out of the decision of the Boundary Commission.  I think the Minister should look at it from the point of view of what may happen as a result of boundary revision, and seeing that the Bill provides for a unification scheme, he should include the railways which are suggested in the amendment. He should give some answer as to what is to happen if the total mileage of the Great Northern line comes into the Free State territory as a result of the boundary revision, and I ask him to give some indication as to whether these lines should be included in a new amalgamated company. 
    
     
    
      
       In the event of what is mentioned by Deputy Davin occurring, I promise to introduce a new amending Bill. 
    
    
      
       That is my contention. It means a new Bill. 
    
    
      
       It does. 
    
    
      
       We prefer to do it at once. 
       
         AN LEAS-CHEANN COMHAIRLE  at this stage took the Chair. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 10; Nil, 31. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             John Conlan. Connor Hogan. Tomas Mac Eoin. Tomas de Nogla. Ailfrid O Broin. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Sean de Faoite. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Padraig Mac Fadain. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. 
             Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Fionan O Loingsigh. James O'Mara. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Schedule be the First Schedule of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     SECOND SCHEDULE. 
     BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AMALGAMATED COMPANY. 
     PART I. 
     FIRST YEAR. 
     1.  For the period commencing on the date when the amalgamation scheme comes into operation and ending on the date of the general meeting of the amalgamated company in the following year, the company shall be directed by a board consisting of such number of persons as may be fixed by the amalgamation scheme or schemes, and not exceeding fifteen or less than twelve. 
     2.  Before the date when the amalgamation scheme comes into operation the proprietors of each amalgamating company shall elect from amongst the directors of such company holding office at the time such number as may be fixed by the scheme to serve as a director or directors of the amalgamated company as aforesaid. 
     3.  The directors so elected shall hold office until the date of the said general meeting and shall then retire, but any director so retiring may, if otherwise qualified, be elected as a director of the company under the provisions hereinafter contained. 
     4.  In the event of a casual vacancy   occurring during the said period amongst the directors, the vacancy shall be filled by a person co-opted by the directors, being a person who was a director of the amalgamating company by the proprietors of which the vacating director was elected. 
     PART II. 
     AFTER THE FIRST YEAR. 
     1.  As from the date of the general meeting of the amalgamated company in the year following that in which the amalgamation scheme comes into operation, the company shall be directed by a board of directors consisting of such number of members elected by the proprietors of the company as may be specified in the scheme not exceeding fifteen or less than twelve. 
     2.  The qualification of a director shall be the holding in his own right of such amount of the share capital of the amalgamated company as may be specified in the scheme, and, subject as hereinafter provided, the term of office of such a director shall be three years, but on retirement he may, if otherwise qualified, be reelected. 
     3.  Any casual vacancy occurring amongst the directors shall be filled by a person co-opted by the other directors, and any director co-opted to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office for the same period as that for which his predecessor would have held office. 
     4.  On the first election of directors, one-third of the total number of directors or if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest but not exceeding one-third (failing agreement to be selected by lot) shall be deemed to have been elected for one year, and one-third or such nearest number as aforesaid (failing agreement to be selected by lot) for two years. 
     5.  Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Schedule, the provisions of the Companies Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, with respect to the appointment and rotation of directors shall apply. 
    
      
       Amendments 4, 5, 6 and 7 to this Schedule, standing   in my name, have reference to the claim of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway Company to a Director on the Dublin and South-Eastern Company in accordance with an agreement which was conferred by statutory enactment. This is a matter I raised a few weeks ago on an amendment to an early section in the Bill.  The President then promised the House that he would have the matter considered on Report Stage, and pending that I ask leave to withdraw these amendments. 
       Amendments, by leave, withdrawn. 
       The Second Schedule was agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       THIRD SCHEDULE. 
       EXISTING OFFICERS AND SERVANTS. 
       The following provisions shall apply in respect to persons who at the date of the passing of this Act are, and for a period of not less than five years have been, officers or servants of any amalgamating company or absorbed company, and who shall not, prior to the amalgamating or absorption of such amalgamating or absorbed company, have become pensioners or annuitants in accordance with the rules of any railway pension or superannuation fund of which they may be members, or have voluntarily retired, or have been removed from the service of any such amalgamating or absorbed company by reason of misconduct or incapacity (all of which officers and servants are in this Schedule hereinafter referred to as &ldquo;existing officers and servants&rdquo;): &mdash; 
       (1)  Every existing officer and servant shall, as from the date of amalgamation or absorption, become an officer or servant of the amalgamated company. 
    
     (2)  The amalgamated company may abolish the office or situation of any existing officer or servant which they may deem unnecessary, and any existing officer or servant required to perform duties such as are not analogous or which are an unreasonable addition to those which as an officer or servant of the company from which he was transferred he was required to perform   may relinquish his office or situation. 
     (3)  No existing officer or servant so transferred shall without his consent be by reason of such transfer in any worse position in respect to the conditions of his service as a whole (including tenure of office, remuneration, gratuities, pension, superannuation, sick fund or any benefits or allowances, whether obtaining legally or by customary practice of the amalgamating or absorbed company) as compared with the conditions of service formerly obtaining with respect to him. 
     (4)  If any existing officer or servant so transferred is, without his consent, in any such worse position as aforesaid by reason of such transfer and has thereby suffered any loss or injury, he shall be entitled to be paid by the amalgamated company such lump sum as would reasonably compensate him for such loss or injury, the amount of such lump sum to be determined by the amalgamated company (subject to appeal as hereinafter provided). 
     (5)  Every existing officer or servant whose office or situation is so abolished, or who so relinquishes his office or service, or whose services are dispensed with on the ground that they are not required or for any other reason not being on account of any misconduct or incapacity, or whose remuneration or emoluments are reduced on the ground that his duties have been diminished, or who otherwise suffers any direct pecuniary loss by reason of the amalgamation or absorption (including any loss of prospective superannuation or other retiring or death allowances and allowances to his widow or orphan children, whether obtaining legally or by customary practice of the amalgamating or absorbed company), shall be entitled to be paid compensation by the amalgamated company, the amount of such compensation to be determined by the amalgamated company   (subject to appeal as hereinafter provided) in accordance with the following rules, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  the compensation shall be an annual allowance to be paid to the existing officer or servant during his life and to be calculated at the rate of one-sixtieth of his remuneration and emoluments for every completed year of his service, with an addition thereto based on the number of completed years of his service and calculated according to the following scale: &mdash; if he has twenty or more completed years of service, an addition of ten-sixtieths of his remuneration and emoluments, if he has fifteen or more completed years of service and less than twenty such years, an addition of seven-sixtieths of his remuneration and emoluments, if he has ten or more completed years of service and less than fifteen such years, an addition of five-sixtieths of his remuneration and emoluments, if he has five or more completed years of service and less than ten such years, an addition of three-sixtieths of his remuneration and emoluments: 
     (b)  in the case of an existing officer or servant who was appointed to his office as a specially qualified person at an age exceeding that at which railway service usually begins, his actual period of service with an amalgamating or absorbed company may be increased by the addition of such number of years as may seem just, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case, and thereupon his compensation shall be calculated on such increased period of service; 
     (c)  In the case of an existing officer or servant who suffers any such loss of prospective superannuation or other retiring or death allowance as aforesaid, such addition as may seem just, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, may be made to the compensation otherwise authorised by   this Schedule to be awarded to him: 
     (d)  for the purpose of the calculation of the compensation under this Schedule, the remuneration and emoluments of an existing officer or servant shall be taken to be the average amount of remuneration and emoluments received by him from an amalgamating or absorbed company during the three years next before the third day of April 1924. 
     (6)  For the purpose of this Schedule, any solicitor who for the period of five years next before the date of the passing of this Act has acted solely for an amalgamating or absorbed company as their chief or assistant legal adviser on a salary shall be deemed to be an existing officer of that company. 
     (7)  Any person who is in receipt of an annual allowance by way of compensation under this Schedule may, within one year from the date on which the amount of such allowance is fixed, apply to the amalgamated company to commute not more than one-fourth of such annual allowance by payment of a capital sum of money to be calculated by the amalgamated company in accordance with the provision in that behalf contained in the amalgamation scheme, and no such application for commutation shall be unreasonably refused by the amalgamated company. 
     (8)  If any existing officer or servant shall feel aggrieved by the decision of the amalgamated company on any matter to be determined by it under the foregoing rules, or if any dispute or question shall arise between any existing officer or servant and the amalgamated company on any matter arising under this Schedule, such existing officer or servant may appeal to a standing arbitrator or board of arbitrators appointed by the Chief Justice, who shall hear and determine such appeal and whose decision thereon shall be final.  The amount of the fee payable to such standing arbitrator or to each member of such Loard of   arbitrators on any such appeal shall be fixed by the Chief Justice and shall be paid by the amalgamated company. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment No. 8: &mdash; 
       To delete in lines 34 and 35, page 33, the words &ldquo;at the date of the passing of this Act are&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;on the 3rd day of April, 1924, were.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is designed to make provision for compensation as laid down in the Bill for those who are in the service of the companies themselves or in the Irish Railway Clearing House at the date of the introduction of the Bill.  It is to be hoped that the companies who are to form the amalgamated group, or, on the other hand, the Railway Clearing House, will not take advantage of the introduction of this Bill, or the time between the introduction and the passing of the Bill as an Act, to get rid of any of their servants, and in that way escape the liability for compensation terms as laid down in the Bill.  At any rate, the amendment is designed to protect them in that respect by inserting the date of the 3rd April, and I hope the Minister will see his way to accept the amendment for the reason I have given.  It is a very necessary protection, and I think anyone in the employment of the companies concerned on the date of the introduction of the measure is entitled to the protection which the amendment seeks to give them. 
    
    
      
       As far as this amendment is a mere substitution of the words &ldquo;3rd April, 1924,&rdquo; for the date of the passing of the Act, I have no objection to it.  I might point out to the Deputy that it antedates the period of qualification for existing officers or servants by a few months and it may shut out a few men.  However, I am quite agreeable. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move to delete in lines 35 and 36, page 33, the words &ldquo;and for a period of not less than five years have been.&rdquo;  This amendment seeks to give the benefit of the Compensation   Clauses to servants of the amalgamated company or clearing house who may be in the employment of the company or clearing house for a period less than five years at the date of the passing of the Bill.  I hope that the Minister can see his way to accept it. 
    
    
      
       The effect of accepting this would be, of course, very much greater than in the case of the acceptance of amendment No. 8.  This would be to cut out the period of five years.  It would then read that the provisions should apply in respect of persons who, on the 3rd April, 1924, were officers and servants of any amalgamating or absorbed company; that is to say, a person with even a month's employment would become pensionable. There is no limit at all; a period of a month would suffice to get a man a pension.  That, of course, is too wide altogether.  The provision in the Bill is that five years is a necessary minimum period before a pension will be granted.  The terms are better than would be given under the Civil Service regulations, because ten years is the minimum period before a pension is paid in that case, and when you take into consideration the further fact that very few railway officials at the moment are pensionable it will be realised how generous are the terms proposed.  The amendment cannot be accepted. 
    
    
      
       The scale of compensation only begins after one year's service, so that even though these words were deleted it could not apply to a person who had only one month's service.  In any event if we begin with the one year's service the cost would be very small indeed.  There is an amendment in the name of Deputy William A. Redmond to substitute &ldquo;three&rdquo; for &ldquo;five,&rdquo; and perhaps the Minister would be prepared to accept that.  There seems to me very good reason why that figure should be adopted if the Minister cannot accept the amendment of Deputy Davin, inasmuch as three years is the accepted period under the Insurance Act. Under that Act, after three years a man is exempt from payment into the Insurance Fund.  Three years is looked upon as the period of permanent service, and certificates of exemption   under that Act are given in cases of three years' service.  Three years is therefore a much more obvious period than five. 
    
    
      
       The position I start off from is as I have already explained. Very few railway employees are at present pensionable.  It is proposed to put them into a position to receive a pension if they have had five years' service.  Five years, taken into consideration with the ten years' period for civil servants, is considered reasonable. 
    
    
      
       The Minister must take note of the fact that the legislation which he proposes to put into operation will be the cause of the redundancy of these people, who otherwise would not have anticipated being fired out on the street, so to speak.  The young men who, three years ago, had reason to look forward to a railway career in the clearing house or in any of the companies that will now form part of the amalgamated company, will have to look out for some other employment if they are found to be redundant. That will have a serious effect upon their future careers.  They have to look for other employment at a time when they are over age for alternative work that would be considered equally suitable to that which they are leaving.  I think that they are entitled to some consideration because the operations of the Act will have placed them in a position that they did not anticipate three or four years ago when they entered the service.  I think the case Deputy Johnson has referred to, in connection with the operations of the British Unemployment Insurance Act of 1920, should carry some weight with the Minister in getting him to compromise on the three years' period in this particular case.  I hope that he will see his way to do it for the reasons I have given. 
    
    
      
       I would like to point out to Deputy Davin that at present the wastage in the services necessitates recruitment yearly to a considerable degree.  If you stop recruitment you can very readily find employment for those who would be redundant, if there would be any redundant, and therefore I do not think   that anything can be said against the terms in the Bill. 
    
    
      
       Of course, Deputy Wilson is arguing in favour of the amendment.  If there will only be so very few to compensate then that is all the more reason why the Minister should agree to give compensation to the few who will be knocked out. 
    
    
      
       I cannot follow the logic of that.  There is a wastage in the service which has to be filled by recruitment yearly.  I presume that that would not be less than 100.  I have no idea as to how much it is, but I am   aware that examinations are held at various intervals in the year.  If by reason of the Bill there is a surplus of men, what would be wrong with the idea of not having any examinations, but to employ again these men who have been displaced?  Is not that a very reasonable proposal?  You would not have to pension them. 
    
    
      
       And then, of course, as I may point out again to Deputy Wilson, if no men are to be dispensed with this amendment will not come into operation, and the Minister will lose nothing. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 9; Nil, 35. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Sean de Faoite. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. John Conlan. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Connor Hogan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Risteard Mac Liam. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. 
             Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Fionan O Loingsigh. James O'Mara. Domhnall O Mochain. Patrick K. Hogan (Luimneach). Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment, which stands in the name of Deputy Redmond:&mdash; 
       To delete in line 36, page 33, the word &ldquo;five&rdquo; and to substitute therefor the word &ldquo;three.&rdquo; 
       As I have already explained, the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act assume that service over three years implies permanent service.  It seems to be much more reasonable to fix three years, if any limit of this kind is to be fixed, than five. 
    
    
      
       The same objections will apply to this.  I need not restate them.  People are at present without pension; they are not on a pensionable basis, and we propose to put them on a pensionable basis when they have served a certain period. Five years seems to us, on the balance of things, to be the most reasonable period that could be set before pensions rights accrue. 
    
    
      
       The Minister should not overlook the fact that when individuals who are likely to come into this particular class entered the railway service they did so on the distinct understanding that they were entering a service where they were likely to find permanent employment.  In the case of the clerical staff they have to serve a probationery period of twelve months, after which they enter into a   superannuation fund.  In the case of redundancy arising out of the British Railway Act it is found in practice that it is always cheaper for the railway company to declare the younger men redundant rather than the older men.  I think that young men who have short service, and whose careers have been upset, owing to something which was not foreseen at the time they entered the service, should have some such consideration as is asked for them in the amendment.  I think the Minister should endeavour to meet the situation in the compromising way it   has been put up in the amendment.  He has made no advance at all in regard to the circumstances, and I think he would be well advised to do so and get a favourable passage for the remainder of the Bill. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy seems to forget that this is a compromise. The basis that appealed to the framers of the Bill first, was a ten years' basis, founded on the Civil Service regulation, so that five years really represents a compromise. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 7; Nil, 31. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Tomas Mac Eoin. Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin. 
             Eamon O Dubhghaill. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus de Burca. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Hennigan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mag Aonghusa. 
             Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Sean O Bruadair. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Fionan O Loingsigh. James O'Mara. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Liam Thrift. Criostoir O Broin. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       After the word &ldquo;Perform,&rdquo; line 55, to insert the words &ldquo;or who at the date of the passing of this Act has attained the age of 65 years.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is intended to facilitate the retirement of men who cannot retire at present owing to the absence or inadequacy of pension provisions, who are kept on as a kind of charity, blocking promotion, and who are not able to discharge their duties efficiently. The number of cases in which this amendment could be availed of is very small.  It applies to a few people at present employed in the Irish Railway Clearing House.  I hope the Minister will see his way to accept the amendment. 
    
    
      
       The effect of this amendment would be to change the existing conditions to a large extent. Whether it would be availed of to a large extent is another matter.  The effect of the amendment would be, that every employee aged 65 years, at the date of the passing of the Act, could opt to leave the service on pension, where at present he has no right to a pension, and irrespective of whether or not his post disappeared as a result of the amalgamation.  It would give pensionable rights to employees not now entitled to a pension whether or not they suffered loss of office arising out of amalgamation. 
    
    
      
       The intention of the amendment is not to bring in people such as the Minister has referred to. It is really only intended to cover the case of a few men who are employed at present in the Irish Railway Clearing   House.  It would not cost very much to put it into operation.  That is what is in the mind, at any rate, of the people who have put forward this amendment. 
    
    
      
       I think Deputy Davin has fallen into a mistake that many members who move amendments make.  They intend one thing, but do not put it down. 
    
    
      
       I am quite prepared to leave it to the Minister to bring in a suitable form of words to cover the small number of cases affected. 
    
    
      
       If Deputy Davin means to include people who, being sixty-five years of age and having served for more than a five-year period, suffer loss by reason of amalgamation, then they are already protected. 
    
    
      
       There is an advantage, of course, even in putting forward amendments of the nature that Deputy O'Sullivan shies at, inasmuch as it allows the Minister to explain what is in the Bill.  If no amendments were put forward, if we all followed Deputy O'Sullivan's example, we would not know what the Bill meant. It would go through the procedure of the Dail and it would be imposed upon the public.  There would be no explanation and no understanding of it. It would simply be imposed.  Deputy O'Sullivan has avoided the necessity of eliciting explanations from the Minister, but I think he might agree that even amendments put down in the way that Deputy Davin's amendment has been put down has at least brought forward an explanation that Deputy O'Sullivan's failure to suggest any amendments could not have done.  The Bill, of course, according to the members on the Government benches, is word perfect; it could not be amended. As produced from the Ministerial Bill factory, it is absolutely perfect in the minds of the members of the Government party and no amendment or explanation is required. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Johnson must speak to this particular amendment. 
    
     
    
      
       I should like to say that what struck me was to find a member of the Front Labour Bench falling into the mistake that Deputy Johnson taunted the Minister with having fallen into the other day, of having one intention but suggesting a form of words contrary to that&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       That does not arise in this amendment. 
    
    
      
       Deputy O'Sullivan seems to be quite pleased that a member of the Front Labour Bench should have fallen into a mistake.  The person who does not make a mistake can never make anything.  Deputy O'Sullivan is to be complimented on the fact that he is a very able second to the Minister in smashing up anything that the Minister cannot see in a favourable light.  As a matter of fact the amendment was only put into my hands to-day.  I was not even honoured with a copy of the amendment until I got up to move it.  I thought it was sufficiently explained in the few short words I said when moving it, and as it would not have the effect of rushing the amalgamated company into bankruptcy, I thought the Minister would have accepted it. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       I move Amendment 11:&mdash; 
       In provision 5, line 74, page 33, to delete the word &ldquo;service&rdquo; and to substitute therefor the word &ldquo;situation.&rdquo; 
       I am sure this amendment will be accepted. It expresses what I intend at any rate.  It is a mere attempt to preserve identity in phraseology, if I may say so, and there is no reason why it should not be accepted. 
       Amendment put, and agreed to. 
       Amendment 12 not moved. 
    
    
      
       I move Amendment 13:&mdash; 
       In provision 5 (a), page 34, to delete the word &ldquo;and&rdquo; in line 12, and insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;not exceeding in any case two-thirds of his remuneration and emoluments, and, subject to that intimation.&rdquo; 
    
     The effect of the amendment is to   provide for the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary and emoluments. 
     Amendment put, and agreed to. 
     Amendment 14 not moved. 
     Amendment 15 not moved. 
     Amendment 16. &ldquo;To add at the end of provision 5 (a) the following proviso:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Provided that in computing the period of service of any existing officer or servant, service under any railway company, railway joint committee, or railway conference which has carried on business or discharged functions in Ireland (including companies or committees whose undertakings form part of the undertakings of the amalgamating or absorbed companies) shall be reckoned as service under the amalgamating or absorbed or amalgamated company in whose employment he was at the time of the happening of the event which gives rise to the claim for compensation, and if any existing officer or servant was temporarily absent from his employment whilst engaged in military service or any other employment of national importance such service shall be reckoned as service under the railway undertaking on which he was employed immediately before such temporary absence.&rdquo; 
    
      
       There are two propositions in this amendment.  In the first place, it makes provision whereby all the years of service which a railway servant has given will be taken into account for the purpose of calculating the compensation which he is entitled to under this particular Schedule.  It may happen that a man transferred during the course of his railway career from one company to another, and the amendment provides that all his years of railway service will count.  As the matter stands now, only the years he has served with a particular company where he happens to be at the moment would, so far as I can understand the matter, in any case, be taken into account.  I think the claim which is made, that all the years he has served should count, is quite a fair one.  In the second portion of the amendment, it is provided that an officer or servant who has been temporarily absent from his employment and has been engaged in military service   or other employment of national importance should have these years counted for the purpose of this compensation or superannuation.  That is a principle which has already been admitted in at least some cases.  I think it ought to be taken into account in this case also.  I move the amendment. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps I might deal with the amendment in the two parts into which Deputy O'Connell has himself divided it.  The first portion is too wide.  It deals with service in any railway company.  I am informed that there are railway servants at present employed by an amalgamating company who had previous service in an American company.  Service in that American company would count under this amendment. 
    
    
      
       The amendment deals only with railway companies which have carried on business or discharged functions in Ireland. 
    
    
      
       Even limiting it to that, what is intended to have in the Bill is service limited to companies whose undertakings form part of the amalgamated or absorbed companies. Why should a Bill grouping certain railways in Ireland deal with officers or servants or periods of service not with the undertakings affected by the Bill itself?  The amendment, as it is drafted, in that respect is too wide, even though it does not go so far as I thought it did in bringing in service with companies outside the Saorstat. Still it does bring in service with railways or with undertakings not included or to be included in the amalgamated concern.  The second point is one that can be reserved for consideration.  The words as here could not, of course, stand&mdash;&ldquo;whilst engaged in military service.&rdquo;  There have been many types of military service in this country in the last few years.  I do not know if it is intended to bring in everybody who being a railway servant at one time engaged in military service.  I have not yet got any definition of &ldquo;other employment of national importance.&rdquo;  If that could be made plain, then I could see how far it could also be reserved for consideration. 
    
     
    
      
       As a matter of fact, there were men taken out of the railway service and put into the National Army.  There have been men engaged in railway service who have been taken out of railway service and put to other works, and I have no doubt their case would not be beyond consideration, at any rate, nor would the case of railway servants who might have been sent to France to do public works during the last few years.  I think there were quite a number of men taken from railway service to do Government work other than railway work.  If the Minister wants to make this reference to military service clear, I am sure it would not be beyond the capacity of his legal adviser to put a new definition in the Bill.  I do not think the difficulty is insuperable. 
       If our amendment bringing in the Great Northern Railway, for instance, had been accepted, many of these people who are considered in the drafting of this amendment would have been automatically brought in.  If you take the Great Northern Railway servants who transferred to the Midland Great Western, the Midland Great Western service is to be counted, but the previous Great Northern service is not to be counted.  That, I think, is quite unjust.  The provision of the amendment regarding military service or other employment of national importance will be simply a matter, if the principle is accepted, of having definitions framed to satisfy the Minister's scruples. 
    
    
      
       I did ask a question to discover &ldquo;if other employment of national importance&rdquo; meant anything else than service with the Military Forces recently, in the way in which we want them defined.  I find it is limited to that.  The suggestion has been made that this phrase &ldquo;military service or other employment of national importance&rdquo; should be amended to read &ldquo;absent from his employment whilst in service with the military forces under the first, second or third Dail or under the Oireachtas&rdquo;&mdash;some such phrase.  I do not at all say the terms are now fixed.  If that meets Deputy Davin on this portion of   the amendment, I am prepared to accept that portion. 
    
    
      
       Of course, that would exclude service under the British Government and before the first Dail existed.  I do not know whether the Minister desires to exclude that kind of service. 
    
    
      
       I understand that railway servants who left for service in the British Military Forces left on agreement and were received back and that their period of service was supposed to run continuously. 
    
    
      
       Of course, from that explanation of the Minister&mdash;if it is quite certain to cover everybody&mdash; there might be no need to include them, but there is always the possibility that some would be excluded who were not lent, shall I say, by agreement and retained in the service. Men may have left the service without the consent of the railway company or without agreement, and yet they can prove that there was continuous service except for that intervening period. 
    
    
      
       resumed the Chair. 
    
    
      
       What Deputy Johnson has said can be taken into consideration when considering the amendment to the second portion of Deputy O'Connell's amendment.  The first portion, of course, is not being accepted. 
    
    
      
       Is this amendment to be put? 
    
    
      
       I think it is not reasonable for the Minister to take the line that he is not going to consider railway services.  As has been pointed out, there are some, perhaps not many, people who enter railway service and go from one company to another.  I can imagine, for instance, an employee of the G.N.R. who transfers and leaves that service and goes into the Railway Clearing House.  Under this Bill he loses the advantage of any service he has had with the G.N.R., and only his service in the Clearing House will count.  I do not think that is fair.  I think you ought to reckon railway service   as a continuous service; at any rate, railway service within the companies operating in Ireland. 
    
     
        Amendment put. 
     The Committee divided: Ta, 8; Nil, 32. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Tomas Mac Eoin. Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. 
             Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Tomas de Nogla. Sean O Laidhin. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Seoirse de Bhulbh. Proinsias Bulfin. John Conlan. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond G. Esmonde. John Hennigan. Desmond Fitzgerald. Connor Hogan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Risteard Mac Liam. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Padraig S. Mag Ualghairg. 
             Martin M. Nally. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Aodh O Cinneidigh. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraig O Maille. James O'Mara. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       I move to report progress. 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported.  Committee to resume on Thursday, 29th May, 1924. 
   
   
     QUESTION ON ADJOURNMENT. - SAORSTAT REPRESENTATION AT PARIS INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION. 
    
      
       I will not detain the Dail for any length of time in view of the lateness of the hour. I raise this matter in view of the fact that it is necessary to decide within the next day or two whether we should be represented at the Paris Exhibition. The French Government has requested that a decision as to whether Ireland is to participate in the International Exhibition of 1925 should be sent in by the end of May.  The answer I received to my question through the Minister for Agriculture, replying for the Minister of Industry and Commerce, amounts practically to a direct negative in view of what I understand to be the facts, that the decision in this matter must take place within the next day or two.  I have raised this matter in view of the fact that it is a typical example of the policy of the present Ministry of Finance, which has resulted in the gradual, perhaps rapid, downfall of the present Government.  That is to say, a policy of taxing the people to the utmost limit, at the same time doing nothing whatever to stimulate or advertise the struggling industries in this country.  It is no wonder that the worm is turning&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       What worm? 
    
    
      
       The Minister's reply, which perhaps I might be permitted to quote, is entirely unsatisfactory. He states in the second part of his reply: &ldquo;If it appears that a sufficient number of firms engaged in the decorative industries is prepared to participate in a representative display and to bear their share of the expenses, the necessary arrangements will be made.&rdquo;  Now this exhibition has nothing whatever to do with individual firms.  This exhibition deals wholly with the exhibits of various Governments. I understand that practically all the Governments of the world are being represented in this exhibition with the exception of the Irish Government. It has nothing whatever to do with individual firms.  I understand that the invitation to participate in this exhibition was sent to the Irish Government some two months ago.  What has been done since?  Nothing. 
    
     I fail to understand the exact reason   for the existence of a Minister for Industry and Commerce.  At any rate, he might change his title, if, when he receives an invitation from another Government to participate in an International Exhibition for the purpose of advertising Irish trade and commerce, he takes no interest in the matter. During the last two months, since the invitation was received, as far as I know the Minister for Industry and Commerce has done nothing whatever and has not even informed anyone of the reception of this invitation.  When I was in Paris a short time ago I was asked by many people in official and industrial circles whether Ireland would participate in the Exhibition, and I was unable to give a reply. 
     I was informed, and I understand it is correct, that there is a time limit for replying, and the end of May is the time fixed when the reply to this request must be sent in.  We are now at the end of that period, and yet the reply has not been sent in.  The answer I got to my question to-day was that if it appeared a certain number of firms engaged in decorative industries were prepared to participate, the necessary arrangements would be made.  Nothing has been done to acquaint those firms. The answer to my question also refers to the cost involved.  I am sure we would be all glad to learn what estimates the Minister has received as to the cost of representation in this Exhibition. As I was informed in Paris, a pavilion will be provided for Ireland by the French Government. 
     I was also supplied with information dealing with the exact nature of this exhibition.  It is a type of exhibition in which we could exhibit with, perhaps, considerable profit.  It is, perhaps, regrettable that we did not take part in the Exhibition in Wembley this year.  The case which the Government put up in connection with that was a very reasonable case: that this was a general exhibition and that it was not possible, in view of the circumstances in the country, to erect an Irish pavilion at Wembley, which would do credit to the State.  This exhibition in Paris next year is a particularised exhibition.  For the benefit of the Dail I might read out the classes   of products which can be exhibited at this exhibition.  These include architecture, stone working, wood working, metal working, ceramic ware, glass ware, all kinds of wood work and furniture, fancy articles, household metal goods, cut glass and blown glass, textile industries of all kinds, including woollen goods, serges of every kind, etc., paper industry, games and toys, sporting goods, scientific and musical instruments, including Irish war pipes, men's fittings, including bicycles; millinery, clothing, jewellery and various other classes of exhibits.  I am astonished that the Ministry of Industry and Commerce should not have bothered for two months to take any interest in, or to take any notice of, a formal invitation from a friendly Government to participate in an International Exhibition for the purpose of exhibiting Irish goods, and at which I think we could produce a very satisfactory exhibit. 
     I think it is typical of the present policy of the Ministry of Finance to prevent any attempt to exhibit or advertise Irish products.  No attempt has been made to see whether the invitation of the French Government should be accepted in this matter.  For that reason, and in view of the fact that an answer has to be given by the end of the month, I have raised this question in the Dail, and I hope that the Minister, in view of what I have stated, will favourably consider the question of Ireland being represented at this International Exhibition in which all countries, including the Dominions, will be represented.  I think it would be a disgrace if Ireland were not represented at the Exhibition. 
    
      
       I would be very much more readily disposed to give consideration to what Deputy Esmonde has said if he had managed to omit some of the numerous inaccuracies with which he interlarded his statement. It amazes me to hear Deputy Esmonde profess to be familiar with the details of this invitation, and with the answer to the invitation, and at the same time committing himself to the statement that no expenditure is involved in one respect. 
    
     
    
      
       I did not say that no expenditure was involved. 
    
    
      
       No expenditure is involved in one respect: that the French Government has decided to erect a pavilion and put it at the disposal of the Free State Government. I understood that was what the Deputy said. 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       The invitation as it came before me, and the additional matter that I found on the files, stated that a sum of 500,000 francs would be required to build the pavilion and that would be a charge on the Free State Government.  I think it is also discreditable on the part of Deputy Esmonde, without enquiring into the facts a little more closely, to display here an apparent negligence on the part of the Ministry.  He used the phrase that for months nothing was done, that the invitation had to be accepted and a decision taken before the 31st May, and, if Deputy Esmonde had not come on the scene this morning, we are to conclude that nothing would be done, and his contention at this moment is that nothing has been done.  That again is completely inaccurate. There have been many consultations with the French Consul on this matter, and quite an amount of search has been made as to how far an exhibit at this proposed exhibition would be creditable to the Free State. The French Consul has been kept informed of how matters were going.  It is not correct to say that a decision must be taken before the 31st May.  It   is correct to say that the invitation must be answered, formally, before the 31st May, and an answer to that invitation will have been received before the 31st May. 
    
    
      
       Can the Minister say what the answer is? 
    
    
      
       The answer is that the invitation has been favourably received, and that a decision as to whether or not it is found possible to participate at the Exhibition will be taken later.  The Exhibition does not come on, for some time, as the Deputy knows.  I am not quite sure that it is a fact even to represent this matter as a Government exhibit.  As far as I understand, the Government were approached with an invitation asking them if they would agree to get firms to participate in the Exhibition, and a certain amount of communication has to be made with individual firms to find out whether their products are such as would even, if the expenses were borne by other shoulders, make a creditable display.  The financial end of the whole thing, whether or not the advantage that is likely to be derived from the expenditure of this sum of £6,000 for appearing at the Exhibition, is commensurate with that expenditure, has to be considered.  There has been no failure to deal with this matter. There has been no delay whatsoever, no two months passed, without anything being done, and it is not a fact to say that no expenditure will be involved in the matter of the Pavilion. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.55 p.m., till Thursday, 29th May, at 3 p.m. 
    
   
 