 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EX-NATIONAL ARMY MEN AND VACANCIES IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE. 
    
      
       asked the President whether, having regard to the large numbers of men demobilised and about to be demobilised from the Army, he will consider the advisability of suspending recruitment for the Civic Guard, the Dublin Metropolitan Police and Civil Service, so as to provide an opportunity for ex-National Soldiers to compete for those posts; and, if so, if he will undertake that when the physical and educational standards of those men are being inquired into, allowance will be made for the fact that they, while on service, had not the opportunities available for men not in the Army? 
    
    
      
       The Government has decided that in filling vacancies in the Public Service every possible opportunity is to be taken to reserve employment for men who have served in the Army and are now demobilised. 
    
     In filling vacancies in the Gard Siochana and Dublin Metropolitan Police preference is given to men who have served in the Army, Criminal Investigation Department and Protective Force, and the great majority of such vacancies which occurred during the past year have been filled by men who served in these forces.  Of the 200 recruits who have been admitted to the Dublin Metropolitan Police since last August, 160 were accepted from the Army or the Criminal Investigation Department. About 600 ex-soldiers have   been admitted to the Garda Siochana, and twelve Army officers have been appointed to officer rank therein.  Preference will continue to be given to ex-Army men in the recruitment of these forces, but having regard to the importance of these qualifications for the efficiency of the forces, it is not proposed to lower the present reasonable physical and educational qualifications demanded from candidates. 
     As regards the Civil Service, instructions have been issued that a preference is to be given in all cases to ex-Army candidates, and, in particular, all temporary clerical and subordinate posts in the service are reserved exclusively for ex-Army men.  In addition, the Civil Service Commission has given preferential treatment to men who served in the Army by holding one examination confined to Army candidates and giving a special advantage to Army candidates in an examination now pending.  A further Civil Service examination confined to Army candidates is at present under consideration. 
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, I would like to ask the President if the reference to temporary appointments is meant to refer to purely temporary appointments, or temporary appointments in the technical sense&mdash; that is to say, people who are not on the Establishment&mdash;and has any change taken place with regard to the proportion of temporary appointments in the technical sense to regular appointments? 
    
    
      
       I did not quite catch the latter part of that question. I would suggest, in order to put the matter right, that the Deputy put down another question on the subject.  It means temporary clerical and subordinate posts in the Service. 
    
    
      
       Might I ask if some general instruction could be given with regard to those demobilised men throughout the country.  Many of us have enormous correspondence on that matter, and we do not know how to deal with it.  I think if general instructions were given from your Department, or from that of that hard-hearted Minister, the Minister for Finance&mdash;&mdash; 
    
     
    
      
       The Deputy cannot make a speech at this stage. 
    
    
      
       This is a suggestion. 
    
    
      
       A suggestion is a speech.  If separate questions were put down on these two points I think it would be more satisfactory. 
    
    
      
       Yes, it would be more satisfactory, and there would be no misunderstanding. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOUR COURTS, CUSTOM HOUSE AND G.P.O. 
    
      
       asked the President if he will state the Government's proposals as to the future use of the Four Courts, the Custom House, and General Post Office sites. 
    
    
      
       The Government is not in a position at the present time to make definite proposals as to the future use of these sites. 
    
    
      
       May I ask the President whether, pending the consideration of the matter, he would get the sites cleared with a view to giving employment? 
    
    
      
       I am afraid that is a different question.  You ought to put that question to me in the ordinary way. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LISSYCASEY (CLARE) COMPENSATION CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has received a claim for compensation in respect of the death of Patrick O'Rourke, Decomede, Lissycasey, Co. Clare, who was killed on May 22nd, 1921, and if, in consideration of the fact that he was the sole support of his family, settlement of the claim will be expedited? 
    
    
      
       This claim has been received, and is being investigated by the Compensation (Personal Injuries) Committee, who will arrange for the case to be heard at an early date. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - AMALGAMATED ENGINEERING UNION. 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the headquarters of which are in London, have a Superannuated Reserve Fund for the benefit of its members for the purpose of facilitating them in the purchase of their houses; whether he is aware that citizens of the Saorstat, who are members of this Union, and who have contributed to the said Reserve Fund through its Irish branches, are now deprived of the advantages of securing loans for that purpose owing to difficulties that exist with the Saorstat regarding Income Tax; if he will state whether the Reserve Fund from which such loans are advanced is exempt from Income Tax under English law, and if he will consider the matter of granting similar exemption of payment of the Income Tax on Mortgage Interest, viz., 5s. in £1, to citizens of the Saorstat for the purpose referred to? 
    
    
      
       I am having enquiries made into the points raised in this question, and I will communicate further with the Deputy. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INSPECTOR OF MINES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he has yet appointed an Inspector of Mines, and, if not, whether he proposes to do so? 
    
    
      
       Proposals for the appointment of an Inspector of Mines are under consideration by the Ministry of Finance, but a decision on them has not yet been given. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT (MONASTEREVAN). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if his attention has been called to the case of John Kavanagh, Skirteen, Monasterevan, lately a cooper in Cassidy's Brewery, who went on unemployment benefit in May, 1922, and who has ceased to be a recipient of the benefit,   although he contributed weekly from the introduction of the Act. 
    
    
      
       John Kavanagh, of Skirteen, Monasterevan, made claims to Unemployment Benefit on five occasions since the beginning of January, 1922.  In respect of the first four of those claims he has been paid benefit at the appropriate rate for 417 days.  It has not been possible to allow benefit on the fifth claim made on the 18th October last, because the applicant is disqualified by Sub-Section 4 of Section 8 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, inasmuch as no contribution was paid for him in the 1922-23 insurance year, or since.  That disqualification will last until not less than 12 contributions have been paid for the applicant under the Acts, exclusive of those paid for him prior to the 1922-23 insurance year. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, may I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce if twelve stamps are forthcoming will Kavanagh be entitled to this benefit then? 
    
    
      
       Yes; that is contained in the answer, &ldquo;that disqualification will last until not less than twelve contributions have been paid for the applicant under the Acts, exclusive of those paid for him prior to 1922-23 insurance year.&rdquo;  He will then be in benefit. 
    
    
      
       His disqualification will be removed? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, may I ask if there are not thousands of people in a like plight, and if it is proposed to introduce any legislation to remove the disqualification that the Deputy has referred to in the case of Kavanagh? 
    
    
      
       Not at the moment. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND SALES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if his attention has been called to the fact that in the County of Louth, and generally in the Saorstat, landlords are carrying out sales of land with a view to evading some of the provisions of the Land Act,   1923; and whether the new tenancies created by these sales will be sanctioned by the Ministry of Agriculture, to the detriment of evicted tenants and uneconomic holders, whose greater claims have been admitted by the Government. 
    
    
      
       The sale of land by landowners will not in any way prejudice the operations of the Land Act, 1923.  There is no power to interfere with any owner's right to sell his land, but the sale of land or the creation of freeholds or tenancies now does not in any way interfere with or modify the right of the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923, to acquire land compulsorily for the purposes of the Act where it is required.  The fact that &ldquo;A&rdquo; has sold his land within the last year, and that &ldquo;B,&rdquo;&ldquo;C,&rdquo; and &ldquo;D&rdquo; are now the legal owners, makes no difference whatever to the position.  If the Land Commission require the land they can acquire it compulsorily from &ldquo;B,&rdquo;&ldquo;C,&rdquo; and &ldquo;D&rdquo; as readily as they acquire it from &ldquo;A.&rdquo;  The transfer of ownership alters in no way the provisions of the Act either as to acquisition or price. 
       Under the Land Act of 1923 the Land Commission may acquire land compulsorily not only from a landlord who holds in fee, but also from a tenant or a tenant purchaser.  Any attempt to prevent the sale of land, pending the operations of the Land Act, would not increase in any way the powers of the Land Commission, but would merely have the effect of decreasing the value of all the land of the country, and farmers, large and small, since they own far the greatest area, would be the principal sufferers by such a policy. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that question, might I ask the Minister if all the facts he has given in his reply are set out in the Land Act of 1923, and, if so, what is the necessity for asking the Dail to waste time over this matter? 
    
    
      
       I wonder could the Minister state if the lands of Kilsaran have been sold within the last week or two in order to evade the provisions of the Act? 
    
     
    
      
       I cannot say. 
    
    
      
       Why not ask the Attorney-General? 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TENANTS' POSITION UNDER LAND ACT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will state when advances will be made to those tenants whose cases come under Section 38 of the Land Act, 1923, and who are unaffected by the clauses of the Act relating to compounded arrears of rent or payment in lieu of rent, and who will receive no benefit under the Act until their rents are redeemed? 
    
    
      
       The procedure to be adopted by a person who desires to avail himself of the benefit of Sec. 38 of the Land Act, 1923, are prescribed by the Land Commission Rules of the 5th instant.  When the application has been made and the requirements of the Act and Rules complied with, the advance will be made. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, would the Minister give priority of inspection to tenants coming under Section 38 of the Land Act of 1923, as they receive no benefit until their rents are redeemed? 
    
    
      
       I will bring that to the notice of the Minister for Agriculture. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ORGANISER'S ALLEGED STATEMENT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if his attention has been drawn to an alleged statement of the Leinster Organiser of Cumann na nGaedheal at a meeting in Longford, as reported in the &ldquo;Longford Leader&rdquo; of January 19th, that &ldquo;already arrangements were well under way to secure untenanted lands and claims filed at the headquarters of Cumann na nGaedheal would receive first attention,&rdquo; and if he will state whether the applications of uneconomic holders and landless men will be considered on their merits in the redistribution of untenanted lands   irrespective of whether they belong to any particular political organisation or not? 
    
    
      
       I have not seen the statement mentioned as reported in the &ldquo;Longford Leader.&rdquo;  With regard to the point raised, the answer in the words of question is: &ldquo;That all applications of uneconomic holders and landless men will be considered on their merits in the re-distribution of untenanted land, irrespective of whether they belong to any particular organisation or not.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say whether, in his opinion, such reported statements come under the Bribery and Corruption Acts? 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONGESTED ESTATES (KILDARE AND OFFALY). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he expects shortly to be in a position to deal with the congested estates in and bordering on the Bog of Allen in Kildare and Offaly, and especially with the Lullymore Estate, Rathangan, Co. Kildare, under the Land Act, 1923; and whether he is aware that the condition of some of these holdings is appalling, and as bad in individual cases as any on the Western Coast, and to ask whether this estate will be dealt with in the near future. 
    
    
      
       All estates coming within the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, will be dealt with by the Land Commission as expeditiously as possible. 
       The townland of Lullymore appears to form part of the Estate of R.B. Murphy, Co. Kildare, in respect of which the landlord has lodged particulars to enable the Land Commission to collect Compounded Arrears of Rent and payment in lieu of rent.  The particulars to enable the sale to be proceeded with have not yet been lodged, and when lodged the Estate will be dealt with in due course. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer, may I ask the Minister if he is   aware that the matter is very urgent in the case of the Lullymore Estate, that particulars for the enlargement of this holding were commenced as far back as 1909, and would have been dealt with under that Act only that they had to be redeemed in cash.  The landlord had to get cash at once, and there was no cash available at the time.  In view of the urgency of this case, and of the bad state in which these tenants are living along the borders of the Bog of Allen, would he see that this case is dealt with immediately? 
    
    
      
       I am not aware of the urgency of the case.  But there is no doubt that if the Deputy brings the matter to the notice of the Minister for Agriculture, he will deal with it. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RATES ON UNOCCUPIED HOUSES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government whether he has drawn the attention of rating authorities to the provisions of Section 16 of the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1923, making landlords liable for rates on unoccupied houses, with a view to lessening the number of houses kept idle. 
    
    
      
       The answer is in the affirmative. 
       A letter was addressed on the 5th July last to all rating authorities drawing particular attention to this matter and enclosing a copy of the Section referred to by the Deputy. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CASHEL MOTOR COLLISION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether a claim for damages has yet been received from Mr. James Ryan, of Cashel, Co. Tipperary, owing to injuries sustained by his hackney motor car in collision with a military lorry on September 26th, 1923, and whether he can state what action is being taken in the matter. 
    
    
      
       I am unable to trace the   receipt of any claim from Mr. Ryan. In any case, the military authorities are not liable in a claim of the kind, but ex-gratia payments are sometimes made.  The occurrence has been investigated by a Court of Enquiry, which found that the collision was due to the negligence of Mr. Ryan.  In the circumstances it would not be practicable to entertain a claim from him. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MOUNTSHANNON (CO. CLARE) INTERNEE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if it is proposed to continue the internment of Charles Bugler, Mountshannon, Co. Clare, now in Dundalk Jail. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Bugler is at present being detained on very strong suspicion of having unlawfully interfered with the lawful occupation, use or enjoyment of land, and the question of bringing him to trial is under consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DEPENDENT'S ALLOWANCE (CLARE). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state why dependent's allowance is withheld in the case of Bridget Guilfoyle, sister of Volunteer John Guilfoyle (No. 30302), No. 3 Works Coy., Engineers, who was charged with the care of his three children whilst her brother was in the Army; further, if the Minister is aware that all the children are under 14 years, and to ask if the case will be favourably reconsidered. 
    
    
      
       Dependents' allowance has been duly paid in respect of the children, of whom one became 16 years of age in August last.  The claim in respect of Miss Bridget Guilfoyle was disallowed on the ground that the extent of her financial dependence on her brother was less than the minimum required by regulations before an allowance might be issued.  I regret that there appears to be no grounds on which the case could be reconsidered. 
    
   
   
     WRITS FOR VACANT CONSTITUENCIES. 
    
      
       Ta orm a chur in uil do'n Dail go bhfuaireas an tuarasgbhail mar leanas o'n chleireach: 
       I gco-liona Bhuan-Ordu 120 de Bhuan-Orduithe Dhail Eireann, ta orm a thuairisciu gur dhineas ar ordu on gCeann Comhairle agus do reir na bhforalacha ina thaobh san ata san Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923, mo riteacha do chur amach, ceann go dti Lorcan Scorlog, Ceann Comhrimh, ar an 20adh Feabhra, agus ceann go dti Liam Mac Reachtain, Ceann Comhrimh, ar an 22adh Feabhra, chun baill do thogha do sna foluntaisi ata in ionadaiocht Dhailcheanntar Bhuirge Bhaile Atha Cliath Theas agus Dhailcheanntar Chontae Bhaile Atha Cliath, fe seach, sa Dail. 
       [In compliance with Standing Order No. 120, of the Standing Orders of Dail Eireann, I have to report that on the direction of the Ceann Comhairle and pursuant to the relative provisions of the Electoral Act, 1923, I issued on the 20th February to Mr. Lorcan G. Sherlock, Returning Officer, and on the 22nd February to Mr. W. McA. McCracken, Returning Officer, my writs for the election of members to fill the existing vacancies in the representation in the Dail of the Borough Constituency of Dublin South, and the County Constituency of Dublin, respectively.] 
    
   
   
     TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF SITTING. 
     
    
      
       Is it the intention to adjourn for a period this evening? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       If the Dail sits for an extra half-hour Private Business can be taken at 7.30, when we resume after the adjournment. 
    
    
      
       May I take it that Deputy Corish will not press his motion on Private Business this evening, as I understand the Minister for Local Government is unwell.  If the Deputy is agreeable, I will undertake to provide time for this motion to-morrow. 
    
    
      
       I am quite satisfied. 
    
    
      
       If there be business under consideration we do not like to interrupt it, but generally it is at half-past six we adjourn. 
    
    
      
       It is ordered, then, that the Dail may sit this evening until 9 o'clock. 
    
   
   
     JURIES (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1923&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I ask leave to have this Bill printed and circulated to members.  It is an economy Measure really, and, to some extent, the matter with which it deals has been dealt with in anticipation by departmental action, and the legalising and validating of that action will be covered by the Bill. I do not think it necessary, at this stage, to explain the measure at length. It provides a more economical method of adding to the electors lists a jurors column showing whether each elector is an ordinary juror, a special juror, or not a juror at all.  If the considerable sum that could be saved by that process was to be saved this year, it was necessary to anticipate by departmental action the provisions of this Bill, and I think when the Bill is in the hands of Deputies it will be found to meet with general agreement.  Some other matters of minor importance are dealt with in the Bill, but it is not attempted at   present, and will not be attempted until after the passing of the Courts of Justice Bill, to introduce a comprehensive measure dealing with the Jury system generally. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, March 5th. 
    
   
   
     ENFORCEMENT OF LAW (OCCASIONAL POWERS) BILL, 1924&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I ask leave to have printed and circulated to Deputies a Bill entitled the &ldquo;Enforcement of Law (Occasional Powers) Bill, 1924.&rdquo;  This Bill bears a striking resemblance to the Bill of the same name introduced last year.  It provides for an increase in the number of under-sheriffs by means of temporary additional appointments in the larger and more troublesome counties, such as Galway and Cork, and for an increase in the number, and an improvement in the quality, of bailiffs by authorising under-sheriffs to take on additional bailiffs, to whom the State will pay small salaries in addition to fees; for the removal of certain limitations and checks which the ordinary law places on the operations of the under-sheriff, and the effect of which at present is to make it difficult or almost impossible for the under-sheriff to perform his duties; it also provides for an inquiry at District Courts into the accounts of judgement debtors who have no seizable chattels, but who have or who are able to have assets or sources of income which the under-sheriff cannot seize.  It provides also for a speedier inquiry into the merits of claims made by third parties, for instance, a debtor's wife, to goods seized on the debtor's premises by the under-sheriff.  I recognise that this is a Bill for which a substantial case ought to be made, even before it receives a First Reading. 
    
     The Bill that was introduced last year had a very salutary effect, but was too short-lived to prove a real remedy for the situation that existed. It had a lifetime of only six months. I propose to read to Deputies the situation with regard to the execution of Court Judgments as it was on the   1st February of the present year.  I have returns here for almost all counties showing the number of decrees in the hands of under-sheriffs, and the amount of money represented by these decrees.  In Carlow there are 134 decrees in the hands of the sheriff, representing £1,600; Cavan, 51 decrees, £400; Clare, 191 decrees, £5,400; Cork, 12 decrees, £400; Cork County, 589 decrees, representing £12,800; Dublin City, 58 decrees, £1,950; Dublin County 52 decrees; I have not got the sum of money in that case; Galway, 357 decrees, representing £3,600; Kerry, 203 decrees, representing £11,778.  Kildare and Kilkenny are missing.  I can say from my own knowledge that Kildare is practically normal, but Kilkenny is extremely bad.  In Leitrim there are 95 decrees in the hands of the under-sheriff, but I cannot say at the moment the amount of money they represent. Leitrim, in this respect, but in no other, is almost normal.  In Leix the number of decrees in the hands of the under-sheriff is 331, representing £9,700; Limerick, 270 decrees, £12,400; Limerick City, 86 decrees, £1,300; Longford, 18 decrees, £488; Louth, 151 decrees, £800; Mayo, 272 decrees, £6,700; Meath, 12 decrees, £600; Monaghan, 49 decrees, £550; Offaly, 215 decrees, £4,500; Roscommon, 258 decrees, £4,200; Sligo, 105 decrees, £800; Tipperary, 615 decrees, £27,600; Tirconaill, 962 decrees, £13,000; Waterford, 146 decrees, £2,500; Waterford City, 41 decrees, £1,800; Westmeath, 161 decrees, £8,000; Wexford, 334 decrees, £4,400; Wicklow, 114 decrees, £400. 
     That was the situation on the 1st February, and we find that over a period of two or three months back that the under-Sheriffs are barely keeping pace with the decrees, without making substantial inroads on the arrears of their work.  For instance, on the 1st December over a particular 25 bailiwicks&mdash;there are altogether 35 bailiwicks in the Free State&mdash;but over a particular 25 bailiwicks for which full returns are available, the position on the 1st December was that there were 5,803 decrees in the hands of the under-Sheriffs, representing a total sum of money of £137,050, whereas for the   same 25 bailiwicks on the 1st February you have in the hands of the under-Sheriff 5,724 decrees, representing £127,266, which is only a money reduction of £10,000.  Reports from all the under-Sheriffs go to show the need for the changes which are proposed in the Bill that will be circulated.  They also show that the mere fact that they have the powers which were given by the Bill of last year was in itself salutary, and that good results were secured without the necessity of resorting to these powers in practice at all.  It would be, in the face of the situation revealed by these statistics I have read, little short of criminal negligence on my part not to introduce a Bill which is so urgently needed. 
    
      
       I would ask the Minister if between now and the Second Reading Stage&mdash;I assume he will get a First Reading for the Bill&mdash;he will prepare figures to show how many of these decrees have been granted for debts in respect of rates, income tax, or other debts to public authorities, and how many in the case of debts of private persons; and also if he will tell us the number of cases in which it has been found necessary to export or to send outside the jurisdiction goods, which have been seized, to be sold. 
    
    
      
       I do not know whether the Deputy expects a reply now to the question he asks. 
    
    
      
       No.  I will be satisfied with the reply before the Second Reading Stage is reached. 
    
    
      
       I will endeavour to get the particulars asked for. 
       Question: &ldquo;That leave be granted to introduce the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       Second Stage ordered for Thursday, March 6th. 
    
   
   
     FIREARMS (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) BILL, 1924&mdash;FOURTH STAGE. 
    
      
       In the Committee Stage of this Bill Deputy Johnson raised a question as to the power given to impose a fine in addition to a sentence   of imprisonment, and contended that in some way that provision militated, or might militate, against the poor man, against the man without money, and in favour of the person who had money and who, in that way, could, as it were, buy off a term of imprisonment. It is not contemplated that the provision could or would have any such effect.  I take it that the judge or justice hearing a case, and deciding to make use of this permissive provision, would have regard to the circumstances of the accused person and to his ability to pay a fine in addition to a period of imprisonment. 
       In consultation with officials of my Department I have decided that there is really no case for a change in the provision as it stands.  I consider that it is a useful power, that these cases vary very much in the degree of guilt and in all the attendant circumstances. You can have under this particular Act offences ranging from the merest technical breach in the law to offences of a very serious nature.  Much would depend on the motive for which a person might be supposed to have improperly and illegally a lethal weapon without the knowledge or the consent of the proper authorities, and judging each case in that way in its perspective and in its attendant circumstances, it was thought wise to enable the magistrate to inflict a fine, in addition to a period of imprisonment, if he thought that the circumstances warranted it.  I could understand the objection to this provision if it were mandatory, if it were a hard and fast or binding provision, but I must say that I cannot understand or appreciate the objections when it is purely a permissive section. 
    
    
      
       The Minister has not met the question as to why a £20 fine in paragraph (a) of Section 6, should be equal to two months' imprisonment without hard labour, and then in paragraph (b) £100 should be equal to six months' imprisonment without hard labour. The method of calculation has escaped me, and perhaps it would be of assistance to the Dail in coming to a judgement if we could have the Minister's explanation of the difference in value per month in money of imprisonment without hard labour. 
    
     
    
      
       There was no intention to take the thing on a strict mathematical basis in that way, and set £20 against six months or £100 against twelve. 
    
    
      
       The Minister is misquoting. It is £20 against two months and £100 against six months. 
    
    
      
       You mean in default? You see, the £20 in paragraph (a) is a maximum, and fines within that amount may be inflicted.  Similiarly, the £100 mentioned in paragraph (b) is also a maximum. 
    
    
      
       Is not the imprisonment a maximum also? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps I can assist the Minister.  £20 is the fine which may be imposed in addition to six months without hard labour, but if the fine of £20 is not paid, then additional imprisonment not exceeding two months may be imposed, in default of the £20. 
    
    
      
       Of the £20 or less. 
    
    
      
       Yes, not exceeding two months and not exceeding £20. That is to say, £10 a month&mdash;£2 10s. 0d., or a little less, per week.  In the second case the fine in addition to the imprisonment may be up to £100, but in default of payment of that £100, or lesser sum, a further imprisonment of not exceeding six months may be imposed. What I want to know is the relation between £20 equalling two months, and £100 equalling six months, and how is the difference arrived at. 
    
    
      
       I do not know how the difference is arrived at.  I was never any good at mathematics.  If the Deputy has any suggestion for a change I would be willing to consider it, and, possibly, to have it moved elsewhere. 
    
    
      
       Of course, I have suggested the elimination of these additional sentences. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but the Deputy did not make a case against an additional sentence.  He did make a case against the mathematics, and I think it is a good case, which seems convincing. 
    
     
    
      
       I suppose it is perfectly clear that if nobody offends none of these impositions will be placed upon him. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Bill be received for final consideration&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Final stage ordered for next Wednesday. 
    
   
   
     WIRELESS BROADCASTING. 
     Debate resumed on motion by Deputy Cooper:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;That the evidence and documents submitted to the Special Committee on Wireless Broadcasting at any stage of their proceedings be printed and circulated, except such Departmental Minutes as, in the opinion of the Committee, are not necessary to be published.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I just wish to say this.  I carefully refrained last Friday from participating in the debate or expressing any possible kind of preference as to the alternatives that were then before the Dail.  But the Dail did ultimately, at the end of the debate, come to a decision that this was the course to be adopted, and I have only this now to say, that this is the course I myself called for nearly a month ago, and this is the course I am glad that the Dail has adopted. I would have wished further not merely that all the documents would be published, but also that, being published, they should be released from privilege in order that any person or persons who might feel so disposed might be free to take any action they wished in the matter, either in regard to the documents themselves or in regard to any comments upon them.  I do not know whether that is or is not possible.  I just put that forward now. I only wish to say that the decision to which the Dail came last Friday was a decision that I am glad it has come to, and I think it is the right decision. 
    
    
      
       I understood that the President intended moving an amendment in some shape or form to this motion dealing particularly with Departmental files. 
    
     
    
      
       That is in the motion. 
    
    
      
       In that case, will you take an amendment from me to this motion. 
    
    
      
       What is the amendment? 
    
    
      
       I wish to move an amendment asking the Dail to delete all words after &ldquo;circulated&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;except such Departmental Minutes as, in the opinion of the Committee, are not necessary to be published.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       The proceedings were not quite regular on Friday.  The motion proposed by Deputy Cooper was amended, by general leave, to include these words.  That is my recollection.  That is to say, it was decided to put them in.  I do not see how you can now decide to take them out. 
    
    
      
       I must say that was not my interpretation of the discussion, but if it is the feeling of the Dail I do not wish to be the exception, though I do think that because of the peculiar turn of affairs regarding this whole subject it is an inadvisable decision.  I readily concede that it is wrong to publish all Departmental files in a matter of this kind, for the great majority of them have no interest whatever for the public, that apart from that interest or non-interest it is essential that subordinates should be kept outside the public view.  Nevertheless, I am satisfied that the retention of all documents, no matter how trivial in this instance, is necessary, and because, as I say, of the peculiar circumstances of the case&mdash;not that it should be made a precedent&mdash;I consider it an ill-advised course to withhold one single document.  I do not want to move a motion on the subject, and if the citizens outside could see it from the point of view I see it, I would be entirely in favour of falling in with the majority view of the Dail, but I again say, it is a rather unfortunate decision.  As this subject will not arise again possibly, until the final Report comes on, I want to know from this Committee whether or not they have made up their minds regarding the   presence of the Press at their future sittings. 
    
    
      
       The Minister cannot ask the Committee that question in this way. 
    
    
      
       Well, if I cannot, I can certainly do it in another way, and the subject is of such importance that I will have to trouble the Dail within the next few days to discuss a motion on this subject.  I now give notice that I intend to move a motion that all future meetings of this Committee be conducted in public. 
    
    
      
       It is not quite clear to me whether I am speaking to the Postmaster-General's amendment or to my own motion. 
    
    
      
       The amendment is out of order. 
    
    
      
       There are only two points I wish to deal with.  One has been referred to by Deputy Figgis.  Before I do so, I should like to remind the Postmaster-General that when I accepted the final words, &ldquo;except such Departmental Minutes as, in the opinion of the Committee, are not necessary to be published,&rdquo; I did so acting on the suggestion of the Minister for Finance. He suggested these words, and I think the balance of opinion of the Dail was in favour of their acceptance, for I think we all realise how essential it is that our public departments, if they are to work at all, should be kept outside the arena of politics, and not have their opinions drawn in and canvassed.  On the point Deputy Figgis raised&mdash;the question of privilege&mdash;there is a good deal of misunderstanding.  Personally, I do not think that what Deputy Figgis asks can be done.  If a man gives evidence on a privileged occasion, he cannot be sued for it, and you cannot remove the privilege except by consent. You would have to ask every person who appeared before the Committee, and every member of the Committee, to remove the privilege.  Only by general consent could it be done.  If one person objected you would not be able to do it. Therefore I do not think that it is a practical proposition.  I think the public   outside have not entirely understood the pains that have been taken to include in this evidence when it is published a statement from everybody who may be affected, and I think that is because the public, and even the Press, are not perhaps so familiar with the Constitution as they might be. 
       Article 19 of the Constitution says&mdash; 
       &ldquo;All official reports and publications of the Oireachtas or of either House thereof shall be privileged and utterances made in either House wherever published shall be privileged.&rdquo; 
    
     Under that Article I take it, and I hope the Attorney-General will correct me if I am wrong, if a newspaper publishes extracts from this evidence when printed and circulated, it will be liable to an action for libel by any person who is unfavourably commented on, although I think the Constitutional practice in other countries extends privilege to any Parliamentary publication even when re-produced in the Press.  Leaving that out altogether, when the Blue Book or White Book which contains this evidence is privileged it is a publication of the Dail. That Book, containing statements which may reflect on the character of individuals&mdash;from what I have heard it is almost bound to reflect on the character of individuals&mdash;will be on sale in every bookshop in the City of Dublin, and every person who wishes can have hawkers selling it in the streets.  It would be grossly unfair that in a work of that character under the shelter of privilege statements should be made against individuals which they have had no opportunity of answering.  This motion gives them   the opportunity of submitting documents to the Committee, even at this late stage, and having them published, so that as well as the charges against an individual being published, there will be the answer of the individual. I venture to think that is only fair. There is one last point: I have seen it stated by a speaker outside the Dail that in the course of the discussion my motion was torpedoed by Deputy Johnson.  I take it that the shock of a torpedo is sharp and sudden, and that it comes on you unaware.  Most certainly there was nothing of that in this case.  Deputy Johnson told me before I proposed the motion the course that he proposed to recommend.  He was absolutely frank and open with me, and I say that the course he wished to recommend was not inconsistent with my Motion but was supplementary to it. Had it commended itself to the Dail it could have been combined with my motion.  It did not so commend itself, but if it did there was nothing in the world unfair or underhand about Deputy Johnson's motion.  It is unnecessary to say that, because we all know Deputy Johnson.  We know he can be sometimes obstinate and sometimes unreasonable, but he is never unfair. As the statement has been made outside I think that a contradiction should go out.  As a matter of fact, nobody has torpedoed my motion. It is sailing safely into port, possibly delayed on the voyage, but that is compensated for by the fact that it is sailing into port with, I think, the good wishes, or at any rate with the acceptance, of every side.  I do not know if anything has been torpedoed, but most certainly my motion has not. 
     Motion put and agreed to. 
   
   
     AN CHEAD THUARASGABHAIL ON gCOISTE AR NOS-IMEACHTA AGUS PRIBHLEIDI. 
     
       
        (FIRST REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON PROCEDURE AND PRIVILEGES.) 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1.  Le Run le n-ar ghlac an Dail 5 Mi na Nodlag, 1923, do cuireadh na nithe seo leanas chun an Choiste:&mdash; 
             1.  By Resolution of the Dail, adopted on the 5th December, 1923, the following reference was made to the Committee:&mdash; 
           
         
         
           
             &ldquo;Go gcuirtear chun an Choiste ar Nos-imeachta agus Pribhleidi gach ceist a bhaineann le hAchuingheacha do thiolaca i lathair Dhail Eireann chun tuairisciu don Dail ina dtaobh.&rdquo; 
             &ldquo;That all questions connected with the presentation of Petitions before Dail Eireann be referred to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges for report to the Dail.&rdquo; 
           
           
             2.  Do bhreithnigh an Coiste an Run san i gcruinniu a comoradh 13 Mi na Nodlag, 1923, nuair a bhi na Teachtai seo a leanas i lathair:&mdash; 
             2.  This Resolution was taken into consideration by the Committee at a meeting held on the 13th December, 1923, at which the following Deputies were present:&mdash; 
           
           
             An Ceann Comhairle, Padraic O Maille, Seoirse Mac Niocaill, Sean O Conlain, Risteard Mac Liam, Brian Cuipeir, Tomas Mac Eoin agus Peadar O hAodha. 
             The Ceann Comhairle, Deputies P. O Maille, Nicholls, Conlon, Wilson, Cooper, Johnson and Hughes. 
           
           
             3.  Ta foralacha in Airtiogail 47 agus 48 den Bhunreacht i dtaobh tiolaca Achuingheacha airithe.  Sna BuanOrduithe ata ag an da Thigh i dtaobh Billi Priobhaideacha ta foralacha i dtaobh tiolaca Achuingheacha i gcasanna airithe. 
             3.  Provision is made in Articles 47 and 48 of the Constitution for the presentation of certain Petitions.  The Standing Orders of both Houses dealing with Private Bills provide for the presentation of Petitions in certain cases. 
           
           
             4.  Do bhreithnigh an Coiste casanna eile ina bhfeadfi Achuingheacha do thiolaca agus molaid gan glaca leis an nos san, Achuingheacha do thiolaca don Dail o Theachtai no aon cholucht lasmuich. 
             4.  The Committee took into consideration other cases in which Petitions might be presented and recommend that the practice of presenting Petitions to the Dail whether by Deputies or by any outside body should not be adopted. 
           
           
             5.  Ag teacht ar an dtuairim sin doibh do chuimnigh an Coiste ar an saoirse cainte, ar an saoirse tionoil, ar an vota don duine fasta, ar an Ionadaiocht Chothromuil, ar an Referendum agus ar an dTionscnamh a cuirtear in airithe leis an mBunreacht. Do mheasadar gur feidir ar na slite sin gach tuairim ata ag saoranaigh do thabhairt os coir na Dala agus da bhri sin nach ga aon Achuingheacha. 
             5.  In forming this opinion the Committee had regard to the guarantees of free speech, free assembly, adult suffrage, Proportional Representation, Referendum and the Initiative contained in the Constitution.  They considered that by these methods every point of view held by citizens can be brought before the Dail, and that, consequently, the expedient of Petitions is not necessary. 
           
           
             6.  Maidir le nithe eile a cuireadh chun an Choiste leis an Run do rith an Dail 3 Deire Fomhair, 1923, agus le n-ar cuireadh an Coiste ar bun, ta dul-ar-aghaidh deanta ag an gCoiste ach taid ag leanuint d'iad do bhreithniu. 
             6.  In regard to other matters referred to the Committee by Resolution of the Dail dated 3rd October, 1923, which set up the Committee, progress has been made, but the Committee is continuing its deliberations thereon. 
           
         
       
     
     MICHEAL O hAODHA, 
     
       Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     14 adh Feabhra , 1924. 
     
    
      
       Is mian liom an Chead Thuarasgabhail on gCoiste ar Nos-Imeachta agus Pribhleidi do chur os bhur gcomhair agus taim cinnte go nglacfhaidh an Dail leis.  Ni gadh dhom aon nidh a radh a cabhru leis an run mar bhi an Coiste ar aon guth gan glaca leis an nos san, Achuingheacha do thiolaca don Dail o Theachtai no o aon cholucht lasmuich. 
       I wish to propose &ldquo;That the Report of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges be adopted,&rdquo; and I do not think it is necessary for me to say anything in support of the motion because the Committee were unanimous on the matter.  They realised that any one who had reason to present a petition had sufficient means under the Constitution of placing his or her views before the Dail.  For that reason it was not necessary to have any petitions presented. 
    
    
      
       I second that and for this reason.  Though a member of the Committee, I was not present when the Report was passed, but I entirely agree with the terms of the motion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     LOCAL GOVERNMENT ELECTORS REGISTRATION BILL, 1923&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
    
      
       I have no objection to taking this.  I understand there was a Committee of both Houses to deal with it.  I am at a loss to know whether that Committee met or not. Unfortunately the Minister for Local Government is ill at present, and I would suggest that it would be put on for to-morrow. 
    
    
      
       Could we in the meantime have any indication of whether the Minister proposes to approve of this or not? 
    
    
      
       The Minister for Local Government is not well to-day.  I have not heard from him on this.  I understand he was not in the office yesterday or to-day. 
    
    
      
       The matter has been before the Dail now for two or three weeks and although I suppose there is   nobody who can answer for him, it would be important for us to know whether there is to be a motion moved on this, or whether it remains where it is. 
    
    
      
       I explained to the Ceann Comhairle that I understood that this Bill with the amendment had been referred to a Joint Committee of the Seanad and the Dail.  I do not know whether that Committee met, and if it did, what was its decision.  It is to enable me to get this information that I propose to postpone the matter until to-morrow. 
    
    
      
       My recollection was that the Committee was not appointed to deal with any specific case of a conflict of opinions as between the Dail and the Seanad, but more particularly with regard to the general question as to conflicts which might occur. I would like to know if it is within your knowledge whether the Committee is going to be kept to the general question, or to report on it, because if the Committee is to report on this and the next two items on the Orders of the Day, and we are expecting a report from the Committee on these matters, I suggest we can hardly proceed on them now in advance of the specific recommendation we may be expecting. 
    
    
      
       The Joint Committee was not appointed to consider this, or any particular amendment. It was appointed with general terms of reference, and has had several meetings, and has agreed on several matters, which will appear in a Report. With regard to this matter, which was the occasion for the appointment of the Committee, I think the decision reached by the Committee will simplify the question which arose in connection with this amendment, and as the President, unfortunately, had not been informed, the matter can be left open until to-morrow, when he can discuss it with knowledge.  What Deputy Johnson apparently requires to know is whether there is any change in the Minister's mind, that is, whether he can agree with the amendment. 
    
    
      
       The Minister could not agree with the amendment. It brings in contentious matter, and unless   there is agreement between the Committee of both Houses with respect to this, the Minister cannot accept it. 
    
    
      
       It does not depend on the agreement of the Committee. 
    
    
      
       The Minister does not propose to move that the Dail agree with this amendment.  The President has answered my question.  That is all I want to know. 
    
    
      
       Order discharged, to be taken up to-morrow. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - FISHERIES BILL, 1923&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
     Message from the Seanad with altered amendment inserted, viz, a new Section before Section 9. 
     &ldquo;Save and except in any case in which the Executive is satisfied that there has been a miscarriage of justice no penalty inflicted under this Act shall be reduced or remitted save on the recommendation of the Justice who imposes such penalty or the Appeal Court in the event of an Appeal and any recommendation for such reduction or remission shall be made at the same time as the penalty is imposed or the conviction confirmed.&rdquo; 
    
      
       Cuirim mar thairisgint &ldquo;na aoinntuigheann an Dail leis an leasrun,&rdquo; agus ni gadh dhom puinn a radh mar gheall air.  Ni cheist aireachta anois e ach ceist dlighe agus ceist bunreachta. Is beag a bheidh le radh agam ar sin. 
       I move &ldquo;That the Dail do not agree with the Seanad in this amendment.&rdquo; I do not think that there is any great necessity to speak at length on this subject, as the same arguments which I brought forward against the original amendment in the Seanad apply also in this case.  The matter, at any rate, has now become a matter of law and of the Constitution, rather than a departmental matter.  I do not, therefore, propose to say anything further. 
    
     
    
      
       I must say that I deprecate dealing with this matter as a matter of technical law.  I think it is a mistake when you hear people generally, but most of all Deputies, refer to some matters that may be concerned with law as having some mystery about them.  The law ought not to be a mystery.  It ought to be within the intelligence, certainly, of Deputies. 
    
    
      
       And even Bills. 
    
    
      
       To try and convert this matter into a dispute between two persons who happen to have some connection with law is, in my opinion, a great mistake.  When the amendment of the Seanad came here in the first instance, I suggested, in the course of the debate, that the Seanad amendment was not an amendment in the nature of an amendment of law, but was in the nature of cutting down the position of the Executive with regard to the remission of penalties and punishment.  That observation is very plain and simple and, I think, correctly represents the position appearing in the Official Reports of this House and now enshrined in the Official Reports of the other House.  We hear the Seanad sometimes referred to as a &ldquo;cooling chamber,&rdquo; but there is not much of the icicle in the framework of my observation as it appears in the Reports in the other House.  I do say that if anybody reads the piece of masterly advocacy, as one might expect masterly advocacy of a certain position in that Report, he will realise, after calm consideration of the particular subject and a comparison of the amendment as it was first sent down by the Seanad, and as it has now been returned to us, that my observation here was absolutely correct and justified in all respects and confirmed and corroborated by all that was said about it in the other House.  I said that that amendment was not directed to amending the law, as regards the Fishery Laws in particular, and anyone who refers to it will find that the matter, which was first introduced as a matter of advocacy, and really as an afterthought, in the other House, was proposed originally by people who had not in mind any amendment of the Remission of Penalties Acts or of the   Fisheries Acts, but who had in mind a clipping of the position of the Executive as regards advising the remission of penalties in this particular case.  One has observed in various Acts that recently left this House a tendency to deal in that manner with the position of the Executive responsible to this House.  One is inclined to call to mind the observations made with reference to the Doctor&mdash;how much he was prized in the case of illness, and how, in a more normal condition of the patient he was not subject to quite so much admiration. 
       There is no doubt that this amendment was originally directed to cutting down the authority of the Executive responsible to this House, and depriving it of power to advise the remission of penalties in relation to the cases that were dealt with in this particular statute. I said then, and I say now, that in an Act of this kind which has minimum penalties, it is important that that power should be preserved, more unimpared than it might be in an Act of another kind.  There is really very little more to say.  I take it that in the general Act which the Minister proposes to introduce later in the year he will have had the benefit in the meantime of this Act if it should be allowed to pass, and he will consider the question of minimum penalties as regards the general law.  He may also reconsider the decision as regards persons who institute prosecutions and get portion of the fine, but there was a doubt many years ago as to whether in such cases the prerogative of mercy could be extended to deprive the prosecutor of the profit which he gained under the prosecution. Though we have heard it asserted that the other House contains guardians of the Constitution and of the people's charter of liberty, I venture to say that in this case the position of the responsibility of the Executive to this House has been impaired by this amendment, and I therefore submit that this amendment should not be accepted. 
    
    
      
       When this amendment from the Seanad was before the House for the first time, I stood in defence of it for the reasons I then   gave.  Now that it is returned to us, somewhat softened in form, I would like to say that I still stand in defence of this amendment, and for the same reasons that I gave on that occasion.  In dealing with certain arguments I brought forward then, both the Attorney-General and the Minister for Home Affairs raised the argument as to the prerogative of the Executive to dispense with certain sentences that might be imposed in courts of law, and as the result of which hardship might be done.  That, I take it, is the essence of the case put forward now by the Attorney-General and by the Minister for Fisheries in urging this amendment to be refused. Therefore I would just like briefly to address myself to that one point.  Whatever may be the truth in other places&mdash; and I am not wholly disposed to accept the Attorney-General as the fullest interpreter of those arguments put forward in those other places&mdash;so far as I personally am concerned, I do feel that there is no attempt made in at least the form of this amendment, whatever the intention may be of those who move it, to impair the prerogative of the Executive, to dispense with any sentence that has given hardship or the result of which may lead to injustice.  It merely means this: that the prerogative of the Executive to change a sentence or to dispense with that sentence altogether is a right that ought not to be exercised except in the last resort. 
    
     It ought not to be allowed to intervene in the very lowest form of Courts.  If there is to be an appeal from the lowest ring of Courts it should be to a higher Court and the Executive should not be appealed to until the last argument has been carried to a higher stage than the District Justice's Court. In the Courts of Justice Bill, which is now before the Oireachtas, it is made evident that cases of injustice may occur, that a District Justice may give some sentence which might not be a correct sentence.  Later, facts may come to light that may require some change or revision of that sentence.  I would say that the right place for these new facts or new conditions to be investigated is not the Executive offices of any Minister but another Court of   Law.  Either the facts are facts or they are not facts.  Either the arguments brought forward are sound or are not sound.  The substantiation of the alleged new facts and the correctness of the alleged new arguments are matters that should be investigated in a Court of Law.  If it be the case, as the Minister for Home Affairs seemed to reveal when he spoke on this amendment when it was last before the Dail, that a District Justice would be apt to give heavy fines and penalties in respect of offences under this Bill merely as a matter of display, as a kind of public discipline and corrective, without intending that they should be operative, then I think that is a course to be deprecated.  I stood then in defence of this amendment and I stand in defence of it again.  I think it is right that the prerogative of the Executive should be exercised, but that it should not be exercised on an appeal from the lowest ring of Courts until the procedure of justice has gone further. 
    
      
       I suppose that Deputy Figgis knows as well as any other Deputy that we have not yet reached our full powers in our Saorstat and in that respect I might refer him to the American Constitution from its inception to its final position.  Unfortunately, as we are placed at present, we have some of our own nationals against us.  I think the President can tell us what the cost of that has been and the Minister for Home Affairs can tell us the difficulties of our Defence Forces in trying to save our position.  As to the Minister for Home Affairs, I think every Deputy has the most perfect confidence in his integrity.  In this matter, which affects us all, every Deputy is as responsible as the Minister who may be concerned. 
    
    
      
       Is the Deputy aware that this is an amendment to a Fisheries Bill? 
    
    
      
       I am coming to that now.  I thought I would give a little ancient history before I came to it.  The motion of the Minister for Home Affairs&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       There is   no motion by the Minister for Home Affairs.  I am afraid the Deputy is talking about a different matter from the one before us. 
    
    
      
       I was going to ask the Attorney-General to give us some guidance.  I must disagree with Deputy Figgis anyway. 
    
    
      
       I do not want to stand between Deputy Doherty and the light that radiates from the Attorney-General.  I rather want to transfer the discussion from a question of law to a question of fact, or even a question of expediency.  Sitting here it was not easy to hear the Minister for Fisheries, as Ministers who speak from that corner rather tend to address the Press.  I should like to know his opinion as to what the effect will be on the Bill and on the fisheries of the country if the Seanad continue to adhere to this amendment, and the Bill is held up for 270 days.  We gather, as far as we have any means of judging, that the Seanad attach importance to this amendment.  We did return it to them once, and they have washed its face and dressed it in a new dress and sent it down again.  I have no means of knowing what the Seanad may do, but I meet a number of Senators on Joint Committees and in other places, and I find they are tolerably obstinate. It is quite conceivable that they will continue to adhere to the amendment and will hold up the Bill, as they have a Statutory and Constitutional power to do, for a period of nearly nine months.  This Bill, even though it has not become law, has already done good. The knowledge that such a Bill was on the stocks has checked poaching during the last spawning season.  If the Bill is held up it will be held up until virtually the middle of the next spawning season, even over the middle of the spawning season on some of the earlier rivers. 
    
    
      
       The 270 days starts from the day on which the Bill first entered the Seanad, and, even if it is held up, it will, therefore, according to the Constitution, become law in September. That is before the spawning season starts anywhere. 
    
     
    
      
       That is exactly the information I wanted to get. 
    
    
      
       It does not seem to me in the ordinary way that this amendment is of very great importance, but it acquires a very considerable importance in our eyes, I take it, owing to the attitude of the Seanad in returning it to us again for further consideration. It appears to me that this Dail must maintain the position it has already taken up in connection with this matter. Deputy Figgis says that before the Minister comes to a decision as to a certain case an appeal should be taken to a higher Court of Justice.  It seems to me that the decision of a Justice when a case comes before his Court is really not helped by extending the legal process. In other words, I take it that the meaning of the Section to which this is an amendment is, that the District Justice comes to a decision that the imposition of a certain fine is necessary in connection with an offence which has been committed. 
    
     The District Justice may look at it from the legal point of view, and the local point of view.  The Executive, when it comes to them, may look at it from the general view of the situation as far as the whole country is concerned. I think it is desirable that they should be in that position.  If they consider the case would be sufficiently met by a remission of the fine, they should be in a position to do that without casting any reflection on the decision given by the Justice.  It would, therefore, seem to me to create a very awkward position if this amendment were carried. If the Executive wanted to alter a decision they would have to get the recommendation of the Justice who had given that decision.  It would be extremely awkward for the Executive to demand from a Justice that he should eat his own words and remit a fine he has imposed.  I see no reasonable objection to the Executive being empowered in this case to deal with the matter themselves.  I presume in the future we are going to have confidence in the acts of the Executive.  To imagine that they are going to misuse the powers they get under the Bill is, I think, to question the whole work the Dail is going to accomplish in the future,   and throw the whole Executive under suspicion, not only in this small matter, but in many other ways.  I think it is a power the Executive should have in their own hands, and I say emphatically that the matter in dispute between the Dail and the Seanad does not justify the Seanad in persisting in an amendment which has been thrown out by the Dail. 
    
      
       I am very pleased to hear a statement such as that from Deputy Hewat.  I was not altogether surprised with the statement made by Deputy Figgis.  Deputy Figgis reminded me during his statement of a man to whom you would say: &ldquo;It is a fine day,&rdquo; but he, having a headache, and probably thinking of the night before, will tell you he had not made up his mind yet about to-day, that last night was not as fine as he wished it to be; always nervous, always looking with suspicion on everybody else, and thinking he was suffering from an injustice from somebody or other.  This amendment would be sustainable if there was evidence to warrant its inclusion in the Bill.  There is no such evidence, none whatever.  The Deputy, when speaking of facts, should tell us what he means by them.  They are rather stubborn things, they are not what somebody told you they were.  They are the things that are actually in existence. The actual facts in this case are, that there were 188 convictions in the fishery year.  There were 87 appeals from the convictions, and of these 87 cases, 14 would not be recommended by the District Justices, and of those recommended a lesser number were remitted. Does that, on the face of it, make a case for the inclusion of this amendment?  Does that, on the face of it, give any justification for the holding up of this measure at its most important stage?  The Bill did not come into operation during the period of the year when it would have been most useful. We have all these dissertations upon the Constitution, on fine days, and hard cases, and so on, but nothing at all about the business end.  If there is a case for the inclusion of this amendment we will not stand against it, but until that case is made for inclusion we must stand against it. 
    
     
    
      
       I have really very little to say on this matter.  The President has summarised the facts.  Out of 188 convictions there were 87 appeals. Appeals and petitions of that kind are forwarded, as a matter of routine, to the Judge or magistrate who tries the case.  In 73 of these cases the Justice who was actually responsible for imposing the penalty recommended a reduction, and only in 64 of the 73 cases was a reduction actually made. So that there is here no question of abuse, no question of excessive use of a particular power.  So far from over-riding the Justice or the magistrate who imposed the sentence we actually reduced sentences only in 64 cases, whereas 73 reductions were recommended.  I hope that is clear.  The only other point I wish to make is this.  A side-issue was raised&mdash;the question of the right of the Minister for Home Affairs to reduce these penalties at all without reference to the Governor-General.  I think Section 11 of the Adaptation of Enactments Act answers that.  Certain powers were conferred by statute in the past upon the Lord Lieutenant.  Section 11 of the Adaptation of Enactments Act provides that the powers conferred by statute on the Lord Lieutenant should, as from the date of the passing of that Act, be exercised by the particular Minister or member of the Government who seemed most directly concerned, and in the event of any doubt arising as to what Minister should exercise the particular power, the matter should be decided by reference to the President. This power conferred by statute in the past does not, as some people seem to think, descend in any way to the Governor-General. It is not transmitted in any way to the Governor-General.  By Section 11 of the Act it is conferred on the particular Minister who seems most directly concerned, in this case the Minister for Home Affairs.  These two points are, I hope, rather clear.  There was no over-riding of any justice, or any judge, in reducing fines or remitting penalties.  So far from that being the case, fines were in fact reduced in a lesser number of cases than was recommended by the District Justices themselves.  The other point was that there was no question of any encroachment on anyone's powers under the   Constitution.  The powers that were exercised in this matter by me, acting on the advice of my officials, were duly and properly exercised under Section 11 of the Adaptation of Enactments Act. 
    
    
      
       The Minister for Home Affairs has hinted at the real matter that is raised on this amendment, and I think we may as well face it.  That is, whether the Executive for the time being&mdash;and essentially and necessarily a political Executive&mdash; should have the right to review, on their own initiative, the decisions of the Courts.  I think that is really the issue that is being raised by the second amendment sent down from the Seanad. I find myself torn between two or three conflicting principles.  One is a very earnest desire to protect the Courts from interference by the Executive, and to prevent the risk of the Executive, at any time, unduly interfering with the decisions of the courts.  Now I see that while claiming that that is the purpose of the Seanad in sending down this amendment a second time, there is something more involved, and I am going to take the risk of saying that they want to raise the position of the Governor-General to that of an Officer of State who has in his keeping the prerogative of mercy.  Well, I am not going to do anything to enhance that Officer's position, and in the circumstances of the country and the time, and in view of the general constitutional position that we have attained, and are hoping to attain, I prefer we should clearly recognise that that prerogative is exercised by the Executive for the time being, and that in so far as any other Officer of State nominally exercises that prerogative, it is done on the advice of the Executive Council. If in this Bill, read in conjunction with previous enactments, the Minister for the time being has that prerogative, then I am prepared to take the risk and leave it with him rather than enhance the position, in the State, of the Governor-General. 
    
     But the amendment in itself raises the question&mdash;and the Attorney-General touched upon it&mdash;of the folly of imposing upon magistrates and justices the obligation to impose a minimum sentence.   The Seanad, while readily and enthusiastically endorsing that proposal, desires to suggest that any recommendation for the remission of the sentence, which they have been obliged to impose, shall be made at the same time as the penalty is imposed.  I have never been able to understand the course of justice when reading reports of Excise cases and smuggling cases, in which I read that a fine of £100 is imposed and remitted to 15s., and a fine of £200 imposed, of which £199 is remitted, and similar follies.  Apparently, that view of legal procedure commended itself to the Dail when they sent this Bill forward to the Seanad, and it also commended itself to the Seanad.  But having approved of that method of imposing penalties, they desire to insert an amendment which suggests that recommendations for the reduction of the penalty must be made at the time the sentence is imposed.  I am not going to insist in maintaining such a foolish statute, or in re-enacting such a statute, especially when we are led to understand that any value that was expected to be obtained from the passing of this Bill has been lost.  We were told on the introduction of the Bill that it was preliminary to a recasting of the code in respect of fishery laws, and that it was required to meet the then existing spawning season, and must be made law before January was out.  Well, we are in March now, and I take it that the value of the Bill, such as it was, is passed, and, therefore, not much will be lost by returning the Bill to the Seanad with the intimation that we do not agree with their amendment.  Under the circumstances I intend to support the motion of the Minister for Fisheries. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Committee do not agree with the Seanad in this amendment&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - CIVIL SERVICE REGULATION (No. 2) BILL, 1923&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
    
      
       The Dail remains in Committee, and we will now take the Civil Service Regulation Bill, from the Seanad. 
    
    
      
       The first amendment to the Civil Service Regulation (No.2)   Bill, 1923, which was passed in the Seanad, is one to Section 4, sub-section 4.  A similar amendment was passed to a later clause.  The Bill, as it went up to the Seanad, provided that special regulations should be laid before each House of the Oireachtas at least one month before the Examination, and that that regulation might be annulled by a resolution of both Houses.  The Seanad amendment provides that such regulations may be annulled by resolution of one House.  I do not know exactly what position would be taken up by the Seanad in this matter if it were to be discussed at length.  In the amount of discussion that took place, the Seanad seemed to object to such a provision on the grounds that the provision in the Bill appeared to give the Seanad and the Dail equal power in the matter, and in reality did not give them equal power. 
       In regard to the later clause in the Bill, there was a motion proposed or suggested by a Senator that the provision for annulment should be deleted altogether.  It is possible that such an amendment as I propose might meet with the approval of the Seanad.  I think it is desirable, when we can meet the Seanad in any particular matter that arises, that we should, as seldom as possible, simply throw back their amendments as rejected.  I think it is undesirable that the Seanad amendment, as it comes down to us, should be accepted.  The position with regard to Section 4 of the Bill is that it was put in in order to establish the principle of competitive examination.  In Great Britain at the present time the Order in Council under which the Civil Service Commission operates, is practically in the terms of Section 5 of the Bill. 
    
     The Commissioners have power in Great Britain to make regulations prescribing the manner in which, and the conditions under which, persons are to be admitted either temporarily or permanently. In Great Britain the matter is entirely at the discretion of the Civil Service Commissioners, with the consent of the Treasury.  It was thought necessary here to put in the clause which was in the old British Order in Council prescribing open competitive examination as the normal means by which entry could be made into the   Civil Service.  That is put in to establish a principle and allay fears that may have arisen, or may have been aroused, by any sort of propaganda that has taken place.  It is undesirable, however, that we should be in a position in which there might be a dispute about special regulations.  For instance, they might be annulled by the Seanad and might be supported by the Dail. In that particular case, if there were to be any strong feeling over it, I fear there might be a danger of an abusive use of the special powers given in Section 6 of the Bill, which prescribes that in certain cases the Commissioners may, if they think fit, grant their certificate of qualification in respect of such situation, upon any evidence which is satisfactory to them that the person proposed to be appointed to such situation is fully qualified therefore in respect of age, health, character, knowledge and ability.  I think we should not leave ourselves in a position whereby the Dail and the Executive for the time being would desire a special regulation as regards, for instance, providing that certain appointments should be exclusively reserved for ex-soldiers.  I do not anticipate that the Seanad would annul any such special regulation at the present time.  I am simply suggesting this as an example.  Suppose that the Executive and the Dail should be strongly in favour of such a regulation, and that the Seanad should annul it, then there might probably be a considerable danger of the abuse of the powers given under Section 6, and that is not intended. 
     I think the whole case for preserving the principle of open competitive examination as a general rule in regard to the Service would be made by the amendment which I suggest to the Seanad amendment. It provides that all regulations made by the Commissioners under this Section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas at least one month before any examination is held thereunder. That means that if it is intended in the case of examinations to confine the appointments to any particular class of persons, regulations will be laid on the Table, and it will be possible for the Dail or Seanad to express an opinion or to ask that the examinations   should not be held, or to pass any resolution which would, in this House, be quite sufficient to cause an examination not to be held.  I suggest this as a compromise which might be accepted in the Seanad.  I am sure, from the discussion in the Seanad, it would be. There is really no Civil Service Commission at the moment.  The temporary Bill has lapsed, and it is desirable that this Bill should become law as soon as possible, so that the work that is necessary for the Commission to do may be done.  I move the following:&mdash; 
     (a)  That the Dail do not agree with the Seanad in Amendment No. 1, but make the following amendment in lieu thereof, viz., to delete Section 4 (4) and to substitute therefor the following new sub-section:&mdash; 
     All regulations made by the Commissioners under this Section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas at least one month before any examination is held thereunder. 
    
      
       I wish to raise a point of order of some importance. There are several amendments from the Seanad.  Only two are referred to on the Order Paper.  I do not know what the intention of the Minister is in regard to the other amendments.  The motion that is before the Dail is that we do not agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 1.  I submit we have a right to decide that question before proceeding any further.  I raise the question, as a matter of order, whether, if we do not agree with the Seanad amendment, we are at liberty to take the Bill and amend it on the motion of any Deputy.  It means dealing with the Bill anew, if we have not agreed with the Seanad amendments.  It means that we have passed the Bill in a way that we thought perfect, and sent it to the Seanad.  They suggest amendments and we do not agree with them, and can we then reconsider the Bill and make new amendments?  I submit we cannot, and that the utmost we can do is to make suggestions to the Seanad as to what we might be willing to accept. I put it forward without arguing, and purely as a matter of order, as to whether we are at liberty, if we refuse   the Seanad amendments, to propose a new amendment on our own initiative. 
    
    
      
       On the first point it is desired to change this motion of the Minister for Finance and to make the beginning &ldquo;That the Dail do not agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 1&rdquo; into a separate motion.  I agree that that would have to be put separately.  The other point is that if we disagreed with the Seanad amendment we are then in the position that we cannot amend the Bill any more.  It seems to me that we can, if we choose, insert not a wholly new amendment, but an amendment that would be an alternative to the Seanad amendment, in order to see whether the Bill, as now amended, would suit the Seanad point of view. I do not think we could start to reamend the Bill in parts which had not been touched by the Seanad when the Seanad amendment had been rejected. So far this is my interpretation with regard to our powers. 
       We have not decided whether it may not be the better procedure to suggest to the Seanad that if they made an amendment in a particular form we would be prepared to agree with it.  I know that is done in some places, but we have no decision as to what we would do in such a matter.  I would not be inclined to rule that any amendment could not be made after disagreement with the Seanad amendment if the new amendment proposed was, in my judgment, one relative to the Seanad amendment which had been rejected and one which would be deemed possible of acceptance in the Seanad and which would therefore lead to agreement between the two Houses. 
    
    
      
       I would like to argue that, accepting your ruling, it is undesirable that we should formally propose to pass an amendment to a Bill in this way which has already passed the Dail, and on which the Seanad has proposed certain amendments. If we cannot agree with the Seanad amendments, I submit it would be wiser to adopt the procedure of making a recommendation, or a suggestion, of what would be acceptable. 
    
     
    
      
       I must say Deputy Johnson's suggestion does recommend itself to me.  I would be inclined to fall in with the suggestion of the Deputy, and propose to make a recommendation to the Seanad. 
    
    
      
       That procedure would have the advantage, that if the Seanad did not accept the recommendation, we would have nothing more to do with the Bill.  The Bill would have passed in the form in which we originally sent it up, whereas, if we now insert an amendment ourselves in endeavouring to agree with the Seanad, and that that amendment is rejected by the Seanad, we may then have to reconsider the Bill again.  The motion is that the Dail do not agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 1. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister explain whether it is intended in connection with those two matters to go through all the amendments circulated to us on a former day, but which do not appear before us on the Order Paper to-day? 
    
    
      
       The other amendments were circulated previously, and with regard to those other amendments, I intend to recommend to the Dail that they be accepted. 
    
    
      
       They are to be gone into now while we are on this business? 
    
    
      
       Yes, I think those amendments were circulated some time ago, and the matter was postponed. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Figgis made a suggestion that I promised to consider, but we never had a new case since.  This is the same case still. 
    
    
      
       We are to take the Paper of the 30th January, and take the amendments of the Seanad, 1, 2, 3, and so on? 
    
    
      
       Yes, we can take a motion on each.  The motion on amendment No. 1 is that we do not agree. 
    
    
      
       On that motion, I want to oppose the Minister for Finance, and to ask the Dail to accept the   amendment of the Seanad, for the reason that it does maintain to the Houses the right to approve or to veto any regulation which had been laid upon the Table, and it places the Seanad, in regard to this matter, which is tantamount to legislation, in a position of having the same authority, and it leaves the Dail with the power which originally it was intended the Dail should have, of passing resolutions disapproving of any item in the regulation, and with that power to disapprove as explicitly stated in the Bill. The Minister has suggested that the form of the amendment which he would have accepted, would be one which would allow the Dail to initiate a motion on some item in the regulations, and if the Dail disapproved then the Minister would have to take notice of it.  But I think that the form that has been embodied in other measures is more desirable, and that there should be specifically set forth a statement that if a resolution was passed by the Dail within so many days, that the regulation shall be null and void.  I think that form is better than the one proposed, although I admit that if even the form suggested is likely to be acceptable, the Dail could not be deprived of the right to move in the matter, but I think in the Seanad amendment either House might take action in this matter, and that if either House does not within 21 days pass a resolution disapproving that the regulation shall then be, in the language of the local authorities, referred back for reconsideration.  I think that form is better than the one proposed and is likely to be acceptable, and that we should, in consequence, accept the Seanad amendment in this respect. Would a formal resolution be required? 
    
    
      
       No; if we decided against the motion not to agree, I think we agree. 
    
    
      
       I do not think the Minister for Finance will jump to the conclusion that, because I am standing in defence of the amendment put forward by the Seanad, that therefore I am moved by some singular and extraordinary pertinacity or recalcitrancy in the matter.  That is   obvious, because in it the Seanad have made out a very important matter that is going to affect the future of the Constitution very deeply.  The Constitution has placed the final responsibility in regard to legislation on one of the two Houses.  In the end, the Dail can have its will to prevail in regard to any question of legislation.  It is also true that the Executive is responsible to this Dail, but in regard to matters that deal with administration, the matter is not quite so clearly put in the Constitution, and there, I take it, each of the two Houses has its own function in what I may call&mdash;I believe the Minister for Home Affairs used this phrase in this or in an earlier Dail&mdash;sub-legislative functions, functions that are not wholly legislative but that are partly legislative and partly executive.  Supposing now that the original clause were to stand, as it was in the Bill as it left this House, it was there stated that it required a joint resolution of both Houses to turn down any matter of regulation that was adopted by the Commission or that was suggested by the Commission&mdash;regulations that have been put upon the tables of both Houses. 
    
     Supposing, in that case, that both Houses did not join, in such a resolution but that only one did, and supposing that that one House happened to be the Dail, obviously whatever the form of the words in the Act might happen to be, the Executive could not afford to proceed in the face of a hostile vote of the Dail even though the Act stated that both were required. Supposing, however, that the one House was not the Dail but the Seanad, in that case, although the Act stated that both were required and that only one House did join and that the one House to pass such a resolution were the Seanad, the Executive could afford and would readily feel that it was responsible to the Dail and not to the Seanad, and it could afford to neglect such a resolution so passed.  Clearly an anomaly occurred there which the Seanad was quite right to remove.  One has heard the argument&mdash;I believe it has been actually used in this House from Benches representative of all parties in this House&mdash;that this is the House of the two Houses that holds the   democratic sanction.  Well, whatever the Seanad may or may not be at the present moment, and I am not going to go into that point at all, the time will arise when the precedents we establish here will affect the Seanad which, in twelve years' time, will be influenced by the precedents now established, although the Seanad of that time will have been drawn from a representation in which all the electorate of the Free State has voted equally with the Deputies who will be returned to this Dail. 
    
      
       Electors over 30. 
    
    
      
       Yes, with that slight difference that I had forgotten, the representation in both Houses will be substantially the same.  Therefore, in putting forward any amendment to a Bill, or in adopting any draft of a Bill that would seem to place one House in a peculiar position of advantage that the other had not got in regard to these sub-legislative, semi-Executive functions such as are contemplated in this amendment, it is very desirable that we should at this stage keep the position of the Seanad in respect of the Dail perfectly clear and on a parity.  I take the meaning of the Seanad amendment to be that they are struggling to preserve that parity which, in the case that I have represented, was not preserved to it in the original form of the Bill.  Not only is there a question there in regard to general rights and general equities as between the two Houses, but there is a question of convenience.  It is quite conceivable, and more than conceivable&mdash;it is even highly probable &mdash;that in the future when some such regulations are tabled, the Dail may happen to be very busy and it would be the Seanad that would then be able to give to them the time and attention that Deputies in the Dail may not be able to give. 
    
     I do not know exactly how many Deputies in the Dail there are who read all the various regulations that are presumed to be on the Table for their attention. I confess that I, for one, am not able to read very many of them or to give many of them that attention that   they require.  It is also a matter of knowledge and of fact that members of the Seanad have, whether they desire it or not, greater leisure than members of the Dail have, and it would be right to expect that a degree of vigilance could be given by members of the Seanad that would not be expected from members of the Dail.  That question of convenience is not of primary importance, it merely supplements the other; but the fact is, that in the normal working out of the original provisions of the Bill the Seanad would not be placed equally, although the intention was to have placed the Seanad and the Dail equally in the matter, and the result would be that the Dail would have an advantage that the Seanad would not have.  I imagine that the Minister for Finance partly appreciated that point in the amendments and in the substitutions that it had been his intention to have moved.  I think that his substitutions would very largely have met the case put forward by the Seanad on that occasion.  These substitutions are not now before the Dail, but what is before the Dail is the point put forward by the Seanad, and it is a point with which I agree. 
    
      
       at this stage took the Chair. 
    
    
      
       I would say again that I think there is a danger in allowing ourselves to arrive at a position in which certain special regulations put forward by the Civil Service Commission with the consent of the Minister for Finance&mdash;that is to say with the consent of the Executive Council, and made with the approval of the Dail&mdash; are then to be annulled by the Seanad. In such circumstances there would be great danger that there might be a use of Clause 6, which, while perhaps of no great harm in itself might lead to real abuses in connection with that particular clause.  Clause 6 is the one which provides that in certain cases examinations need not be held.  It says:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;In case the Minister for Finance and the Minister in charge of a Government Department shall consider that the qualifications in respect of knowledge and ability deemed requisite for any particular situation to   which this Act applies in that Government Department are wholly or in part professional or otherwise peculiar and not ordinarily to be acquired in the Civil Service,&rdquo; 
     and so on. 
     It might be quite easy for them, and there might be a temptation if a special regulation confining certain examinations to army officers were turned down while holding that the people we want for these are the people who have been in the army, yet to let people into the service under Clause 6 who ought not to be let in under that clause, but who ought to be let in under a limited competitive examination.  I do not think that at the present time there is the slightest danger that the Seanad would turn down any special regulation confining an examination to men who were being demobilised from the army. 
     A situation somewhat similar might arise, and I think it is undesirable that we should be in the position of having this particular clash between the two Houses, and of leaving the possibility of getting round the clause in a way which is not intended, and in a way which may not be wrong in itself, but which might lead to real abuses.  I do think that if a resolution is passed by the Seanad and it is seen to be a reasonable resolution in favour of the amendment of any particular special regulation, it would not be possible for the Executive to ignore it.  It certainly would have to re-examine the regulations very carefully and to withdraw them if the reasons put forward in the Seanad seemed to be substantial, even if the Dail were not to pass a similar resolution at all.  I think that there is ample security in the Bill as sent up to the Seanad, and I think that we do get out of the difficulty that might arise through the Seanad annulling the regulation which the Dail was in favour of, and which it might be attempted to give effect to by a certain round-about method.  I do not think we should accept the position that every regulation which may be annulled by resolution should be annulled by resolution of one House only.  I know that in Great Britain there are sometimes regulations that may be annulled by resolution of either the House of Commons or the   House of Lords, and there are other regulations which require a resolution of both Houses.  For instance, under the Government of Ireland Act there were certain Orders which could be annulled by one House only, and others, such as putting the Act into effect, which could only be annulled by resolution of both Houses.  I made a suggestion which I thought would get over the need for looking at any Constitutional issue, but I certainly would not be in favour of accepting the position that any regulation, even a purely administrative regulation, should be annulled by resolution of one House only. I do not want to say anything in argument here that might make it more difficult to argue in favour of the acceptance of something when I am speaking in the Seanad.  I would like to say simply that I do not think that the Dail should take up a position that in the future all regulations that were annullable by resolution should be annulled by resolution of one House only. 
    
      
       Ministers always have two lines of argument.  Either the Minister for Finance explains to us the practice in Great Britain and points out that we are following that, or else the Minister informs us that we are sweeping away an old British practice and making a desirable change.  You are running two horses and you stand to win on one or other of them.  I do not think myself that the Minister at the moment fully realises the difference between power conferred by statute and power conferred by goodwill, when he argues that if the Seanad were to pass a resolution, even though it would have no force and would have no more effect than an expression of opinion in a Debating Society, that nevertheless the Government would be bound to take it into careful consideration.  That is no substitute for statutory power.  The Minister's proposal is to take away the rights of both Houses in this matter. The Minister appears to have taken the saying of the poet to heart, that he did not care who made the people's laws so long as he made their songs.  I do not think Ministers care how we make laws so long as they make rules and regulations. I do not like the Seanad's proposal   as well as the original form in the Bill, but I infinitely prefer it to the olive branch the Minister is proposing to hold out. 
    
    
      
       One other point I should like to make is, that the powers that would be in the hands of the Government, the Minister for the time being, on the proposition of the Minister for Finance, are such, that no matter what resolutions might be passed as far as the law goes, they would be able to pass these resolutions by, and take no notice of them.  The Minister's position seems to be this: the Civil Service in Britain has grown up out of a personal service to the Crown.  It is not statutory in any way, and they were at the disposal of the Crown in any conditions it might like to impose.  That has come down the years, and the Treasury has the authority it now exercises of this power over the Civil Service.  It has gradually been modified by practice in Great Britain, but the Ministry here is taking the line that the same relations shall continue to exist between the Civil Service and the Executive, even though we are starting on entirely new lines, and even though the relationship should be different.  The Ministry evidently desires to maintain the relationship which theoretically has existed between the Crown and the Civil Service in Great Britain, and to transfer that condition of things to this country.  Even in Great Britain they have, recognising the necessities of the times, modified the practices in such a way as to allow the Civil Servants certain   rights&mdash;certain privileges, if you like&mdash;but privileges that have developed and almost become rights.  The Civil Service Associations, for instance, are consulted in matters affecting the Service.  The Ministry here, or some of the Departments, at any rate, have refused that, and I think that we ought to recognise that we are establishing a somewhat different relationship, and that Civil Servants are being given certain statutory rights, not merely personal rights, and will henceforth be somewhat different from the Civil Servants of the past, who were merely creatures and servants of the Crown, whose conditions of service might be variable and alterable at will.  Civil Servants may be engaged on certain terms and those terms may be revoked simply by the judgement of the Minister for the time being without any consideration or consultation with the Dail, or Seanad, or the Service itself.  I think that is not a desirable state of things to allow to develop or continue, and I think that while the regulations we are dealing with now are merely in regard to competitive examinations, the principle involved affects the status of Civil Servants generally, and we should allow the Dail and the Seanad to have something to say to the regulations under which these Civil Servants are either to be appointed or retained, the conditions, and the remunerations.  It is because of the issue that is involved that I urge the House to accept the Seanad's amendment. 
       Motion put. 
       The Dail divided; Ta, 39; Nil, 25. 
    
     
       
        Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Louis D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. Domhnall Mac Carthaigh. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Padraig Mac Fadain. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Sean P. Mac Giobuin. Sean Mac Giolla 'n Riogh. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. 
             Seosamh Mag Craith. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Proinsias O Cathail. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. John Conlan. Bryan R. Cooper. Sir James Craig. Seamus Eabhroid. Darrell Figgis. William Hewat. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Risteard Mac Liam. Patrick J. Mulvany. 
             Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin. Tadhg S. O Donnabhain. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Micheal O hIfearnain. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Patrick K. Hogan (Luimneach). William A. Redmond. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Motion declared carried. 
    
      
       I have spoken in the interval to the Ceann Comhairle and he suggests that as this suggestion of making a recommendation to the Seanad rather than passing a resolution is a new matter, we ought to consider the form and that we should postpone dealing with my suggestion of an amendment to the Seanad amendment until to-morrow, and proceed to deal with the Seanad amendments as they came down to us for the present.  That means that we should simply take this paper of the 30th January and deal with the next amendment that appears on it. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister going to move to disagree with No. 3 now? 
    
    
      
       When we come to it, I propose to ask the Dail to agree with amendment No. 2 sent down by the Seanad.  It makes very little change in the clause of the Bill sent to the Seanad, except that it does provide that the Civil Service Commissioners may hold examinations for situations in the Defence Forces, the Metropolitan Police and the Civic Guard. The amendment of the Seanad provides that any examinations, competitive or qualifying, as required by law to be held in these Forces, shall be held by the Civil Service Commissioners.  The amendment is slight, and I propose that it should be accepted. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I propose:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Dail do not agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 3, but make the following amendment in lieu thereof, viz., to delete Section 9 (2) and to substitute therefor the following new sub-section:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;All regulations made by the Minister under this Section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after they are made.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is the same as that on which the Dail has just voted. 
    
     
    
      
       This is really a more important matter than that on which we have voted.  The amendment on which we voted merely dealt with regulations governing certain examinations, whereas this one deals with the whole Civil Service&mdash;its pay, status, grading, pensions, etc. The Minister, when tracing the genesis of this amendment and when dealing with it in the Seanad, found himself attacked from two quarters.  He was under attack from a quarter which desired to maintain a check on the Minister by the Seanad as well as the Dail. He also found himself attacked by those who wished to restore the Minister to that position of autocrat which he held when the Bill was first introduced.  I notice from the Official Reports of the Seanad that Senator Guinness said, on the 20th of December, &ldquo;Would the Minister accept an amendment to delete the Section?&rdquo; The Minister for Finance: &ldquo;I opposed this in the Dail, but under considerable pressure it was inserted.&rdquo;  Senator Guinness: &ldquo;It might assist the Minister if we delete it.&rdquo;  So far as the official records show, the Minister did not say anything in answer to that, but I have a suspicion that under his breath he said, &ldquo;It might.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       I cannot help feeling that it would have been a little fairer to the Dail, since the Minister appears to have said nothing, if the Minister had said that he was pledged to the Dail and did not wish to amend it.  Having, under considerable pressure, accepted an amendment which gave the Dail and Seanad power to revise these regulations, and to pass resolutions dispensing with or altering them, the Minister should have said so to them, even though a section in the Seanad was anxious that he should not. I must recall the history of this sub-section. It will be remembered that the Bill as brought in gave the Minister absolute power over the whole Civil Service, powers to revise pay, pension, grading, hours of work, and everything. He defended this in the Dail by saying that the English Chancellor of the Exchequer possesses the same power, but he found he got very little support   from any section but one.  He was attacked by his own supporters, and the only support he got was from Deputy Hewat and Deputy Good, who came in at the end of the discussion, and nailed their flags to a mast from which the Minister unostentatiously had hauled his down, but upon which he has now nailed it again.  I think the Dail would be wise to agree to the Seanad amendment. The Minister did not like an amendment which I moved in the Committee Stage, because it was not in the usual form.  What is the usual form? I tried to study it under the best masters. I looked in the Firearms Bill and found that the regulations could be annulled by a resolution of either the Dail or the Seanad.  The Minister will, no doubt, say that that Bill has nothing to do with finance.  I looked in the Housing Bill, which has very much to do with finance, and found that the regulations made there can be annulled by either House.  The usual form is the very form of the Seanad amendment, and the form which the Minister will propose to us to-morrow is a form never yet seen on sea or land.  It is more the usual form than the form which, under pressure, he inserted.  I infinitely prefer the Seanad amendment.  Apart from anything else, let us consider what the actual position would be if we were to disagree with the Seanad amendment, and the Seanad were to disagree with ours.  It would mean that to alter any one of these regulations it would have to be introduced by a private member, but it is impossible for a private member to get support to carry a Bill of that kind through all its stages.  It may be said: &ldquo;You have a remedy, and you can bring in a Bill.&rdquo;  That is simply making a mockery of the Dail, and I venture to hope that we shall not disagree with the Seanad amendment. 
    
    
      
       I hope that the Dail realises that Deputy Cooper has been talking nonsense, pure and unadulterated. First, he suggested an amendment of the Dail which was, of course, not in the least like the amendment which I afterwards inserted, or like the Seanad's amendment.  He professed to be quite satisfied with the amendment which I brought in.  He now professes to be quite satisfied with the Seanad in   altering an amendment with which he previously was quite satisfied. 
    
    
      
       No, no. 
    
    
      
       In any case to insist on bringing in a Bill to alter a resolution by the Minister for Finance, is ridiculous.  The Minister for Finance is a member of the Executive Council and cannot resist a resolution passed by the Dail.  It would be just as easy to get support for a resolution disagreeing with a particular order of the Minister for Finance or recommending its withdrawal as it would be to get a resolution annulling it.  A resolution of the Dail would not be altered by inserting an amendment for which there was support here and would not be altered by the Seanad's amendment. The Seanad's amendment proposes to limit the power of the Minister for Finance, representing this House, to make regulations dealing as they all would, directly or indirectly, with financial matters.  I hold that the Minister for Finance, with the support of the Dail, should have complete powers of dealing with scales of salaries, conditions of service and hours of work of Civil Servants, and it ought not be possible for the Seanad, apart from the Dail, to annul the regulations made by the Minister for Finance on any one of those matters. 
    
     I agree with Deputy Cooper that this amendment of the Seanad deals with a very much more important matter than the previous one and I feel more strongly on it.  I have no objection at all to the insertion of the particular sub-section now in the Bill.  I opposed it simply because it was unnecessary, because it did not increase the power of the Dail in any respect, and the idea of the sub-section only emerged after undesirable discussion of the amendment put forward by Deputy Cooper and for which there was no large support. I do not want the particular Section that is in the Bill omitted from the Bill at all.  I only suggest the form that is on the paper for the purpose of avoiding any clash with the Seanad. In any case I would ask the Dail to reject the Seanad's amendment.  That is a matter about which I do care and I feel it is important.  It would be   utterly impossible to regulate the finances of the country if a regulation of the Minister fixing the grades of service or scales of pay were to be turned down by the Seanad and if it were impossible to put that into effect, no matter how much the Dail desired it without the formality of a Bill which might be held up for nine months by the Seanad.  It is very desirable that the control of this House in matters of finance should be untrammelled, that the Minister of this House in charge of finance should be responsible to this House, and that the power of the Seanad in financial matters in particular should not be enlarged in any degree.  It is more important still that it ought not to be possible that the sort of agitation which Civil Servants could carry on, and which they naturally will carry on, in regard to their own privileges and grade of pay, should have scope in the Seanad.  There have been cases where a section of Civil Servants were able to get up a considerable agitation for higher rates of pay in the Dail.  I do not want such an agitation to be got up in the Seanad and that the Seanad should be able to turn down the Minister for Finance who is not responsible to it.  Whatever may happen, I suggest that for the purpose of avoiding conflict with the Seanad, the Seanad's amendment itself should be rejected.  I think we need hardly discuss the compromise I suggest at this stage, as the matter proposed now is the rejection of the Seanad's amendment. 
    
      
       The Bill as it left the Dail, in my opinion, is much better than the Bill as it would be amended with the proposed compromise, as the Minister calls it, which he has suggested, but I would ask the House to remember what is in question.  It is not merely a financial question.  I agree with the Minister that it is desirable that the Dail should retain control in financial matters, but the Section refers to the classification, remuneration, and other conditions and terms of service of all persons employed in the Civil Service, whether permanently or temporarily, and may at any time revoke or vary any such regulations.  I submit that it   should not be left to the Minister for Finance to have complete power over all the conditions of service, classification, remuneration and of other terms and conditions of service which he may vary and revoke at his own will at any time without reference to the Dail. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Johnson on this motion is out of order.  The motion I have proposed now&mdash;I do not know whether it is fully understood&mdash;is simply to reject the Seanad's amendment. I am making no proposal at the moment in regard to the other matter on the paper. 
    
    
      
       Tell us what you are reading from. 
    
    
      
       I am reading from the Bill which we are supposed to be considering and which every Deputy is supposed to have in his hand.  The Minister asks me to deal with the motion which he proposes without regard to the subject which is under consideration. He may be able to do that, but I cannot.  I always feel that it is necessary to have regard to the question under discussion when we are dealing with any motion relating thereto, and the question under discussion is the terms and conditions of service which may be revoked by the Minister for Finance.  If the amendment of the Seanad is accepted or adopted it modifies to some extent his power and authority in this matter.  The Minister has on this occasion, as he has frequently done before, suggested that the Dail has power whether it is in the Bill or not.  Of course the Dail has power. The Dail has power to refuse confidence in the Ministry, and if no confidence is expressed, then of course the Ministry cannot get its money to carry on.  But the Minister suggests, in saying that, that every question must be a question of confidence in the Government; that if the Dail differs from a Regulation affecting a particular class or grade of the Civil Service and thinks that it should be amended, that the Ministry must fall. 
    
     I can understand that that view is acceptable to the Ministry, and to the followers of the Ministry; that view   being that anything said by the Ministry must be approved, willingly or not, that the Dail is simply to be a registration office of the decisions of the Ministry. If one held that view, then I can understand the arguments of the Minister. But I suggest that this Dail has some other functions; that we have the right to be critical of administrative affairs and, as in this case, quasi-legislative affairs, without necessarily desiring that the Government shall vacate office; that we ought to be given an opportunity of saying whether a certain course is approved or disapproved without having to compel the resignation of the Government.  When we are dealing with a large number of citizens who are in the Civil Service&mdash;and bear in mind that this deals with all classes of the Civil Service, whether permanently or temporarily engaged or employed&mdash;we ought to know, and they ought to know, beforehand what are the terms of their engagement, and those terms of engagement and conditions of employment ought not to be revokable simply at the discretion of the Minister for Finance. 
     The Bill as it left the Dail, and as it would be if this motion were passed, would say that any such alteration in conditions would have to be placed before the Dail.  The Bill, as it would be if the amendment of the Seanad were accepted, would say that any such alteration in conditions would have to be placed before the Dail and the Seanad &mdash;any re-classification, any new terms of service&mdash;and that either the Dail or the Seanad would have the right to veto such classification or new terms of service.  I think that the case for allowing the Seanad to consider any such Regulation equally with the Dail is fully made out, inasmuch as this kind of legislation&mdash;and bear in mind that that is the effect of these Regulations; they are legislation&mdash;has just as much right to come before the two Houses as much of the other minor legislation that is brought before us under the Constitution. As Deputy Cooper has pointed out, while the same principle is involved, it has a very much wider application in Section 9 than it had under the previous Section.  I think that we should agree with the Seanad amendment   in this case rather even than the proposed modification which the Minister touches upon because it will give some greater assurance, than they would have under the Bill as it left the Dail, to the Civil Service, that their conditions, classifications, and the like, are not to be altered without the due consideration of the Oireachtas, and the Ministry of Finance will be bound to feel greater responsibility and to hesitate longer before making drastic alterations in the terms of service than would otherwise be the case. 
    
      
       All the arguments that I used before avail with regard to this amendment, which in form is the same as the one that preceded it, but in substance affects so much wider an issue.  I do not propose to repeat anything I stated.  I had not intended to have spoken on this particular amendment, inasmuch as the arguments that availed, or that seemed to me to be of importance in respect of it, had already been mentioned by me in regard to the last, but for one sentence used by the Minister for Finance.  That sentence was this.  He said it ought not to be possible for the Seanad, apart from the Dail, to annul a Regulation. Accepting that, on the very terms of the Bill, as amended and passed in this Dail, it equally ought not to be possible, if that is to be a true and right statement, for the Dail, apart from the Seanad, to amend a resolution.  But the fact is, things being as they are, that although it states that both Houses are required to pass the resolution, if the resolution be originated and passed here and sent to the Seanad the Ministry will heed it.  But if it be originated in the Seanad and sent here, the Ministry need not, because the Ministry is responsible to this Dail, and not responsible to the Seanad.  That is the actual effect of the Bill in its present form. It is to amend that and to give to each of the two Houses its own proper part in legislation&mdash;seeing that they are both parts of the legislative machine, and that these Regulations are sub-legislative of character and of kind&mdash; that the Seanad ought to have preserved for it its Constitutional right to have an equal effect&mdash;within a certain period of time, if you like&mdash;in respect   of any such Regulations as the Dail itself.  It has not got it in the Bill as it stands.  It does get it in the Seanad amendment. 
    
    
      
       I think it is pretty clear from the Constitution that the Seanad has not an equal right in matters of finance with the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I did not say finance. 
    
    
      
       These particular matters will be practically and entirely financial.  I did not put in a form here that would have confined the power of annulment to the Dail only, simply because other matters than finance will come in incidentally.  But matters of classification and remuneration and the terms and conditions of the Civil Service are really matters of finance.  They are matters between the State as employer and its employees.  They are financial matters, and in no way matters of legislation.  In these particular matters it certainly is not the fact that the Seanad has an equal right, and I think that it would be most unwise for the Dail to take steps towards any division of financial control.  I think it is most desirable that the one House in this country which will be elected at intervals of not more than four years, and which will have a wider franchise, should in this particular matter of finance have undivided control. 
    
     If you make it impossible for the Dail, through its own officers, to regulate the Civil Service, you will certainly be parting with a good share of financial control.  I do not think it is desirable to do anything more than the good sense of any Executive that may be appointed, or of any Dail that may be elected from time to time, will do to make more secure the position of the civil servant.  Everyone knows that the civil servant&mdash;or the permanent official as he is called&mdash;has, and must have, extremely great influence at the present time.  His position is really one of being in office at will and pleasure.  If you increase the security he gets by custom and make it more difficult to remove him, if he requires removal, you will find that Ministers who may be appointed from time to time, will have less power in carrying on administra-   tion than they ought to have.  It is most important that the Civil Service should reflect as closely and as quickly as possible the views of Ministers placed in charge of the various Departments. I do not think it is at all desirable to fetter the powers of Ministers in control of the Civil Service, as seems to be the aim of Deputy Johnson.  I think if you had a Civil Service, given the sort of tenure that Local Government servants have throughout the country, it would produce very undesirable results and would very much diminish the democratic control of Parliament over the administration of the country. 
    
      
       The Minister has twitted me with inconsistency.  I admit that when I first brought this proposal forward, I looked at it solely from the point of view of the Dail.  When I read the discussion in the Seanad, I saw that there was something to be said from their point of view&mdash;a capacity which I fancy permanently disqualifies me from Ministerial office.  I see, to a certain extent, by the Seanad's proposal that a compromise might be accepted. But I still prefer the original form of the Bill. 
    
     I will do the Minister justice, and say that he is certainly consistent and has always been consistent.  In this matter, he has always wanted to get as much power as possible over the Civil Service. It is the natural tendency of an able Minister to exalt his office, but it is a very dangerous one, particularly now when we are working a new Constitution, and setting up a new machine. I cannot accept his assurance about amending statutes by resolution.  I notice that the Attorney-General does not venture to suggest that that is a very valid remedy.  My objection to his proposal, to disagree with the Seanad's amendment, is that it is a stepping stone to a compromise that he is going to put forward to-morrow.  If he thinks I am going to be so inconsistent as to agree to that compromise, he is nourishing an illusion which will be very speedily shattered.  He will only have to wait until to-morrow.  My objection is really to that compromise.  This is the first stage on the way to it.  I will make a suggestion to the Minister.   Would he be prepared to consider leaving the two suggestions that he is going to put forward to-morrow to the free judgment of the Dail without putting on the Whips?  I am not asking for an immediate answer.  I shall talk his motion out until 6.30 and he can answer me at 7.30 if he wishes to do so. If not, he can assist in talking it out. That would withdraw some of my opposition. In that case by disagreeing with the Seanad amendment we would revert to the original form of the Bill. 
     After all, this is a matter for the Dail and not for the Executive or the Government. It is a matter on which the Dail might be allowed to have its own views.  It is a new method of suggestion rather than amendment.  If he will do that, I personally would not be disposed to press this to a division.  Of course, I cannot bind others, but that is my personal view.  I think it would be an advantage, from every point of view, that we should have a frank discussion and find out where Deputies stand in regard to this.  We should then be in precisely the same constitutional position that we are in now.  It would mean merely that the Bill would go back to the Seanad in its original form, and that we should not make any suggestions. Any suggestions that might be made, or might have to be made, would come from them.  I gather that a consultation is proceeding.  I do not know if the Government are prepared to say what they are going to do now, or if I am to go on talking till 6.30. 
    
      
       If it is blackmail, I suggest that the Deputy should talk on. 
    
    
      
       Very good.  I must compliment the Minister on his fine fighting form.  It is extremely interesting to see him when he takes his coat off, like a character in Dickens, but he did not announce he was going to begin; he went on.  That is in itself a very valuable gain for the Dail as a whole.  The Minister told us, at an earlier stage, that there is no Civil Service Commission at present.  I gather, from an answer given by the President at Questions, that there is shortly going to be held a Civil Service Examination, confined to officers of the army.  Who is going to hold it, when there are no   Commissioners, I cannot imagine.  If, by disagreeing with the Seanad, we leave it possible for the Bill to be held up for 270 days, surely that is in itself a somewhat dangerous matter.  Therefore, unless I can get some assurance of the kind that I have asked the Minister for, I shall be reluctantly compelled to put this matter to a division. As I am sure the Minister will have the courtesy to answer me, I shall now sit down. 
    
    
      
       I would like to dissociate myself from the interpretation that the Minister for Finance gave of what I said before. I agree with him that the intention of the Constitution is perfectly clear, that so far as finance is concerned, the final power lies with the Dail.  There is no question about that.  But finance is a very wide term, and it has a very ambiguous meaning if it is going to be given the interpretation that the Minister for Finance has given it.  He spoke about the classification of Civil Servants.  Well, obviously a Civil   Servant's pay must in some degree be commensurate with this classification. Classification might be called finance, but it is not finance all the same.  He spoke about their qualifications.  Well, one would like to assume that at least finance is going to be somewhat commensurate with qualifications.  But to decide upon qualification is not a financial consideration.  The majority of matters to be considered here are not financial nor essentially financial, but are ordinary legislative or quasi-legislative matters; in these matters, inasmuch as they are not financial, it is perfectly clear that the Seanad has equal power with the Dail in a decision on legislative matters of that kind and in their amendment they are merely insisting on what is their right. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Committee do not agree with the Seanad amendment No. 3&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 39; Nil, 13. 
       Ta. 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Richard Beamish. Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Henry J. Finlay. Desmond Fitzgerald. Domhnall Mac Carthaigh. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Padraig Mac Fadain. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Sean P. Mac Giobuin. Sean Mac Giolla 'n Riogh. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Seosamh Mag Craith. 
             Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Criostoir O Broin. Proinsias O Cathail. Aodh Ua Cinneidigh. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus N. O Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghean O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. John Hennigan. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Bryan R. Cooper. Darrell Figgis. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Tomas de Nogla. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). Patrick K. Hogan (Luimneach).  
           
         
       
     
     Motion declared carried. 
    
      
       took the Chair. 
       Amendment 4.  In Section 10 (2) to insert after the word &ldquo;Department,&rdquo; in line 64, the words &ldquo;other than a permanent situation.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I propose that the Committee agrees with the Seanad in   this amendment.  It simply means that no situation except those situations that are not permanent can be added to the Schedule of Situations which are exempt from the purview of the Civil Service Commissioners. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment No. 5.  In Section 11 (2) to add after the word &ldquo;certificate,&rdquo; in line 7, the words &ldquo;and every such notice shall indicate whether the certificate is issued after competitive examination or qualifying examination or upon such evidence as is mentioned in Section 6 of this Act.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       This provides that a certificate of the Civil Service Commissioners of qualification is published in  Iris Oifigiuil  and shall state that a competitive examination or qualifying examination was held, and shall state whether a person was appointed after an examination or otherwise.  I move that we agree with the Seanad in this amendment. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment No. 6.  In Section 13 to delete in line 11 the words &ldquo;(No. 2) Act, 1923,&rdquo; and to substitute therefor the words &ldquo;Act, 1924.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       This is necessitated by the time which has elapsed between the introduction and the passage of the Bill. 
       I move we agree with the amendment. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment No. 7.  In the Schedule to delete in lines 25-26 the words &ldquo;Civic Guard,&rdquo; and to substitute therefor the words &ldquo;Garda Siochana.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Report fixed for Thursday, February 28th. 
    
   
   
     THE DAIL RESUMES. - ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKINGS (CONTINUANCE OF CHARGES) BILL, 1924.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move that this Bill be now read a   second time.  The Bill is introduced for the purpose of relieving the electricity undertakings specified in the schedule from a difficulty created by the fact that an Act which gave relief to English undertakings did not apply to Ireland.  Statutory undertakings such as those for the supply of gas and electricity are usually limited in their powers of charge&mdash;a maximum price being fixed by statute.  Those maximum charges which were fixed previous to 1914 were rendered wholly inadequate by the great increase of costs during and subsequent to the European War; and temporary relief was given by the passing of the Statutory Undertakings (Temporary Increase of Charges) Act, 1918, which provided that the responsible Government Department could issue an order authorising an increase of charge.  The Continuance Act recently passed by the Oireachtas maintained the position as regards certain tramway companies and harbour boards which had obtained authority to increase their charges temporarily.  The seven electricity undertakings set out in the schedule to this Bill could not be so provided for, however, and the power of charging beyond pre-war maximum rates in those cases lapsed in August last.  Owing to the continuance of high costs of production, outside the control of the undertakings, it is still difficult, if not impossible, for these undertakings to revert to pre-war rates of charge, without creating serious deficits, and thus in the case of local authorities, throwing additional burden upon the rates, which I think it is generally understood are already overburdened. Powers to obtain revision were secured originally by statute in one case&mdash;that of the Dublin Corporation, but the procedure is complicated, and it was considered advisable to include the Dublin Electricity Undertaking in the present Bill. 
    
     The general position as regards gas undertakings was relieved by the passing of the Gas Regulation Act, 1920, which gives power to revise the system and rates of charge; and as regards electricity undertakings, powers of revision of charges in England and Scotland were provided for in the Electricity   Supply Act, 1922.  The latter Act, however, did not apply to Ireland; and it has become necessary, therefore, that temporary relief should be given by legislation such as this Bill to the electricity undertakings which require to be thus provided for; and also that their position since August last should be legalised.  It is right that I should point out that the financial positions of the electricity undertakings of the Saorstat were seriously affected by the recent troubles, and that in some cases actual danger to plant and mains put a heavy loss upon the concerns. 
     While it is considered reasonable that these electricity undertakings should not be forced immediately back to the pre-war rates of charge, it is also desirable that by any legislative relief given to them, they should not be placed in a position to impose unreasonable charges upon the public.  It is accordingly sought by the Bill to confer powers on the Minister for Industry and Commerce to enforce revision of charges in cases where the undertakers themselves do not make reasonable reductions such as would correspond with reduced cost of production. 
     It is proposed that the Act, if passed, shall continue in force only to the 31st December next.  It is hoped that before that date, the Oireachtas will by its sanction have enabled fresh electricity legislation to be put in operation; and simple procedure for revision of charges is provided for in the new Electricity Bill which is at present in course of preparation.  It is expected, within the next month or so, that a Bill will be introduced.  It is generally recognised, at least the Ministry recognise it, that some of the undertakings mentioned in the Schedule are charging a good deal more than they should charge, and it is proposed to take immediate steps to bring about a revision in these cases. 
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Third Stage ordered for (Wednesday) March 5th. 
    
   
   
     MINISTERS AND SECRETARIES BILL, 1923. - FOURTH STAGE. 
     
    
      
       Are we to take the amendments to this Bill in Committee? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       The Dail will now go into Committee on these amendments. 
    
   
   
     MINISTERS AND SECRETARIES BILL, 1923. - DAIL IN COMMITTEE. 
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment No. 1.  In the Title, line 6, page 2, to insert immediately before the word &ldquo;the&rdquo; the words &ldquo;and defining,&rdquo; and in line 8 to delete the word &ldquo;for&rdquo; and to substitute in lieu thereof the following words&mdash;&ldquo;declaring the functions and powers of the Attorney-General and.&rdquo; 
       It was intended in the Committee Stage to move an amendment of this nature, but it was overlooked, and that is why it becomes necessary now. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       SECTION I. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment No. 2.  In Section 1 (ii), page 3, line 37, after the word &ldquo;law&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and the supervision and control of all purchases made for or on behalf of and all supplies of commodities and goods held by any Department of State and the disposal thereof.&rdquo; 
       It was thought that the words in the Section were not sufficiently clear, and that is the reason for the introduction of this amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment No. 3.  In Section 1 (iii), line 54, to delete the words &ldquo;um Dli agus Cheart&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;Dli agus Cirt.&rdquo; 
    
     This is the first of a series of amendments providing for the titles in Irish of the various Departments of State. They have been carefully considered, and they are now proposed in this definite form.  For what is now known as   the Ministry of Home Affairs it is proposed to have the Irish title &ldquo;Dli agus Cirt.&rdquo; 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment No. 4: 
       In Section 1 (iv), lines 3 and 4, page 4, to delete the words &ldquo;um Rialtas Aitiuil&rdquo; and insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Phuibli.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is of the same kind as the last one.  It refers to the Department of Local Government and Public Health, and it is proposed that the name for the future shall be &ldquo;Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Phuibli.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Amendment No. 5: 
       In Section 1 (vi), page 4, line 26, to insert before the word &ldquo;forestry&rdquo; the words &ldquo;promotion of agriculture by means of educational grants, agricultural statistics.&rdquo; 
       This is an amendment to give effect to an undertaking of mine in answer, I think, to Deputy Cooper.  It provides that the Department of Agriculture may promote agriculture by means of educational grants, and it also provides that that Department may deal with agricultural statistics.  The Minister for Agriculture has mentioned to me that his Department now sends out instructors to give specialised instruction in agricultural matters, and he has suggested to me to insert in the amendment, after the word &ldquo;grants,&rdquo;&ldquo;and also by means of lectures in special subjects.&rdquo; If the Dail is agreeable, I would ask to amend the amendment by the insertion of these words.  The amendment would then read: &ldquo;Promotion of agriculture by means of educational grants and of lectures on special subjects, agricultural statistics.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       On this question of agricultural statistics, I do not know what this involves.  I think there was a decision recently to transfer the production and compilation of statistics from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and I do not know whether that decision is being revoked. 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
     
    
      
       Does it mean that both Ministries are to be engaged in the production and compilation of statistics? 
    
    
      
       It is not intended to interfere with the decision to have statistics generally, industrial and commercial, under the Department of Industry and Commerce, but the Minister for Agriculture has mentioned to me his doubts as to whether his Department would still be in a position to prepare their specialised statistics which, to a large extent, would be handed over to Industry and Commerce and worked up from the industrial and commercial point of view.  The Department of Agriculture want to be in a position to have their agricultural staffs engaged, as they might be required, to prepare specialised statistics regarding agriculture and land. 
    
    
      
       I think I understand the necessity for an agricultural Department to have authority to prepare statistics in connection with agriculture and lands, but I am wondering whether the intention is to have two Statistical Departments, one dealing with Industry and Commerce exclusively, and the other dealing with Agriculture and Lands exclusively.  I was under the impression that the judgement of the Ministry was that there should be one authority compiling and publishing all statistics.  I do not want to make any comments antagonistic to this amendment, but I would like to have an understanding with regard to what is in the mind of the Ministry as to this. 
    
    
      
       I would point out that Sub-Section (7) gives the Ministry of Industry and Commerce specified powers in connection with industrial and commercial statistics.  I take it that you would call the price of bacon, pigs, cattle or butter commercial statistics, and that, on the other hand, you would not call the amount of land under tillage commercial statistics.  That would come under the heading of agricultural statistics, and if this amendment is not carried I take it the result would be to transfer agricultural statistics to the President, because any powers not specified in this Bill go to the President's Department.   I think, with all deference to Deputy Johnson, that such a course as that would be very undesirable.  I certainly do not think that the President's Department is one that should be concerned with the amount of land growing flax, or anything of that kind, in the country at any particular date. 
    
    
      
       My real concern in this matter is to get statistics, and so long as someone is given power to collect them I shall be fairly well satisfied. I think, by the way, that if the Department of Industry and Commerce desires to publish agricultural statistics, that they might do so under the term &ldquo;Industrial,&rdquo; because agriculture is an industry, according to our farmer friends. 
       I am really anxious that one or other Department should realise its responsibility regarding the production of statistics, and that we should be supplied with at least as satisfactory a return as we have been in the habit of getting. 
    
    
      
       The Minister for Agriculture tells me that Industry and Commerce can make no progress unless his Department supplies specialised figures and statistics that Industry and Commerce require to work into the general mass. 
    
    
      
       If the Attorney-General is suggesting that the effect of the amendment will be to secure that the figures which have hitherto been compiled under his Department will continue to be so compiled it will be quite satisfactory. 
    
    
      
       That is the intention. 
       Amendment, as amended, put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move, in Section 1 (vi.), line 32, to delete the words &ldquo;um Thalmhuiocht&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;Tailte agus Talmhuiochta.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I am not greatly concerned with the Attorney-General's attempt to correct the President's Irish, but I would like an explanation of this, because there is one word, &ldquo;Tailte,&rdquo; which raises a certain amount of apprehension   in my mind.  Is it intended to transfer any responsibility for the Tailteann Games to the Minister for Agriculture?  Because, if so, I am sure they will be very different games from those controlled by the Postmaster-General. 
    
    
      
       I am sure that Deputy O'Connell will support me in reassuring Deputy Cooper that there is no connection between the solemn pastime of land culture and the Tailteann Games. 
    
    
      
       Tailte is merely the plural form of the word. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move, in Section 1 (vii.), page 4, line 40, to insert after the words &ldquo;with the same&rdquo; the words &ldquo;including the promotion of trade and commerce by means of educational grants.&rdquo;  This gives effect to an undertaking of mine to Deputy Cooper and, I think, Deputy Thrift, to include under the powers of the Department of Industry and Commerce power to include the promotion of trade and commerce by means of educational grants. 
    
    
      
       Will the Attorney-General give us some guidance as to what is meant by this?  I want to try to guard against too much risk of overlapping. I can understand educational grants being grants, for instance, for &ldquo;Daily Mirror&rdquo; Exhibitions, and being called &ldquo;educational,&rdquo; but under the term &ldquo;educational grants&rdquo; we might have overlapping and the deprivation of supervision of the Minister for Education.  I do not think it is desirable that we should recede from the attitude that has generally been approved of unifying the control of education in all its aspects, and if this term &ldquo;educational grants&rdquo; would allow a Minister for Industry and Commerce to promote educational schemes, apart from the Ministry of Education, I think that is a defect.  I know that Deputy Cooper, and I think Deputy Thrift, rather urged that the commerce side should be specially dealt with, and that it should not be under the control   of the Minister for Education.  I do not know whether the Ministry has conceded that position.  They did indicate, at earlier stages, that the intention was that education, as a whole, should be under one direction, one general supervision, and I would like to know at this stage what is the position taken by the Government on that matter. 
    
    
      
       There is no intention to disturb the unification, and the hoped-for co-ordination of education.  The intention of this&mdash;and it is analogous to the amendment in the case of agriculture&mdash;is that it should be in the power of the Department if it saw that, say, a certain class of trade school or a certain class of trade or craft should be encouraged, to make grants, strictly limited, to promoting training and education in the particular trade school.  We certainly had certain trade schools in mind in relation to this, or it may be in crafts, or it may be in commerce.  But this particular Ministry would be in the position of approving of a grant and would be able to say to Education: &ldquo;We want that applied for the promotion of a particular line of trade, craft, handicraft or commercial education.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Would the Attorney-General say with whom the supervision would rest?  Would the Education Department come into it at all, and would they have supervision? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       In regard to that point, I desire to ask a question which I think is a matter of moment, and is also a question of drafting. I assume, and I take it from the Attorney-General's answer to Deputy O'Connell, that when the grant has been made on the suggestion of the Minister for Industry and Commerce that grant will actually be administered by the Minister for Education. But if that grant is going to be administered by the Minister for Education and if he is going to take the actual supervision of it, then surely in such a Bill as this the allocation of that particular matter might more particularly   lie with the Department of Education than with the Department of Industry and Commerce, who merely suggest the money.  The Minister for Finance, with his customary reluctance, hands it over, but the actual administration lies with the Minister for Education. 
    
    
      
       In answer to Deputy O'Connell, if the Deputy refers to No. 5 he will see that the Department of Education controls all education including vocational and technical training, but the fact that a particular class of teaching or training was provided might depend on the grant having been made for that particular purpose. 
    
    
      
       Then it would be open to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to attach certain conditions to the grant? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In Section 1 (vii), page 4, lines 44 and 45, to delete the words &ldquo;um Thiuscal agus Thrachtail&rdquo; and insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;Tionnscail agus Trachtala.&rdquo; 
       The amendment provides the Irish title under which my friend, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, shall be known in future. 
    
    
      
       I see the present Minister is described as the Hon. Joseph McGrath in some official publications. I wonder could we have a translation of that? 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In Section 1 (viii), page 4, line 57, to delete the words &ldquo;um Iasgach&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the word &ldquo;Iascaigh.&rdquo; 
       This is a similar amendment fixing the title of the Minister for Fisheries. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In Section 1 (ix), page 4 line 67, to delete the words &ldquo;an Phuist&rdquo; and insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;Puist agus Telegrafa.&rdquo; 
    
     
        This provides the title for the future of the Minister now known as the Postmaster-General. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 1 (x), page 5, line 8, to delete the words &ldquo;um Chosaint&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the word &ldquo;Cosanta.&rdquo; 
       This fixes the title for the Minister for Defence. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 1 (xi), page 5, line 20, to delete the words &ldquo;um Ghnothai&rdquo; and insert in lieu thereof the word &ldquo;Gnothai.&rdquo; 
       This fixes the title of the Minister for External Affairs. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In page 5, Section 2 (1), line 31, to delete the words &ldquo;and hold&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;hold and dispose of.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In Section 2 (2), page 5, line 39, to add after the word &ldquo;determine&rdquo; the words &ldquo;but every appointment made under this sub-section shall be subject to the provisions of the Civil Service Regulation Act, 1923 (No 35 of 1923) or of any Act for the time being in force replacing or amending that Act.&rdquo; 
       This is an amendment which I agreed at the suggestion of Deputy Heffernan to bring forward to make certain that the powers of appointment of Ministers who would be limited by the Civil Service Regulation Act, 1923. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 3 (1), page 5, to delete lines 57 and 58. 
       This is an amendment to give effect to a suggestion of Deputy Johnson that the last two lines of Sub-section (1), Section 3, should be omitted. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 6, page 6, line 12, to delete the expression &ldquo;Priomh-Aithne&rdquo; and to insert in lieu thereof the words &ldquo;an Priomh-Aturnae.&rdquo; 
    
     This amendment fixes the Irish title of   the holder of the office of Attorney-General. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 6 (2), page 6, line 36, to delete the word &ldquo;appointed&rdquo; and insert in lieu thereof the word &ldquo;nominated.&rdquo; 
       This is a mere drafting amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 7 (6), page 7, line 7, to insert after the word &ldquo;any&rdquo; the word &ldquo;one.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In Section 7 (7), page 7, line 11, to insert after the word &ldquo;powers&rdquo; the word &ldquo;responsibilities&rdquo; and in line 14 to insert after the word &ldquo;delegate&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or assign.&rdquo; 
       This is to give effect to an undertaking. 
    
    
      
       As amended, the paragraph would read: &ldquo;Each of the Parliamentary Secretaries appointed under this Section shall by his appointment be assigned to act as Parliamentary Secretary to the Executive Council, or to a Minister, and shall have such powers and responsibilities and perform such duties as the Executive Council for such Minister, with the consent of the Executive Council, as the case may be, from time to time delegate or assign to him.&rdquo;  The acceptance of this amendment seems to me to throw on the Executive Council, or the Minister, the power to delegate his responsibilities, and that, I think, is weakening the responsibilities of the Minister.  If we, by legislation, appoint, or allow to be appointed, Parliamentary Secretaries, and we allow the Minister to whom that Parliamentary Secretary is assigned, or to whom powers may be delegated, also to take upon himself the responsibilities of the office, then that is weakening the responsibilities of the Minister.  A Parliamentary Secretary may be a Secretary, but he should not be responsible to the Dail, and it should not lessen the responsibilities of the Minister.  I think the insertion of this word &ldquo;responsibilities&rdquo; tends to remove responsibilities from the Minister to the Secretary, and will give statutory effect to that removal.  I think we   should have some more justification for this change than we have had, and I would ask the Attorney-General to meet that point. 
    
    
      
       I think there is a great deal in what Deputy Johnson has said, that there is a danger, but as far as I can recollect, it was suggested in the debate in Committee that something of this kind should be inserted in the section.  I would withdraw the amendment in so far as it suggests the insertion of the words &ldquo;and responsibilities.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       The second part remains, and the Amendment, as amended, reads: &ldquo;In Section 7, line 14, to insert after the word `delegate' the words `or assign.' &rdquo; 
       Amendment, as amended, put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 8. 
    
    
      
       I beg to propose the following amendment:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To add to Section 8 the following sub-section:&mdash; 
       Provided that every Order made by such Council of Defence shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas within four days after the next sitting of that House, and if either House shall within fifteen days pass a resolution annulling such Order, such Order shall be annulled, but such annulment shall not prejudice or invalidate any matter or thing previously done under such Order.&rdquo; 
    
     The wording of the amendment is the ordinary manner of wording adopted in amendments of this kind, and has been adopted in a large number of Bills.  I urge that this is the place where it is especially necessary.  When speaking to an amendment to this Section when the Bill was in Committee, it was argued against me by Deputy Milroy, I think, that the effect of deleting the entire section would mean that the Army would cease to function. That, of course, was an absurd argument, and I refer to it now in order to mention that I stated that it was entirely within the power of the Minister   for Defence to create any such Council of Defence at any moment he desired, and that it required no statutory power to enable him to do so.  In reply to that, an argument was put forward from the Ministerial side that statutory powers were required in order that a Council of Defence should be constituted, and that the purpose of having the Section in the Bill was to allow such Council of Defence to be created, there being a need for such a Council.  I had not at that time in my hand what I have had since, that is, the Defence Order No. 38, which is dated the 1st of December.  The date is important, because it is prior to the consideration of Section 8 by the Dail at all.  It is dated before the consideration of this Section, by which statutory powers were sought for the creation of this Council of Defence.  Yet this Order, No. 38, signed by the Minister for Defence, creates and constitutes the Council of Defence, saying who shall form it, allocating to each of the persons the functions he has to serve, and saying further that this action has been taken pursuant, not to this piece of legislation, but to an Order of the Executive Council.  This Order states that the command of the National Forces is vested in the Executive Council, and exercised through the Minister for Defence, and it then quotes from the provisions of the Defence Forces Temporary Provisions Act. 
     Paragraph 2 states:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;A Council of Defence has been created for the purpose of assisting the Minister for Defence in accordance with the following paragraph 2 of Executive Council Order No. 11 of 1923.  There shall be and there is hereby constituted a Council of Defence to assist the Minister for Defence in the administration of the business of Defence, but without derogating from the responsibility of the Minister for Defence to the Executive Council and to the Oireachtas respectively, for all the administration of the Department of Defence and for the exercise and performance of all the powers, duties, and functions connected therewith.&rdquo; 
     Now, we have not had an opportunity of having that before the Dail, and I frankly confess that I learned for   the first time there were such things as Executive Orders in this form.  This is numbered No. 11 of 1923.  I do not know exactly how late or early in the year No. 11 appeared, but I would assume that it argued a very early date in last year, and it certainly was prior to the introduction of this Bill into the Dail.  It empowers the Minister for Defence to do a certain thing and he proceeds to do it under another Order, which is Defence Order No. 38.  It treats the matter, not as though there were to be some Council of Defence in the future, but as if the matter had already been dealt with, irrespective of sanction being required.  We get, in this case, two procedures.  It is proved by this Order No. 38 that legislative sanction certainly was not required, because here is in existence before, a legislative instrument.  The Minister proceeded to issue his Order.  There is no other Council of Defence in this Bill, according to this Order, but it is clear that Orders like this are to be issued, dispensing with legislative sanction.  A clear case is set up for all Orders hereafter to be issued to be laid before the legislature, in order that it may be privy to all that the Council of Defence does in its name.  The Minister for Defence is Chairman of the Council of Defence, and is responsible to the Dail. Everything that he does will have to be answered for by him here, he having sat as Chairman of the Council.  It is necessary that the Dail should know what Orders are being issued, and if a point were needed to press the case to a conclusion, it is furnished by the very Order of the Minister for Defence in which he cites an Order of the Executive Council, both of which were not within the knowledge of the Dail and were not placed before it, when considering this Section of the Bill, though they were material to it. 
    
      
       If I may refer first to this mare's nest, it was expressly stated here, when Section 8 was under discussion, both by the Minister for Defence and myself, that a Council of Defence had, as an administrative expedient, been already created.  Up to that point it consisted only of military people, but it was certainly expressly stated that as a   matter of military administration such Council had come into existence. Therefore the enlightenment that suddenly came to the Deputy last evening in discovering an Order issued last December must be due to his absence from the Dail during the debate in Committee.  What the purpose of the amendment could be one is very much puzzled to learn, because the Deputy quotes an Order made by the Minister as showing the necessity for having Orders made by the Army Council dealt with in the way he proposes.  Under the Section, the Army Council has no authority to make Orders.  Under the Temporary Defence Forces Act all Orders must be made by the Minister, and the Act provides for laying all such Orders on the Table of the Dail. 
       Presumably if other powers are given to the Ministry or the Army Council a provision of that kind would be inserted wherever the power of making the Order is contained.  It may arise on the Permanent Defence Forces Act, to be introduced at a later date.  Under the Section as it stands now, there is nothing whatever about Orders being made by the Council which is an administrative body to assist the Minister. 
    
    
      
       In answer to the Attorney-General&mdash;I am speaking now without the text before me&mdash;I want to say that the Minister for Defence, when I pressed him to state whether it was not within his powers to establish a Council of Defence and whether in fact a Council of Defence could not be created by him straight away, said that the Army Council existed, and if the inference of those words is that a Council of Defence did not exist, as distinct from an Army Council to be constituted here by the provisions of the Act and as already stated by him, then I fail to understand the meaning of the reference. 
    
    
      
       That Order does not provide for civilian membership of an Army Council. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Figgis finds it difficult to understand certain matters, and he places us in the position of not being able to understand himself.  This Bill was ordered to be   drafted on 10th October.  That, surely, if my idea of the order of the months is correct, was anterior to the 1st December. If it were after that date the Deputy will correct me, and we have not yet arrived at the next October. The Deputy had in his hands on the 10th October this extraordinary conspiracy of setting up a Council of Defence, and he had information before him that it had not diminished in any way the authority of the Minister for Defence.  He had also the facts before him that were disclosed to the Dail. The Deputy's recollection is at fault, and in future he had better acquaint himself with those matters and not take up the time of the Dail by telling us what came into his possession a month or two after it came into the possession of anybody else.  The Deputy objects to the Council of Defence.  It was never our intention to make it a legislative body, and its powers and duties are clearly set out here.  It was never intended that it should pass Acts of Parliament, and if the Deputy so intended we cannot subscribe to his proposals. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
    
    
      
       at this stage resumed the chair. 
       SECTION 9. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In Section 9 (4), page 9, line 62, to add at the end of the sub-section the words &ldquo;but this section shall not apply to or affect any university established by Royal Charter or to any body corporate similarly established for the regulation of the admission, qualification, and conduct of the members of any profession or business notwithstanding that such university or body is in other respects a statutory body.&rdquo; 
    
     This amendment is for the purpose of fulfilling a promise I gave to the University Deputies here in the Committee Stage.  They were fearful that the provisions of Section 9 as to the power of statutory bodies might, by any stretch of the imagination, be read to apply to the charters of the Universities, and I   undertook to make that clear beyond all possibility of doubt. 
    
      
       I think that is a satisfactory carrying out of the Attorney-General's promise to University members, and I am satisfied with it. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask the Attorney-General if he would say what would be the position of a statutory body like the General Nursing Council?  I do not think it is covered by this amendment, and it should not be subject to the direction and control of the Minister.  The powers of the Minister under Sub-section (3) are very great to interfere with any such body as a General Nursing Council. Would the General Nursing Council come under this provision? 
    
    
      
       I do not know at the moment whether the General Nursing Council is constituted by Charter or Statute? 
    
    
      
       Statute, I think. 
    
    
      
       I would not like to make a definite answer, which, on reconsideration, I might regret, but in so far as it takes over any properly Government functions it would possibly fall within the purview of this section.  There would be an Order made and laid on the Table of the House affecting it.  If it be merely a professional organisation dealing with the profession of nursing, then it would not be within this at all.  If the Deputy looks at the bodies to which the section applies he will find that they are statutory bodies and bodies exercising the function of Government or discharging any public duty in relation to public administration.  I am not certain whether the General Nursing Council is a professional organisation. If so, it is outside this. 
    
    
      
       I think it is a professional organisation to which has been granted certain authority which has not yet been given full effect to. It has been recognised, and I think that it is statutory. 
    
    
      
       I take it the Deputy refers to matters of registration and professional qualification. 
    
     
    
      
       Yes, and control. 
    
    
      
       As at present advised, I believe those are outside this section.  I have not actually studied the provisions. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move to &ldquo;delete in page 9 section 9 (5).&rdquo; This amendment is to excise a subsection which is redundant by reason of the Interpretation Act. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       To insert immediately before Section 10, page 10, a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;10.&mdash;Wherever the expenses or any part of the expenses of any public service assigned by or under this Act to any Department of State are now payable out of any specific departmental or other public funds other than the central fund or moneys provided by the Oireachtas, or any specific departmental or other public funds other than as aforesaid are now applicable to or towards the discharge of the expenses or any part of the expenses of any such public service, it shall be lawful for the Executive Council by Order to do all or any of the following things:&mdash; 
       (a)  to provide for the continued discharge of any such expenses as aforesaid or any part thereof out of the funds out of which the same are now payable or which are now applicable to or towards the discharge thereof, 
       (b)  to make all such apportionments of public funds as may be rendered necessary by reason of the allotment by this Act of different portions of any such public service to different Departments of State, 
    
     (c)  to provide for the winding-up and the payment into or disposal for the benefit of the Exchequer, in such manner as the Minister for Finance may appoint, of the whole or any part of the specific departmental or other public funds out of which such expenses or any part thereof have   heretofore been payable or which have heretofore been applicable in or towards the discharge of such expenses or any part thereof as aforesaid, and to declare that such expenses shall hereafter be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
     The object of this proposed new Section is this:&mdash;There are in many departments special funds out of which payment for public services is made. During the British regime there were various reasons why it was desirable, or thought desirable by them or others, to have these peculiar methods of providing funds for the discharge of certain services.  Take for instance the way in which the Dog Tax was pooled for the purpose of the remuneration of Petty Sessions Clerks.  The object of this new Section is to get rid of these special funds wherever possible which, to a certain extent, cloak charges and prevent the proper understanding of expenditure, and to transfer the expenditure so that it will appear in the Estimates and will be paid out of the Central Fund like any other item of public administration. In that way all this expenditure which now does not properly come into view on the Estimates on this class of expenditure will appear as ordinary items of public expenditure on the Estimates. 
    
      
       May I ask whether the Teachers' Pensions Fund will come under this Section? 
    
    
      
       As I understand, the Teacher's Pension Fund is built up on contributions by the teachers.  I do not think that could be dealt with. 
    
    
      
       Partly built up. 
    
    
      
       Built up partly.  I do not think that would be touched under this.  If the Deputy has any proposals in that direction, I am sure they will receive the consideration of the Minister for Finance. 
    
    
      
       I have several proposals, but I do not propose to make them now.  I rather thought when the Attorney-General was pointing to the necessity of all payments coming under   review here that he was referring to that particular fund among others. There is a small contribution made to the Teachers' Pensions Fund which appears on the Estimates each year, but the Fund itself has been largely built up in contributions from the teachers, as well as from a certain capital sum which was set aside so far back as 1879.  I was wondering if the Government were going to take it under this Regulation. 
    
    
      
       I do not think that would be possible, because that could hardly be described as a Departmental or Public Fund.  It is largely a Fund in which private persons are interested, constituted by private contributions, even though they are under some statutory authority.  I think if it were proposed to deal with that Fund, there would certainly be need for very special legislation, and certainly very careful consideration.  I do not think, as at present advised, that it would come within this. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That the new Section be added to the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 14. 
    
    
      
       I move: 
       In Section 14 (2), page 10, line 53, to insert after the word &ldquo;aforesaid&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or to be signed by such Minister,&rdquo; and to add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
    
     (4)  Nothing in this Act shall render the affixing of the official seal of a Minister who is the head of a Department of State established by this Act to any order or other instrument (not being a deed, conveyance or other instrument, which if made by a person other than a corporation would be required by law to be sealed with the seal of such person) made by such Minister necessary to the validity of such order or other instrument and any such order or other instrument, unless expressly required by any statute to be under seal, shall be sufficiently authenticated   by the signature of such Minister or of the secretary or other officer of such Department of State duly authorised by such Minister to authenticate such orders and instruments. 
     This proposed new Section is for the purpose of facilitating Ministers in the execution of Departmental documents. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 15. 
    
      
       I move: &ldquo;To delete in page 11, Section 15 (5).&rdquo; This is to delete sub-section (5) which is redundant by reason of the Interpretation Act. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       As to the next amendment I think we could agree to the deletions first, and take each of the new schedules separately. 
    
    
      
       Would it not be desirable to deal with each part of the schedule separately, and take the deletions as they come?  Taking the whole schedule would involve a very confused discussion. 
    
    
      
       I am not sure if that is not almost the same thing as I was suggesting myself, to agree to make the deletions and then discuss each part separately.  How would that affect Amendments 26, 27, 28, 29? 
    
    
      
       The main object of having the new complete schedules is that I have had the official designations of all these various Departments carefully checked with the Statutes.  The new schedule is largely an insertion of the correct legal designations. 
    
    
      
       There are four other amendments. 
    
    
      
       I take it that we could deal with them to-morrow first thing. 
       Progress ordered to be reported. 
    
   
   
     MINISTERS AND SECRETARIES BILL, 1923. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported; Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     The Dail adjourned at 8.55 p.m. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWER. - KINNEGAD CIVIC GUARD BARRACKS. 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will expedite payment of £44 9s. 8d. for work done to Kinnegad Civic Guard Barracks, which work was done by contract and has been passed by the Board of Works for payment. 
    
    
      
       A draft in settlement of this account will be issued immediately. 
    
   
 