 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 12 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLOSING OF CREAMERIES (PRE-TRUCE PERIOD.) 
    
      
       asked the President if he will state whether claims for actual loss caused by the closing of creameries by order of the British Military during the Black and Tan regime would now be dealt with, and what machinery, if any, exists for that purpose. 
    
    
      
       The necessity for expediting the establishment of a Court to hear cases of this kind has, as I have already stated, been brought to the notice of the British Government, with whom negotiations are still in progress. It is hoped that a definite agreement on the outstanding points at issue will soon be reached.  When the final arrangements have been made, a public announcement will be issued without delay. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISMISSED AND RESIGNED R.I.C. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that a good deal of dissatisfaction exists amongst a number of dismissed and resigned R.I.C. men, whose claims have been disallowed by the Committee that inquired into such claims, and if it is intended to set up any tribunal before which such men can put forward their cases; further, when it is intended to make payment to those whose claims have been allowed. 
    
     
    
      
       I cannot see my way to a rehearing of any case in which the Committee referred to was not satisfied that the applicant resigned or was dismissed from the R.I.C. by reason of his national sympathies.  The cases reported on by the Committee are at present being examined with a view to the issue of the necessary certificates under Section 5 (1) of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923.  Provision for the payment of such pensions as are granted is being taken in a Supplementary Estimate which will be laid before the Dail at an early date. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLOGHNA RANCH (CARLOW). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether the Cloghna Ranch, on the Bruen Estate, Co. Carlow, is vested in the Land Commission, and, if not, whether he can state when it will be vested. 
    
    
      
       The lands referred to have not been vested in the Land Commission.  The landlord has lodged particulars to enable the Land Commission to collect Compounded Arrears of Rent, and payment in lieu of rent under the Land Act, 1923.  The further particulars to enable the purchase to be proceeded with have not yet been lodged. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PERRY ESTATE (KILKENNY.) 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will state whether the ranch lands on the Perry Estate, Stoneyford, Co. Kilkenny, are now vested in the Land Commission, and, if so, if he can state when the said lands are likely to be distributed amongst evicted tenants and landless men in the district. 
    
    
      
       The landlord has lodged particulars of this Estate, but it has not yet been vested in the Land Commission.  The Estate will be dealt with in due course. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FLAX GROWING IN CO. CORK. 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he has received any report from the Flax Instructor in County Cork as to the approximate quantity of flax seed required for sowing in Cork County this season; whether he has got any report from this Instructor on the retting experiments carried out last year, and if it is intended to have such experiments carried on again this season. 
    
    
      
       The Flax Instructor stationed in West Cork district is still prosecuting his inquiries as to the quantity of seed required by growers this season in that district.  He has already reported to the Department that 200 bags of &ldquo;Riga&rdquo; and &ldquo;Pernau Crown&rdquo; seed have been ordered by local merchants, and that he has advised local merchants that his information goes to show that a further quantity will be required this season. This Instructor, in common with other Flax Instructors, has been furnished by the Department (for communication to local seed retailers) with information as to supplies of seed and the quality thereof from the producing countries, namely, Holland, the Baltic States and Canada. 
       Valuations, based on hackling trials of representative samples of scutched flax resulting from the retting experiments conducted last season in West Cork, were recently furnished to the Department, and a report on the experiment is in course of preparation. The question of carrying out a similar experiment this season is at present under consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PIG-BREEDING IN SAORSTAT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he is aware that owing to the present low prices for pigs, rapid depletion is taking place in the breeding stock of the Saorstat; whether his Department propose taking any steps to prevent this, such as making use of the Agricultural Instructors to educate the farmers by public meeting or otherwise on the necessity of preserving the pig-breeding   stock of the country and the disastrous economic consequences of failing to do so. 
    
    
      
       The Minister has asked me to ask the Deputy to kindly repeat this question next week, as it has not been possible to prepare a reply in time for to-day. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY SEIZURES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs if it is proposed to compensate Mr. John Conlan, Kilmorane, Darrah, Ennis, in respect of a jennet, his property, seized by National Troops at New Hall, Ennis, in June, 1923, and if, in consideration of the fact that Mr. Conlan is a labourer having no means of support but his wages, he will favourably consider the position with a view to compensating him. 
    
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs if it is proposed to award compensation to Mr. John Kiloughrey, Ballyea, Tiermaclane, Ennis, in respect of four cows and one donkey, belonging to him, seized in June, 1923, by National Troops, and if, in consideration of the fact that the fences on the farm on which trespass is alleged were all down he will favourably consider the serious loss sustained by Mr. Kiloughrey with a view to compensation. 
    
    
      
       This reply is intended to cover questions 7, 9, and 19 on to-day's Order Paper.  The proceeds of the sale of cattle seized prior to the passing of the Public Safety (Emergency Powers) Act, 1923, when trespassing illegally, are at present in the hands of the Military authorities by whom the seizure was effected.  Arrangements are, however, being made under which these monies, together with the relevant papers, will be transferred to my Department, and the question will then be considered of how the monies should be distributed, prior consideration being given to cases where the trespass was accidental, against the will of the owner or otherwise   innocent.  It cannot, at the moment, be stated whether any ex-gratia grant will be made in the case mentioned. 
    
    
      
       Can the Minister give any indication as to how these particular people will prove that the trespass was accidental?  Will an affidavit be sufficient to prove that the trespass was accidental? 
    
    
      
       I could not give any indication of that at the moment. I am sure that if affidavits were accepted they would be forthcoming. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GARDA SIOCHANA SEARCH FOR WIRELESS APPARATUS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs if he is aware that the premises of Mr. M. Vaughan, Lahinch, Co. Clare, were raided on the 26th inst. by members of the Garda Siochana holding a warrant to search for wireless apparatus, and if he will state if any other raids of a similar nature have been reported to him. 
    
    
      
       I have ascertained that the premises of Mr. M. Vaughan, Lahinch, Co. Clare, were searched by the Garda Siochana.  A full report has not, however, been received, and I cannot at the moment state whether the officer concerned acted within his authority.  A full report on the subject has been called for, and I will let the Deputy know the result. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SPECIAL CONSTABLE'S REMUNERATION (CAMOLIN, WEXFORD). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs if he has received an application from Mr. Gerald Byrne, Camolin, Co. Wexford, for payment due for acting as Special Constable at the last General Election, and, if so, when he proposes to give a direction to have same paid. 
    
    
      
       I have been asked to reply to this question. 
    
     The Returning Officer for County Wexford has paid all Special Constables employed at the last General   Election, with the exception of three who are stated to have been employed in the Camolin District, and whose claims were not received by him until after he had rendered his account to the Ministry of Finance. 
     If it is found, in response to the inquiry addressed on the point to the Returning Officer, that these three Constables were formally appointed by him, he will be authorised to discharge the claims. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISCHARGED SOLDIER'S UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT (STRABOE, CARLOW). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that Private Michael Carroll, Straboe, Palatine, Co. Carlow, late Mechanical Transport, No. 12181, was discharged from the Army on January 2nd last, and has since been signing at the Labour Exchange, Tullow; whether seeing that he has not received unemployment benefit, steps will be taken to inquire into the matter with a view to expediting payment. 
    
    
      
       When Michael Carroll, Straboe, Palatine, Co. Carlow, claimed Unemployment Benefit at Tullow, it was found that he had no account with the Unemployment Fund in Ireland.  Having previous to his Army Service worked in Glasgow, the Unemployment Book which he held belonged to Great Britain, and his account with the Unemployment Fund was in London.  Immediate steps were taken to transfer the account to Dublin. Some delay necessarily occurred in the transfer; but as soon as it was received in Ireland payment of benefit to the maximum amount was authorised, and the applicant will get his first payment, including any arrears due to him, to-day. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SECONDARY EDUCATION SYSTEM IN SAORSTAT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Education if any steps have yet been taken to reform the system of Secondary Education in the Saorstat, and whether in pursuance of   promises already given, he is now in a position to say what arrangements have been made by way of increased interim grant for the current year, salary scale, and pension scheme to redress the financial grievances of the secondary teachers. 
    
    
      
       In the case of education, as of other public services, the Budget position is such as to necessitate a reduction of State charges below the level prevailing heretofore. Increased financial provision for any branch of the service is consequently only possible by means of economies in other branches.  The position of secondary education generally, including that of the teachers, is under consideration, but the Minister is not in a position at the moment to say more than that it has been decided to include provision for an interim grant of £100,000 in the Estimates of 1924-25 for Intermediate Education, which will shortly be presented to the Dail. 
       The basis of distribution of this grant still remains to be determined. 
    
    
      
       May I ask, as a supplementary question, does the President remember that in his capacity as Minister for Finance in the last Dail, in reply to me, he promised to give special consideration to this question, and led us to believe that a special grant would be made at an early date to the secondary teachers?  Does he remember, or can the Minister for Finance recall, that some time ago I put a question as to what arrangements had been made to carry out this pledge, and the reply of the Minister was that he was not yet in a position to state.  Are we to understand that this interim grant of £100,000 for Intermediate Education is for the whole service, or is the additional grant for secondary teachers only? 
    
    
      
       The additional grant is for secondary teachers only. 
    
    
      
       I would like to know if this additional grant has taken the place of the pension scheme? 
    
     
    
      
       I would like to say, first, that there was no question ever of a pension scheme.  There could be no question, therefore, of this taking the place of the pension scheme.  A decision has not yet been come to on the matter of the salary scheme.  The interim grant remains an interim grant until a decision can be taken. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WEXFORD OLD AGE PENSIONS WITHHELD. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if he will state why old age pensions have been withheld from Messrs. Edward Murphy, New Lane, Wexford, John Murphy, King Street, Wexford, and John Byrne, Monck Street, Wexford. 
    
    
      
       The first claim was disallowed because the applicant did not furnish conclusive evidence of age.  His baptismal certificate was not produced, and although he was twice married the certificate of either marriage was not supplied.  It was not possible, therefore, to have a search made for his marriage age in the records of the Registrar-General.  Affidavits purporting to prove age as over 70 were submitted.  Mention was not made therein of any relevant facts in claimant's life history, such as the date of marriage of his parents, and his position amongst the children, especially as compared with a younger brother or sister whose age was established, or even the date or place of either of his two marriages. 
       The other cases mentioned by the Deputy are claimants to blind pension, not the old age pension.  Decisions have not yet been given.  The appeals recently received have been referred to the medical inspector as to the eyesight of the claimants. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister aware that of these cases, two of the latter for blind pensions have been running on since last November, and will he expedite them? 
    
    
      
       I will refer the matter to the Minister for Local Government. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DEPENDENTS' ALLOWANCE (TULLOW). 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that Thomas J. MacSweeney, No. 10216, joined the National Army in 1922, was married 27th June, 1923, and was discharged 19th September, 1923; whether repeated applications for dependents' allowance for his wife, Mrs. MacSweeney, Mill Street, Tullow, Co. Carlow, have been made without success, and whether payment of the allowance will be expedited. 
    
    
      
       A cheque has now been sent to Mrs. MacSweeney, which clears the account up to the date of her husband's discharge from the Army. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A TULLOW CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that Mary Anne Byrne, Tullowbeg Street, Tullow, Co. Carlow, has not received dependents' allowance in respect of her son, Private Joseph Hickey, No. 89148, Pay Book 82058, who is her sole support, and to ask whether payment will be expedited. 
    
    
      
       Mrs. Byrne's claim is under investigation, and will be disposed of as soon as possible. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RETURN OF SEIZED GUN. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if an application has been received at Army Headquarters from John Doyle, South Quay, New Ross, for the return of a gun taken by R.I.C. on 31st August, 1920. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Doyle's application has been received, and search is being made for the gun.  The result will be communicated at an early date. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister be surprised to hear that a communication has been received from Woolwich Arsenal from the authorities there saying that the gun is lying there, and would the Minister undertake to have inquiries made into the matter? 
    
     
    
      
       We are in communication with the British in the matter of a large number of arms that are belonging to persons in this country. Those arms are at present lying at Woolwich Arsenal, and it will take some time before the matter can be finally settled. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRIALS OF INTERNEES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether any trials of internees are taking place for offences committed during recent years in any courts outside the ordinary Civil Courts of Saorstat Eireann, and, if so, whether the relatives of the internees will be informed and legal assistance be allowed if desired; further, to ask whether notice of such trials will be given to the Press, and whether Press representatives will be admitted to such proceedings. 
    
    
      
       Trials of internees are not taking place outside the Civil Courts, but in the cases of persons who have been sentenced by Military Tribunal prior to the 3rd August last, the date of the &ldquo;Indemnity Act, 1923,&rdquo; and who have applied for the review of their sentences a Board of Commissioners as provided by Section 3 of the Act is sitting for the purpose of confirming or reducing those sentences. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say whether it is incumbent upon a prisoner or internee to make application, or is it automatic that the review will be considered by the Commissioners? 
    
    
      
       It is incumbent on the prisoner to make application to have his sentence reviewed. 
    
    
      
       In such cases, has that fact been notified to the prisoners, and do prisoners have an opportunity of appearing before the Commission and being represented by counsel or solicitor? 
    
    
      
       The fact that the Commission is sitting and prepared to review cases in respect of which application has been made, has   been notified to the prisoners.  The Commission does not re-hear cases.  It simply reviews the evidence contained in the documents that already exist. The prisoner, therefore, does not get an opportunity of appearing before the Commission, but I am sure there will be no objection to allowing him to have legal assistance to help him in any way that might be necessary in making his application for a review of the sentence. 
    
    
      
       Does the Minister recognise any difference in the present situation as compared with the situation which prevailed at the time that the original trial took place, and in cases where prisoners refused on that occasion to appear before the Courts on the ground that they did not recognise such Courts, will he give them an opportunity for a re-trial if now they are prepared to recognise the authority of these Courts? 
    
    
      
       The question of re-trial does not arise, and I would not be prepared to make arrangements for re-trial in cases in which prisoners refused to recognise the Courts before. Sentences were then passed as a result of evidence definitely recorded.  The present Commission of Judges is reviewing the evidence actually recorded in the proceedings as a result of which the sentence was imposed. The nature of the evidence and all the circumstances will be taken into consideration by the Commissioners at the review. 
    
    
      
       May I ask the Minister whether counsel can appear before the Commission which is at present sitting, and make a case on behalf of the prisoner? 
    
    
      
       Counsel cannot appear before the Commissioners. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE NOTICE QUESTION. - THE BOUNDARY COMMISSION. 
    
      
       asked the President if he has any statement to make respecting the adjourned conference in regard to the boundaries between the jurisdiction of the Northern Ireland Government and the Free State Government. 
    
     
    
      
       The resumption of the conference has been delayed by the unexpected illness of Sir James Craig.  The Government is in communication with the Colonial Secretary on the subject of the resumption of the conference, but I am not in a position to say more on the matter than that at present. 
    
    
      
       Has the President's attention been drawn to the statement made by the British Colonial Secretary which appears in this morning's papers, or rather which appears in one of this morning's papers, and is rather significantly deleted from two other morning papers, the statement being that they would carry out its provisions&mdash;the provisions of the Treaty&mdash; for the setting up of a Commission for the settlement of the Boundaries between the Irish Free State and the North of Ireland Government.  Has he noticed that most important paragraph is omitted from the reports of two of this morning's papers, and does he know anything about that significant omission? 
    
    
      
       I am not aware of the reasons why it was omitted.  As a matter of fact, I have not had time to read the full report of the three papers yet. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. 
    
      
       For the convenience of the Deputies, it would be well now to ascertain whether private business will be taken to-day? 
    
    
      
       I am willing to take it if Deputy Corish is ready.  If not, I am prepared to agree to postpone it. 
    
    
      
       I understand from Deputy Corish that he has come to the conclusion, as the Minister for Local Government is not present, that it would be unfair to that Minister to discuss the matter in his absence; if there is any likelihood of the Minister being present next week he would prefer, in justice to the Minister, to defer it. 
    
    
      
       I know the Minister for Local Government is ill and is not in a position to be present   to-day.  He was prepared to come on Wednesday if it were necessary for him to be here.  I think, in all fairness, it would be due to the Minister that he should be present when Deputy Corish's motion would be moved. 
    
    
      
       There will be another motion on Wednesday evening from the Postmaster-General, which in the ordinary way will appear as private business. 
    
    
      
       On a point of order, I wish to ask is the Postmaster-General a private member, or what is the position of an External Minister? I think it is rather unfair to private members if motions by Ministers are put down in private members' time, and I would like a ruling on the matter. 
    
    
      
       I take it that it is the Executive Council which controls the time of the Dail, and that an External Minister, when he puts in a motion, would ordinarily have that motion discussed in private members' time, unless the President, who, by the Standing Orders, has a certain power over the Order Paper, decided to allow the motion to be discussed in Government time. 
    
    
      
       I desire to call attention to Standing Order 74, which deals with the business of private Teachtai.  This Standing Order allows Wednesday evenings and Fridays after 2 o'clock to private Teachtai, and I think if you look at Standing Order 31 you will see that &ldquo;questions, addressed to a Teachta of the Dail, not a Minister, must relate to some motion or other matter in connection with the Dail for which the Teachta is responsible.&rdquo; If you take the reference in the Index at page 173 and Standing Order 31 together, which deals with questions addressed to a Teachta of the Dail, who is not a Minister, you will see that an External Minister cannot claim the time of a private Teachta. 
    
    
      
       It is not fair to answer a question by asking another, but I was going to ask&mdash;&mdash; 
    
     
    
      
       I desire to ask whether this motion has been put down in the name of the Postmaster-General or in the name of the member for Cork. 
    
    
      
       It was clearly put down in the name of the Postmaster-General, and there ought to be no question of relegating a question of that kind to the time of private members.  It is obvious that, if it be not a Government matter, it is certainly a semi-Government matter dealing, at any rate, with a Government question which occupies a large place in the public mind at the moment, and it appears to me &mdash; I may be wrong &mdash; that this is simply another way of shelving the motion. 
    
    
      
       What does the Minister mean exactly?  The motion is to come up next Wednesday evening.  What does the Minister mean by the statement that if his motion is to come on in private members' time that it is but another method of shelving the motion?  Whom does he accuse of shelving the motion? 
    
    
      
       Well, I should say if the Ceann Comhairle has been advised by the Executive &mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Order, order. 
    
    
      
       The Ceann Comhairle is never advised by the Executive Council, and if the Postmaster-General has not discovered that up to the present, he must be very ignorant indeed. 
    
    
      
       I agree with the decision of the Ceann Comhairle, but &mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Sit down. I want the Postmaster-General to state what he means by saying that this is for the purpose of shelving his motion. Who is shelving his motion?  Is it the Ceann Comhairle? 
    
    
      
       I can only come to that conclusion. 
    
    
      
       Very good.  Am I clear now that the Postmaster-General has come to the conclusion that the Ceann Comhairle is a party to shelving a particular motion? 
    
    
      
       I am satisfied that the action of the Ceann Comhairle in relegating   this motion of mine to private members' time is equivalent to shelving the motion. 
    
    
      
       This is a very serious matter, a very serious matter, indeed. 
    
    
      
       I was waiting for the President, as Leader of the House, to intervene &mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       I was going to intervene on one or two occasions during this discussion, to say that I have not had any representation from the Postmaster-General for the inclusion of any motion or business of his in Government time.  I do not know that, on any occasion any External Minister has asked for time for dealing with any matter concerning his Department, that that application has been refused.  In fact I do state positively that on no occasion has any External Minister asked for time for the consideration of a proposal in which the Government said: &ldquo;We cannot afford Government time.&rdquo;  The statement of the Postmaster-General on this point is, to my mind, an unfair statement to the Chair, and unfair to the Executive Council.  The Postmaster-General was in a position to ask the Executive Council, or to ask me, for time for this motion.  He has not done so.  I take it then on that, that the Postmaster-General himself has shelved the question by not asking for time. 
    
    
      
       I quite appreciate the President's desire to make his position clear, but I think the occasion is one which is not met by that statement. The Postmaster-General is a Minister of the Dail, and has quite defiantly charged you, Sir, with unfair action towards himself in carrying out your duties.  I think he should be required to withdraw any such charge or imputation, and I think the business of the House should not proceed until that has been called for. 
    
    
      
       Well, if the Ceann Comhairle considers that I have in any way reflected on his impartiality in transacting the business of the House, I very readily withdraw and apologise, but at the same time I do not   think that I have been fairly treated in regard to this motion of mine, and if it is necessary, that the approval of the Leader of the House is needed for the formal tabling of this motion in Government time, as distinct from private members' time, I now make that application. 
    
    
      
       This is the very first time that, from any quarter of this House or the last House, any imputation of the vaguest character, even of the vaguest character, has been made against the conduct of the business of the House by me. The Postmaster-General has withdrawn in a way which I would prefer not to characterise.  He says that he withdraws any reflection on my impartiality, but persists in thinking that he has not been fairly treated. 
    
    
      
       Will I be permitted to explain&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       He says he has withdrawn any imputation upon my impartiality, but that he has not been fairly treated in regard to this motion.  Either the Postmaster-General is able to make himself clear or he is not, and he has not made himself clear to me, and before the business of the House proceeds the House will have to make up its mind as to whether any Deputy, Minister or otherwise, can stand up in the House and state that the Chair is unfair without any attention being called to it. 
    
    
      
       I want to explain again that formal notice was given of this motion here.  The motion was handed in in the usual way, and for the first time to-day I learned that this motion has been relegated to private members' time.  One would imagine at least that the Ceann Comhairle would acquaint the Head of the Department responsible, or rather the Minister responsible, for this motion that certain steps were essential to secure the ordinary time of the House.  No such step has been taken, and I think I have also a grievance in this matter. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister now keep to his grievance against me, so that it would not be confused with his grievance against any other parties? 
    
     
    
      
       I am speaking now with regard to my grievance against you.  I have not expressed a grievance towards anyone else in this matter.  I do think that the Ceann Comhairle ought to have acquainted me that steps should be taken to secure the approval of the Leader of the House for this motion.  It is, perhaps, an unusual motion.  I do not know that any other External Minister has moved such a motion in our time.  At least, if so, it has not come to my notice. 
    
    
      
       I regret that I have to intervene again.  The Ceann Comhairle respects and protects the liberty of every member of this House, and this House must be the guardian and the protector of the rights of the Ceann Comhairle, and this House must interpret, and ought to interpret, whether or not a matter which a member, be he Minister or otherwise, makes use of in this House, reflects or not upon the Ceann Comhairle.  We ought not to put him in the position that he must, of himself, defend his office.  His office is a high and an important office in the State. 
       I have not seen this motion of the Postmaster-General, and I have not been asked about it.  The Ceann Comhairle, in dealing with the business of the House, deals with it impartially and impersonally, and if a member, even if he be a Minister, or a member of the Executive Council, comes to the Ceann Comhairle personally and says, &ldquo;I want down this motion,&rdquo; the Ceann Comhairle treats him as an ordinary Teachta of the Dail, and in this case the Postmaster-General has himself neglected his duty and his office as an External Minister in not applying to the ordinary channel.  The ordinary channel is the Leader of the House, and if he objects to the Leader of the House he has got the Executive Council, and he can apply to the Executive Council and ask for time to deal with any matter which concerns his Department. 
    
     Now, there must be no burking of the issue in a matter of this kind.  I do not know, and I have not heard from the Postmaster-General, that he has an objection to coming to the Executive Council to ask for such permission, but if he has, then I think he ought to explain   that to the House and tell them that he declines to do it; but if he neglects to carry out the duties of his office and pay that respect to the office which he holds the fault is his own, and the complaint he has is against himself, and the grievance he is nursing is a grievance which is the outcome of not being able to appreciate his position as an External Minister.  I regret very much to have to make a statement of that sort in this House about a Minister. 
    
      
       It would be extremely difficult for anyone to appreciate the position of an External Minister.  No one seems to know where the External Minister stands, and the position is becoming more and more involved, but one thing seems to stand out clearly in regard to an External Minister and that is the emphasis placed on the fact that there are such things as External Ministers.  That emphasis has never failed to repeat itself when occasion demands, and very often with more emphasis than is needed for the occasion. Do I take it, then, that in any business involving a motion on the part of an External Minister that it is necessary for that External Minister&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       On a point of order&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       If I may again intervene&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       The point of order comes first. 
    
    
      
       I intimated that I believed it was the view of the House that when a member, Minister or not, flouted the authority of the Chair or charged the Chair with partiality and unfair action, that the business of the House should not be allowed to proceed until that charge had been withdrawn. We are not discussing the relative merits of External Ministers or members of the Executive Council, and in this matter we are all concerned with supporting the authority of the Ceann Comhairle, and I think that we ought not to allow any discussion on the merits of this matter till the Postmaster-General has expressed his readiness to acknowledge the authority of the Chair as the guardian of the liberties of all the members of the House. 
    
     
    
      
       I think I afforded the Minister an opportunity on two or three occasions, without putting it directly to him, that any imputation or any reflection on the Ceann Comhairle must be unreservedly withdrawn. If that request be refused, it will, of course, be my business to move another motion.  I hope that the Minister will see his way to unreservedly withdraw any imputation of partiality on the part of the Ceann Comhairle. 
    
    
      
       I thought I had already withdrawn any reflection, which I may have made, on the Ceann Comhairle sufficiently.  If my words have not conveyed that withdrawal to the satisfaction of the Ceann Comhairle, I am prepared to add any others. I may say this much for the Ceann Comhairle, and I have repeatedly said it, that he is strictly fair, he has been always fair; his actions in this House have been a great contrast, a favourable contrast, with any we have seen in the case of his predecessors, and I should be very sorry &mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister withdrawing his statement about me by accusing my predecessors of partiality?  This is an extraordinary situation.  I feel, for the first time since I came into this Chair, helpless. The Postmaster-General states it is a matter for me; it is not a matter for me; it is a matter for the House to be satisfied. 
    
    
      
       I &mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Order; the Minister must sit down.  The Minister has been long enough in the House to have learned something about the Standing Orders.  This is not a question of satisfying me; it is a question of satisfying the Dail, and upon that basis I would like to leave it.  It is nothing short of outrageous that the Postmaster-General should begin &mdash; I cannot call it an apology, and I cannot call it a withdrawal &mdash; but that he should begin a statement about me with an accusation against my predecessors. I could not allow that under any circumstances. 
    
    
      
       I wish then, briefly, to   withdraw any imputation that I have made against you, Sir, and I hope that is satisfactory. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move the adjournment of the House until 2 o'clock. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       The Dail rose at 12.55 p.m. and resumed at 2.10 p.m. 
    
    
      
       A Chinn Comhairle, I wish to assure you and the Dail that I unreservedly withdraw any reflections that I have made on you.  I acknowledge that I should not have made any such statement.  I wish also to express my regret to the House for the incident.  I felt keenly on the matter which I have raised, and I readily admit that I should not have taken the course that I did.  I regret, Sir, any pain I have caused you personally, and I assure you that it was quite unintentional. 
    
    
      
       I think that disposes of the matter completely. 
    
    
      
       In reference to the matter that was raised by Deputy Cooper, it is a matter of some little importance.  I will undertake to provide for the motion in Government time, so that Deputies will not be restricted by reason of that. 
    
    
      
       What I really want to safeguard private members from is such a thing as the Minister for Agriculture bringing in another Land Bill in private members' time. 
    
    
      
       I think it would be scarcely fair to ask me to give an undertaking of that sort in general terms, but I think it will be admitted by all sections of the Dail that we have afforded private members opportunities for raising matters, and have not restricted them.  If an occasion should occur in which there would be restrictions of that sort, then I think Deputies would have a right to raise the matter. 
    
    
      
       The way in which I have been looking at the matter is, that Ministerial business is business which comes properly from a Ministerial Department, and the Standing   Orders prescribe that the President shall have power to place Ministerial business in any order that he wishes upon the Order Paper.  In that way, as a matter of fact, every extern Minister, and any Minister, is construed as being a private member for certain purposes.  He is sometimes at an advantage, because he can place a matter upon the Order Paper independently of the desires of the President of the Executive Council for the time being, and I have been construing the Standing Orders in that way.  I do not think, at the same time, we would allow the Minister for Agriculture to occupy private members' time with a Land Bill.  But if the Minister for Agriculture wanted to raise a matter, concerning his own constituency, for example, he should certainly be allowed the privileges of a private member to raise that matter, and he would in that way have these privileges and would actually be independent of the President of the Executive Council.  He would have the privileges of a private member, and would not need to go to the President and ask him for time or ask him to put a motion on the Paper at a particular time of the day. 
    
    
      
       That only applies to External Ministers. 
    
    
      
       I am not sure whether, if the Minister for External Affairs desired to raise a matter regarding the County Dublin, which would not properly concern external affairs, that he should not have the rights of a private member, but that case has not arisen.  It might be that Deputy Cooper and the Minister for External Affairs would be at one in raising some matter and wanting an afternoon to do that, which would require a reply from the Minister for Home Affairs. 
    
    
      
       Does that not rather cut across the theory of the collective responsibility of the Executive Council that the Minister for External Affairs should raise a question with one of colleagues or with the Executive Council? 
    
    
      
       I have   not gone into it in detail.  It might raise a question with the Minister for Local Government, for example, and the Minister for Home Affairs might be enabled to be an interested spectator of the struggle. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - IRISH LAND COMMISSION&mdash;SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. 
     Motion by the Minister for Finance: 
     Go ndeontar suim Bhreise, na raghaidh thar £194,370, chun ioctha an Mhuirir a bheidh le n'ioc i ritll na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1924, ar son tuarastail agus costaisi Oifig Choimisiun Talmhan na hEireann (44 &amp; 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, agus c. 71, s. 4; 48 &amp; 49 Vict., c. 73, ss. 17, 18 agus 20; 53 &amp; 54 Vict., c. 49, s. 2; 54 &amp; 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. VII., c. 37; 7 Edw. VII., c. 38, agus c. 56; 9 Edw. VII., c. 42; 10 &amp; 11 Geo. V., c. 67; An tAcht Dli Thalmhan (Coimisium), 1923, agus an tAcht Talmhan, 1923), agus ar son tuarastail agus costaisi Roinr Socruithe na Talmhan. 
     That a Supplementary sum not exceeding £194,370 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1924, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Irish Land Commission (44 &amp; 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, and c. 71, s. 4; 48 &amp; 49 Vict., c. 73, ss. 17, 18 and 20; 53 &amp; 54 Vict., c. 49, s. 2; 54 &amp; 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. VII., c. 37; 7 Edw. VII., c. 38, and c. 56; 9 Edw. VII., c. 42; 10 &amp; 11 Geo. V., c. 67; the Land Law (Commission) Act, 1923, and the Land Act, 1923), and the salaries and expenses of the Land Settlement Department. 
    
      
       I move this motion. The presentation of this Supplementary Estimate to the Dail is a matter rather of form than of substance.  By the Land Act the Congested Districts Board was abolished, or merged in the Land Commission.  The Ireland Development Grant was also abolished. The work that was done out of the money voted for the Development   Grant and for the Congested Districts Board has been done by the Land Commission, but since the passing of the Land Act no money has been issued out of those Votes.  What is being done now is simply a re-voting to the Land Commission of money which was formerly voted to the Congested Districts Board, and under the heading of the Ireland Development Grant, for work which is passed on to the Land Commission.  There remained unissued out of the Exchequer of money voted to the Congested Districts Board a sum of £179,750.  Of this, it is estimated that £146,750 would be attributable to the work done by the Land Commission, work that has passed to the Land Commission. In addition there was in the Ireland Development Grant a sum of £81,167, which went to meet the charges in respect of Excess Stock under the Land Acts.  Consequently there has been, as you may see, a saving of £146,750 under the heading of the Congested Districts Board, and this other saving of £81,167 under the heading of the Ireland Development Grant.  As a matter of fact, this Estimate represents in reality a reduction of something over £30,000 on the money already voted, taking together the Land Commission, the Congested Districts Board, and the Ireland Development Grant.  The only new charge really is the increase in Item F: &ldquo;Legal Department &mdash; incidental expenses,&rdquo; where there is an additional sum of £3,500 required.  That is made necessary by the heavy bills of costs that have been incurred by local solicitors in taking proceedings against an increased number of defaulters for arrears of purchase annuities.  Apart from that there is really a re-voting of money which has already been voted by the Dail under another head, which has not been issued out of the Exchequer under that particular head.  No increased expenditure is involved under this Supplementary Estimate. 
    
    
      
       There are a number of questions I want to ask the Minister about this.  The first is, is this a matter of special urgency? 
    
    
      
       Yes.  Unless we can get it not only through Committee to-day,   but also have it reported to the Dail, the salaries that are due to be paid by the Land Commission at the end of the month cannot be paid. 
    
    
      
       Because if there was no special urgency I should enter a protest against taking any Supplementary Estimate in the absence of the Minister responsible for the Department with which it is concerned. We know, owing to reasons of health, that the Minister for Agriculture is not able to be present, and if this is urgent I am not going to stress that point; but as a general principle I think the Dail will agree that we are entitled to ask a number of questions about any Supplementary Estimates, and the Minister for Finance cannot possibly answer them.  I am not going to press that, but there are two or three questions I want to ask.  The first point is that in the last Dail, £169,750 was voted to the Congested Districts Board, and I gather from the Supplementary Estimate that it is not going to be spent.  That was voted &ldquo;Grants in aid of the Expenditure of the Board in carrying out Land Purchase operations and in the development of sea fishing, and all suitable industries in the Congested Districts.&rdquo;  That is on page 154 of the Estimates.  There was no word said when that £169,000 was voted, and there was no indication in these estimates of what we now learn from this Estimate, that £54,000 of that £169,000 was to be spent in salaries; that for every £2 spent in the Congested Districts, the Congested Districts Board spent £1 on salaries.  I cannot help thinking that is somewhat excessive. This is probably a dying act of contrition on the part of the Congested Districts Board, and I hope that in future we shall have a clear idea of what the salaries are, and what it costs the Ministry.  There is a certain inconsistency between what I understand the Minister for Finance to say, and the figures given in the Supplementary Estimate.  As far as I understand, the Minister for Finance said there was a saving of £81,000 on the Development Grant. 
    
    
      
       It was not issued under that head. 
    
     
    
      
       It was not issued under that head, but in the Supplementary Estimate on page 2 the following sum remained unissued from the Exchequer:&mdash;Ireland Development Grant, £10,000&mdash; 
    
    
      
       That was to the Congested Districts Board. 
    
    
      
       And the remaining £71,000 is a sort of floating balance that the Minister has gathered anywhere and everywhere, and is applying to the Congested Districts Board.  Is that the case? 
    
    
      
       No, but the other £81,000 was for excess charges direct on that Board.  The Ireland Development Grant was abolished by the Land Act of 1923.  That is independent of the £10,000. 
    
    
      
       Was that remaining £71,000 in any case to be applied by the Minister for Agriculture? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       Otherwise there would not be a saving, because in a footnote it says it is estimated that out of this total sum of £179,750, £33,000 will probably be spent by the Ministry of Fisheries.  I do not know whether the Minister for Fisheries is making himself responsible for rural industries or not, so that the balance is much less satisfactory than it seems, leaving this £61,000 out of account.  Instead of this being merely a paper transaction, it was, in fact, voting something like £50,000.  If the Minister can give further information about the £81,000, and why it did not appear on the Estimates it would help us.  We are rather at a loss in dealing with the Supplementary Estimate, in which the odd £71,000 is introduced in a way which one does not quite know, and I should be very grateful for information on the matter. 
    
    
      
       Before proceeding, I should like to ask for your ruling on this: is it necessary before these officers can be paid their month's salary that the whole of this sum shall be voted? Would not the same object be achieved without having to close down discussion   on this Vote under penalty of the loss of salary?  Is it not possible to vote some amount which would cover these salaries? 
    
    
      
       That is the sum of £54,000, I take it? 
    
    
      
       For the salaries for the month. 
    
    
      
       I think as it is really a formal Estimate, and there is no voting of new money, the only item that really has increased is this item in connection with the Legal Department.  I think that it would be an unnecessary complication of the matter to have a vote on account. 
    
    
      
       The Minister rather misses the point, that this is an opportunity of criticising the conduct of the Department, and it is not right to prevent it by saying if you do not vote it the staff will lose their salaries.  I say the two objects can be achieved, the staff can get their salaries, and the Dail can criticise the Department if a vote on account is taken. 
    
    
      
       I desire to support the suggestion of Deputy Johnson, and for this reason, that when I first looked at this Estimate I came to the conclusion it would be a suitable opportunity for the Minister for Agriculture to make a statement in connection with the operation of the Land Act up to the present time.  I think we are entitled to demand a statement.  The suggestion by Deputy Johnson would provide a way out of the difficulty for the moment. 
    
    
      
       I am at a loss to see how, if we do not vote any new money, people cannot get their salaries.  How have they been getting their salaries up to the present?  Has it been done without authority from the Dail, and is it a belated repentance? 
    
    
      
       They have been paid out of the original Land Commission Vote which is now exhausted.  The Congested Districts Board services have been transferred to the Land Commission, but the Congested Districts   Board Vote was not transferred to the Land Commission. 
    
    
      
       We are voting new money. 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       I would like to support the suggestion by Deputy Johnson.  There are many questions I would like to ask with regard to the work of the late Congested Districts Board in the West of Ireland, and it would be essential, I think, that an opportunity should be afforded to the Minister for Agriculture to give a full statement.  I think the situation can be met by Deputy Johnson's suggestion. 
    
    
      
       There will be ample opportunity very shortly for members to deal with this whole business. 
    
    
      
       This might be the opportunity we want.  The Minister is not giving anything away by reducing the amount named in his Motion, but he is securing that the salaries shall be paid, and we are securing our rights of criticism. 
    
    
      
       If we say £150,000 on account &mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       But the whole annual salary is only £54,000. 
    
    
      
       There are other expenses. 
    
    
      
       Is it necessary the other expenses shall be paid before the end of the month? 
    
    
      
       I think there will be ample opportunity of discussing this whole matter very soon on the annual Estimates.  I am simply accepting the suggestion of the Vote on Account, in order that it may not be said we are preventing the Deputies having adequate opportunity for discussing this Vote, and consequently I think if I leave any substantial sum over it meets the point. 
    
    
      
       The position as I understand it, is this, that this Vote is now before us.  There is required a sum of £194,370 to carry on till the   end of this Financial Year, which is only four or five weeks distant.  The Dail desires to discuss this Estimate before granting this sum.  The Minister says that unless this is passed to-day the staff will not be able to get their salaries.  I am sure that the Dail does not desire to take any action which will deprive the staff of their salaries.  The Dail will readily vote the amount necessary to pay the salaries, and allow the main question to be discussed when the Minister for Agriculture is present.  That seems to me to be a reasonable proposition. 
    
    
      
       There appeared to be two things which the Deputies in Committee desire.  One is the presence of the Minister for Agriculture during the discussion, and the other is to have a full discussion on anything that may be involved in the whole Estimate. 
    
    
      
       We feel that we cannot authorise the payment of the whole sum unless certain questions are answered satisfactorily. 
    
    
      
       By the Minister for Agriculture preferably? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       I should say that he will probably be able to be present next week.  I would like to point out that this particular vote was previously before the Dail under another heading, and that the Land Act being passed, certain adjustments have to be made. The Dail is really adjusting monies already voted, and an opportunity will be afforded in a month or two in the next Estimate for a discussion such as this.  I think it will be necessary to get a considerable sum voted on account now if we are to agree to that course.  I do not think that a lesser sum than £150,000 should be voted. There could, of course, be a discussion on the administration since the Land Act was passed, but only to that extent. 
    
    
      
       I would like to support the President in his idea regarding this vote.  What we really want is to have an opportunity of discussing what has happened since the passing of the Land Act. 
    
     
    
      
       Could not the Committee agree to give the Minister a substantial sum on account, on the understanding that next week, when the Minister for Agriculture is present, the Estimate for the remaining sum could be presented, and on the discussion of this sum anything which would come within the terms on the Paper could be raised? 
    
    
      
       I understand that that was necessarily involved in voting a sum on account.  Sometimes more than half of an estimate has been voted on account.  Every item on the estimate is gone into when the total has been voted. 
    
    
      
       Of course the Minister forgets that he explained as a reason why this vote should be given this afternoon that unless it is voted the salaries of the staff of this particular department could not be paid.  The salaries will not amount to £150,000, and I take it that the expenditure for a week on this particular work will not amount to that sum.  If that is not the case then we should have had this estimate long ago.  The administration of the department naturally and rightly is subject to review by the Dail when any question of expenditure of money is raised or when power to spend money is sought.  It is not right, I submit, for the Minister to say that this vote must be got this afternoon, because if we do not give it the staffs will not be paid their salaries.  I shall be satisfied if a vote is taken for a sum of money requisite to carry over a reasonable time, and that the estimate shall come forward for discussion at the first opportunity when there will be no closure and no threat that the salaries will be withheld.  The Minister, in replying to Deputy Cooper yesterday, spoke about blackmail, and I think it is very near blackmail when the Minister for Finance comes before the Dail and says that unless we vote this sum to-day we will not be able to pay the staff. 
    
    
      
       I should like to return good for evil, and say that the Minister for Finance is not   the first Minister whom I have heard making that plea as I heard it before in another House.  I suggest that £150,000 is out of proportion, as it is rather more than three-quarters of the estimate.  I would be willing to agree to £100,000, as that would meet all conceivable contingencies.  As to the President's point, this sum was voted when certain members were not here to criticise it, and when the stringency of the financial situation was not as clear as it is now.  There was no talk then of a cut of 10 per cent. in the teachers' salaries, or the old age pensions. We are, therefore, entitled to examine this estimate  de novo  with a view to the financial situation as it now presents itself. 
    
    
      
       I have no objection to a sum of £100,000, but I would point out that you must not base the needs of the moment on the needs of the salaries, because this is not for the Congested Districts Board, but for the Land Commission generally.  The Congested Districts Board has been merged in the Land Commission, but the Land Commission Vote has been used up to pay not only for Land Commission work, but also for the work of the Congested Districts Board. 
    
    
      
       I can quite understand the reasonableness of the Minister's statement, but I would like him to give us a little more light on this saving of £81,000. 
    
    
      
       I did not say that. There was a sum of £81,000 voted under another heading, which is now being voted under this heading.  It was a saving under another heading, but it is being voted under this one. 
    
    
      
       Is not this excess stock provided for by the Sinking Fund in the Land Act, 1903?  In the year 1922 you said you invested a sum towards provision of the excess stock. 
    
    
      
       Could we not decide this question first? 
    
    
      
       A big amount is in question. 
    
    
      
       The question is whether we are going to   take this motion in the terms on the paper, or take a vote on account for a smaller sum.  I take it we are trying to arrange for a vote on account.  The question is, what will the amount be? The Minister is coming down to £100,000.  If there is any chance of arranging the matter we will do it; otherwise we would take the original motion. 
    
    
      
       I had intended to raise two questions, one which I expected the Minister for Agriculture would answer and the other which the Minister for Finance would answer.  I do not want to be shut out from raising the matter for which the Minister for Finance is responsible.  Therefore I shall reserve for myself the lines I will adopt in the debate. 
    
    
      
       It has been made abundantly clear that there is no restriction on the debate so far as it occurs on this Vote.  Whatever sum will be taken in the vote on account, the discussion on the proposal in the paper remains over. 
    
    
      
       We can only debate this amount? 
    
    
      
       No.  If we take a vote on account now, when we are taking the final sum the question of all the items will be in order. I would not shut out discussion now. 
    
    
      
       That was my suggestion, that when the matter comes up again for discussion all the items will be open again. 
    
    
      
       I am prepared to accept £100,000. 
    
    
      
       Is it agreed to have a motion for £100,000, have a discussion on this motion and a further discussion afterwards? 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       Certainly it is.  That is the point. 
    
    
      
       Do we take it that we are going to discuss the question and at some time in the future go over the ground again? 
    
    
      
       There are fifty items   on this sheet.  There might be fifty motions taken on this Vote and the Minister says he wants it this afternoon. We say he is rushing things too much.  So that he will be able to meet his immediate obligations, we will be prepared to take a vote on a certain sum to-day on account, but this is not to prevent us discussing whether any sum is required.  We do not know that yet until the case has been made. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister altering the motion? 
    
    
      
       I move for a Vote of £100,000 on account. 
    
    
      
       The question is that a supplementary sum of £100,000 on account be granted. 
    
    
      
       I desire under the terms of this motion to draw the attention of the Minister for Finance to the treatment that has been meted out to the old C.D.B. officials, who are now merged under the Land Commission.  When the Land Law Commission Bill was passing through the Dail the Minister for Agriculture made a definite promise that the future position of those officials would receive his very serious consideration, and as far as he possibly could that generous treatment would be meted out to those men, who, as was admitted at the time, were deprived of the conditions of service which they were supposed to have when they first entered the service of the old C.D.B.  I understand that the Minister for Finance is primarily responsible for the delay in connection with giving effect to that promise. 
    
     I want as briefly as I can to put the position so that he may, before this Vote is passed, give us some satisfactory explanation as to why the promise made at that time was not carried out, and further why the circular issued in November from his own department has not yet been put into operation.  I understand the position as a result of the amalgamation of the C.D.B. with the Land Commission is that many clerks doing higher grade work in the old C.D.B. have now come in with their status lowered, and have to accept instructions from men who were lower than they were when they were previously   employed in the old Congested Districts Board.  Further, there are two or three cases at least where the old C.D.B. officials are doing higher grade work and are not getting paid the rate which attaches to that position. I am only instancing these cases to show the position in which these men are as a result of the failure of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Finance to carry out promises that have been made as far back as June last.  A scheme that has been outlined under the terms of the circular issued by the Minister for Finance in November last gives certain promises and certain new conditions as a result of the amalgamation of the two departments. The net result as far as one can judge is that the maximum amount of increase is £20.  I do not know whether the Minister for Finance will contend that this is the limit which was in the mind of the Minister for Agriculture when he promised them serious consideration and generous treatment.  Although the Minister for Finance is really responsible for holding up the operation of the circular I have referred to, it is very peculiar that his own department is also responsible for imposing what might be looked upon as a very unfair burden upon men who have been working under conditions and at rates below those which they were entitled to as servants of the old C.D.B.  A great many of the old C.D.B. clerks joined up in the European War, and those who were left were obliged to work overtime.  As payment for the increased work their salary was increased, but their liability to income tax was also increased.  As a result of the failure of the Revenue Commissioners to collect the income tax during the Anglo-Irish war considerable arrears were due by about thirty-five officials.  I understand the amount due was £1,700 by these officials.  The Minister for Finance is responsible for the issuing of the order, the result of which is that men drawing salaries of £20 to £25 per month are obliged to pay up arrears to the extent of an amount ranging from £3 to £7 10s. per month. Many men are compelled, as a result of this order, to pay out of their salaries   income tax arrears to the extent of thirty-five per cent. of their salaries.  I think this is very unfair.  The Minister for Finance is responsible, especially for holding up the terms of the circular, which was issued last November, and which indicated an improvement in the position of these men. 
     I ask the Minister to explain why the terms of the circular have not been carried out up to the present, and to say if this vote on account or the full vote includes the amount necessary to pay what is due under the terms of the Minister's promise and the circular which I have referred to. 
    
      
       I would like to extract from the Ministry their ideas as to the compounded arrears of rent which will be the subject of writs very shortly all over the country.  Although the Land Act specified that only a half-year of the three years' arrears which were due was to be added to the purchase money, we feel that if the other one-and-a-half years' arrears is sought to be extracted from the tenants they will not be able to pay and that the Temporary Bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs will be in operation very shortly.  One would like to hear if there was anything in the mind of the Ministry as to adding that one-and-a-half years' arrears on to the annuities so as to enable the tenants to meet a very difficult situation.  Otherwise owing to the circumstances of the industry it will be impossible for the tenants to pay.  If we had the Minister for Agriculture here we would probably be able to have a considered opinion on the matter, which is a very pressing one.  However much we may regret the opposition of farmers to the Land Act passed last year, the necessities of the case are very urgent as the Land Commission will never be able to recover the one-and-a-half years' arrears which will become due and payable before the Appointed Day.  Will the Minister also give some explanation in regard to this excess stock?  As I understand it the Sinking Fund under the 1903 Act, according to a reply that I got to a question, has been invested as follows:&mdash;£700,000 went towards actual   fresh advances and £114,000 was applied for the purchase of excess stock during the year ending 1922.  Am I to understand that the excess stock which is paid for by the tenants is, in addition to this £106,667, in the revised estimate? 
    
    
      
       Yes.  The £81,000 to which I referred is part of the amount that you will see on page 53 of the Estimates in the Ireland Development Grant, where there was a sum of £134,500 provided.  Of that £81,167 had not been used when this particular Development Grant disappeared with the passing of the Land Act. 
    
    
      
       It is merely a book entry? 
    
    
      
       It is a re-issue of part of the Vote of £134,500. 
    
    
      
       The amount of excess Stock which has to be met every year would be the sum of £134,500, plus £114,000 derived from the Sinking Fund of the Land Act of 1903? 
    
    
      
       Yes.  There has to be this provision.  The amount charged on the tenants does not cover the whole charge.  There has to be this contribution from the State year by year to meet the excess Stock charges. 
    
    
      
       Doles to farmers, I suppose. 
    
    
      
       It is a legacy from our past legislators.  It is not our business. Will this £700,000 which you are taking from the Sinking Fund in fresh cash advances ever stop?  Last year you have taken £700,000 off this Sinking Fund for fresh cash advances under the 1903 Act.  Does not that stop now with the introduction of the new Land Act? 
    
    
      
       There are certain cases outstanding which have not been completed.  I take it that is for the purpose of agreement and nothing more.  I do not know at what date you can say we will have done with the 1903 Act. 
    
    
      
       Will the whole sum for the excess Stock come from the   money provided by the 1903 Act?  That is what I want to get at. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid I could not answer that at the moment. 
    
    
      
       If I correctly understand the question it is: when we come to a period when there are no more advances to be made what then becomes of the Sinking Fund?  The Sinking Fund will be used for extinguishing the Stock. 
    
    
      
       Yes, but the Sinking Fund under the provisions of the 1903 Act is supposed to be invested at 23⁄4 per cent.  Now you can get 5 per cent. for the money.  We contend that if you can invest at 5 per cent. the Stock should be extinguished long before 68 years and you should either extend the period or reduce the annuities under the 1903 Act. 
    
    
      
       The Deputy is getting into deep water there.  The fact that you invest in stock at 23⁄4 per cent. does not postulate that you put £100 into it at 23⁄4 per cent.  It simply means that you put it into a security which has a nominal value of 23⁄4 per cent., but the actual value of it is much nearer 5 or 51⁄4 or 51⁄2 per cent.  Then perhaps the security that you would invest in will not give you a cast-iron guarantee that it will be at 5 per cent. when you have floated it on the market in order to take up all the outstanding Stock. Let us say that in 40 or 50 years' time one has £50,000,000 of security the value of which at present is at par, 5 per cent.  We do not know what value that will have in 50 years' time. It might be only worth 75 per cent. of that, if money gets dearer.  In any case it would be unwise to have a very considerable sum of money in a security other than the one that you want to extinguish. It is much better business to extinguish the particular one itself because it is appreciating in value or it will appreciate in value when coming towards its end.  If you purchase now at £60 or £65 you are buying in what people paid £80 or £90 or £100 for. 
    
    
      
       Will the result of that Stock Exchange transaction mean that the tenants will get rid of their   liabilities at an earlier date?  That is the point we have in mind. 
    
    
      
       I should say not. It comes to this &mdash; I do not know whether the Deputy will subscribe to it or not &mdash; that the tenants' liability at present is covered by something like £2,000,000 per annum, but the actual liability which has to be borne in respect of that service is nearer £3,000,000 per annum.  Excess Stock, bonus Stock, and other impedimenta of that sort have to come in, and no matter how good the bargain is, I fail to see, if I have any knowledge of finance, a likelihood of extinguishing the Stock that is due for settlement at an earlier date than the 681⁄2 years, or whatever time it is.  I am not exactly what one would call an absolutely uninterested party in this matter. 
    
    
      
       I do not want to be troublesome.  The financial clauses of that particular Act were based on the sinking fund being invested at 23⁄4 per cent. 
    
    
      
       At a time when money was cheaper than now. 
    
    
      
       That sinking fund, if now invested at 5 per cent., to my mind ought to postulate the paying off of the debt in a quicker time than if it had been, as originally intended, invested all the time at 23⁄4 per cent. 
    
    
      
       I will put it in another way.  Housing schemes by local authorities reach their payment at a certain period, but that does not mean that the tenants have met all their liabilities during the period.  In other words, the rates have been called on to contribute to such housing schemes a very considerable sum.  In this year's estimate I think you will find in one place a sum of £200,000 down as a provisional agreement in respect of excess and bonus Stock, pending the ultimate financial adjustment.  I am sure it will not be contended that the £200,000 we subscribe now should go in, in addition, to enable these people to take up their liabilities at an earlier date.  They can at this moment extinguish their liabilities at sometihng like 5 per cent, purchase if they are so desirous. 
    
     
    
      
       I think Deputy Wilson's point is a fair one all the same. He postulates favourable conditions for the Sinking Fund when the time comes to extinguish the Stock.  We all know that on all sinking funds what he refers to operates right through.  In many cases, in the past, there have been times when, owing to the fall in the value of Stock represented by the sinking fund, companies and others had to get an extension of time.  I instance particularly the Dublin Steam Packet Company.  They had to go to Parliament and get some years added on to the life of the sinking fund on account of the loss in the value of Stock when it comes to be sold.  One would assume, in this particular case, that towards the end of the time there may be a profit or a loss.  In other words, the sums invested may produce the value of the money as represented by stock sooner than was anticipated, or, on the other hand, it may extend over a longer period.  To answer Deputy Wilson's point one would have to prophesy over a period which is very far ahead yet, and sum up the situation as it will be at a particular date many years hence. I think Deputy Wilson ought not to ask for a prophecy in this matter at the moment.  Possibly the sinking fund is operating favourably now, but ten years hence it may have the opposite effect.  It covers so many years that I do not think he could get a very satisfactory answer to his question now. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister be prepared to say something now about compounded arrears? 
    
    
      
       I think it would be better to leave that over for the Minister for Agriculture.  We could take it next week. 
    
    
      
       Has the Minister anything to say with regard to the point raised by Deputy Davin? 
    
    
      
       I am not sure at the moment how the reorganisation of the staff stands.  I know that it was gone into very carefully with a view to seeing what could be done for the staff, and what grades they were fitted for. It was felt in present circumstances it would not be possible to give the big   jump which a number of the staff ex pected on re-organisation.  At any rate a great number of them in the various grades had been at their maximum and had no prospect of going further.  I do not know if the thing is gone through yet, but while they might only get a comparatively small increase they were placed on a scale where they had a prospect that they would never have if the C.D.B. had continued.  I think the staff have been reasonably dealt with.  In other circumstances they might have got some increases they have not got, but certainly they have been equitably dealt with in the matter of grading.  Those who were able to do work of the Executive grade were put in that grade, and the others were put in the clerical grade, regard of course being paid to the total numbers of the staff being transferred from the Congested Districts Board to the Land Commission.  Regard was had to the total number of men being dealt with when selections were being made, according to the work they had been doing and the ability they showed for Executive grade.  At the moment I do not know the cause of the delay in carrying through the re-organisation of the staff.  As far as I know, there will be no further delay on the part of the Finance Department.  It is now, I think, merely a matter of actually dealing with the personnel by the Land Commission. 
    
    
      
       Can the Minister say anything about the order that has been made by him in connection with the collection of arrears of income tax?  Is there any hope of a modification of that order so that the money could be paid over an extended period?  I think the Minister will agree that it is a hardship that 35 per cent. of a man's salary should be deducted to make up arrears of income tax. 
    
    
      
       I think the individual circumstances will have to be considered. Thirty-five per cent. may be very much easier on a single man than 10 per cent. on men with family responsibilities. 
    
    
      
       They are nearly all married men. 
    
     
    
      
       There may be other circumstances to be taken into account. I know that when a hard case crops up in connection with any pressure for the recovery of income tax a genuine case will always receive consideration as to time.  I could not give any general promise, but I will have enquiry made into the matter and see if some modification of the kind should be given. 
    
    
      
       I just want to say that representations were made by some individuals, but no answer was given. In view of the Minister's promise to reconsider any hard cases I think we might leave it at that. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       When will the rest of the Vote be taken? 
    
    
      
       We will leave that over.  There is no use taking it until we have the Minister for Agriculture here.  I think it might be put on the Order Paper for the first day the Dail meets next week.  It can be postponed if the Minister is not present. 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     DAIL RESUMES. - RESOLUTION REPORTED. 
     Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in this resolution,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - EXPENSES ARISING OUT OF OLD AGE PENSIONS AND BLIND PERSONS ACTS. 
    
      
       I move this resolution which is a formal resolution, as it is not contemplated in the Act to make any additional charge on the Exchequer:&mdash; 
       Chun criche aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun Achtanna na bPinsean Sean-Aoise 1908 go 1919, agus Acht na nDall, 1920, do leasu maidir leis an rata ar a bhfuil pinsin inioctha futha agus maidir le nithe eile leis, go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfar amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas aon chostaisi fe n-a raghfar in ioc pinsean fen Acht san. 
    
     
        That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to amend the Old Age Pension Acts, 1908 to 1919, and the Blind Persons Act, 1920, in respect of the rates at which pensions are payable thereunder, and also in certain other respects, it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of any expenses incurred in the payment of pensions under such Act. 
    
      
       I take it the effect of not passing this resolution would be that the present rates of pensions would remain.  I am curious to know what the need for this resolution is, inasmuch as it is a reduction, and not the imposition of a new charge.  I would like to have guidance as to whether a refusal to pass this motion would affect, to any extent whatever, the payment of present pensions. 
    
    
      
       Whether a refusal to pass this motion would make it impossible to pay the present pensions? 
    
    
      
       Would it make any difference in the payment of present pensions? 
    
    
      
       It seems to me to be a legal question. 
    
    
      
       I take it refusal of the Committee to pass this motion would not affect pensions.  Inasmuch as I consider the proposal to pass an Act restricting old age pensions in the way that has been proposed is impolitic and not for the welfare of the community, I intend to oppose this motion. 
    
     The case that is made for the Bill is that a sum, first of £300,000, and lastly of £500,000 is required to be saved. And therefore it is intended that an enactment shall be passed which would deprive the pensioners of their present rates of pensions and substitute a lower rate of pensions.  I think that is impolitic. I think it is not serving the best interests of the State.  We see that while we are engaged in these operations of reducing the rates of pensions to the aged and the blind, in other countries adjacent the proposal is to remove the limitations that are at present operating, and to remove   such penalisation of thrift as is proposed in the Bill that has been under discussion and for which this motion is proposed.  The very fact that we are going in a retrograde direction while in Britain they are going forward in this matter is an added reason why we should hesitate.  The Minister, in his last speech on the Bill, tried to reassure the Dail that the pensioners over the Border in the Northern Area were too patriotic to be swayed by any considerations of the height of their pensions, and that no matter what may happen to their pensions they would still desire to retain their citizenship in the Free State, or to come into the citizenship of the Free State however it might befall them.  I suggest to the Dail that it is not wise to try that experiment too far. 
     There are quite a number of tendencies showing themselves in the proposals from the Ministerial benches to urge the deprivation of many of the reforms that have been passed in recent years benefiting the poorer classes of the community &mdash; a deprivation within the Free State area, and, as I believe, a prospect of an enhancement and an improvement in the Northern area, following similar improvements and enhancements in England.  I say it is unwise to try too much the patriotic feelings and sentiments of the aged or of those who are about to enter into the years of pension.  And the effect of this kind of legislation is not to be thought of simply in regard to the persons themselves who are affected, but in regard to all those who are in touch with such persons. 
     If the masses of the people in Northern Ireland look upon the tendency of legislation in the Saorstat and compare it with the tendency of legislation in their own area and across the water, they say &ldquo;to come into the Free State is a deprivation of the present benefits of ameliorative legislation, and we prefer to remain in the position of advantage that we at present are in.&rdquo; Every one who spoke to the masses, as they have been called, in respect to independence in advocating changes in the political relations of these countries, put it to those masses that it would mean a chance of development and a   chance of exercising their capacity for citizenship; to develop the country as a whole and the individuals in the country.  Nine out of ten people believed that it would mean material improvement for the poor and that we would be saved from those excessive differences between the wealthy on the one hand and object poverty on the other hand. But what are we finding?  We are finding in this Bill that is proposed that the tendency is to be the other way. We are asked in the same speech from the Minister to take from the pensions enjoyed by the poor and to prophecy that there will be a reduction in the income tax of the rich. 
    
      
       Might I point out that the Deputy is exaggerating when he talks of prophecies. 
    
    
      
       The person who has gone through the National Schools is able to read the Minister's statement. If he says now that he did not intend to assure the income tax payers that there would be a reduction in the rates of income tax, well we can take his word for it.  But whether he intends that there shall be a reduction in the coming Budget or not, he certainly made it clear that it might mean an increase in the revenue to reduce the rate of income tax inasmuch as there would be a larger sum to call upon.  And if that is not a prophecy it is prophecy's   first brother.  At any rate it indicates what is running in the mind of the Government:&mdash; That is to take from the poor and to give it to the rich.  I say that tendency embodied in legislation is impolitic and not for the welfare of this State, because it is not for the welfare of the great masses of the people of the State.  Further I say that it will inevitably detract from the chance that our friends in the North will unite politically as in every other way with the country.  I say that our true policy should be in exactly the opposite direction. We should endeavour to embody in administration and in legislation measures which will show to the masses in the North that they will be better off within the Saorstat and under the jurisdiction of the Oireachtas than they would be under a separate Parliament and under a separate Government. 
       I submit to the Minister and to the Dail that having that in view, if nothing else will appeal to the Dail than that political advantage which would come from unity, they should refuse to pass a Bill which would have a distinctly opposite effect, and which would tend to widen the difference between the Free State and Northern Ireland.  In view of these considerations, I ask the Dail to reject this motion. 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 45; Nil, 12. 
    
     
       
        Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan Altuin. Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. John J. Cole. Bryan R. Cooper. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Patrick J. Egan. Osmonde Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. William Hewat. Connor Hogan. Alasdair Mac Caba. Domhnall Mac Carthaigh. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Padraig Mac Giollagain. Sean P. Mac Giobuin. Risteard Mac Liam. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. 
             Liam Mac Sioghaird. Liam Mac Aonghusa. Seosamh Mag Craith. Patrick J. Mulvany. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Aodh O Cinneide. Proinsias O Cathail. Seamus N. Dolain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Eamon S. O Dugain. Micheal R. O hIfearnain. Aindriu O Laimhin. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraig O Maille. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             David Hall. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Ailfrid O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Sean O Laidhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). 
           
         
       
     
     Motion declared carried. 
     Resolution ordered to be reported. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported. 
    
      
       I move &ldquo;That the Dail agrees with the Committee in the said resolution.&rdquo; 
       Question put and declared carried. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - PUBLIC SAFETY (PUNISHMENT OF OFFENCES) TEMPORARY BILL, 1924.   THIRD STAGE (RESUMED). 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Sections 2 to 11, inclusive, put and agreed to. 
     SCHEDULE. 
    
      
       We will take the Schedule in two parts.  The question is: &ldquo;That Part I. stand part of the Schedule.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I just want to ask a question before we pass this Bill, which has been going through so rapidly.  Some time ago I raised a question with the Minister for Defence concerning some prisoners, and his reply was that if these prisoners gave two solvent securities and signed an undertaking they could be released.  In a supplementary question I asked the Minister for Defence whether in that case they would have forfeited their rights to the land, and I was told this was a question for the Minister for Home Affairs.  Perhaps he would answer me now. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid the Minister for Home Affairs would be more out of order than the Deputy if he replied. 
    
    
      
       Well, in the silence preserved by the Minister I presume I can proceed. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid not.  The Deputy cannot proceed at this stage.  This is Part I. of the Schedule to the Bill, and there is nothing about prisoners or land or anything of that kind in it. 
    
    
      
       I was afraid you would   rule me out of order, so I have said what I wanted to say already. 
    
    
      
       Before passing this part of the Schedule, I would like to raise again the question I raised on Section 1 regarding the inclusiveness of paragraph (2) of Part I., and to try and find out from the Minister whether he has been able to give any consideration since last night to that paragraph: &ldquo;Unlawfully inducing or attempting to induce any officer of the Government of Saorstat Eireann to refuse, neglect or omit to discharge his duty as such officer.&rdquo;  Part I. of the Schedule is obviously intended to constitute a major offence because the punishment which the Court is empowered to inflict for either of these offences is penal servitude for life, and in its present form it will depend entirely upon the discretion of the Minister and his Department, or the officers of his Department, as to whether an offender is to be prosecuted under this Act, or any other Act, and it leaves to his discretion, and to the discretion of the judge, whether the officer referred to in the Section is to be an officer of responsibility whose offence would be a very grave danger to the State, or a minor officer, whose offence would be of very little importance. 
    
     I think it is unwise of the legislature to make suggestions to a judge or to give a lead as to its opinions in this way, that an officer of State, no matter what his offence may be, no matter how high or low his status may be if he is an officer of State to unlawfully induce such officer to neglect to discharge his duties is a major offence. Certainly that would be the effect if this Section is passed in its present form.  Unless we are able to define the officer and the kind of officer intended in this Schedule whose neglect of duty would inflict peril and danger upon the State; unless we can define such officer we are acting unwisely in passing this Schedule.  It will not be contended, I think, that neglecting his duty on the part, as I said last night, of a Customs' official, postal servant, or doorkeeper of the Dail or any other minor officer or that any attempt to induce such officer to neglect or to omit to discharge his duty is such an offence as   would warrant prosecution under Section 1; and if we passed the Schedule in its present form we are leaving a discretion in the matter to the police authorities and to the judges.  I think that when you are passing special emergency legislation and fixing certain penalties for certain offences it may be taken, and quite rightly taken, by the courts that the legislature desired to place these hitherto minor offences in the category of major offences, and consequently we ought to be very careful before passing this paragraph of this Schedule to define the class of officer of the Government whom we have in mind. I would ask the Minister if he has anything to say further to what he said last night before we take a vote on this. 
    
      
       The Schedule to this Bill is divided into two parts, and it will be noticed that Part I. deals with a challenge to the State as such, and Part II. deals for the most part with offences as between citizen and citizen, a challenge to individual rights.  That is one broad case of distinction as between the two portions of the Schedule.  Keeping in mind the fact that Part I. of the Schedule is intended to cover the offence of a challenge to the fabric of the State, it is clear that paragraph II. of that portion of the Schedule will, in fact and in practice, apply only to an attempt to reduce the administration of the State to impotence by terrorising or suborning its officials.  There are two means by which you can challenge and by which you may possibly overthrow a State.  One is the open physical challenge all along the line, and the other is to sap and undermine, as it were, to reduce it to impotence by the terrorising or suborning of particular officials. There are certain cogs in the machinery, certain wheels which, if they can be kept a sufficiently long time from functioning, will bring about a general collapse.  This form of challenge is not unknown to us.  As I say, in certain areas attempts have been made to terrorise public officials from the performance of their duties, whether it be State Solicitors or Under-Sheriffs or District Justices. 
    
     But there would be a distinction, and it should be remembered that no   criminal prosecution can be brought without the  fiat  of the Attorney-General, and each case would have to be taken simply on its merits.  A particular incident might amount to no more than a common assault.  An incident roughly similar might be held to constitute a sufficient case for a formal indictment on a criminal charge under this part of the Schedule to the Bill. It would depend upon the attendant circumstances.  Much would depend upon the motive underlying the offence, and certainly this portion of the Schedule would not be used except the Government and the appropriate officer of the Government, the Attorney-General, was satisfied that the offence constituted a deliberate challenge to the State fabric and a deliberate attempt to reduce to impotence the machinery of that administration. It is for those reasons that I feel myself unable to agree to the suggestion that this portion of the Schedule should be confined to officers of the disciplined forces of the State, officers of the army or police forces.  A very real and definite injury might be worked to the State by concentrating on other officials &mdash; civil officials &mdash; and endeavouring to prevent them from discharging their proper duties to the public. 
     I think what I have said ought sufficiently to meet the Deputy's point of view.  No right can be interfered with by this portion of the Schedule, because the offence is &ldquo;unlawfully inducing, or attempting to induce, any officer of the Government of Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; and so on, and the fact that no criminal prosecution can be taken without the express  fiat  of the Attorney-General acting on behalf of the Government ought to be a sufficient guarantee that the Section would not be availed of to cover offences of a trivial or minor nature, or to cover offences which had no other underlying motive than a deliberate challenge to State administration. 
    
      
       The Minister has told us what he desires, and I can quite understand and appreciate it, but unfortunately the Schedule as it reads does not embody the Minister's desire,   and equally unfortunately for his argument when the judges come to administer the law they do not read the Minister's speeches or weigh up his intentions. They are presumed to take the Act under which the prosecution is brought, and are presumed to act on the law as embodied in the Act of the Oireachtas.  If the Bill passes in its present form, any Attorney-General who may be in office within the next twelve months may say that an offence which the Dail would consider a minor offence is a major one.  If so, and a prosecution was entered, the judge would be quite right in thinking that the intention of the legislature was to make any offence under Sub-Section 2 a major one punishable by the penalties in Section I.  To embody the desires and intention of the Minister some connecting phrase of this kind would probably suffice.  &ldquo;In furtherance of an attempt to overthrow the established form of Government any attempt to unlawfully induce an officer&rdquo; would come under this Schedule.  If the intention of the Minister is only to make Sub-Section 2 to apply to an attempt at suborning or preventing an officer of the State from carrying on his duties in furtherance of any activities against the established form of Government, then let us say that.  It is not beyond the powers of the draftsmen to embody such a statement in the Section, but as it stands it will appear that the intention of the legislature is to bring within this category of major offences any attempt on the part of any citizen unlawfully to induce any officer to neglect his duty.  That is not the intention of the Minister, as he has explained, but it is the meaning of the Section whatever his intentions might be, and I would urge him to embody his meaning in the Section.  He has explained it here quite clearly, and therefore he can explain it in the Section, and very few words would do it. 
       Ordered that progress be reported. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - THE DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported.  Committee to sit again on Wednesday. 
     The Dail adjourned at 4 p.m. until 3 o'clock on Wednesday. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - GLENGARRIFFE (CORK) HOTEL CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether any   award has yet been made by the Shaw Commission on the claim of Mrs. Hannah M. O'Sullivan, Glen Hotel, Glengarriffe, Co. Cork, for damages to house and goods, owing to an attack on the house by British Forces in August, 1920, and whether, if an award has been made, payment will be expedited. 
    
    
      
       No award in the case referred to by the Deputy has yet been received from the Compensation Committee. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TYRELLSPASS (WESTMEATH) CATTLE SEIZURE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs if, and when, compensation will be paid to Bernard Flanagan, Tore, Tyrellspass, for 18 cattle seized by Military on the 22nd February, 1923, for trespass on the lands of Tore; whether the cattle belonging to other persons seized that day were returned to the owners on payment of the amount demanded for trespass, and whether settlement in this case on the same basis as the others can now be made. 
    
    
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my reply to two previous questions to-day in reference to seizures of stock by Military. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ARMY ACCOUNT (DUNMANWAY). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will order payment of an account of £56 due to Daniel McCarthy, Dunmanway, for repairs to military motors and accessories supplied. 
    
    
      
       An account for only £46 2s. 3d. has been received from Mr. McCarthy.  It will be settled in a few days. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ARMY PETROL SUPPLIES (DUNMANWAY). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence when payment of an account of £30 for petrol supplied to the National Army at Dunmanway will be made to Eugene Daly, Dunmanway. 
    
     
    
      
       Payment will be made to Mr. Daly in a few days. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BILLETING ACCOUNT (BALLINEEN, CORK). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether payment of a billeting account of £19 odd will be expedited in the case of Patrick Donovan, Ballineen, Co. Cork. 
    
    
      
       It is regretted that Mr. Donovan's account cannot be traced at Headquarters. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - REPAIRS TO MILITARY CYCLE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state when payment of an account of £35 odd for repairs to military cycles will be made to Felix O'Neill, of Dunmanway, Co. Cork. 
    
    
      
       Mr. O'Neill's accounts are under investigation, and their settlement will be effected as soon as possible. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CLAIM AGAINST MILITARY AUTHORITIES (DRIMOLEAGUE). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will expedite payment of two accounts, one for loss of a motor car commandeered, and the second for billeting, due to Mr. Paul S. Kingston, Drimoleague, Co. Cork. 
    
    
      
       A payable order for £130 in respect of a commandeered car was forwarded to Mr. Kingston on the 23rd instant. 
       Accounts for billeting from August to December, 1922, have been paid.  A supplementary account has recently been received, and is under consideration with a view to early settlement. 
    
   
 