 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Leas-Cheann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 p. m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PERMANENT ACCOMMODATION FOR OIREACHTAS. 
    
      
       asked the President whether it is proposed to appoint a new Committee to consider the question of permanent accommodation? 
    
    
      
       At a very early date I intend to make a motion in the House regarding the question of permanent accommodation? for the Oireachtas. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOYNES HARBOUR BOARD. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state under what Act the Foynes Harbour Board is constituted; whether the Act is a private or public one; whether the annual accounts of this Board for the year 1922 have been received by him; whether the constitution of this Board is being considered amongst others by his Department with a view to a change in the method of election of its members? 
    
    
      
       Foynes Harbour was transferred by the Commissioners of Public Works to the Foynes Harbour Trustees under the Shannon Act of 1885, which is a public Act, and the harbour has since been controlled by trustees.  The annual accounts for the year 1922 have been received. 
    
     The constitution of the governing authority of this and some of the other   Shannon harbours is different from that of the harbours generally in An Saorstat, but in any review of the position of harbour authorities which may be undertaken, the Shannon Harbours will be included. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOUSING OF IRISH MIGRATORY WORKERS IN SCOTLAND. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs if he will inquire into the alleged disgraceful housing of Irish migratory workers in Scotland, and if he will state whether he is in a position to do anything with a view to improving the accommodation provided for those men and women? 
    
    
      
       I shall be glad to make inquiries into any cases of disgraceful housing of Irish migratory labourers in Scotland in any case in which I receive detailed information, and to make representations if it appears that the by-laws regulating such housing in Scotland are not adhered to. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DROMBANNA CO-OPERATIVE CREAMERY AWARD. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the cause of the delay in payment of the recommendation to the amount of £1,050, with interest, of the Shaw Commission assessors, Messrs. Barron and McAuley, to the Drombanna Co-operative Creamery for the burning of their Auxiliary Creamery at Killonan on 14th April, 1920; whether he is aware this amount was agreed to by the Society? 
    
    
      
       The award to which the Deputy refers had not yet been notified to the Compensation Section of the Ministry, and the question of payment does not therefore arise. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WINES AND SPIRITS IN BOND. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance on what date the first monthly return of wines and spirits in bond which was promised by him on November 22nd, 1923, will be issued? 
    
    
      
       The first monthly return, showing the quantities of spirits   and wines in bonded warehouses on 30th November, 1923, appeared in &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; on the 11th instant, and the return for December appeared in today's issue (15th instant).  In future the returns will be published in the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; as soon as possible after the end of each month. 
       Extracts from the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil,&rdquo; giving the returns, may be obtained from the Clerk of the Dail. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INCOME TAXPAYERS IN SAORSTAT AND THE DOMINIONS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that previous to the establishment of Saorstat Eireann, income taxpayers in Ireland were entitled to certain relief in respect of a similar tax paid by them in the Dominions; and whether it is intended to continue such, or substitute other, relief as between Saorstat Eireann and the Dominions? 
    
    
      
       I am aware that a measure of relief from the Income Tax of the late United Kingdom was granted in respect of Income Tax paid in any of the Overseas Dominions on the same source of income.  This relief was granted irrespective of any reciprocal treatment on the part of the Overseas Dominions.  It is obvious that the Saorstat could not continue to grant relief on this basis, and for 1923-24 and subsequent years the Saorstat grants double Income Tax relief in respect of British Income Tax, but not in respect of Dominion or Colonial Income Tax. 
       The granting of relief in respect of Dominion Income Tax would involve effecting a reciprocal arrangement with each of the Overseas Dominions separately, and, as at present advised, I do not consider it either necessary or desirable to endeavour to effect such arrangements. 
    
    
      
       Is the Minister aware this inflicts a great deal of hardship on some individuals who have property in Australia and South Africa? Will he not reconsider the desirability of dealing with the various Dominions on a reciprocal basis? 
    
     
    
      
       I am always open to reconsider the matter on fresh information being available, but it affects very few people, and there are few, if any, cases in which a change could not be made from the Dominion investments to other investments without great loss. 
    
    
      
       It is not only a case of investments, is the Minister aware, but also landed property, and so on, in Australia which a certain number of people possess. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LATE I.R.A. CAPTAIN.   SHOT BY BRITISH FORCES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if compensation will be allowed to the sisters of the late Captain Patrick Seery, O/C Offaly Brigade I.R.A., of Cloneyhigue, Ballinafore, Co. Westmeath, who was shot by British Forces at Clara on 2nd June, 1920, and who subsequently died of wounds in Mercer's Hospital, Dublin, on the 2nd September followings 
    
    
      
       A claim when made on the appropriate form which is being sent to the applicant will be considered under the provisions of the Army Pensions Act, 1923. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RETURN OF SPORTING GUN (DUN LAOGHAIRE). 
    
      
       asked the minister for Defence whether an application has been received from Mr. E. Lanphier, of Dun Laoghaire, for the return of a sporting gun handed over to the British Authorities, and now a Island Bridge Barracks; whether he can state the date of this application, and whether the issue of the gun can be expedited. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Lanphier's application was dated the 5th October last.  Owing to inaccuracy in records the gun could not be identified until recently, when it was accidentally found registered under the name of &ldquo;Phampier.&rdquo;  The gun will be returned to Mr. Lanphier on production of the receipt given by the British Authorities and the usual police permit. 
    
     
    
      
       Is the Minister aware there are a good many complaints about the difficulty of getting guns from Island Bridge, and will he look into the matter? 
    
    
      
       The matter of dealing with the guns left us by the British at Island Bridge has had very serious and constant consideration from us.  There is a very big mass of weapons there, and the records left us in connection with those weapons are anything but satisfactory.  Every effort is being made to deal with a very intricate and difficult matter.  Personally I feel that a very great mistake has been made in accepting those weapons and those records. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SETTLEMENT OF COROFIN (CLARE) ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if payment of the claim of Mr. William Edwards, Corofin, Co. Clare, will be expedited, and when the settlement of same will take place. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Edwards claim is being paid forthwith. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA-QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ENNIS ACCOUNTS AGAINST MILITARY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state the reason of the abnormal delay in paying the accounts of Messrs. Wm. Meehan and Joseph Kerin, Ennis; whether he is aware that the account of the first-named person has accrued since August, 1921, and that of the latter individual since December, 1922, and if he can state when Payments will be made. 
    
    
      
       The delay in settling the accounts of Messrs.  Meehan and Kerin is regretted.  Difficulties due to the conditions which have Prevailed have hindered necessary investigation, which is being pursued. 
    
   
   
     PRIVATE NOTICE QUESTION. - REFERENCE TO IRISH LAND ACT IN BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 
    
      
       I desire to ask the Minister for Finance whether his attention has been called to a passage in a speech delivered to the members of the British House of Commons to-day in which the following words occur:&mdash;&ldquo;Measures will be laid before you to guarantee the principal and interest of bonds issued by the Government of the Irish Free State under the Land Act recently passed in that Dominion,&rdquo; and whether he clear make any explanation as to what that means? 
    
    
      
       I Have asked the Minister for Agriculture to answer this question, as the arrangements were made before I became Minister for Finance,   and the Minister for Agriculture was more intimately associated with it. 
    
    
      
       I have an extract from the speech, which I will read.  &ldquo;Measures will be laid before you to complete land purchase.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Who made the speech? 
    
    
      
       It was delivered from the Throne in the English House of Commons. 
    
    
      
       It is the King's speech in the English House of Commons which the Deputy refers to. 
    
    
      
       We should have plain language, and let it be said it is the King's speech. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Johnson stated that. 
    
    
      
       I am not clear whether the Deputy is lecturing me or Deputy Johnson. 
    
     
    
      
       When, a question is asked we should know what it has reference to. 
    
    
      
       The position in regard to this is, I understand, that during the discussions on the Treaty before the Treaty was signed the English Government of that day stated they were willing to acknowledge obligations in helping to complete land purchase if the Irish Government wished to accept any assistance.  Since then the English Government has on various occasions, both before and after the Land Act passed, offered to guarantee the bonds, and within the last month that offer has been accepted.  That, I take it, is the meaning of that. 
    
    
      
       I beg to give notice that I shall draw attention to this matter on the adjournment with a view to getting a little further information. 
    
    
      
       I may say, at this stage, that nothing further has been done than I have just stated.  The offer has been made and accepted. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL EIREANN LOANS AND FUNDS BILL: MONEY RESOLUTION.   MOTION BY MINISTER FOR FINANCE. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Chun criche aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun foralacha do dheanamh chun deighleal le maoin Chead Dhail Eireann agus Dhara Dhail Eireann agus chun na hiasachtai a bhunuigh an Chead Dhail Eireann agus an Dara Dail Eireann agus na fiachaisi ata ortha d'fhuascailt no d'ioc, go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru, 
             That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to make provision for the disposal of the property of the First Dail Eireann and the Second Dail Eireann and for the redemption or discharge of the loans floated by and the liabilities of the First Dail Eireann and the Second Dail Eireann it is expedient to authorise, 
           
         
         
           
             (a) go gcuirfar ar an bPrimhChiste muirear an mheide is inioctha mar gheall ar Chairteacha Coigiltis agus Cairteacha Stuic a tabharfar amach chun na hiasachtai roimhraite d'fhuascailt agus muirear na gcostaisi fe n-a raghfar chun na Cairteacha san do thabhairt amac agus d'fhuascailt, 
             (a) the charge upon the Central Fund of the amount payable in respect of Savings Certificates and Stock Certificates issued for the purpose of the redemption of the aforesaid Loans, and of the expenses incurred in connection with the issue and redemption of such Certificates; 
           
           
             
(b) go gcuirfar ar an bPrimhChiste muirear colann agus us Urusanna a thabharfaidh an tAire Airgid amach chun suim no suimcanna, nach mo san iomlan na dha mhilleon dha chead is caoga mile punt, d'fhail ar iasacht chun na suimeanna a cuirfar ina muirear ar an bPrimh-Chiste fen Acht san d'ioc; 
             
(b) the charge upon the Central Fund of the principal and interest of Securities issued by the Minister for Finance for the purpose of borrowing a sum or sums not exceeding in the whole two millions two hundred and fifty thousand pounds to meet the sums charged on the Central Fund under such Act; 
           
           
             (c) go n-iocfar amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas gach fiachas, costas agus iocaiocht fe n-ar chuaidh Iontaobhaithe Dhail Eireann le ceart i bhfeidhmiu a ndualgais agus na beidh ioctha na glanta ar aon tsli eile ar dhata rithte an Achta san, gach costas agus caitheamh i dtaobh an mhaoin ata dilsithe in Iontaobhaithe Dhail, Eireann no fe n-a gcuram d'aistriu chun an Aire Airgid, na costaisi fe n-a raghaidh an tAire Airgid chun ioctha aon fhiachaisi a bheidh air de dheascaibh scaireanna airithe i mBanc Naisiunta na Talmhan, Teoranta, d'aistriu chuige, agus aon chostaisi eile fe n-a raghfar chun an tAcht san do chur in eifeacht. 
             (c) the payment out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas of all liabilities, expenses and payments properly incurred by the Dail Eireann Trustees in the execution of their duty and not otherwise paid or discharged at the date of the passing of such Act, the costs and expenses of transferring to the Minister for Finance the property vested in or under the control of the Dail Eireann Trustees, the expenses incurred by the Minister for Finance in the discharge of any liabilities imposed on him consequence of the transfer to him of certain shares in the National Land Bank, Limited, and any other expenses incurred in carrying such Act into effect. 
           
         
       
     
    
      
       The message prescribed by the Constitution has been received from the Governor-General recommending this expenditure.  This is the Resolution to enable the expense to be met which will be incurred in carrying out the Dail Eireann Loans and Funds Bill, 1923, if passed.  The amount of two and a quarter millions will be made up somewhat as follows: The Home Loan is £378,130.  The External Loan amounts to £1,302,150. Taking the rate of exchange to-day for the purpose of making a calculation, at 4.45, it is impossible to know what it may be later, but should the rate of exchange continue to go against us, it might be necessary for the purpose of meeting our obligations to come to the Dail again.  On the other hand, the exchange rate may improve to such an extent that a lesser sum would enable us to redeem the dollars that we owe in America.  The interest on the Home Loan will amount to £151,252, and the interest on the External Loan, assuming that it is not redeemed until 1926, would be £390,645. The total sum is £2,222,177, and if we are able to redeem speedily in America, and if we succeed in buying dollars at a favourable rate, the amount may be a great deal less than the sum mentioned in the Resolution.  The sum mentioned will, unless there is great difficulty in the matter of exchange, cover the total charge. 
       Question put; and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution, as passed in Committee, reported to the Dail. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the said Resolution,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST) BILL: MONEY RESOLUTION 
    
      
       I beg to move the following Resolution: 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
Chun criche aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun foralacha do dheanamh chun daoine airithe do ghabhail agus do choinneail ar feadh treimhse teoranta agus i dtaobh nithe eile a bhaineas le cosaint na puibliochta agus le cosaint phearsan agus mhaoine, go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfar amach as airgead sholathroidh an tOireachtas costaisi Comhairli Athchomhaire, ar a n-airitear aon luach saothair a hiocfar le baill de sna Comhairli sin do reir tearmai an Achta san. 
             
That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to make provision for the arrest and detention of certain persons during a limited period and for other matters connected with the preservation of public safety and the protection of person and property, it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of the expenses of Appeal Councils including any remuneration paid to members of such Councils in accordance with the terms of such Act. 
           
         
       
     
     The real purpose of this Motion on the Order Paper is to enable payment to be made to members of the Appeal Council if necessary.  It had been thought originally that it might be possible to get people who would un dertake the duties imposed on the Appeal Council without being paid for their services.  I think now it will not be found possible to get suitable people, and, secondly, it is necessary to pass this Resolution in order that provision may be made to pay these members. I think the expense will be small, and I think it is certainly necessary that we should agree to pay.  It is the only way of getting men who will do satisfactorily a very difficult and a rather unpleasant duty. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution, as passed in Committee, reported to the Dail. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the said Resolution,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - TEMPORARY BILL, 1923.&mdash;FOURTH STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move that the Dail go into Committee to consider the amendments which are on the Paper with regard to this Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - DAIL IN COMMITTEE. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 1, which reads:&mdash; 
       In Section 4 (2), page 3, line 25, to add immediately after the word, `standing' the words `or shall be or have been a judge of the Supreme Court of Judicature in Ireland, or a Recorder or County Court Judge in Ireland, or a judge of the Dail Supreme Court as defined in the Dail Eireann Courts (Winding-Up) Act, 1923 (No. 36 of 1923), or a judge of the Supreme Court, High Court or Circuit Court.' &rdquo; 
       The object of the amendment is to enable a judge, or a retired judge, to be appointed as a legal member of the Appeal Council.  The reason why the amendment is introduced is because it might, at times, be difficult to get a practising barrister or solicitor of sufficient experience who would be willing to act. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 2, which reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To insert immediately before Section 4 (3), page 3, a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(3) There may be paid out of moneys to be provided by the, Oireachtas, to any member of an Appeal Council who is not in receipt of remuneration out of public funds such fees or remuneration as the Minister for Finance may determine.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to enable members of the Appeal Council to be paid for their services in cases in which they are not already in the service of the State. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 3, which reads:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;In Section 4 (8), page 3, line 60,   to delete the words `both Houses' and insert in lieu thereof the words `either House,' and in line 61 to delete the word `resolutions,' and to insert in lieu thereof the words `a resolution.' &rdquo; 
     The object of this amendment is to remove the necessity for the concurrence of Houses in a resolution annulling a regulation. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 4, which reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To insert immediately before Section 5, page 4, a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(1)  Whenever an Executive Minister shall propose to release any person arrested or detained under this Act the Minister may require as a condition of such release that such person should enter into a recognizance with two solvent sureties before a District Justice in such amount as may be approved by the Minister, the condition of such recognizance being that the person aforesaid shall be of good behaviour and keep the peace for such period not exceeding three years as shall be fixed by the Minister aforesaid. 
       &ldquo;(2)  The several enactments regulating the taking before a Divisional Magistrate of the City of Dublin of recognizances to be of good behaviour and to keep the peace and regulating the form and the mode of enforcing and estreating such recognizances shall apply to every recognizance entered into under this Section before a Divisional Magistrate aforesaid and the provisions of Section 34 of the Petty Sessions (Ireland) Act, 1851, and Section 10 of the Fines Act (Ireland), 1851, as amended by the Summary Jurisdiction (Ireland) Act, 1918, in relation to recognizances to be of good behaviour and to keep the peace shall apply to every recognizance entered into under this Section before a District Justice outside the Police District of the Dublin Metropolis.&rdquo; 
    
     This amendment is introduced because it might be found desirable, in certain cases, to release persons by   entering into recognizances.  As the Bill stood there was no power to take such recognizances. 
    
      
       Before passing from this amendment, I would like to understand a little more as to what it implies. The arguments that have been used in regard to this Bill have been that it is not desirable to bring a prisoner before a Court; that a Court shall not be responsible for sentencing a prisoner for detention without trial, and that the Minister, in view of the powers that he seeks, should have the right to detain such a person.  Now, on a rather summary reading, I gather that the proposal is to allow such a person to be free on condition that he enters into recognizances.  It seems to me that that raises a question as to a trial, and suggests, at least, some kind of a judicial consideration of the case. If the question of release, on entering into recognizances, is to be dealt with before a District Justice, or if the Minister may require as a condition of release that such a person should enter into recognizances, that seems to raise a question of guilt or innocence, and alters the general application of the Bill in so far as it touches the requirement of bail. 
       It seems, further, to be cutting across the principle enunciated by the Minister in defending this Bill, that the responsibility for detention should remain with him, and that when he is satisfied that a reasonable suspicion surrounds a person that he should have the right to detain such a person for not more than twelve months.  Now he asks for powers to release, provided that the suspected person will enter into bail.  I suggest that that requires a little more elucidation and more defence before the Dail agrees to it&mdash; certainly more justification before the Dail agrees to it, and I invite the Minister to enlarge upon his proposition. 
    
    
      
       Though I doubt very much whether Deputy Johnson will believe the assertion, the amendment is put in in the interests of the detained person.  It has frequently happened that people have been arrested on a very definite suspicion of acts of aggression of one kind or another against their neighbours, and   had been detained, and it would be very useful in the future to have power to bring a detained person of that kind before a District Justice and get him to enter into recognizances, thus enabling him to be released.  Now, I could give specific cases, and I will give one specific case, not mentioning names.  I have in mind a case where a farm of seventy or eighty acres is in the ownership of two girls, and a combination of two or three individuals, having absolutely no claim whatever to the property in law, or what might be considered equity, simply take advantage of what they consider to be the helpless position of the real owners to harass them in every way and render, so far as they possibly could effect it, the property absolutely no use to them.  Operations of that kind are not carried on in the open or in the light of day.  They are carried on furtively and by night, and the people responsible in that case, the people who beyond all question were responsible in that case, were interned.  It would not have been possible to furnish full legal proof of guilt against them, or against any one of them.  Taking that case as a type, it would be useful if we had power to release persons of that kind on their undertaking to enter into recognizances and to refrain from outrage or molestation of their neighbours in the future.  That is what is provided for.  Deputy Johnson seems to think that the conception is wrong of putting a person under bail where guilt has not been proved.  That view bespeaks a short memory on the part of the Deputy.  It was the commonest thing to see people brought before a court, charged, the case not proved, and bound to the peace, although, admittedly, in view of the presiding magistrate or judge, satisfactory evidence was not furnished. 
    
    
      
       Did they Let a chance to defend themselves? 
    
    
      
       Yes, they got a chance, to defend themselves.  If there is a general feeling amongst Deputies that this provision is wrong.  I am prepared to leave it out from the Bill, but I ask Deputies to remember that if it is omitted it will react against those who   are detained.  It will mean that if you have no provision to accept recognizances from detained persons, if you are not able to accept their guarantee, or the guarantee of sureties for them, you will not release them, and the period of their detention is likely to be longer.  That is the view of the Department, and I think it is a view which Deputies will readily understand.  There may be a misunderstanding.  It may be thought that sureties would be estreated on the same suspicion as led to the original arrest.  That, of course, could not be the case.  The bails would be estreated only on a future conviction.  In other words, going back to that agrarian case which I quoted as a type and which is not hypothetical, if those prisoners were released on entering into recognizances before a District Justice the bails could only be estreated in the event of a future conviction for an outrage or molestation of the owners in law and equity of the property concerned. 
    
    
      
       I agree that the proposition in this amendment may well act for the benefit of the detained person, but I think it is well that the Dail should have had the explanation which the Minister has given as to the meaning of this section and as to its intention. I think it would have been well if we had had it on the introduction of the section.  While admitting that it might well act for the benefit of the prisoners in fact that it might well be a means by which the Minister can go back upon his original decision to intern a person with a certain amount of grace, without hurting the appearances, it nevertheless shows how difficult a situation one gets into when trying to defend the proposition in the Bill that persons may be detained for twelve months merely on the suspicion, I repeat, of the Minister. The contention has been all the time that magistrates, courts and judges were not to be made responsible for the act of the Executive in such a matter; it was a temporary Bill to deal with extraordinary circumstances, and the Executive Council should be made bear the responsibility for detention. Now the proposal is to require bail to be entered into on behalf of the person   detained, and, when such bail has been entered into, release may be granted. I submit that that is bringing forward something approximating to a court, that the reasonable ground for suspicion on which the detention was originally justified is being changed to a reasonable ground for suspicion that such a person is capable of doing something which is illegal, and that other persons are going to bear some responsibility for the future good conduct of that particular citizen.  It is quite common knowledge, as the Minister says, that persons may be brought to trial, and, even where guilt has not been proved, that such person may be bound to enter into recognizances. 
       Even in such cases the prisoner always has an opportunity of proving before a court that he should not be even bound over, that there is not the slightest shadow of justification for his detention, and that fact alone makes a difference between the Proposition in the Bill and the example which the Minister has quoted.  I shall not oppose the insertion of this new section, but I am glad that I have drawn from the Minister at least some explanation as to why it was introduced and what it means, and I think it would have been better had we had that explanation on its introduction. 
    
    
      
       In reply to Deputy Johnson's remarks, I may say that the meaning of that amendment was so obvious to me that I did not think it required explanation.  I had a case in point a few days ago in connection with one of these prisoners, quite a young man, whose father had died since he was in prison.  The father left him a valuable farm, and the young man's uncle, who is acting as executor, came to me and said that he was satisfied, if he was released, he would be prepared to guarantee that in future he would not be a danger to the State, and he was prepared to enter into recognizances. I am quite certain that that is one of the cases that might be dealt with under this particular amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
    
     
       &ldquo;In Section 7, page 4, line 38, after the word `Superintendent' to add the words `who shall have power to delegate his powers under this Act to any member of a police force under the control of the Ministry of Home Affairs.' &rdquo; 
     I think, possibly, an apology is due for the putting down of an amendment on the Report Stage by a private member, but the fact is, that the question of delegation of power by a responsible authority under the Bill did not come before the Dail until the Committee Stage.  It was not until the Committee Stage was reached that the Minister for Home Affairs informed us that the responsible authority, such as a superintendent in the police force or a commandant in the Army, would be at liberty to delegate his powers to an inferior officer.  It seems to me that that delegation requires definition.  I was of opinion that under this delegation, authorised in the Bill, a subordinate officer would be liable to prosecution for illegal arrest or false imprisonment.  I put down this amendment stating to whom the superintendent can delegate his powers to.  I think the Minister will agree that I have not made the delegation too narrow, as I have left it to any policeman.  I do not believe that any policeman is a danger to the public. He wears a uniform and is unarmed, and, if he is a member of the C.I.D., he will, as the Minister informs us, carry a card which he will produce on demand.  I think that the delegation proposed in this amendment will safeguard the individual from the risk of prosecution.  It cannot limit the operations of the Act, and I hope that the Government will see their way to accept it, even if only for the sake of safeguarding their subordinates. 
    
      
       I made some inquiries as to the practice under the Public Safety Act which now exists and which expires on the 1st of next month.  I found almost invariably that when arrests were made under that Act in the past they were made by the responsible officer in person, and that the actual physical act of arrest was performed by the responsible officer named in that Act.  It seems to   me that cases might well arise in which it would be necessary to safeguard his right to delegate to an agent or subordinate the duty of arresting, and, consequently, I was unable to meet the suggestion made on the Committee Stage on this matter.  As to the proposal at present before the Dail, I consider that Deputy Cooper's amendment is useful, and I would ask merely that the Deputy would agree to an alteration in the wording, and that after the word &ldquo;Superintendent&rdquo; he would add the words &ldquo;or any member of a police force thereto authorised by him.&rdquo; The wording of the amendment that is on the Order Paper is, in fact, too broad and might to some minds suggest that he could even delegate his primary responsibility for the arrest, delegate his full powers under the Act, whereas all that is stated is that he should have power to delegate the power of arrest of a particular person while the responsibility rests with him.  I would ask the Deputy to agree to that alteration. 
    
    
      
       Personally, I am quite prepared to accept the alteration suggested.  The Minister knows that private members are at a disadvantage in drafting amendments, and I am not disposed to insist on the Wording.  His suggestion meets my point, and I am prepared to accept it. 
    
    
      
       I am anxious to know whether this means a general authorisation; in other words, whether the fact that a man is a member of a police force is to be deemed that he is always acting under the authority of a responsible officer and that, therefore, arrest and detention by such a person would be deemed to be arrest and detention by a responsible officer. 
    
     Unless the authorisation is to be specific in relation to a particular case and particular persons, the power that you are giving is very much greater than the Power which was proposed in the first draft of the Bill.  It is one thing to say that a responsible officer not below the rank of Superintendent may make an arrest and may detain a person for a week without bringing him before a Court.  It is another thing to say to an ordinary policeman that he may arrest   and detain for a week without bringing a person before a Court.  Unless the delegation of authority is specific to a named person, the power that you are giving to the policeman is a very great extension of that which was originally proposed.  If there is to be such power it should be to arrest, and a police officer to-day has that power.  But the power to detain for a week is an enlargement of such powers as will exist on the 1st February, unless this Bill is passed. 
     To enlarge those powers to the extent that any general authorisation to a policeman from a Superintendent would enable that policeman to arrest and detain for a week is beyond the original intention of the Bill and, I hope, will not be conceded.  I would very much rather have the Bill without the amendment, so that the only person who is to be authorised to use these extraordinary powers would be a Superintendent and that if any person below the rank of a Superintendent were to try to exercise such extraordinary powers outside the ordinary law, then that person would be liable to answer for any offence.  If there is to be an amendment in this respect, then I submit that the only amendment that should be acceptable, that should even be considered, should be that it would require the delegation of authority to be in writing and to have reference to a specific occasion. 
    
      
       Deputies, in considering the representations urged by Deputy Johnson, should consider also the practical difficulties in their application. The Superintendents' area, Deputies are probably aware, is extremely large, and this could very easily happen: Take one of the smallest areas. There is a Chief Superintendent resident in Naas.  Let us suppose that an arrest under this Bill is necessary or highly advisable in the Athy district on a particular day, and that on that day the Superintendent's presence in Naas is necessary in order to give evidence in a particular case to appear in Court to prosecute a prisoner.  It would be necessary for him to authorise some agent or subordinate to perform the arrest in Athy. If Deputy Johnson would prefer after   the word &ldquo;Superintendent&rdquo; to add &ldquo;or any member of a police force particularly authorised by him&rdquo; to avoid the suggestion of a general authorisation&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       I think that would be an improvement. 
    
    
      
       Is the word &ldquo;specifically&rdquo; not better than &ldquo;particularly&rdquo;? 
    
    
      
       I am not much of a draftsman, but I think there is a shade of difference, that particularly rather suggests in a particular case and &ldquo;specifically&rdquo; brings in the idea that he should have, perhaps, some documentary evidence of being authorised. 
    
    
      
       Very well; I do not press it. 
    
    
      
       I would undertake to consult with the Attorney-General and with the draftsman as to suitable wording, and if we thought a change was necessary we could get it inserted elsewhere. 
    
    
      
       May I take it that the Minister is assuring the Dail that that change will take place and that the question he is going to consult the Attorney-General upon is as to the actual wording? 
    
    
      
       I am prepared now to make the change or to add after the word &ldquo;Superintendent&rdquo;&ldquo;or any member of a police force particularly authorised by him&rdquo;.  If in consultation we consider that the adverb suggested by Deputy Cooper&mdash;&ldquo;specifically&rdquo;&mdash;is better, it can be inserted in another place. 
    
    
      
       Why not &ldquo;particularly and specifically&rdquo;? 
    
    
      
       I do not know when we can have the amendment made if we do not make it now. 
    
    
      
       It is going in now. 
    
     Amendment:&mdash;In Section 7, page 4, line 38, after the word &ldquo;Superintendent&rdquo; to add the words &ldquo;or any member of a police force particularly   authiorised by him&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 6:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In Section 7, page 4, line 39, after the word &ldquo;Commandant&rdquo; to add the words &ldquo;who shall have power to delegate his powers under this Act to any member of the military forces of Saorstat Eireann not below the rank of sergeant-major, save and except in such cases where a military force has been detailed in Battalion orders to arrest any person or person in which case every member of such force shall be deemed to possess the powers granted by this Act.&rdquo; 
       I am afraid this amendment will not be as fortunate as the last.  In this as well I have tried to meet the Government's point of view as far as I can. This amendment gives power of delegation to a military officer not below the rank of Commandant.  I have tried to meet the case that the Minister made in the Committee Stage.  He instanced a case of a wanted man being in a particularly crowded place.  I think the instances he gave were a fair and a circus.  He said it would not be possible to give specific authority to every soldier in the party who would surround that spot to arrest the wanted man.  This amendment provides for that, because if any party of men is detailed for the duty of arresting any man, Battalion Orders to proceed to such and such a place to arrest various people wanted in itself gives every member of the party the necessary authority.  In addition I propose that the necessary authority can be given to everybody not below the rank of sergeant-major.  When it comes to giving private soldiers the power of indiscriminate arrest, you are really opening a very wide door indeed. We do not pay a private soldier 17/6 a week to have the qualities of a Fouche or of a Sherlock Holmes.  He is not trained for that work and he may exercise the light in a manner injurious to the public, particularly if, as some of them sometimes do, he has taken a little too much Drink. 
    
     Again there is every possibility that   a zealous man might mistake the identity of a perfectly harmless individual for somebody he believed to be wanted. It will be within the recollection of the Dail that before the truce, I think, Dr. Gregg, the Archbishop of Dublin, was arrested by some Auxiliaries, who were under the impression that he was Mr. de Valera.  In the event of Mr. de Valera escaping from Arbour Hill I am afraid that, if the Bill is left as it stands, Dr. Gregg would lead a somewhat chequered existence and it might even be unsafe for him to go abroad in public unless disguised. Soldiers are not paid or trained to arrest a man casually or on suspicion and their power of doing so should be limited as far as possible.  I have heard it suggested that if a soldier gets into a tram and finds himself opposite a man who is wanted, that he ought to be able to arrest him there and then. Really the suggestion that any soldier is to arrest anybody, in any place, does not belong to the world.  It belongs to Mexico as we see it in the cinema.  That is the only parallel that I am aware of. I would say to the Minister that you cannot legislate for exceptional cases like this.  Possibly in one instance a man might escape because the soldier happened to be below the rank of sergeant-major, although he was perfectly certain that he knew the man and might have arrested him.  That is an individual particular instance in which legislation becomes powerless.  Either the man will override the law and arrest him or he will let him go.  But the likelihood of that happening is so remote that I really do not.  think the Bill will suffer if the amendment is adopted. 
    
      
       I hope that the Minister will not accept this amendment, and that Deputy Bryan Cooper's prophecy will come true.  The attempt in this Bill is to get away somewhat from the military control of peace and order. You can see in the Bill-and I give credit to the Minister for it; both Ministers&mdash;that there is a distinct movement away from the military authority over the civil life of the country as compared with the last Bill.  Consequently, no one below the rank of Commandant is to come within the definition of &ldquo;responsible officer.&rdquo; Now it   is &ldquo;responsible officers&rdquo; only who are to have power to arrest and detain for a week.  Deputy Cooper's amendment would allow a Captain, a Lieutenant, and any other officer not below the rank of Sergeant-Major.  I say that is going back upon the intentions of the Bill and is inviting Commandants to make policemen of soldiers who are not qualified.  It is not desirable that they should become qualified to act as policemen, because they are not trained to act as policemen, and Deputy Bryan Cooper's arguments to that effect, the irresponsible actions of the private are only to a somewhat less degree applicable to the sergeant-major, still less, perhaps, and only still less, to the Commandant, although the Commandant is a responsible officer under the terms of the Bill.  But Deputy Bryan Cooper would suggest that the sergeant-major may be such a responsible officer, capable of making an arrest in a train-car, and I submit that that is not the duty that should be thrust upon a soldier, and that if such a duty is to be imposed upon anybody, it should be confined to officers of higher rank, and as few of them as possible.  I hope the Minister will not accept this amendment. 
    
    
      
       I am inclined to agree with Deputy Cooper that one cannot legislate for exceptional cases, and to warn him that it is impossible to legislate in such a way as to avoid the extremely hypothetical cases which he put in the course of his arguments on this Bill.  He said, imagine quite a respectable citizen, like myself or Deputy Figgis&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Or Dr. Gregg. 
    
    
      
       Being arrested in a tram, because soldiers are left with power by the Minister under the Bill. Well, everyone knows that soldiers are not in fact going about, and are not in the future likely to go about, arresting inoffensive, law-abiding citizens, who are not in the least wanted by the State or by the Government.  And so, while I admit that in some of the arguments that have been urged with regard to the Bill, there has been a certain force and,   I admit, a certain necessity for safeguarding rights as far as possible, still it is not possible to legislate in such a way as to meet every extravagant hypothetical case that might be advanced here in a spirit of jest or in a spirit of casuistry.  As to soldiers arresting at all, I would certainly wish that a situation existed in the country in which soldiers ought not to arrest, in which it would not be necessary to ask soldiers to make any arrests at all.  But you have not reached that position.  Men are going about armed.  Certain very lawless and very desperate men are still on the loose through the country, and it would not be a fair thing, it would not be a proper thing, to ask members of an unarmed police force to face into a house to arrest these men who are armed to the teeth with lethal weapons of one kind or another.  And because you still have that situation, it is necessary to retain for the military certain powers of arrest, while endeavouring to safeguard these powers against abuse as far as possible. 
       While this discussion was proceeding the Minister for Defence Drafted a suggestion which seems to me to meet all reasonable objections that might be urged.  It is to substitute for the amendment: To add after the last word of the particular paragraph, &ldquo;Commandant&rdquo;:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;who may be specifically empowered in any particular case by the Minister for Defence to delegate his powers under this Act to any member of the Military Forces of Saorstat Eireann not below the rank of sergeant.  Save and except in such cases where a military force has been detailed by the order of a person so empowered to arrest any person or persons in which case every member of such force shall be deemed to possess the powers granted by this Act.&rdquo; 
    
     Reading that&mdash;and I have given it careful consideration&mdash;I think that it meets reasonable objections that in might be urged.  It confines the power of arrest normally to the Commandant. It goes on then to say that a Commandant may be specifically empowered in a particular case by the Minister for Defence to delegate his   powers under the Act to any member of the military forces of Saorstat Eireann not below the rank of sergeant.  He can delegate in a particular case, when be is authorised to do so by the Minister for Defence, down to the rank of sergeant.  And then there is this further modification: &ldquo;Save and except in such cases where a military force has been detailed by the order of a person so empowered to arrest any person or persons, in which case every member of such force shall be deemed to possess the powers granted by the Act.&rdquo; If there is substantial agreement with that I would put it in as an alternative to the Deputy's amendment. 
    
      
       I would like to have a little more information as to what is meant by the last paragraph.  Under what powers will such people be detailed to make arrests?  Is this under the Common Law, where a policeman may call upon the military to make an arrest? 
    
    
      
       What exactly we desire to secure is that in as much of the country as possible the military forces would occupy their normal position.  This amendment gives us power, in certain parts of the country where we consider that these normal conditions do not exist, to indicate specific areas in which Commandants, and officers who come higher up in authority, will be empowered to delegate to junior officers in such areas&mdash; Captains or Lieutenants, or if they want it to go down to the rank of sergeant&mdash;powers of arrest such as in any area in the country a Commandant would have under this Bill.  Take a case in which powers, which are normally held by a Commandant, have been delegated to a first Lieutenant in, say, some part of West Cork or Kerry. He wants to secure the arrest of specific persons against whom a charge is laid within the terms of this particular Act.  He orders out a military party, places its members in charge of the sergeant, and gives him a specific order to take out the party and arrest a particular person.  The latter portion of this amendment would secure that that military party, as a whole, had   power to arrest the person or persons concerned and, if necessary, power to detain until they could hand over such person or persons to their proper superior authorities. 
       There is one point with regard to which I am not quite satisfied.  The amendment would read, who may be specifically empowered in any particular case,&rdquo; who may be specifically empowered in the case of any particular officer; that is, judging by the condititions of a particular area, taking the office of commandant, and all rank above that, in the specific case of these officers in that particular area having authority, they would be specifically empowered to delegate that authority. &ldquo;In any particular case&rdquo; does not mean in the case of any particular district, and I would like to assure myself that that covers what I have in mind, and will not give rise at any time to a question as to what it exactly means. 
    
    
      
       I take it that it is obvious that this is the kind of amendment that will have to be before us before we can consider it satisfactorily, and the Minister himself appears to desire a little more time to consider the drafting.  I take it that the best manner of dealing with this is either to adjourn the discussion, or introduce such an amendment in the Seanad.  I hope, as a matter of fact, that the Bill will leave the Dail, in this respect, at any rate, with no amendment, and if, on further consideration, the proposal by the Minister for Defence is found to be desirable, then it should be introduced in the Seanad, and we would have some notice of it. 
    
    
      
       So far as I am concerned, I think the Minister has practically met my point in every respect except one, and that is with regard to, the lowest rank to which this authority is to be delegated.  I suggested a sergeant-major, and the Government say a sergeant.  It is a comparatively minor point.  I think myself that a sergeant of military police may possibly be a fitter person to make an arrest than even a 1st or 2nd Lieutenant in some cases, though I am not going to stand on that.  I am quite prepared   to withdraw my amendment, subject to this being taken now or if Deputy Johnson wishes it, to an amendment being introduced in the Seanad. 
    
    
      
       I would prefer to insert this amendment now, leaving to ourselves a loophole in the unlikely event of our being dissatisfied on consideration; that is, those responsible for the Bill, of having a small correction made in the Seanad.  It seems to me that I ought not to assume that I would find a complacent member of the Seanad who would move this amendment, which is one of some substance, and I would much prefer that it should be taken here, and that at a later stag, if necessary, a minor drafting amendment would be inserted in the Seanad. 
    
    
      
       Would that mean that we would require to have another Report Stage, and that the proposed amendment, would be circulated prior to its consideration? 
    
    
      
       I take it that what the Minister means is that the Drafting amendment should be introduced into the Seanad and not here.  There will be no further Report Stage. 
    
    
      
       What I mean, and what I have suggested, is that this, being an amendment of some substance, ought to be taken here.  Minor verbal alterations, if on consideration they were found necessary, could probably be introduced in the other House. 
       My own inclination would be to ask the Dail to proceed with the amendment that has been drafted by the Minister for Defence, and I understand Deputy Cooper is willing to withdraw his amendment in its favour. 
    
    
      
       I do not think Deputy Johnson has a grievance in not having due notice, because it is substantially my amendment.  I quite understand that when the amendment merely came from me Deputy Johnson did not take it seriously, but perhaps he will now take it as it is sponsored by the Government.  The whole principle is the same. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Cooper is, of course, a man whose ability runs in a   different direction from mine.  I am not able to appreciate all the points of such an amendment of substance as has been read to us.  I would require to have it in print before I could understand it thoroughly in all its implications.  I think the Dail ought to, and must, have proper notice of such an important amendment as that. 
    
    
      
       Would it meet Deputy Johnson's objections if we had a Report Stage on this Bill to-morrow? 
    
    
      
       I have no objection to that if I have the language of the amendment before me. 
    
    
      
       I could have the amendment in the Deputy's hands probably by to-night. 
    
    
      
       That will not preclude a Committee discussion upon it to-morrow? 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       It really means the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow so that the new amendment may come forward. 
    
    
      
       There are two other amendments, but we could leave over that particular amendment until to-morrow, when it will be in the Deputies' hands. 
    
    
      
       Would it not meet the case if, after passing amendment 8, progress were reported? 
    
    
      
       I see no objection to proceeding with the other amendments and then reporting progress. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       In the Schedule to delete paragraph 1, page 5, and to insert in lieu thereof the following paragraph:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;1. Inciting persons to engage in an attempt to overthrow by violence the established form of Government of Saorstat Eireann, or organisms or otherwise assisting or encouraging any such attempt.&rdquo; 
    
     The amendment really substitutes for the words &ldquo;engaging in a revolt,&rdquo; the words &ldquo;to engage in an attempt to overthrow by violence&rdquo;.  The amendment   is introduced in pursuance of an undertaking given by the Minister for Home Affairs to Deputy Johnson in Committee, and in view of that fact I presume he will not require me to enter into any more elaborate explanation of its meaning. 
    
      
       The amendment satisfies the undertaking. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move the following: &ldquo;In the Schedule, paragraph 2, page 5, before the word inducing, to insert the word `unlawfully.' &rdquo; This amendment, I take it, will be accepted, inasmuch as it does for number 2 what was agreed to for number 10; that is, to insert the word &ldquo;unlawfully&rdquo; before &ldquo;inducing.&rdquo; It is merely a safeguard, and I do not think there is any need to argue it. 
    
    
      
       I accept the amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move to report progress. 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Progress reported, the Committee to resume to-morrow. 
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - LOCAL GOVERNMENT ELECTORS REGISTRATION BILL (FROM THE SEANAD). 
    
      
       In view of the absence of both the President and the Ceann Comhairle, I would ask the Dail to leave over the discussion on the Local Government Electors' Registration Bill until to-morrow. 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - CORONERS' (QUALIFICATION) BILL, 1923.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       This Bill, as I explained on the first Reading, is a very short and Simple Bill, necessitated by circumstances arising out of the events of two or three years ago.  During that period of conflict with the British, when the Statute law of the country was more honoured in the breach than in the observance, a Coroner was appointed   for the City of Limerick who had not the statutory qualifications, and a Coroner was also appointed in Westmeath who did not possess the statutory qualifications.  These men have since carried out the duties of Coroner, and it seems highly desirable to validate their appointments.  That is one of two objects of the Bill.  Section 1 of the Bill aims at maintaining the qualification of five years' Justice of the Peace, in the case of any person who was a Justice of the Peace on the 1st January, 1919, and who resigned as between that date and the 6th Dec., 1921.  It is, of course, entirely optional with the County Council to appoint any person who has any of the three qualifications. 
       The qualifications prescribed by the Coroners' Act of 1881 are as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;The person to be appointed must be a Doctor duly qualified and registered under the Act of 1858, a Barrister or Solicitor of the Supreme Court, or a Justice of the Peace of five years' standing.&rdquo; Now, it is with regard to that latter qualifications&mdash;a Justice of the Peace of five years' standing&mdash;that Section 1 of the Bill deals.  We submit it is desirable to continue that qualification provided that the person was a Justice of the Peace on the 1st Jan., 1919, and resigned as between that and the 6th December, 1921.  There are altogether three specific cases covered by the Bill, the case of the Coroner of Limerick City, the case of the Coroner in Westmeath, and Section 1, which covers one case that has arisen within the last few months dealing with the Coronership of Leix, where a person was appointed who had five years in the past as a Justice of the Peace and who resigned his office some time in 1921.  I move &ldquo;That the Bill be now read a second time.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       In view of the complete absence of comment or criticism, I wonder would the Dail be willing to pass this measure now? 
    
    
      
       I have no objection. 
    
     
    
      
       I move the suspension of Standing Orders so as to enable the Bill to be taken through its remaining stages. 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - DAIL IN COMMITTEE. 
     The Coroners' (Qualification) Bill, 1923, passed through Committee without amendment. 
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Coroners' (Qualification) Bill, 1923, was reported, and was passed through all its remaining stages, and ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
   
   
     PUBLIC SAFETY (POWERS OF ARREST AND DETENTION) - COURT OFFICERS (TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS) BILL, 1923.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       This Court Officers (Temporary Appointments) Bill is introduced mainly as an economy measure, and it simply deals with a practical difficulty that has arisen in the machinery of administration in the country. In certain Court offices vacancies have arisen.  I think there were one or two in connection with clerkships of the Crown and Peace, certain Probate Registrarships in Cork, and a few others here and there through the country.  We have passed here a Bill reorganising the machinery of justice for the country, and that Bill is at present before the Seanad.  It seems undesirable, when the Court machinery of the country is about to undergo considerable changes, to appoint people to these old offices with exactly the same tenure and rights as their predecessors. 
    
     But, short of legislation to meet the point, that would be necessary, and this Bill is introduced to enable me, or the Minister for Home Affairs for the time being, to make temporary provision to have the duties attaching to these vacant offices carried out, without giving the person appointed to do the work all the rights and all the vested interests of their predecessors. I think that that is an object which will commend itself to Deputies generally, and I feel that it is unnecessary, in so far as the principle of the Bill, at any rate, is concerned, to elaborate the point.  Certain minor   matters may arise on the Committee Stage, but I now ask Deputies to give this Bill a Second Reading. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     Third Stage ordered for Tuesday, 22nd January, 1924. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL EIREANN LOANS AND FUNDS BILL, 1923.   (THIRD STAGE.) 
     In this Act&mdash; 
     the expression &ldquo;Internal Loan&rdquo; means the loan floated under the authority of the First Dail Eireann by public subscription during the years 1919 and 1920 and closed on the 17th day of July, 1920, 
     the expression &ldquo;External Loans&rdquo; means and includes the loan floated on and after the 21st day of January, 1920, under the authority of the First Dail Eireann by public subscription in the United States of America and the loan floated on and after the 15th day of November, 1921, under the authority of the Second Dail Eireann by public subscription in the United States of America, 
     the expression &ldquo;the First Dail Eireann&rdquo; means the assembly of members of Parliament elected for constituencies in Ireland at a Parliamentary Election held on the 14th day of December, 1918, who first came together in a Parliament held on the 31st day of January, 1919, in the official residence of the Lord Mayor of Dublin called the Mansion House at Dublin, and there drew up and promulgated a provisional constitution for the said assembly as Dail Eireann and Government of Saorstat Eireann, 
     the expression &ldquo;the Second Dail Eireann&rdquo; means the assembly of members of Parliament elected for constituencies in Ireland at a Parliamentary Election held on the 13th day of May, 1921, who met as Dail Eireann and Government of Saorstat   Eireann in a Parliament held at Dublin in the Mansion House aforesaid on the 16th day of August, 1921, the expression &ldquo;Minister&rdquo; means the Minister for Finance. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 1 to this Section: &ldquo;To delete in line 32, the figures `31st,' and to substitute in lieu thereof the figures `21st.' &rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 2 to this Section: &ldquo;To add at the end of the Section the following words:&mdash;&ldquo;The expression `subscriber' includes the personal representative of a deceased subscriber.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 1, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 2. 
       (1)  All moneys, investments, and other property which immediately before the passing of this Act were vested in or were in the custody, possession, or control of the Dail Eireann Trustees or any of them or any persons or person acting on behalf or under the authority of the Dail Eireann Trustees or any of them, and were so vested or in such custody, possession, or control in trust for or on behalf of the Government of Saorstat Eireann, shall immediately after the passing of this Act be transferred to and become and be vested in the Minister, and all such conveyances, deeds, and other instruments as shall be necessary fully to effectuate such transfer shall, upon the request and at the cost of the Minister, be duly executed by the Dail Eireann Trustees and all other necessary parties. 
    
     (2)  All liabilities, expenses, and payments necessarily and properly incurred or made by the Dail Eireann Trustees in or about the execution of their duty its such Trustees and not otherwise paid or discharged prior to the passing of this Act, and the costs and expenses of effectuating the   transfer of property to the Minister under this section shall be paid or provided for by the Minister out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas. 
     (3)  All moneys, investments, and other property transferred to the Minister by under this section shall be applied and disposed of in such manner as the Minister shall from time to time by order provide. 
     Every order made by the Minister under this sub-section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and if a resolution is passed by Dail Eireann within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which Dail Eireann has sat annulling such order, such order shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such order, and any recommendation in respect of such order which shall be made by Seanad Eireann within such twenty-one days shall be duly considered by Dail Eireann. 
     (4)  In this section the expression &ldquo;the Dail Eireann Trustees&rdquo; means and includes all persons appointed by the First Dail Eireann or by the Second Dail Eireann to be trustees for Dail Eireann as the Government of Saorstat Eireann as then constituted.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 3: &ldquo;To insert in sub-section (2), line 5, immediately before the words `the Dail,' the words or on behalf of.' &rdquo; 
       This is merely a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 2, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 3. 
    
     (1)  All shares in the National Land Bank Limited now standing in the name of or otherwise vested in the Natland Auxiliary Society Limited, shall be transferred to and vest in the Minister, and all deeds of transfer and other instruments necessary   to give effect to such transfer on the request and at the cost of the Minister, be executed by the Natland Auxiliary Society Limited and all other necessary parties. 
     (2)  The Minister may exercise all or any of the rights and powers which may from time to time me be exercisable. by the holder of the shares transferred to him by this section, and where any of such rights or powers are exercisable by attorney the Minister may, if he so thinks proper, exercise such rights or powers by his attorney. 
     (3)  All liabilities which may from time to time be imposed on or incurred by the Minister by reason of his being the holder of the shares aforesaid, shall be discharged by him out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas. 
     (4)  The limitation contained in section 4 of the Industrial and Provident Societies Act, 1893, on the interest which may be had or claimed by one person in the shares of a society registered under that Act shall not apply to any interest in the shares of the National Land Bank Limited which shall be vested in or claimed by the Minister by virtue of this section. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 4: &ldquo;To insert in sub-section (3), line 44, after the word `Minister,' the words `under this Section or.&rdquo;' 
       This is also a drafting amendment. The words proposed to be inserted are intended to refer to the words &ldquo;at the cost of&rdquo; in line 35. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 3, as amended stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 4. 
    
     As soon as conveniently may be after the passing of this Act the Minister shall cause an authentic Register of subscribers to the Internal Loan to be prepared, and may take such steps as he shall consider to be necessary or proper for that purpose, including prescribing the conditions and evidence upon which   any person claiming to be a subScriber to the Internal Loan may be entered in the Register. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 5, &ldquo;To add a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       (2)The decision of the Minister as to the claim of any person to be a subscriber to the Internal Loan or to be entered on the Register of shall be final.&rdquo; 
       Cases may arise in which there may be some doubt as to whether or not a person was a subscriber to the loan, and this amendment is to provide that someone should have the right to decide whether the person was or was not a subscriber.  That is merely what the amendment is intended to cover. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 4, as amended stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 5.. 
       (1)  There shall be issued through the Post Office to every subscriber to the Internal Loan whose name is entered in the Register such subscribers prepared under this Act a savings certificate for a sum equal to the amount subscribed by such person to the Internal Loan, together with interest on that amount at the rate of five per cent. per annum from the 17th day of July, 1920, or such later date as the amount aforesaid was fully subscribed to the 31st day of December, 1923. 
       (2)  Every savings certificate issued under this section shall entitle the holder thereof to be paid on the 1st day of June, 1927, the sum of twenty-four shillings for every pound of the sum for which the certificate was issued. 
    
     (3)  All regulations for the time being in force in relation to savings certificates issued through the Post Office prior to the passing of this Act shall apply to savings certificates issued under this section, save that no part of the amount of a savings   certificate issued under this section shall be payable before the 31st day of December, 1927, and that the consent of the Postmaster-General shall not be necessary to an assignment of any such savings certificate. 
     (4)  The total amount payable on the 31st day of December, 1927, in respect of savings certificates issued. under this section and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue and payment of such savings certificates shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 6:&mdash;&ldquo;To delete sub-sections (1) and (2) and insert in lieu thereof one new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       (1) There shall be issued through the Post Office to every subscriber to the Internal Loan whose name is entered in the Register of such subscribers prepared under this Act a savings certificate which shall entitle the bolder thereof to be Paid on the 1st day of June, 1927, the sum of twenty-eight shillings for every pound subscribed by such subscriber. 
       The provisions of sub-section (1) of this Section would, in practice, involve an enormous amount of calculation, and the provisions proposed by the amendment will be simpler in practice and will give to the subscribers terms which are approximately given by the additional sub-section and fix the definite sum which will be payable. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 7 as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (3), page 4, line 7, to delete the figures &ldquo;31st&rdquo; and to substitute in lieu thereof the figure &ldquo;1st,&rdquo; and in line 8 to delete the word &ldquo;December&rdquo; and substitute in lieu thereof the word &ldquo;June.' 
       This is merely the correction of a date. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 8, as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;In sub-section (4), page 4, line 11, to delete the words   `31st day of December' and to insert in lieu thereof the words `1st day of June.' &rdquo; 
       This is also the correction of a date. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 5, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 6. 
       (1)  It shall be lawful for the Minister to take such steps as he shall think proper to ascertain the names and other particulars of all subscribers to the External Loans or either of them and the amounts subscribed by them respectively. 
       (2)  The Minister may at any time issue to every subscriber to the External Loans or either of them a stock certificate for a sum equal to the amount so subscribed by him: Provided that the Minister may postpone the issue of stock certificates under this section until he is satisfied that all moneys subscribed to the External Loans or either of them and not duly accounted for have (so far as the same are recoverable) been paid into the Exchequer. 
       (3)  The Minister may at any time redeem all or any of the stock certificates issued under this section either 
       (a)  by paying to the holder thereof a sum equal to the nominal amount of the certificate together with interest on that amount at the rate of five per cent. per annum from the date on which the amount aforesaid was fully subscribed to the Loan to the date of redemption, or 
       (b)  by purchasing such certificates for such price as the Minister shall think proper. 
       (4)  The Minister may, subject to the provisions of this section, make regulations governing the issue, transfer devolution, and redemption of stock certificates issued under this section. 
    
     (5)  There shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof such sum as shall be   required to redeem in manner hereinbefore provided all stock certificates issued under this section and to meet the expenses in connection with the issue and redemption of such stock certificates. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 9:&mdash;&ldquo;In Sub-Section (2), lines 22 to 27, to delete from and including the words `Provided that' to the end of the Sub-Section.&rdquo; 
       This is the deletion of a condition that was in the Bill as originally introduced. It proposes to take away that condition and it clarifies the person in reference to the External Loan. I think it is a very necessary amendment, in view of the fact that we are dealing with citizens of another State, and I think it is important that we should not put forward any conditions that might be calculated to injure us abroad. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 6, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
       (1)  The Minister may borrow from any person and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister any sum or sums not exceeding in the whole one million, two hundred and fifty thousand pounds to meet the sums charged on the Central Fund and the growing produce thereof by this Act, and for the purpose of such borrowing the Minister may create and issue securities bearing such rate of interest, and subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he shall think fit. 
       (2)  The principal and interest of any securities issued under this Act and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof. 
    
     (3)  Amy money raised by securities issued under this Act shall be placed to the credit of the account of the Exchequer and shall form part of the Central Fund and be available   in any manner in which such Fund is available. 
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 10, as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;In sub-section (1), line 47, to delete the words `One million, two hundred and fifty thousand pounds' and to insert in lieu thereof the words `Two million, five hundred thousand pounds.' &rdquo; 
       The sum proposed by the amendment is the amount that is now considered to be necessary to meet the expenditure under the Bill. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment number 11:&mdash;&ldquo;In sub-section (2) to delete the word `Act' and in lieu thereof to insert the word &ldquo;Section.' &rdquo; 
       This is merely a drafting amendment. The securities referred to are the securities issued under the sub-section of this particular Section, and, therefore, &ldquo;Section&rdquo; is a better word than the word &ldquo;Act.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 12: &ldquo;In sub-section (3), line 57, to delete the word `Act,' and in lieu thereof to insert the word `Section.' &rdquo; 
       This amendment is identical with the last. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 7, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Title be the Title of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill, as amended, reported.  Fourth Stage ordered for Tuesday, 22nd January, 1924. 
   
   
     QUESTION ON THE ADJOURNMENT. - BOND ISSUES UNDER THE LAND ACT. 
    
      
       I beg to Move the adjournment of the Dail until 3 o'clock to-morrow. 
    
     
    
      
       Earlier in the evening Deputy Johnson gave notice that he would raise a question on the motion for the adjournment. 
    
    
      
       I gave notice that I would raise, on the motion for the adjournment, with a view to further elucidation, and examination, the statement made by the Minister for Agriculture in reference to the guarantee by the British Government of the bond issues under the Land Act.  It appeared from the statement made by the Minister that some discussions took place on this matter prior to the signing of the Treaty, and that since that time, and, as a matter of fact, quite recently, the British Government made an offer to the Saorstat Government that they would be prepared to guarantee the principal and interest on the bond issues by the Government of the Irish Free State under the Land Act recently passed.  Now, it is very good and very kind, I have no doubt, of the British Government to offer to give the assurance to the landlords, or to any person who may buy land bonds, but I think it is a very much more serious matter, and one that requires some consideration at any rate. It may be easily justified, but it will require some justification, to say that the Free State Government has accepted that guarantee.  As I say, it is very satisfactory, no doubt, to the holders of the Land Bonds, but I doubt very much whether it is so satisfactory to the stability or, shall I say, the independence of the Free State, in doing what amounts, in effect, to this: putting this State into pawn to the extent of the amount of the Land Bonds that may be issued. 
    
     To that extent, at any rate, we have said to the British Government: &ldquo;I You are guaranteeing the principal and interest of these bonds, and, consequently, it will be your duty to see that we conduct ourselves properly, so that you will not be called upon to honour that guarantee.&rdquo;  It will be the duty henceforward, if this proposition of the Minister is carried through, of the British Government, for the sake of its taxpayers, to try to ensure that the affairs of the Saorstat will be properly conducted so that they will not be called upon to guarantee both the principal   and interest of these bonds.  That obviously means that we are agreeing to that amount of interference.  We are inviting them to make themselves confident of the stability of this State, to keep a watchful eye over our proceeding, to make sure that we do not overrun our financial resources, and, generally, to keep ourselves solvent so that they will not be called upon to pay up.  Now this may be quite a wrong interpretation of what the Minister said, but putting the reference in the King's speech to the British Parliament alongside the explanation, so far as it went, given by the Minister, it seems to me to require further consideration, and ought to have discussion in the Dail before it is agreed to. 
     I think that, unless further satisfactory explanations are given, it may be necessary to ask the Dail to inform the British Government that we do not desire that they should pass this legislation which they propose to introduce. I do not think that the Dail should allow to pass without very serious notice the proposition that for securing the landlords or the holders of land bonds the Saorstat is prepared to ask for, or even to accept, the offer of the British Government to guarantee these bonds.  I say that it is putting this State in pawn to the British Government to that extent, and it is doing it by departmental action, without reference to the Oireachtas.  I hope that the matter will be discussed or, at least, that the Minister, even at this stage, will say something to remove the impression that has been created by the reference in the King's speech in the British Parliament, and by his own statement this afternoon, which was taken on short notice. 
    
      
       took the Chair at this stag. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Johnson referred to the impression which has been created first by the reference in the King's speech, but it would be more correct if he referred to an impression which he himself wished to create.  Even though I   say that, I will go on to say that I agree with practically every word which the Deputy has just stated, and I am rather glad that this question has been raised now so as to give me an opportunity of allaying the fears of the very large number of the people in this country who are ready to smell a rat at the very first opportunity.  The Deputy states that this is an attempt to come to an arrangement with the British Government behind the backs of the Dail.  It is not.  He also laboured the point that it would be desirable that this Dail should be the particular body to decide the very serious questions that arise in any financial transaction with England or any other country.  I agree with every word of that.  I reiterate what the Deputy has said.  It is absolutely essential that this Dail should be the body to say whether it is good business for us to accept any offer, financial or otherwise, made by England, France, Germany, or any other country.  I agree with the Deputy that very important issues are raised in all these matters, and that they should not be decided by departmental officials or by Ministers or by would-be experts of any kind. 
       These questions of high policy are to be decided, and should be decided, by this Dail, and this question that we are debating now&mdash;whether we should accept the offer made by the British Government to guarantee the land bonds&mdash;and all the issues which that offer raises, as well as all the issues raised by Deputy Johnson&mdash;and issues, perhaps, which he has not raised&mdash;will, I hope, be discussed and decided, with the full knowledge of all the circumstances, by this Dail at the first suitable opportunity.  I hope that that will allay the fears which the Deputy professes to have.  I suggest to the Deputy that in the circumstances and in view of what I have just said, the proper time to debate all these issues is when the matter comes formally before us, when we make a proposal which we will recommend to the Dail, and when the question has to be decided, yes or no. 
    
    
      
       May I interrupt the Minister to ask him whether he   stands by the statement that the offer was made and accepted? 
    
    
      
       Certainly.  An offer was made by the British Government, and, so far as I am concerned, and so far as this Government is concerned, they have accepted that offer, subject, of course, to the approval of the Dail, just as the offer was made by the.  British Government subject to the approval of the British Parliament.  I have to reiterate here again a fact which Deputies seem constantly, either deliberately or otherwise, to forget, namely, that we are an independent country, but that England is another, and that when an English Government makes an offer of that sort it Must make it subject to Parliament, just as we can only accept subject to the consent of Parliament.  That position is perfectly clear.  Let us talk business, and this is a business matter.  If business is to be done with an English, French, or German Government, someone must make an offer, and someone must accept.  Once it is well understood that both offer and acceptance are subject entirely to the consent of Parliament, what is wrong?  Where is the danger?  Is it the Deputy's case that the English.  Prime Minister came to us and said: &ldquo;Look here, during the Treaty discussions we acknowledged our obligations for land purchase, and if you think it is good business we will guarantee the land bonds.&rdquo;  We could not prevent them from saying that, and personally I would be sorry to prevent them, but we are entitled to consider that, if we think it good business subject to the Dail.  This business is being discussed here.  It will be necessary to have legislation introduced into each House.  The English Parliament can discuss this freely and independently, and we also can discuss it freely and independently.  If the difficulty is as to who is to begin, it is childish to take up the time of the Dail.  I want to meet the Deputy fairly in this matter, and I want to get next him and see what he objects to.  I would like to understand his point of view. 
    
    
      
       The Minister will perhaps allow me to say this, that the   assurances that he is now giving me are very much better given before the issue of to-morrow's papers than after this discussion has taken place. 
    
    
      
       Is this by way of explanation or point of order? 
    
    
      
       By way of explanation. 
    
    
      
       That is the sort of thing. which I object to.  The Deputy knows perfectly well that no member of the Government, not even such an important personage as an External Minister, is able to bind the Parliament of the nation.  It is not good enough for the Deputy to come here and pretend that he thought that I went to England and told the British Government that I was going to accept their guarantee for land bonds which we were about to issue, and that I was not going to allow the Irish Parliament to have a word to say to it.  That is a little bit too thin.  If there are misunderstandings amongst ignorant people throughout the country, the Deputy has gone an extraordinary way about doing what he professes to do, namely, clear them up.  The Deputy knows as well as I do that if an offer is made by the British Government, and accepted by the Irish Government, it is subject to the sanction of both Parliaments.  He knows that perfectly well, and any attempt to pretend now that there was some attempt made here to come to an agreement behind the back of Parliament is not good enough. 
    
    
      
       On a point of order, the position should be very clear to the Minister that if it had gone out from this Dail that we have accepted the offer which has been made, without the further explanation which the Minister has given to us&mdash;that they only accepted subject to ratification by the Dail&mdash;the effect, of such a statement on this country would have been a bad one. 
    
    
      
       I am quite ready to believe that the Deputy was genuinely afraid that such an impression would get abroad, but from my point of view, I think there is very little danger of that.  I hope that there is enough political education in the country to underStand   clear political event of this sort. I do not think that there is any likelihood that such an impression would get abroad but I am willing to give the Deputy credit for thinking that there was some necessity to clear it up.  If there were such danger, I am glad to reiterate that such arrangements must be subject to parliament.  As I have already said, the English Government is the government of an independent country.  It is meeting parliament for the first time, and it is a habit to put in the King's speech reference to legislation which it is intended to introduce. 
    
     I take it that that is the reason that reference to this arrangement was inserted in the King's speech.  We will find a suitable time to discuss this question, and that will be when introducing the Bill.  That Bill will be introduced pretty soon, because we are anxious to get ahead with land purchase and to be in a position within the next two months to issue bonds.  I am not prepared to say at present what form the Bill should take, but all these matters   will be discussed on that Bill, and Parliament then will, of course, be perfectly free to take into account all the circumstances of the case and to take into account what are the real interests of Ireland in this matter and decide accordingly. 
    
      
       Do I understand the Minister to imply that if this arrangement is not entered into there will be difficulty about the issue of land bonds? 
    
    
      
       I made no such suggestion. It is obvious, if we agree to accept this guarantee, that it imposes a duty upon us to introduce such a Bill and to let Parliament decide whether it is good business or not.  It is clear that if that is the state of affairs, the time to introduce such a Bill would be before the issue of land bonds.  If Parliament has to decide that issue, it must be decided before issuing those bonds. 
       The Dail adjourned at 5.15 o'clock until Wednesday, 16th January, at 3 p.m. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CASTLEREA (ROSCOMMON) ARMY ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he can state the reason for the delay in paying the   amount due to Martin Winston, draper, Castlerea, approximately £100; whether he is aware that this account has been fully vouched by the local Military Authorities, and payment requested on several occasions, and whether he will see that the matter is immediately dealt with? 
    
    
      
       Mr. Winston's account has been received, and is being dealt with.  The claim being for civilian clothes supplied to troops, required a closer investigation than is given to normal claims, and delay was occasioned. It is hoped that a decision will be reached very quickly. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - GLENAMADDY (GALWAY) CLAIM AGAINST MILITARY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state why the claims made by Joseph O'Dea, of-Lake View, Glenamaddy, for commandeered cars have not yet been paid, and whether he will have the settlement of these claims expedited? 
    
    
      
       The only motor car in respect of which a claim has been made against the Army by Mr. O'Dea was commandeered on its way to him from the Connaught Cycle and Motor Works.  It has been established that Mr. O'Dea did not get delivery of the car, and, therefore, a claim from him does not arise on the commandeering. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - MOUNTBELLEW (GALWAY) ACCOUNT. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether payment has yet been made to Patrick Barrett, of Mountbellew, Co. Galway, on account of damage to a lorry, his property, which had been used by military on 26th April, 1923, and, if not, whether he will see that settlement be expedited? 
    
    
      
       Payment has not yet been made of Mr. Barrett's claim.  The claim is under consideration, and settlement will be expedited. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DEPENDENT'S ALLOWANCE (NENAGH). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he   is aware whether Edward Gleeson, Mill Road, Nenagh, late of the 11th Battalion, National Army, No. 23617, has not received one month's pay and ration allowance due to him, and whether this man's wife did not receive dependent's allowance for the same period, and, if so, if he will state the reason? 
    
    
      
       At the time of Private Gleeson's discharge from the Army a doubt arose as to whether he was entitled to demobilisation pay and allowances.  It is regretted that his case was overlooked.  Payment is now being made. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DUNMORE (GALWAY) CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether the outstanding claim of £57, due to Mr. Peter Flattery, the Hotel, Dunmore, Co. Galway, has yet been paid, and, if not, whether he will see that settlement of this long overdue account is expedited? 
    
    
      
       Mr. Flattery's claim has now been settled. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - GORT (GALWAY) CLAIM AGAINST MILITARY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if the accounts due to Mr. P.J. Melville, Draper, Bridge Street, Gort, have yet been paid; whether he is aware that one of the accounts was passed for payment on the 20th November last, and has not yet been issued, and whether he will take steps to have all amounts due to Mr. Melville paid immediately. 
    
    
      
       A small account for civilian clothing supplied to troops by Mr. Melville is still outstanding and is still being considered.  It is hoped that a decision will shortly be reached. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ATHLONE DEPENDENTS' ALLOWANCE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that dependents' allowance has not been granted to Mrs. Costello, Castlemaine Street, Athlone, in respect of her son, Bernard, who joined the   National Army on the 8th April, 1922, and is at present stationed in Collins Barracks, Dublin; whether sanction will be given for this allowance and payment expedited. 
    
    
      
       Before enlistment, the amount normally contributed by Bernard Costello to his home over and above the cost of his own maintenance therein was less than the namely, 12s. per week, ore an allowance may be issued.  It was in fact, about 8s. per week.  Mrs. Costello's claims in respect of her sons, Bernard and John, were, however, considered jointly, and an allowance of 21s.  per week was issued.  On the demobilisation of her son John the allowance ceased. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - RETURN OF SEIZED SHOT-GUN (WESTMEATH). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state when the gun, the property of Patrick Farrell, Lacken, Multyfarnham, Westmeath, which was taken up by Captain Casey, of the Arm, on January 23rd, 1922, will be returned to the owner? 
    
    
      
       On the information given it has not been possible to connect military with the seizure of Mr. Farrell's gun. 
    
   
 