 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Cromadh ar obair an lae ar a 3.15 p.m. Bhi an Ceann Comhairle, Micheal O hAodha, sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - INCOME TAX ABATEMENTS.  (Allowance for Children). 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance if it is a fact that in the matter of income tax abatement a taxpayer is not allowed any relief on account of a child who is maintained entirely at his expense unless he has custody of the child, and if such is the case will be consider the advisability of allowing an abatement where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Income tax authorities that the taxpayer is entirely responsible for the maintenance of such child. 
    
    
      
       It is a fact that the law requires the claimant to have the custody of the child.  There are good reasons&mdash;which are not within the limits of a question and answer&mdash;for not departing from that provision. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - OLD AGE PENSIONS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government if he has received a copy of a resolution adopted by the Gort Pensions Committee, asking that the Census Returns of 1901 should be made available in order to facilitate claimants applying for Old Age Pensions, and if so, what action he proposes taking in the matter. 
    
    
      
       A copy of the resolution referred to was received.  The reason the Census Returns of 1901 have not been made available for search or inspection is that the Forms had been filled up under promise that the particulars given therein would not be made   public and that the information would be used merely for statistical purposes. The question whether such undertaking ing should be departed from in the public interest has been carefully considered. Up to the present it has not appeared desirable to adopt that course. It has been found that in the filling up of such forms prior to the passing of the Old Age Pension Acts where the dates of birth were unknown there was a tendency on the part of those concerned to understate their ages.  For that reason it is felt that the 1901 Records might not be of much help in facilitating claimants. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Home Affairs to state what (if any) arrangements are now in operation, or when and what arrangements he proposes to make in connection with the checking and proper supervision of the use of weights and measures. 
    
    
      
       A suitable number of Civic Guards are being trained in the duties of Inspectors of Weights and Measures, and the work of Inspection throughout the country will be undertaken at the earliest possible date. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - MAIL BOAT EMPLOYEES. 
    
      
       To ask the Postmaster-General if representations have been made to him by persons who were at one time employed by the Dublin Steam Packet Co., and now employed by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway, that when the latter railway took over the mail contract a covenant was entered into according to which such persons should continue to be employed on the mail boats with their base at Dun Laoghaire, and that the railway company have broken its covenant in this matter, employing such persons in Liverpool, Manchester and other places, though their families reside in Dun Laoghaire. And if having regard to the fact that Saorstat Eireann pays its moiety of the mail contract, he will insist that this covenant be honourably observed? 
    
    
      
       Representations were made to me early last year by former employees of the City of Dublin Steam Packet Co.,   who had been affected by the transfer of the contract for the Holyhead and Dun Laoghaire mail service in November, 1920.  It is not correct to say that a covenant was entered into under which these employes should continue to work on the mail boats.  The undertaking given by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway Co., to which, it may be stated, the British Postmaster-General was not a party, was to find employment for the Packet employees of the City of Dublin Co. not over 60 years of age, and this undertaking appears to have been carried out.  There is nothing in the mail contract which would entitle me to intervene with the railway company as regards the duties assigned to individual employees, but, in the special circumstances, I wrote to the company in May last, and pressed that the claims of their Irish employees, whose interests had been adversely affected should be very carefully investigated with a view to obviating hardship. The company in a reply, dated 23rd June, 1922, informed me that of 61 persons concerned who were then in their service, 12 were employed at Dun Laoghaire, and of the remainder, all of whom were engaged on various services from Holyhead, about 19 were on the Dun Laoghaire mail service.  The company stated that they were not then in a position to increase the latter number, but they promised to give the matter further and sympathetic consideration.  I am communicating with them again, and will inform the Deputy of the result. 
    
    
      
       also asked how many persons are employed by the London, Midland and Scottish on the boats carrying mails between Dun Laoghaire and Holyhead; and how many of these persons are citizens of Saorstat Eireann? And if, having regard to the fact that Saorstat Eireann pays its moiety of the mail contract, he will insist that the railway company employ its moiety of Irish labour on the contract? 
    
    
      
       I have no information as to the number or nationality of the persons employed by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway Co. on the Mail Packets between Dun Laoghaire and Holyhead.  The mail contract was entered into before the setting up of Saorstat Eireann, and it contains no provision under which it would be possible for me to   insist that any proportion of the employees should be citizens of An Saorstat. I am, however, communicating with the railway company in regard to the question of re-transfer to Dun Laoghaire of certain of their employees who resided there prior to the taking over of the contract from the City of Dublin Steam Packet Co.&mdash;a matter on which the Deputy has addressed another question to me&mdash;and I hope that as a result the number of Irish employees on the Mail Packets will be increased. As a matter of fact, I may say it is likely that this increase will materialise in the very near future. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - INTERMEDIATE BOARD PROGRAMME. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Education  (a)  if there is a statutory duty imposed on the Intermediate Education Board to prepare and publish a programme of studies and rules for examination each year?   (b)  if the Intermediate Education Board discharged such statutory duty (if it exists) by publishing an official programme of the Board in regard to the examination to be held in 1923,  (c)  if not, by what body, and under what statutory authority, if any, was an Intermediate Education programme published for the year 1923,  (d)  if it is correct that the Intermediate Board has notified the National University of Ireland that the Intermediate Commissioners are not preparing a programme for the examinations of 1924, if so, why, when, and by whom, has the Intermediate Board been relieved of its statutory duty?   (e)  if the Minister is aware that the Lord Chief Justice and the other members of the Intermediate Board have passed a resolution, declaring that, as the law now stands, the preparation of the annual programme is properly the function of the Board exclusively. 
    
    
      
       The answer to Clause  (a)  is in the affirmative; Clause  (b)  is in the negative; Clause  (c)  is that the Programme was published by the Minister of Education and by the authority of the same.  If the Deputy seeks British Statutory authority, he is referred to the Irish Free State Agreement Act, 1922, and the Transfer of Function Order made thereunder; Clause  (d)  the Ministry   has not been informed of any such notification; Clause  (e)  the Lord Chief Justice cannot nor can the Board legislate by resolution and matters of opinion, whether legal or political are not properly the subject of resolutions by the Board. 
    
    
      
       May I ask, as a supplementary question&mdash;why the answer is given to  (e)  in that form?  The question does not suggest that the Board of Intermediate Education claims to legislate by resolution.  It merely draws the Minister's attention to the fact that the Lord Chief Justice of Ireland adopts a certain view of the law, and that the Board adopt that view. 
    
    
      
       I would point out to the Deputy that a supplementary question cannot be by way of criticism of the answer given. 
    
    
      
       May it not be to point out the irrelevancy of the answer? 
    
    
      
       No.  It must be a further question. 
    
    
      
       Then I ask, as a supplementary question&mdash;has the Minister, or anyone on his behalf, applied to the Intermediate Board to furnish the Ministry with this official information? 
    
    
      
       I have nothing to state, in addition to the answer I have given. 
    
    
      
       With regard to the answer on that section of  (d)  which inquires, &ldquo;why, when, and by whom has the Intermediate Board been relieved of its statutory duty?&rdquo; the Minister merely says that it is under the transfer of functions. 
    
    
      
       The Minister answered  (a)  on that point, I think. 
    
    
      
       Yes,  (a)  was in the affirmative.  He suggests there is a statutory duty. 
    
    
      
       Then the second part of  (d)  does not arise? 
    
    
      
       That was that the second part of  (d)  was in operation, and did not arise.  The point in dispute really is as regards the interpretation of the Transfer of Functions Order. 
    
     
    
      
       The Deputy must debate this matter in another way. 
    
    
      
       I will raise a special debate on the subject, because the Board has a statutory duty, and it must know where it stands. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - TEACHERS' SALARIES WITHHELD. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Education if he is aware that several teachers have had their salaries withheld&mdash;some for a period of six months or over&mdash;because of reports which have apparently been made against them to the Military Authorities; will be state if such salaries have been withheld by order of the Military Authorities; if so, what steps have been taken by the Education Office or the Military Authorities to investigate the truth or otherwise of such reports, and will he take steps to see that in the absence of any definite and substantiated charges, payment will be immediately made to such teachers. 
    
    
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative, and to the second part in the negative.  The third part of the question appears to be dealt with in question 15. 
    
    
      
       Has the Minister's Department anything to say in the matter? 
    
    
      
       I think the proper answer to the third part of the question will be given in reply to question 15. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - ADDITIONAL TEACHERS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Education  (a)  if it is within the power of the Education Authority to insist that where the average attendance at a particular school warrants the appointment of an additional teacher, such additional teacher shall be appointed to the school.   (b)  If he is aware that in certain parts of the country, notably in the areas covered by the Diocese of Ardagh, and also in parts of the Archdiocese of Armagh, school managers have refused to appoint Junior Assistant Mistresses to schools where the average attendance would warrant such appointment,   and seeing that such schools cannot be effectively worked by one teacher, will the Minister have arrangements made which will secure that such schools are sufficiently staffed? 
    
    
      
       
         (a)  Regulations governing such appointments are set out in the published Code of Rules.   (b)  I have no information as to the alleged action referred to in this part of the question. 
    
    
      
       May I point out to the Minister that the point of the question is, whether he has power to see that these regulations are carried out? 
    
    
      
       As regards any regulations that are of a compulsory character, the Ministry, of course, has power to see that they are carried out. 
    
    
      
       Would the Minister say whether these particular regulations are of a compulsory, or permissive, character? 
    
    
      
       I am afraid I would myself have to read the regulations very carefully in order to answer that. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - IRISH TEACHERS IN ENGLAND. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of the recent decision of the English Board of Education depriving Irish teachers now serving in schools in England and Wales of the right to have their previous service in Irish schools recognised for salary and pension purposes, and if he intends to take any action thereon. 
    
    
      
       I have no official information as to the decision of the English Board of Education referred to in the question, and, in any event, the matter is not one in which I can properly claim any right to interfere. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - LISDUFF BRIDGE. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce if his attention has been drawn to the destruction and present condition of the Lisduff (County Boundary) overhead bridge which is causing a good deal of inconvenience to traders and others in Laoighis and Tipperary; whether he is   aware that the G.S. &amp; W.R. Company have declined to take any steps to effect the necessary repairs; upon whom does the liability to repair such bridges rest, and will he take the necessary steps to compel such persons or body to effect the necessary repairs? 
    
    
      
       The Minister for Industry and Commerce has placed the answers to his questions in my hands. The answer to this one is:&mdash;The question of liability in this case depends on the provisions of the private Act of Parliament under which the bridge was constructed.  It will be necessary to examine the terms of the Act and I will communicate the result to the Deputy. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - RAILWAY BRIDGES DESTROYED. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the cause of the delay in rebuilding of the destroyed bridges in the G.S. &amp; W. Railway system at Mallow and Carrig, Castletownroche; Co. Cork; whether the directors of the company were responsible in any way for this delay; whether the work or rebuilding those bridges has yet begun; if not, can the Minister state to the Dail when he proposes to get this work under way. Whether the Minister is aware that all classes of the community in this large area, Mallow to Waterford, are suffering very severely as a result of this branch line being closed down, and that it is absolutely essential that this service should be opened up and maintained at the earliest possible date? 
    
    
      
       Repairs to the Mallow Viaduct have proceeded, as far as possible, pending accurate measurements being obtained.  The railway company was unable to provide these, and they cannot be obtained until the debris of the fallen bridge is removed.  This latter work was delayed by the Dock strike in Cork, and the flooding of the river, but is now being pushed on.  The necessary measurements can be taken in a few days, and the steel work then completed in the contractor's workshops.  Erection when the steel work is completed will not take a long time. 
       In the case of Carrig the tenders for the repair have been received, and a contract will be placed at once. 
    
     
        There has been considerable difficulty in coming to an understanding with the railway company in regard to the repair of these large bridges, but such difficulties are not now expected to cause delay.  The public importance of expeditious and economical repairs is fully appreciated, and every effort has been, and is being made on the part of the Government to secure an early resumption of traffic. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - FOTA RAILWAY BRIDGE. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that considerable inconvenience is being caused the residents of Cobh, Co. Cork, and surrounding district, as a result of the destruction of the bridge on railway line at Fota station; whether he will state to the Dail the cause of the delay in repairing of this bridge, and the re-opening of this very important branch line to the town and port to passenger and goods traffic; whether the Minister can state definitely when repair work on this Bridge will commence, and if the engineering department has given him any idea of the length of time it will take to execute this work? 
    
    
      
       No definite proposals for the repair of this bridge could be obtained from the railway company, and the Government has, therefore, had to undertake responsibility for the work. Tenders have been received for a new span, and are now being considered.  It has been arranged that the Railway Maintenance Corps should carry out a temporary repair to enable traffic to be resumed, and it is expected that this will be completed within a fortnight. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - AN ATHLONE PRISONER. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that James Logan, Athlone, who was arrested on March 3rd, and is detained in Custume Barracks, is a man of 74 years of age, and that he can secure the necessary sureties; and whether the Minister will release this man if these guarantees are given? 
    
    
      
       The Minister for Defence has asked me to answer his questions. The answer to this question is: Mr. Logan is in custody under remand awaiting trial before the District Court. Permission was given on the 21st inst., in view of his age to accept bail offered. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - SOLICITOR'S ARREST. 
     
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that Mr. Sean O hUadhaigh, Solicitor, Dun Laoghaire, has been arrested, and is now detained by the Military Authorities; if so, will he state the reasons for his arrest; whether any definite charges have been preferred against him, or if he is to be placed on trial; and whether in view of the fact that this man's business is suffering considerably because of his detention, the Minister will either have him tried immediately or set at liberty. 
    
    
      
       Mr. O hUadhaigh was arrested on suspicion of being implicated in an attempt on the part of certain prisoners to impersonate other prisoners who were chargeable with offences punishable with the death penalty notwithstanding that upon his professional and personal honour he solemnly promised not to take advantage in any way of the permission accorded to him to interview prisoners except to discuss and prepare his defence.  The case against Mr. O hUadhaigh is under consideration. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say if it is proposed to bring him to trial. 
    
    
      
       It is under consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - ARRESTED TEACHERS' SALARIES. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether his Department has issued orders to the Ministry of Education not to pay salary to certain teachers, who apparently are suspected by the Military Authorities of connection with the forces in operation against the Government; if so, will he state what action is usually taken by the Military to investigate the truth of the alleged reports or charges, if he is aware that some teachers, because of such reports, have not received salary for over six months, although they have worked constantly in their schools in the meantime, and will he take immediate steps to put an end to such a very unsatisfactory state of affairs. 
    
    
      
       In fifteen cases representations have been made to the Ministry for Education that National Teachers have been assisting the Irregulars by activities of a propagandist   nature.  In some of these cases the dispensing with their services has been suggested to that Ministry.  The reports of responsible Military Officers have been considered to warrant the making of such representations.  These cases took place prior to December last.  The present practice is to bring such people to actual trial before approaching the Ministry of Education on the matter. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - TREATMENT OF PRISONERS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if it is a fact that untried prisoners in Mountjoy are treated differently in the matter of parcels, letters, etc., from untried prisoners detained in other prisons and camps, and if such is the case will he explain the reason for such discrimination. 
    
    
      
       It is not a fact. 
    
   
   
     MOTOR CARS (AD VALOREM TAX.) 
    
      
       I should like to ask the permission of the Dail to allow me on the adjournment to start a short discussion on the important statement that was made last night by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue.  They state that all motors manufactured in Great Britain   will be subject after the 1st April to an  ad valorem  tax of 33? per cent. 
    
    
      
       The question will arise on the adjournment. 
    
   
   
     LOCAL AUTHORITIES (EXTENSION OF TIME) BILL, 1923&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill.  As Deputies will be aware, when a local authority obtained powers to acquire compulsorily land or other rights for the purpose of carrying out works of public utility, it is usual to limit the time within which such public works must be carried out.  Owing to the European War a great number of local authorities were unable to carry out works for which they had obtained legislative sanction within the time fixed, and the British Parliament in 1915 passed an Act called &ldquo;Special Acts&mdash;Extension of Time Act.&rdquo; In that Act it was stated that where the time within which a duty is to be performed, or where power may be exercised under any Special Act is limited, application may be made to the appropriate Government Department for an Order under this Act extending that time, but only in cases where the time is due to expire within 12 months of the date of application.  The time during which that Act remained in force was extended, I think, by a subsequent British Act called &ldquo;The War Emergencies (Laws Continuance) Act,&rdquo; so that it remained in force up to August, 1922, and the Local Government Board could have extended the time of the various local authorities in Ireland&mdash;and in fact it could have been done by the Minister of the Provisional Government, but no action was taken.  As a matter of fact in most cases extension could only be taken for 12 months, and the powers elapsed when extension was not sought. Most of the local authorities had broken off relations with the old Local Government Department in 1920, and the result was that, even where they wished to keep alive the powers, they refused to make application to the old Local Government Board for extension of time.  In the case of Dingle powers were granted some years ago, and there were several extensions up to 1919.  The Council there did not make any further applications, with the   result that the powers lapsed.  It is now desired to have those powers revived without putting the local authorities concerned to the expense and delay of obtaining a Provisional Order and having it confirmed by legislation.  This Bill is not one, I think, that could be regarded as contentious.  It is simply giving certain powers for a further period to the Minister for Local Government that were in the past exercised by the Local Government Board.  The circumstances of the country have been such that local authorities who have failed to carry out these works in the specified time had every excuse for the delay which has occurred. I do not know whether any great number will seek to avail of the powers given in this Bill.  The only real urgent case that has come before us has been that of the Dingle Rural District Council, which obtained powers to acquire land for the purpose of providing a water supply for the town.  There is, in addition to the ordinary moneys which would be available, a special grant available from an extra Governmental source, and there is great need for the carrying out of the works and also great need for employment in the district, and it is very desirable in that particular case that the Council should be enabled to proceed without any great delay. 
    
    
      
       I second the motion. 
    
    
      
       I beg to support the Second Reading, because I think that it is desirable to extend whatever facilities we can for the pushing on of public works.  If within the near future it is possible to proceed with those works, then we ought not to allow any legislative obstacles to stand in the way. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Bill be read a second time.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       Ordered for Committee, Tuesday, 27th March. 
    
   
   
     PEACE PROPOSALS. 
     The following motion appeared in the Orders of the Day in the name of Dr. McCartan. 
     That Dail Eireann records its satisfaction at the development in the South in favour of peace, and expresses the opinion that the proposals made afford a fair basis of settlement.&rdquo; 
    
      
       On Tuesday,   when I asked the Dail to postpone this motion which is on the Agenda to-day, I had hoped that developments would have taken place in the South which would have an important bearing on this Resolution.  I am sorry to say that the situation is the same to-day as it was on Tuesday, and consequently I think it better, in the interests of peace, to withdraw the motion on the Agenda because I think speeches, for or against it, might retard rather than advance peace.  Consequently I withdraw the motion.  Of course that does not mean that the proposals or hopes for peace are abandoned. 
    
   
   
     OIREACHTAS STAFF. 
    
      
       I beg to move the following motion:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Minister for Finance and the Ceann Comhairle be appointed to a Standing Committee to determine the number, grading, remuneration and terms of office of the Oireachtas Staff and that Seanad Eireann be requested to nominate the Cathaoirleach of the Seanad to act in this Committee.&rdquo; 
       Some work, I believe, has already been accomplished.  A Committee meeting has been held dealing with this matter, and I understand there has been an accommodation as between both Houses of the Oireachtas for a common staff.  In order that the terms of office and other necessary details should be worked out, I am proposing this motion which is I think much on the same lines as I indicated when the original proposals were made in January last.  I do not think it is necessary to make any recommendation to the Dail at present on this motion as the general terms are within the knowledge of most of the Deputies. 
    
    
      
       I second the motion. 
    
    
      
       There are two questions which I would like to raise on this motion.  The first is not a very important matter, but one that I think should be considered.  In the latter part of the motion we say that &ldquo;Seanad Eireann be requested to nominate the Cathaoirleach of the Seanad to act on this Committee.&rdquo; I suggest that we ought not to indicate the person whom the Seanad should nominate.  We should leave that entirely to the Seanad.  The second   point is that the motion asks us to appoint a Standing Committee &ldquo;to determine the number, grading, remuneration and terms of office of the Oireachtas staff.&rdquo;  I am doubtful whether we ought to leave the whole responsibility of that upon the Standing Committee.  I read the word &ldquo;determine&rdquo; to mean finally deciding without any appeal and I think that we ought as the Dail, retain the right to approve or disapprove of the recommendation. I am thinking at the moment of this question of remuneration and terms of office because the staff includes, or may include, a very large number or variety of services, and I would wish that the Dail should have a say in the final determination of the terms of office and remuneration.  I suggest to the Minister that some other intention covered by another word should be submitted to the Dail and that the decision of this Committee should be left to the Dail for approval. 
    
    
      
       There is a proposal that instead of nominating the Cathaoirleach we should ask the Seanad to nominate a member. 
    
    
      
       I am agreeable, but I do not know that that would be well, and, in view of the fact that we have specified the Ceann Comhairle here, we should specify An Cathaoirleach or some other Senator.  It appears to me it might look as if we wanted to pass over the Cathaoirleach, and naturally he is, or ought to be, more in touch with the staff than any other member of the Seanad. I think you ought to name him or any other Senator. 
    
    
      
       The suggestion is that the Senate should be asked to nominate An Cathaoirleach or any other member of the Seanad.  Should that meet Deputy Johnson's point? 
    
    
      
       It would not.  I think we should leave the nomination entirely in the hands of the Seanad.  No doubt the selection of the Seanad would be the Cathaoirleach.  But I think we ought not to tell them who they ought to nominate. We should leave that entirely to them, and the expression of the view of the Minister himself will make clear that there is no intention to suggest that somebody else on the Seanad other than the Cathaoirleach should act. 
    
     
    
      
       I have no wish in the matter. 
    
    
      
       The motion is amended to read in part: &ldquo;That Seanad Eireann is requested to nominate a member of the Seanad to act on this Committee.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed. 
    
    
      
       Another point is also raised on this motion. 
    
    
      
       I quite admit the right of the Dail to express an opinion on or to reject or criticise, or to deal in any way it thinks fit, with any of the business transacted by any of the Ministers or any Committee of the Dail.  I submit, from my experience of Committees&mdash;their work and their recommendations for remuneration, status, and so on&mdash;that it is most inadvisable to allow a decision that is come to by persons in responsible positions to be the subject of consideration afterwards, in which the persons affected may canvass members of the Dail and influence their decisions with regard to certain matters.  It might possibly come to this: A good deal of the time of the officials employed by the State would be spent on the lobbies of either the residences of members or the precincts of the Dail in canvassing and pushing their claims with regard to certain positions, salaries, and so on.  That is not possible in the present case, and, as far as the determination of the various details mentioned here is concerned, there is an apportunity afforded at all times to members of the Dail to criticise the administration of the service.  This is the only section of the service that is outside the control of the Ministry for Finance and it is wise to understand what exactly is meant by control.  The Ministry for Finance does not interfere with the ordinary control of the staffs of other Ministries, but it does exercise a supervisory control with regard to promotions and other matters of that sort, which is wise, and which, as far as I know, does not give much ground for dissatisfaction. There is a natural dissatisfaction always where an appointment is made and where there are many candidates for the office. All the candidates who were not appointed would have good reason to be dissatisfied, and the number of dissatisfied persons varies according to the number   of persons who were not appointed to the position.  That is what I would like to save the Dail from.  If it wishes to take all this trouble, as well as other troubles, it is open to it to do so, but I certainly would not recommend it. 
    
    
      
       I think the President has overlooked the fact that the motion as drafted gives this Committee the power to determine the particular grading, and so on; but there are a great number of points in it other than the questions of remuneration, size of staff, etc.  All these things are quite apart from the criticism he has passed upon canvassing with regard to remuneration.  There would seem to be a good case for leaving an opportunity to the Dail to express an opinion on such an important matter which has a bearing on its every-day life. 
    
    
      
       As I am to be a member of this Committee, if it is appointed, may I ask how is it suggested that the Committee should report, if it is to report, to the Dail?  In what way is it suggested the report should be made? 
    
    
      
       I would suggest that the report on this particular question should be laid before the Dail in the same way as any other report is laid. 
    
    
      
       For adoption? 
    
    
      
       For adoption. 
    
    
      
       It could not be. 
    
    
      
       It is not touching appointments; it is not touching personnel; it is rather the machinery that would be involved. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps as I understand this thing fairly well I may be allowed to explain.  We shall have, say, in a month's time, Standing Orders dealing with Private Bill procedure. We shall have Private Bills coming in and we shall be under an obligation to set up a Private Bill Office and place somebody in charge, and to determine that he shall have one or two or three, or any given number, of assistants.  It is suggested that in that particular instance a report should be made to the Dail setting out the recommendations. Later on it will be necessary, perhaps, to get another assistant.  Work, for example, in our Journal office is just   being brought up-to-date, but they have not yet tackled the question of a Journal for the Seanad.  That will involve possibly the employment of another Clerk, but not, perhaps, at the same time as we shall be employing people for private Bills.  A report will be necessary therefore from time to time.  I want to bring that forward so that we will understand exactly where we are. 
    
    
      
       I am reading this to mean that the whole question of staffs of the Dail and Seanad, and of the combined Houses, shall be in the discretion henceforward of this Standing Committee. As to numbers, grading, remuneration, terms of office and salaries, whether they are to be Civil Service appointments, permanent appointments, whether they are to be reviewable by the Dail, or whether they are to be pensionable, all those questions for final decision would be in the hands of the Minister for Finance, the Chairman of the Seanad and the Chairman of the Dail. That seems to me to be an extensive power to give because it does not mean a mere sessional appointment.  It is practically a Civil Service Commission within a narrow limit, and should be subject to some criticism or review. May I ask would it be in the power of this Committee to say that the remuneration of the staff should be paid out of what used to be known as the Civil List, and would it be reviewable on the estimates? 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       We do not know. This Committee has power to determine whether they shall be placed in the same category as the Judges. 
    
    
      
       Actually the conference on the staffs, out of which this resolution has grown, decided that the staffs should have Civil Service terms. 
    
    
      
       I ought to have explained, from the point of view of the public service the Dail and Seanad are more or less in the nature of irregular establishments, and they have to be provided for by this extraordinary machinery. Every single sixpence spent will be the subject of a vote here.  All particulars regarding the staffs will be sent up for examination in the same way as   those of every other establishment.  If it were not out of deference to the majesty of the two Houses, in the ordinary way the Minister for Finance would have come along and provided the staffs. But, in view of the majestic character of the dual Assembly, we thought it would be more dignified if we were to give them the opportunity of stipulating what staff they required. 
    
    
      
       I am quite sure that the regulars, as represented by the Minister for Finance, would want to have control if possible over the irregulars as represented by the Chairmen of the two Houses, and I have no doubt whatever but that the Standing Committee is going to do exactly the right thing in this matter. Still, I feel there ought to be a Court of Appeal. 
    
    
      
       Would the Deputy suggest an amendment? 
    
    
      
       I think the word &ldquo;recommend&rdquo; meets my point.  If the report of this Committee were made available for members, and if the Dail then took the initiative in raising the question, that would meet my point.  If, for instance, it were treated as a Provisional Order is being treated&mdash; i.e. , merely submitting it to the Dail for their information&mdash;then it is for them to take action if they wish.  I am not thinking of the daily or weekly changes that may occur; I am rather thinking of the plan. 
    
    
      
       That would be quite feasible. 
    
    
      
       Very well. 
    
    
      
       There is no necessity to put that into the motion, if it is understood. 
       Question put, and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT OF THE DAIL&mdash;MOTOR CAR DUTIES. 
    
      
       I beg to move the adjournment of the Dail until Monday, the 26th instant, at 3 o'clock.  I regret to have to bring members together next week, as I understand there is a general desire to get away for a fortnight at Easter.  We will want members, however, on Monday and Tuesday, and then we will be able to undertake to adjourn for fourteen or sixteen days, or perhaps a little longer. 
    
     
    
      
       I second. 
    
    
      
       I have not had time to prepare a thesis, so that the President may feel happy, nor indeed have I had time to consider all the points that might well arise in connection with this matter.  I may say as far as my morning was concerned that I was interrupted frequently by people who were interested expressing the desire that I should take the matter up in the Dail to-day.  I have not even had time to read the newspapers this morning in order to see what their attitude was with regard to this.  But I know quite well what the attitude of the motor trade and of motor users is.  There has been a sort of panic created this morning by the announcement made by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue that they would seek for a 33? per cent.  ad valorem  duty on all British-manufactured motor cars coming into the country after the 1st April.  Already I am told that a considerable number of orders have been cancelled in view of this statement. This 33? per cent.  ad valorem  duty was imposed as a war measure in order to prevent cars being sent into the country from America and other foreign countries at a time when the motor trade in England was not able to function.  As soon as hostilities ceased British manufacturers were able to show and persuade the Government that it would be impossible for them under existing conditions to compete with foreign production.  They stated that their workshops had been engaged on other work; that the machinery had gone out of order, and that the cost of material and of labour was so increased in the interval that unless this 33? per cent.  ad valorem  duty were retained upon foreign manufactured cars they would be out of trade completely.  The effect is that this Finance Act is continuous and is at present in force, and I take it is in force here until a new Finance Act has been brought into force by ourselves.  There is, therefore, apparently no means at present of escaping the consequences of the statement that was made by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue last night.  It is suggested that as far as the Free State is concerned there are three actions possible for them to take in this matter.   In the first place that they might charge this 33? per cent. duty upon all cars imported into the Free State; secondly, that they might give a preferential duty to the British-made cars on the same lines as Great Britain has agreed to introduce or to impose upon other commodities passing from this country into Great Britain.  That percentage, I am told, would be about 20 or 21 per cent.  The third suggestion is that there should be a free trade policy with regard to all cars. That is the position that I should like to take up, because there is not any question if the first is adopted&mdash;that is, the 33? per cent.  ad valorem  duty on all cars&mdash;that the British cars would cease to be sold in this country.  That would mean that a car coming into this country which at present costs £600 would in future cost £800, and that a smaller car costing £300 would in future cost £400, and that the American, French and Italian cars can be got at a much cheaper rate.  There is no doubt that that will destroy the trade in British-made cars in this country.  I do not know that even the adoption of the second means would be a great improvement, because with the twenty per cent. duty imposed upon the British cars I do not think they would be able to hold their own.  I suggest that if free trade were adopted between the two countries in respect to motor cars everybody, except perhaps the Minister for Finance, would be satisfied with the result. Even in the face of the Minister for Finance's objection I venture to say that if there were free trade cars would be so much cheaper that there would be a great many more cars used and that when he comes to consider the imposition of the motor tax upon fuel, rather than upon horse power, there would be so much more fuel used that he would be able to make up for any little deficiency that might result from the non-imposition of this 33? per cent. duty.  I would go even further and say that it would be advisable for him to increase the duty upon the petrol or other fuel that is used and make the people who are using the cars pay for them in that particular way. I admit quite freely that the Minister for Finance must have money.  I have never got away from that fact; he will not let us get away from it himself.  I want, however, to call his attention to the terrible disadvantages under which the motor   trade and motor users have been placed in this Free State.  I had an opportunity of going through the country in a motor car one day last week, and I would suggest to any of the Ministers if they are suffering from torpidity of the liver that if they take that journey, as I did, of 40 or 50 miles through the country in a motor car, they will not require Carter's Little Liver Pills afterwards as a help.  The roads are in a frightful condition, and when I was driving over some of them I said to myself that I did not know how the Minister for Finance could compel people to pay any tax whatever for using their cars on these roads.  In addition to that we have this rather intolerable tax per horse-power, as against the tax upon fuel, which would be a fair and legitimate tax, and would be in proportion to the use that would be made of the roads.  The man who only uses his car a few times in the week should not have to pay as much as the man whose car is constantly on the road injuring the surface.  As far as the trade is concerned, we had the stealing of cars and the commandeering of cars.  We had this very unjust tax and we had the state of the roads.  In addition to that tourists have been kept out of the country from various causes.  I also wish to point out that there are many British-made cars in the country at present and there is no question that very quickly any agencies that exist here for the sale of these cars will die out. It will be impossible for those of us who have British-made cars to get parts; at all events, if we want parts we will have to write direct to the maker of the motor, and pay duty on parts coming in, and be put to a tremendous amount of inconvenience. Furthermore, the imposition of this duty will make travelling extremely difficult.  I occasionally visit my friends in the North in order to show them what a great advantage it would be to them to come into the Free State.  If I travel to the North in my own motor car in future I will be stopped at the Customs frontier, and will have to make a deposit of one-fourth or one-third of the value of the car, and then have to claim that money coming back.  It would be fairly easy for a person to take an old car up to the North, and get a new car there on which no duty had been paid, or at all events not this duty on British cars, and come back with that new car.  Not only   would it prevent people who live in the Free State travelling freely through the country, but it would certainly prevent tourists coming here.  It is bad enough at the present, but we have no great hopes of inducing tourists to come here, at any rate within the next few months. We should lay our plans to lessen the difficulties attached to tourists coming into Ireland.  As most of you know, there is an International arrangement by which, when one is going to a foreign country, say France, you deposit a certain amount of money on entering and get it back coming away.  People might do that to get to France.  They would be able to go to Scotland without suffering any inconvenience, but I do not think they are likely to come here unless we offer them some inducement.  If we make things difficult here I do not think they are likely to come.  I want to make another point, and I think it is perhaps the most important one.  The imposition of the duty is not to protect any Irish industry.  There is no Irish industry to protect, except perhaps to some extent the Ford industry in Cork.  At all events, we have not industries here that will suffer or be protected by the imposition of this tax.  I think I may go a little further, as I am speaking now to an Irish audience with a knowledge of Irish history, and say that I do not know whether the British people have very much changed within the last few centuries.  I have read my Irish history sufficiently well to know that the woollen industry was destroyed, or partially destroyed, I think in the reign of Charles I., and subsequently completely destroyed in the reign of William.  Not only was the woollen industry, but nearly every other industry was destroyed.  Why were they destroyed? Because the English people, when the shoe pressed, were determined that they would not have the competition of Ireland against them.  I do not see at the present moment, if we impose the 33 per cent.  ad valorem  tax, why there may not be a reprisal on the part of Great Britain, who might say, &ldquo;If you make it impossible for us to get trade in your country, so far as motors are concerned, we will see that your trade with us in the goods that affect you must suffer something by way of reprisal.&rdquo; I would like to ask the Minister   for Finance to allay some of the consternation that has arisen to-day with regard to this tax, and I would like him if possible to consider very carefully the details of his Finance Bill before bringing it to the Dail.  Meanwhile if he can assure these people as to what means he intends to adopt with regard to this tax I, as well as a great many others, will be greatly pleased.  When coming up the stairs to-day and thinking over what I was going to say here one of my colleagues rushed up and said to me: &ldquo;Hurry up, go and try and get your motor car cheaper.&rdquo;  I admit I am not speaking impartially in this matter.  I am speaking at the moment for my profession as well as for the motor trade, because the medical profession is the one profession above all others in the country that cannot do without motors, and I, on their behalf, would like to do all I could and use any small influence I have in order to render the use of motors as cheap as possible.  I am very much obliged to the Dail for listening to me so long and I hope the Minister for Finance will be able to give us some assurance that things will not be as bad as we fear they will be. 
    
    
      
       I rise to support the statement that has been made and I do so from a different standpoint, the standpoint of those who earn their living in the motor trade in Ireland, motor agents, motor mechanics and general workers in the trade.  There are some thousands of persons earning a living in the motor trade in Ireland, and if this tax is imposed it will mean complete ruin both to the motor trade and the motor industry generally in this country.  The motor trade has been one of the most harassed and persecuted trades in the country for the past three or four years.  Almost all the garages in Ireland have had cars seized on them both by the Government forces and by Irregular forces. The motor trade at the present moment I dare say, has a claim against the Government, and since the Government has been established they have been asking for payment of their accounts.  Some of them are at the moment existing on overdrafts in the bank while the Government owes them huge sums of money. For some reason or other they will not make any effort to speed up the payments   to those unfortunate traders.  If the Government imposes this tax what is to become of the men engaged in the repairs of motor cars, when the owners find that the 33? per cent. applies to spare parts for the repair of the old cars? Deputy Craig has already informed you that it will mean an addition of from £150 to £200 on a £600 car.  It means that the car will not be bought in this country but that it will be bought elsewhere. It means also that the cars will not be used to the extent that people had hoped to use them in business matters. The petrol tax is one which I do not think I should bring in on the adjournment question but that alone has been a considerable embarrassment to the trade.  The way of levying it has been a great embarrassment and I ask now will the Government not do the reasonable thing and treat the motor traders of Ireland with the respect with which they would treat any other class of trader in the country.  Postpone the consideration of this imposition and consult a deputation of experts in the trade. I do not believe that the Government have been consulting with any experts since they started tampering with the motor trade.  Ask experts to come in and help you as to how to raise revenue and put a reasonable tax on cars.  They could adopt the Canadian system which is only twelve and a half per cent.  They could make a further arrangement as regards Continental cars.  The Fiat cars are very good and some of our Ministers who use them know the comfort they can get out of them.  If any of these cars come through English wholesalers to a sub-agent in Dublin it could easily be arranged in the case of the cars thus sold through a sub-agency for an English wholesaler that the tax of 33? per cent. could be divided equally.  It is not impossible to make some arrangement to get the tax on cars sold through English agents in Ireland.  It is not unreasonable to ask that that tax should be divided and I believe if the Ministry would meet the traders concerned a scheme could be arrived at that would bring satisfaction to all parties. As Deputy Craig said a few moments ago there was a regular panic in Dublin this morning amongst people who had cars on order to be delivered within two or three months.  They are bound to their bargain their contracts having already   been signed.  How are they going to pay 33? per cent. more than they made arrangements for?  If they do not keep to their contracts it means litigation. It means serious loss to those people some way or other, and I hope the Ministry will do in this case what they would do with other traders and not treat them in the high-handed way they are treating them.  Let them call them in and ask them to advise them and put some common sense into the parties in the Government who are dealing with the motor trade. 
    
    
      
       It is rather pathetic to notice the solicitude for the English motor trade.  Deputy Byrne is very anxious to secure the motor dealers in English cars with the continuance of their sub-agencies for continental cars from English houses. 
    
    
      
       There are many such houses.  I do not wish to continue them and I should not be misrepresented. 
    
    
      
       One effect of this tax I have no doubt would be to encourage direct agencies, not sub-agencies.  But it is the solicitude as I say for English motor makers as against American that strikes me.  It seems to me that we are more inclined to get advantages in the motor trade, at any rate, for the users of the moderately priced cars from America, France or Belgium, than from England, and I do not think we should be too solicitous for the welfare of the English motor manufacturers. I do not know very much about this business, but I think I probably know as much about it as most others.  It should have been evident to anybody who has been reading the newspapers or following political events for the last twelve months that the announcement which was casually printed or set out in the papers yesterday was an obvious result of last year's Taxation Bill.  And we have not yet been told what is to be the position after the middle of April.  We do not know, and I think it is rather premature to get into a flurry.  Whether the 33? per cent. is too much or too little I do not know, but you must bear in mind when you are talking of motor cars that you are talking of more than the dealers in motor cars.  After all the motor trader while he serves a useful   purpose is not the only man to be considered. Deputy Craig spoke mainly for the user and I have no doubt that the Minister for Finance and his advisers will so calculate the ultimate tax as to ensure that the greatest possible number of cars, in conjunction with the greatest amount of finance, will be brought into use, and they have probably as much opportunity of making that calculation as anybody else, but I hope they will not be predisposed in favour of the luxury car which is manufactured in England as compared with the cheaper car which is brought from other countries. I think there should be if there is not&mdash;probably there already is&mdash;some differentiation between the machine part of the car which, as has been said, is not manufactured in Ireland, and those parts of the cars which are manufactured in Ireland, or ought to be.  There is a very large number of body makers in this country, and I would suggest that if Deputy Byrne is interested in that side of the business he would make some enquiry amongst those people who earn their living by making bodies and the adjuncts of motor cars before he asks that there should be no restriction upon the import of fully equipped motor cars. I only rose because I do not want it to go out that there is a universal objection to a tariff upon finished motor cars. I am prepared to suspend judgment as to the amount and the incidence of the tax, but I want if possible to save the Ministry of Finance from being stampeded into throwing up its hands at the attack of the motor selling trade. 
    
    
      
       I think we should consider this matter purely from the Irish point of view.  A tax on cars coming into this country would be a beneficial act if we were manufacturing cars in this country. But the fact is, we do not manufacture cars in this country, and therefore I think it is a tax on the user.  There is nobody in Ireland who is extremely wealthy and can afford to pay large prices for cars.  The users of cars in Ireland are not wealthy men, and cannot afford to pay a tax of £200 on a car.  However, if cars are to be taxed, there is no reason why the English car should not be taxed as well as the American or French or Italian cars.  There is a tax of thirtythree and one-third per cent. charged on   these cars, and that tax was imposed in the interest of British manufacturers. This tax on British cars is legitimate unless the tax on the other cars is withdrawn also.  Personally, I think that would be the better way.  As we do not manufacture cars, I think the better way would be to cancel the tax on all cars. But if we cancel the tax on American cars, we should not do it merely because it benefits America.  We should get something from America in return for it. Let them cancel their tax on Irish tweeds or Irish linens&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       That is not an Irish industry. 
    
    
      
       I would be satisfied if they would take the tax off Irish linen. We should initiate a treaty with America, as Canada has done with France, and also arrange one with France and Italy, and get the best bargain we can.  I would not give them anything for nothing.  We should always think of the Irish user. Sir James Craig has spoken about England making a reprisal.  England did not consider Ireland or even their friends in the North when they were allowing Canadian cattle in.  I do not think we should consider them now.  As a matter of fact, this should be a reprisal for their attitude towards Irish cattle.  Deputy Byrne said it would injure the motor trade.  I do not know that this tax would injure the motor trade.  If you put the English manufacturers of cars on the same level as the others, it only means that they will have to compete with them on the same terms.  If they cannot compete with them, the only thing for them to do would be to establish a branch here of their manufacturing business.  That would give more work here.  I think it would tend to give employment rather than to diminish employment if the tax were put on, but I would rather see the tax withdrawn altogether if we could get a good return for it. 
    
    
      
       I would like to say a few words on this matter.  I have not a motor car of my own, but I have a motor bicycle, which I have used for the past seven years.  I think the English manufacturer in this matter of the tax should be quite capable of looking after himself. I would submit that this tax has not been instituted without very careful consideration, and I think it is a very   debatable point whether this duty would not tend to give more employment to our people than they would have if these new cars were allowed to come into this country duty free.  It has been said here that there is no firm manufacturing motor cars in Ireland.  I think Chambers, of Belfast, manufacture motor cars.  They used to do so at all events, but I do not know whether they are doing it at present. 
    
    
      
       That is a foreign car. 
    
    
      
       Ireland is all one.  Gorman, of Clonmel, and many other motor firms throughout Ireland are practically in a position to build motor cars themselves, and the sooner we start building motor cars ourselves from the wheels up to the crank and the piston rods and the cylinders and everything else connected with motor cars the better for this country.  As regards spare parts, I think the sooner we make these the better.  I do not know that Ford's in Cork are making motor cars at present, but if not they ought to start. 
    
    
      
       I think due regard ought to be given to the interests of motor cars.  There is no doubt that motor cars are annually coming into this country by the thousand, and the total amount of money they represent if there is no means of producing the article at home would simply run the country into bankruptcy in a few years.  I think a duty is the proper thing and to try and encourage Irish industry thereby.  This is really a very serious matter.  I have not the figures by me, but the total value in money represented by motor cars coming in would run into hundreds of thousands, and I think even a million. It is a huge sum that deserves considerable attention, and I hope that the Ministry will give it this attention, and I hope they will not allow themselves to be diverted from their duty by the cry of save this or that particular person or thing, but that rather they will be attracted by the cry of save the nation. 
    
    
      
       I have very little to say in reply.  Article 74 of the Constitution lays down our position in law, and until that is altered or repealed you are presented with a state of affairs that fixes duty on certain articles on and after the 1st April, which formerly did not bear any charge.  I will   not anticipate the statement that I will make on the Estimates for Receipts and Expenditure on Monday further than to say that I have not been impressed by the case made for the motor owners, or with the fact that people who can afford to pay five or six hundred pounds for a car cannot afford to contribute anything towards the finances of the State. We must get money from one source or other; we must either tax all round and fairly all round or restrict expenditure. Deputies come here repeatedly, time after time, asking for an extension of this service and of that, and some other service, but when it comes to a question of raising the money nobody can make a suggestion as to how it is to be got. Get it from somebody else is always the story. 
       Now certain cars have borne a very heavy import duty for a considerable time, and, as far as I know, people who are able to pay, and I know some of them who have paid it, do so, and others have cars upon which no duty is paid and they have a great advantage. I hope they will consider when they are salving their consciences, now or in the future, sending in any contribution they think in law or equity they owe to the National Treasury.  With regard to the other question of the taxation of fuel I do not know that it is possible to consider the matter this year.  I am not very keen on the re-consideration of the whole fiscal system until there is an apportunity of considering it in the widest aspect.  It is not a matter that can be dealt with with any degree of satisfaction in a haphazard way. We have not been able to give it any such consideration as it deserves, and it is not wise to make experiments.  This is not in the nature of an experiment.  It is an imposition that the Dail agreed and subscribed to and passed last October or November.  You had it before you then and you all subscribed to it in this particular article of the Constitution, which provides that &ldquo;during the said current financial year all taxes and duties and arrears thereof shall continue to be assessed, levied and collected in like manner in all respects as immediately before this Constitution come into operation, subject to the like adjustments of the proceeds collected as were theretofore applicable.&rdquo; 
    
     
        Now, unless and until the Dail reviews or repeals this taxation, which I am advised by the officers of my Department is law, it is not in my power to alter it. It is the Act of this Assembly, and it is an Act which, if you consider its repeal, you will also have to consider in what manner you will provide the money you lose by relieving one section of the community in this respect.  I do not understand how it is that people reading the   newspapers regularly and systematically can tell you one day, &ldquo;Oh, we never heard of a Customs barrier, we never heard of an  ad valorem  duty,&rdquo; and so on. The sooner we make it our business to know what is going on the better. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Dail do now adjourn,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
     Dail adjourned at 4.40 p.m. to Monday, at 3 o'clock. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BIRR COMPENSATION CLAIM. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether is is correct to state that repeated applications have been made to him by Messrs. Clarke &amp; Co., Birr, Offaly, for compensation for a motor lorry, which was commandeered on 26th April, 1922, by the forces of the Provisional Government from Mullingar; if he can state when he will be in a position to deal with this claim. 
    
    
      
       It appears that only one application was received from Messrs. Clarke &amp; Co., who were then asked to furnish a statement of their account. The receipt of that statement cannot be traced.  However, I am again asking the firm to supply the required statement. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACCOUNTS AGAINST THE ARMY 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if P.J. Melody, of Ardnaree, Ballina, Co. Mayo, last September, supplied six coffins of the best quality to the Army, on an official Order, signed by Comdt. Bannon, and has since then been unable to get this account; and, if so, if he will see to it that this account, so long overdue, is paid without delay. 
    
    
      
       The coffins were supplied as stated.  Mr. Melody's account will be paid without delay. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DEPENDANTS' ALLOWANCES. 
     
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that repeated applications have been made without success for dependants' allowance on behalf of Volunteer William O'Brien, 7th Reserve Company, Kilmacthomas Union (Pay Book No. 23520), and whether he can give an assurance that this matter will be set right without further delay. 
    
    
      
       Only one application appears to have been received by the Army Pay Corps.  An allowance is now being paid to the dependants of Volunteer O'Brien. 
    
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if he is aware that dependants' allowance has not been paid to Mrs. Dillon, Stafford Street, Nenagh, on account of her son, Christopher Dillon, No. 5233, who joined the National Army on the 30th October, 1922, and is at present stationed at Kildare; and if, in view of the fact that this woman is a widow, and that her son, Christopher, was her chief support, he will expedite payment of this claim. 
    
    
      
       No application appears to have been received from Mrs. Dillon.  However, on the information conveyed in the question her claim is being investigated. 
    
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether a claim has been made for dependant's allowance by Mrs. Harrison, of Harbour Street, Ballinasloe, on account of her son, Private Patrick Harrison (No. 634), who joined the National Army in February or March, 1922; whether her claim has been disallowed; if so, will he state the grounds on which it was disallowed, and, as the claim is apparently a deserving one, would he be prepared to give it further consideration. 
    
    
      
       On local investigation evidence could not be found that Mrs. Harrison was regularly supported by her son, Private Harrison, for a reasonable period prior to his enlistment. It appears that she was entirely dependant on the earnings of other sons. 
    
     On the ground that she had not suffered financially to the extent of 12/- or more per week as a result of the enlistment of her son Patrick her claim was   disallowed.  Twelve shillings per week is the minimum extent of dependancy that must have existed before an allowance can be granted in accordance with our regulations. 
     In view of the circumstances mentioned and of the fact that our dependants' allowances regulations in the cases of single soldiers are based on a recognition of an obligation of a soldier to contribute at least 8/- per week from his Army pay to the support of his dependants there appears to be no ground on which to give the case further consideration. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if a dependant's allowance has yet been paid to Mrs. Duggan, of Brewery Lane, Ballinasloe, mother of Patrick Duggan (14972), now stationed at Ennis, who joined the National Army in Ballinasloe, on March 1st, 1922; and, if not, will he see that consideration of the claim is expedited. 
    
    
      
       An allowance is now being issued to Mrs. Duggan. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SCALE OF PAY IN THE ARMY. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if he will state what scale of pay, salaries and allowances, are at the present time being made for all grades and ranks in the National Army, commissioned and non-commissioned. 
    
    
      
       Pay and Allowances of Officers:&mdash; 
       
         Officers formally Commissioned. 
       
       Pay: 
       2nd Lieut.&mdash;8/- a day. 
       1st Lieut. after 5 years in the grade&mdash;9/- a day. 
       Captain&mdash;12/- a day; 14/- a day after 5 years' service in the grade. 
       Commandant&mdash;18/- a day. 
       Colonel&mdash;25/- a day. 
       Major-Gen.&mdash;35/- a day. 
       Lieut.-Gen.&mdash;40/- a day. 
       In the case of  first  appointments to the rank of 2nd Lieutenant in the future, the pay issuable for that rank will be 6/- a day, with an increase to 7/- a day after 3 years in the grade. 
       Kit Allowance: 
    
     Kits will not be supplied, but an allowance will be issuable to officers   for the provision of kits by themselves. The initial outfit allowance will be £50, with a replenishment of £20 a year after the first year. 
     Marriage Allowance: 
     A flat rate of 4/- a day for 1st or 2nd Lieutenants and 5/- a day in the case of higher ranks.  Special provision is to be made in the case of officers with exceptionally large families (4 or more). 
     In the case of officers accommodated in Barracks or otherwise at the public expense the marriage allowance will not be issuable. 
     Note.&mdash;Dependants' Allowances are not issuable. 
     
       Officers not yet formally Commissioned. 
     
     Pay: 
     2nd Lieut.&mdash;5/9 a day. 
     1st Lieut.&mdash;6/9 a day. 
     Captain&mdash;7/9 a day. 
     Battalion Staff Officer&mdash;£4 a week. 
     Brigade Staff Officer&mdash;£4 10s. a week. 
     Divisional Staff Officer&mdash;£5 a week. 
     Air Force&mdash;Pilots, £5 a week. 
     ,,Observers, £4 a week. 
     Outdoor Allowances (when not accommodated and messed in Barracks): 
     All Ranks&mdash;5/- per day. 
     Technical Allowance: 
     Wireless Service&mdash;3/- per day. 
     Dependants' Allowance: 
     I would refer the Deputy to my reply to a question asked by Deputy O Conaill on the 12th January last Dependants' Allowances are not issuable, however, in the cases of staff officers receiving the weekly rates of pay mentioned. 
     PAY AND ALLOWANCES OF N.C.O's AND MEN. 
     Pay: 
     Private&mdash;3/6 a day. 
     Corporal 3/9 a day. 
     Sergeant&mdash;4/3 a day. 
     Coy. Sergeant&mdash;4/9 a day. 
     Outdoor Allowance (when not accommodated and messed in Barracks):&mdash; 
     All Ranks&mdash;4/- a day. 
     
        Dependants' Allowance: 
     As in the case of officers, I would refer the Deputy to my reply to Deputy O Conaill's question on the 12th January last. 
     Additional Pay (as a purely temporary measure) for tradesmen and motor drivers: 
     Skilled tradesmen (all ranks)&mdash;3/- a day. 
     Semi-Skilled tradesmen (all ranks)&mdash; 2/- a day. 
     Additional Pay for Special Infantry Corps: 
     N.C.O's and Men&mdash;6d. a day. 
     Additional Pay for Military Police: 
     N.C.O's and Men&mdash;2/- a day. 
     Additional Pay for Air Force Mechanics: 
     Sergeant, Corporal and Private (1st Class Mechanic)&mdash;3/- a day. 
     Private (2nd Class Mechanic)&mdash;1/6 a day. 
     PAY OF N.C.O's AND MEN IN THE WIRELESS SERVICE. 
     Sergeant&mdash;9/- a day. 
     Private&mdash;(Class I.)&mdash;6/- a day. 
     ,, (Class II.)&mdash;5/- a day. 
     PAY OF MEDICAL OFFICERS. 
     Lieut.&mdash;£1 a day. 
     Captain&mdash;30/- a day. 
     Comdt.&mdash;42/- a day. 
     Colonel&mdash;£1,000 per year. 
     Colonel whilst holding rank of Deputy Director of Medical Services or Chief Sanitary Officer, £250 per year extra. 
     Major-General&mdash;£1500 per year. 
     Director of Medical Services&mdash;£1,500 per year. 
     NOTE.&mdash;The above rates for the Army Medical Service became effective only on the 1st April, 1923, and the engagements of all Medical Officers under these rates are for one year only, terminating on 31st March, 1924. 
   
 