 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do leigh an Cleireach an furogra ag gairm na Dala, mar leanas:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             FUROGRA O Thadhg O hEaluithe duine d'Abhcoidi a Shoillse Seacnaseal Shaorstait Eiteann. 
             PROCLAMATION by Timothy Micheal Healy, one of his Majesty's Counsel, Governor-General of the Irish Free State. 
           
         
         
           
             DE BHRI gur dineadh leis an bhfurogra uaim ar an data so Oireach tas Shaorstait Eireann do scur agus Toghachan Gereralta I gcoir Dhail Eireann d'fhogairt ach ni i dtreo go ndeanfi baill Sheanaid Eireann do chur as a Suidheachain na toghachan i gcoir na maball san do bheith riachta nach. 
             WHEREAS by my proclamation of this date the Oireachtas of the Irish Free State was dissloved and a General Election for Dail Eireann declared but not so as to vacate the Seats or require an election of members of Seanad Eireann 
           
           
             ANOIS AR AN ABHAR SAN do reir agus de bhua na comhachta ahus an udarais ata agam dinim-se an Sean- ascal roimhraite leis an bhfurogra so in ainm a Shoillse an Ri agus comhairle Ard-Chomhairle Shaorstait Eireann agam chuige sin Oireachtas Shaorstait Eireann agus gach Tigh den Oireach- tas san do ghairm agus do ghlaoch le cheile chun teacht le cheile i gCathair Bhaile Atha Cliath de Ceadaoin an 19adh la de Mheadhon Fhoghmhair, 1923, ar a tri a chlog um thrathnona chun pe gno a leagfar fe bhraid na dTithe fe seach do dheannamh. 
             NOW, THEREFORE, under and by virtue of the power and authority in me vested, I, the Governor-General aforesaid, by this Proclamation, in the name of His Majesty the King, do hereby by and with the advice of the Execitive Council of the Irish Free State, summon and call together the Oireachtas of the Irish Free State and each House of the said Oireachtas to meet at the City of Dublin on Wednes day, the 19th day of September, 1923, at the hour of three o'clock in the afternoon, for the despatch of such business as shall be submitted to the respective Houses. 
           
           
             
               Tugtha fem Laimh agus (toisc nar solathruiodh fos Seala Mor do Shaor- stat Eireann) fem Sheala Priobhai- deach i mBaile Atha Cliath an 9adh la so de Lunasa, 1923. 
             
               Given under my Hand and (a Great Seal of the Irish Free State not having been yer provided) under my Private Seal at Dublin this 9th day of August, 1923. 
           
         
       
     
     (Sighnithe) T. M. HEALY, 
     (Signed) 
     Seanascal Shaorstait Eireann. 
     Governor-General of the Irish Free State. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Tugtha fe Laimh a Oirdhearcais Seanascal Shaorstait Eireann agus tugtha amach fe n-a Sheala i dTithe an Rialtais Baile Atha Cliath an 9adh la so de Lunasa, 1923. 
             Given under the Hand of His Excel lency the Governor-General of the Irish Free State and issued under his Seal at Government Buildings, Dublin, this 9th day of August, 1923. 
           
         
       
     
     (Sighnithe) LIAM T. MAC COSGAIR, 
     Signed Uachtaran Ard-Chomhairle Shaorstait Eireann. 
     President of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State. 
   
   
     CUR AMACH RITEACHA. 
     Do leig an Cleireach tuarasgabhail mar leanas:&mdash; 
     I gco-liona Buan-Ordu a 3 de Bhuan-Orduithe Dhail Eireann, ta orm a thuairisciu gur dhineas, ar an 9adh Lunasa, 1923, agus direach tar eis curtha amach Furogra an data san ag gairm an Oireachtais chun teacht le cheile i mBaile Atha Cliath ar an 19adh Meadhon Fhoghmhair, 1923, gur dhineas mo riteacha do chur amach, do reir na bhforalacha ina thaobh san ata san Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923, chun na gCeann Comhrimh seo a leanas do sna Dail-cheanntracha ata ainmnithe anso sios. 
     In compliance with Standing Order No. 3 of the Standing Orders of Dail Eireann, I have to report that on the 9th August, 1923, immediately upon the issue of the Proclamation of that date summoning the Oireachtas to meet at Dublin on the 19th September, 1923, I issued my writs, pursuant to the relative provisions of the Electoral Act, 1923, to the following Returning Officers for the Constituencies named hereunder:&mdash; 
     Dail-cheanntracha Buirge (Borough Constituencies). 
     Buirg Chorcaighe (Cork Borough)&mdash; Francis Hanrahan. 
     Baile Atha Cliath Thuaidh (Dublin North), Baile Atha Cliath Theas (Dublin South)&mdash;Lorcan G. Sherlock. 
     Dail-cheanntracha Contae (County Constituencies). 
     Ceatharloch-Chill Choinnigh (Carlow-Kilkenny)&mdash;Thomas Drew. 
     Cabhan (Cavan)&mdash;G. V. Maloney. 
     An Clar (Clare)&mdash;Fred. G. Cullinan. 
     
        Corcaigh Thuaidh (North Cork), Corcaigh Thiar (West Cork), Corcaigh Thoir (East Cork)&mdash;John Jermyn. 
     Dun na nGall (Donegal)&mdash;Hugh C. Cochrane. 
     Baile Atha Cliath (Dublin)&mdash;W. McA. McCracken. 
     An Ghaillimh (Galway)&mdash;Raoul Joyce. 
     Ciarraidhe (Kerry) &mdash; Redmond Roche. 
     Cill Dara (Kildare)&mdash;Charles Daly. 
     Liathdrom-Shligeach (Leitrim-Sligo) &mdash;Seamus de Burca. 
     Laoighis-ObhFailghe (Leix-Offaly)&mdash; J.N. McClure. 
     Luimneach (Limerick)&mdash;Benjamine K. Lucas. 
     Longphort-Iarmhidhe (Longford-Westmeath)&mdash;W. H. Fetherstonhaugh. 
     Lubhaidh (Louth)&mdash;John J. Russell. 
     Muigheo Thuaidh (North Mayo), 
     Muigheo Theas (South Mayo)&mdash;Austin Crean. 
     An Mhidhe (Meath)&mdash;George H. Lowry. 
     Muineachan (Monaghan)&mdash;W. H. Swan. 
     Roscomain (Roscommon) &mdash; Charles Coleman Dignan. 
     Tiobrad Arann (Tipperary)&mdash;Sean L. O Bogaigh. 
     Portlairge (Waterford)&mdash;M.P. Devereux. 
     Loch Garman (Wexford)&mdash;James P. Connor. 
     Cill Mantain (Wicklow)&mdash;William Toomey). 
     Priomh-Scoileanna (Universities). 
     Priomh-Scoil Bhaile Atha Cliath (Dublin University)&mdash;John Henry Bolnard, D.D. 
     Priomh-Scoil Naisiunta na hEireann (The National University of Ireland)&mdash; Patrick Joseph Merriman. 
   
   
     FREAGRAI AR RITEACHA. 
     
    
      
       Siad so a leanas ainmneacha na dTeachtai a toghadh chun fonamh sa Dail, mar son le hainmneacha na nDail-cheanntar gur ina gcoir do toghadh iad:&mdash; 
       The following are the names of the Deputies returned to serve in the Dail, together with the names of the Constituencies for which they have been elected:&mdash; 
       Buirg Choreaighe (Cork Borough)&mdash; James Joseph Walsh, Alfred O'Rahilly, Richard Henrik Beamish, Mary MacSwiney, Andrew O'Shaughnessy. 
       Baile Atha Cliath Thuaidh (Dublin North)&mdash;Richard James Mulcahy, Alfred Byrne, Sean McGarry, Margaret Collins-O'Driscoll, Francis Cahill, William Hewat, Sean T. O'Kelly, Ernie O'Malley. 
       Baile Atha Cliath Theas (Dublin South)&mdash;Philip Cosgrave, Constance De Markievicz, Daniel MacCarthy, Peadar S. Doyle, Michael Hayes, Myles Keogh, Charles Murphy. 
       Ceatharloch-Cill Choinnigh (Carlow-Kilkenny)&mdash;Liam T. Cosgrave, Denis John Gorey, John Francis Gibbons, Edward Doyle, Michael Shelly. 
       An Cabhain (Cavan)&mdash;Patrick Baxter, Sean Milroy, Patrick Smith, John James Cole. 
       An Clar (Clare)&mdash;Eamon de Valera, Eoin MacNeill, Brian O'Higgins, Conor Hogan, Patrick Hogan. 
       Corcaigh Thuaidh (North Cork)&mdash; Daniel Corkery, Thomas Nagle, Daniel Vaughan. 
       Corcaigh Thiar (West Cork)&mdash;Cornelius Connolly, John Buckley, Timothy Joseph O'Donovan, John Prior, Timothy Joseph Murphy. 
       Corcaigh Thoir (East Cork)&mdash;John Daly, Michael Joseph Hennessy, David Rice Kent, John Dineen, Thomas O'Mahony. 
       Dun na nGall (Donegal)&mdash;James Sproule Myles, Peter Joseph Ward, Eugene Doherty, John White, Patrick McFadden, Patrick Joseph McGoldrick, Peadar O'Donnell, Joseph Doherty. 
    
     
        Baile Atha Cliath (Dublin)&mdash;Kevin O'Higgins, Desmond Fitzgerald, Michael James Derham, Kathleen Lynn, Thomas Johnson, John Good, Bryan Ricco Cooper, Darrell Figgis. 
     Gaillimh (Galway)&mdash;Padraig O hOgain, H. Seoirse O'Maoiliosa, Padraic O Maille, Proinnsias O Fathaigh, Seoirse MacNiocall, Sean Broderick, Lughaidh E. O Deagha, Tomas O Conaill, Seamus MacCosgair. 
     Ciarrai (Kerry)&mdash;Austin Stack, Finian Lynch, Thomas McEllistrum, Thomas O'Donoghue, James Crowley, John Marcus O'Sullivan, Patrick J. Cahill. 
     Cill Dara (Kildare)&mdash;Hugh Colohan, John Conlan, George Wolfe. 
     Liathdruim-Sligeach (Leitrim-Sligo)&mdash; Alexander McCabe, James Nicholas Dolan, Thomas Carter, Francis Joseph Carty, John Hennigan, John Farrell, Martin Bernard McGowan. 
     Laoighis-ObhFailghe (Leix-Offaly)&mdash; Francis Bulfin, William Davin, Patrick Joseph Egan, John McGuinness, Laurence Brady. 
     Luimneach (Limerick)&mdash;Richard Francis Hayes, James Ledden, John Carroll, James Colbert, John Thomas Nolan, Patrick Clancy, Patrick H. Hogan. 
     Longphort-Iarmhidhe (Longford-Westmeath)&mdash;Connor Byrne, Patrick W. Shaw, Sean Lyons, James Joseph Killane, Patrick McKenna. 
     Lubhaidh (Louth)&mdash;Frank Aiken, James Edward Murphy, Peter Hughes. 
     Muigheo Thuaidh (North Mayo)&mdash; Patrick J. Ruttledge, Joseph McGrath, Henry Coyle, John Cowley. 
     Muigheo Theas (South Mayo)&mdash;William Sears, Thomas Maguire, Joseph Michael MacBride, Michael Kilroy, Martin Michael Nally. 
     An Mhidhe (Meath)&mdash;Edmund John Duggan, Patrick James Mulvanny, David Hall. 
     Muineachan (Monaghan) &mdash; Ernest Blythe, Patrick McCarvill, Patrick Duffy. 
     Roscomain (Roscommon)&mdash;George Noble Count Plunkett, Andrew Lavin,   Henry Joseph Finlay, Gerald Boland. 
     Tiobrad Arann (Tipperary)&mdash;James Aloysius Bourke, Daniel Breen, Louis Joseph Dalton, John Patrick McCurtin, Patrick Ryan, Daniel Morrissy, Michael Richard Heffernan. 
     Portlairge (Waterford) &mdash; Caitlin Brugh, William Archer Redmond, John Butler, Nicholas Wall. 
     Loch Garman (Wexford)&mdash;Richard Corish, Michael Doyle, Osmond Grattan Esmonde, Robert Lambert, James Ryan. 
     Cill Manntain (Wicklow)&mdash;Christopher M. Byrne, James Everett, Richard Wilson. 
     Priomh-Scoil Bhaile Atha Cliath (Dublin University)&mdash;Ernest Henry Alton, Sir James Craig, William Edward Thrift. 
     Priomh-Scoil Naisiunta na hEireann (The National University of Ireland)&mdash;Eoin MacNeill, Michael Hayes, William Magennis. 
     Ta na Teachtai seo a leanas tar ois foralacha Airtiogal 17 den Bhun-reacht do choliona:&mdash; 
     The following Deputies have complied with the provisions of Article 17 of the Constitution:&mdash; 
     Liam T. MacCosgair, Earnan de Blaghd, Desmond Fitzgerald, Eamon O Dugain, Micheal O hAodha, Fionan O Loingsigh, Seamus Breathnach, Domhnall MacCarthaigh, John Good, Tomas MacEoin, Sir James Craig, Sean Priomhdhail, Richard Henrik Beamish, Sean O'Suileabhain, Liam MacSioghuird, Padraic O Maille, Micheal O hAonghusa, Osmond Grattan Esmonde, Peadar Mac a Bhaird, Liam Thrift, Seoirse de Bhulbh, Peadar O Dubhghaill, Criostoir O Brion, Sean O Duinnin, Henry Coyle, Maighread Ni Choileain Ui Dhrisceoil, Cornelius Connolly, Seamus de Burca, Pilib MacCosgair,   Seamus O Dolain, Tomas de Nogla, Liam O Daimhin, Peadar O hAodha, Caoimhghin O hUigin, Padraig O hOgain, Darrell Figgis, Alasdair MacCaba, David Hall, Tadhg O Murchadha, Risteard MacLiam, Patrick McKenna, Sean MacGiolla an Riogh, Padraig MacUalghairg, Martin Michael Nally, William Hewat, Proinsias O Cathail, Patrick James Mulvany, Seamus O Loideain, John Thomas Nolan, Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha, Proinsias Bulfin, Seamus Mac Cosgair, Seoirse MacNiocaill, Sean O Bruadair, Aodh O Culachain, Ailfrid O Raithile, Thomas O Mahony, Patrick W. Shaw, Andrew O'Shaughnessy, Louis J. D'Alton, Padraig O Dubhthaigh, John Daly, Patrick K. Hogan, Sean O Laidhin, Donchadh O Guaire, Patrick J. Egan, Aindriu O Laimhin, Henry J. Finlay, Nicholas Wall, Micheal O Dubhghaill, Conor Hogan, John Hennigan, Seosamh MacGiolla Bhrighde, Bryan Ricco Cooper, Sean Buitleir, Earnan Altun, Eoghan O Dochartaigh, Tomas O'Conaill, Domhnall O Muirgheasa, Padraig O Hogain, John James Cole, Seamus O Cruadhlaoich, W. A. Redmond, Tomas Mac Artuir, Liam MagAonghusa, Sean MacGaraidh, Risteard Ua Maolchatha, Eamonn O Dubhghaill, James Sproule Myles, Micheal De Duram, John Conlan, Domhnall O Mochain, Sean de Faoite, Micheal O Hifearnain, Tadhg O Donnabhain, Padraig F. Baxter, Ailfrid O Broin, Risteard MacFheorais, James Everett, Maolmhuire MacEochadha, Seamus O Murchadha, Padraig MacFadain, Sean MacGiobuin, Seosamh MagCraith. 
     I gcoliona Buan-Ordu a 4 taim tar eis coipeanna de sna riteacha toghachain agus de sna freagrai a scriobhadh ortha do leaga ar Bhord na Dala. 
     In compliance with Standing Order No. 4, I have laid upon the Table of the Dail, copies of the writs of Election and the returns endorsed thereon. 
   
   
     FOGRA O THEACHTA. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
AN CLEIREACH: Taim tar eis an fogra so leanas d'fhail o Mhicheal OhAodha, a toghadh i gcoir Dailcheanntair Phriomh-Scoile Naisiunta na  hEireann agus fos i gcoir Dailcheanntair Bhaile Atha Cliath Theas. 
             
(I have received the following notice from Deputy Micheal O hAodha, who has been returned for the Constituency of the National University of Ireland  and also for the Constituency of Dub lin South):&mdash; 
           
         
         
           
             &ldquo;Tigh Laighean, 
           
           
             
             
             Baile Atha Cliath, 
           
           
             
             
             19adh Meadhon Fhoghmhair, 1923. 
           
           
             A Chara, 
             
             
           
           
             Do reir foralacha Alt 55 den Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923, faisneisim leis seo gur rogha liom Dailcheanntar Priomh-Scoile Naisiunta na hEireann d'ionadu sa Dail. 
           
           
             Mise, 
           
           
             (Signithe) MICHEAL O hAODHA, 
           
           
             
             
             Teachta a toghadh i gcoir Dailcheanntair Phriomh-Scoile Naisiunta na hEireann agus i gcoir Dailcheanntair Bhaile Atha Cliath Theas. 
           
           
             Deanfhaidh an Dail anois Ceann Comhairle do thogha. 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     ELECTION OF CEANN COMHAIRLE. 
    
      
       Cuirim-se os comhair na Dala go dtoghfar Micheal O h-Aodha mar Ceann Comhairle. The first business on the Agenda is the election of Speaker, and it is with very great pleasure I propose Micheal O hAodha be appointed Ceann Comhairle. 
       When the third Dail reached the end of its labours practically unanimous appreciation of the work of the Ceann Comhairle was made by the various members constituting the third Dail, and tributes were paid to the dignity, harmony, and ability which he had displayed in that very high office.  He conducted the business of the Dail with very conspicuous ability during an exceedingly trying and strenuous time. He had mastered the rules of debate and the orders of the Dail, and he gave very general and complete satisfaction to all the various parties constituting the Dail.  I think it will be admitted that a very able Chairman may not get the opportunity of showing his ability, but there is no doubt that the great ability which the Ceann Comhairle showed during the third Dail won for him such appreciation and co-operation from all sections of the Dail that a more popular selection could not have been made or a more satisfactory one from the point of view of the business of the Dail. 
       It is, I think, unnecessary to go into the very many qualifications which the Ceann Comhairle possesses, not the least of which was his complete mastery of the Irish language and the fact that he was enabled to conduct the business of the Dail in that language at all times and that he gave it its rightful place in this, the first Assembly of the Nation.  I am convinced, personally, and I believe the view is shared generally and generously by the other members of the Dail that it would not be possible to secure a more capable and efficient Ceann Comhairle.  I do feel a very great personal pleasure in moving that he be elected Chairman of this Dail.  I do not believe that it would be possible to get a member of the Dail more capable of getting contributions from all sides towards the conduct of its business in a manner befitting a dignified Assembly, such as we all hope the fourth Dail will be.  I therefore formally propose that the Dail do elect Micheal O hAodha as Ceann Comhairle. 
    
    
      
       Fellow-Deputies, I have the greatest pleasure in seconding the nomination of Professor Michael Hayes as Ceann Comhairle for the fourth Dail.  I said on the closing days of the last Session of the last Dail that it would be impossible to get a more capable Ceann Comhairle, and it would be very difficult indeed to find one who would equal him.  I can add nothing to that.  Nothing that has happened in the meantime has altered that opinion.  I think I may without very many words advise the new Deputies to follow the advice of those who went to the last Dail and support   this motion unanimously, not in his interest, but in our interest.  We will need an efficient Chairman, and it is in our interest alone that I urge the Dail to approve of this motion with unanimity. 
       There were no other nominations and the Clerk declared the motion carried. 
    
    
      
       : having taken the chair, said: 
       Is mar an onoir liom gur togadh aris me mar Cheann Comhairle na Dala. Ni gadh dom nios mo a radh ach go ndeunfhad mo dhicheall chun obair na Dala do stuiriu i gceart agus chun an dualgas a bheidh orm do choimhlionadh. Ma fhaghaim-se an chabhair agus an congnamh o gach aon teachta agus o gach dream agus a fuaireas ins an Dail eile, ni baoghal na go mbeidh gach rath ar an obair.  Pe sgeul e deanfhad mo dhicheall mar Cheann Comhairle.  Taim an-bhuidheach dibh. 
       I am deeply sensible of the honour which the Deputies have conferred on me by electing me as Ceann Comhairle of this Dail.  I think there is no need for me to say any more than that I shall do my best to fulfil the duties of that office.  If I receive, as I am confident I shall receive, from every Party and every Deputy of this Dail, the same loyal co-operation with regard to the procedure that I received in the last Dail, then my task will not be by any means a difficult one.  I thank the Deputies very sincerely. 
    
   
   
     NOMINATION OF PRESIDENT. 
    
      
       A Chinn Chomhairle agus a Theachtai na Dala, deinim-se Liam T. Mac Cosgair d-ainmniu chun bheith 'na Uachtaran aris. Timpeall bliadhain o shoin, thanamar, annso.  Bhi curam na tire orainn agus bron mor orainn mar gheall ar thriobloid na h-aimsire sin.  Bhi orainn duine do thogha a bheadh mar Cheann ar na Teachtai annso agus ar an tir leis. Dheineamar fear do thogha do dhein an obair go maith.  Nior fheadamar a radh fe go raibh a ainm 'nar gcluasaibh le bliadhanta no go raibh se mar stuirtheoir agus Muinteoir duinn i bhfad roimis sin fe mar a bhi Art O   Griobhtha.  Nior fheadamar a radh go raibh se mar sgeul 'nar measg, dar ngriosu chun oibre, fe mar a bhi Micheal O Coileain.  Nior fheadamar a radh go raibh a ainm agus a chlu i n-airde i measg muinntear na h-Eireann. Ach d'fheadamar a radh go raibh Liam Mac Cosgair 'na sheirbhiseach dhilis dos na daoinibh a bhi ag obair agus ag troid ar son na h-Eireann.  Dheineamar Liam Mac Cosgair do thogha mar Uachtaran.  Fear des na gnath-daoine do b'eadh e ach bhi taithighe maith aige ar sheirbhisacht puibli.  Thog se air fhein cruadhtan, agus curam na tire, chur se a thoil le thoil De agus chrom se ar an obair.  Thug se air fhein ar gcuraim agus choimhlionn se an dualgas duinn. 
    
     Twelve months ago we found ourselves meeting here, a Parliament of the Irish people, in days of very great sorrow and very great stress.  We had to elect from amongst ourselves a man who would take on himself the highest and supremest responsibility for directing our work here along proper lines and for shouldering the great responsibilities of the Government of our people.  We had lost the two leaders that we had been depending on for a very long time, the two leaders that we had hoped would be our strength and our guidance in shouldering the great responsibilities that came on the shoulders of the Irish people, the responsibilities of their own government. Deprived, by the will of the Lord, of the services of those men, we had to find from among the members that were elected here by the people, somebody to take their place. At that time or some time later in calling for National discipline, I did feel it necessary to suggest, as we had not then a national party, that perhaps we had not then a national leader, and although we were not able to say, or we could not have said, of Liam T. MacCosgair then that, like Arthur Griffith, he had been a light and a guidance and a teacher to us for many years, or that like Michael Collins he had been, as it were, a legend among us, helping us to rise to our work and our duties; we could say that he had been for years a very faithful servant of those who were   foremost in the work of building up our country and in fighting for its liberty.  We did ask one who was to us then a faithful servant of others to take on the responsibilities of leadership. Any doubts that were in our hearts at that time as to whether we had or had not amongst us a national leader have passed. 
     The person who followed up where Michael Collins and Arthur Griffith had perforce to leave off, has shown himself to be a worthy successor of them in the energy and ability of his mind and in his conscientious application to his duties.  The man who entered Michael Collins' room and took his place, as hard and as vigorous a worker as Michael Collins was in giving to us of his best&mdash;the man who entered his room here in Merrion Street in succession to him has not been one whit behind Michael Collins in his great energy and great labour and devotion to his duty.  There is not a single man whose privilege it was to sit in the last Dail, who has had, as an individual, some vision of our President doing his ordinary work and going about his own personal work as President and as a man, who has not as a result found strength in carrying out his individual work. 
     There is no person here who has standing among his own sectional group and who has responsibilities greater than the responsibilities of an ordinary member, who has not some vision of the President acting as a leader among his own people and acting as a leader among the people of Ireland, and who does not in consequence find strength in carrying out his smaller sectional duties in being a leader of a group or a party.  Personally, in the peculiar responsibility that did come to me during the term of the last Dail, the President has been a source of help without which I did not feel that I would have been able to shoulder the responsibilities that came my way.  His help, his understanding, his insight, and the way even in which he acted as a corrective, have made very much lighter than they would have ordinarily been, responsibilities of a peculiar nature that were very great. 
     To-day when the President of our   Nation treads a wider and a more wide-flung field than we have been used to considering or thinking of, it is a very great pleasure and a gratification for us to know that everywhere he went recently on the Continent, whether among Statesmen or among Churchmen or among the ordinary people of those nations that he travelled through, everyone of them was struck with the way in which he devoted himself to the different duties that came his way and by the simple and proud dignity with which he appeared before them as the President of our country.  Everyone of you, such is the nature of our President, not only knows him as a public man, but his spirit and his simplicity are such that you practically all know him as a private man, talking as friend to friend, or meeting him in his house, and you do not want any elaboration of that state of things to recommend him to you as your President here. 
     Now, on the threshold of another period in our National life, in peculiar difficulties we have the joy and we can have the confidence here that we have among us a man whom we can recommend to one another and to our people as a President of a character that has been tested sorely but that has shown itself to be eminently equal to bearing the responsibilities that are the responsibilities of our President. 
    
      
       It has been said that a speech is a long narrow passage to a broad conclusion. On this occasion my broad conclusion must be very obvious and my passage to it shall not be long. We recommend&mdash;the mover and seconder of this Resolution&mdash;that the Dail re-appoint Liam T. MacCosgair because we are so thoroughly convinced that the position is his by that great title, the right divine of superior fitness.  It was said by an historian of an infamous Roman Emperor, that by the common consent of all he was the man fittest to rule and that would have been the general verdict were it not for the fact that he had ruled. We may reverse the witticism and declare that it is precisely because Liam T. MacCosgair has ruled us in the Dail with such eminent proficiency   and with such complete satisfaction to every party in the Dail that we should feel it a dereliction of duty on our part were we not to acclaim him for a repetition of the same office.  He has one element of outstanding unmistakable character as befitting him for leadership.  Politics, though so frequently despised by cynics and contemned by flippant writers, is one of the great arts of life, and the good politician should be a practised artist. What we demand of the great artist is a knowledge of the material in which he works and a mastery over it, exercised through an exhaustive knowledge of its capabilities, and more especially of its limitations.  The material in which our artist-politician works is human nature&mdash;his fellowman. A knowledge of his fellowman, how far he can be led, to what extent he can be influenced, and what he can be induced to do, is one of the necessary elements in the equipment of a leader.  To my critical vision the one quality of his many great qualities that stood out in the exercise of the President's office in the late Dail was the manly suavity that he invariably displayed.  It was not the genial weakness of a man pandering to others to create an artificial majority and to maintain it, and that is why I characterise it as a suavity that was manly. He had unfailing patience, as many of us are in a position to testify, and he had a very rare gift of not being impatient of criticism.  I think we shall all agree that success in the leadership of this Dail will depend largely upon an infinite capacity for patience.  There is another quality which he possessed in large measure, and that is a sense of the right moment for a just and wise compromise.  The power of compromise, the disposition for it, and the wisdom to know when to exercise it, are unfortunately wanting in too many Irishmen.  Irishmen as a rule are possessed of such strong convictions, they are so ardent in the pursuit of the things they hold sacred and to which they have consecrated their lives, that they must regard, or seem as if they must regard, everyone opposed to them as a public enemy and to be dealt with in summary   fashion.  Our President&mdash;for I may call him so already by anticipation&mdash; has that proper sense of compromise, not in the cowardly form of weak concession, but in the wiser form, which is a sort of political navigation of a ship through difficult waters in tempestuous weather.  I promised my speech would not be long.  I feel I have already broken my promise, and lest I should fail still further in my undertaking I confine myself now to saying that I have never made any pronouncement with more genuine conviction and with a sincerer sense of pleasure than that I am going to make now: while I recognise that Ireland has displayed her marvellous resourcefulness in throwing up great men at the moment when they are most needed&mdash;and we have seen in the old Dail a manifestation of greatness in many of our colleagues&mdash;yet I regard the present candidate for the office of President as the man of men amongst all these.  With that I leave it. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I have much pleasure in acknowledging the great honour which has been conferred upon me by this Dail.  I do not think that in the ordinary acceptation of our procedure here that it is assumed that I should make any pronouncement now. I do undertake to discharge the duties of this office with the help of God to the best of my ability.  I gave that undertaking last year and I am repeating it now.  I think that on more than one occasion I have stated that the success of most of the offices of the State, including that of the office to which I have been elected, depends upon the amount of assistance and co-operation rendered by the other institutions of the State.  During the past year I have had no cause for complaint in that respect.  I and the other members of the Executive Council with me have received that co-operation and assistance from all the institutions of the State, and from both Houses of the Oireachtas.  We have been very much heartened by that support, cordial co-operation, and assistance.  It has made a year of hard work and of strenuous effort a pleasure.  It was a great satisfaction to us then, and I hope that   the same satisfaction awaits us in this, the fourth, Dail.  The general principles of the policy which I intend to recommend for acceptance in the first place to the Executive Council and then to the Dail have been already outlined.  Within a short period a more complete outline of them will be disclosed here in the Dail.  We have passed through a strenuous and a hard time and I think I may say that I reecho the hope of every member in saying that I hope that happier times await us in the future. 
    
    
      
       Before the next item on the agenda is proceeded with, I beg to give notice that on the adjournment I shall move the following motion:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That reasonable facilities be accorded to the Deputies returned at the recent election in the Sinn Fein interests to meet.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       The Deputy cannot move a motion but can only raise a matter on the adjournment motion, under the standing orders. 
    
    
      
       Then I beg to give notice that I shall raise this matter on the motion for adjournment. 
    
   
   
     JOURNALS OF THE HOUSE. 
    
      
       I beg to move: &ldquo;That the proceedings of the Dail be prepared under the supervision of the Clerk, and be printed, after being perused and signed by the Ceann Comhairle.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;That the proceedings so printed constitute the Journals of the House.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I second the motion. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     BUSINESS OF THE DAIL. 
    
      
       Before the adjournment motion be taken may one enquire exactly what will be the procedure for the next few days, and what business shall be taken?  If a statement could be made to that effect by the President, now that he is elected, I think it would be for the convenience of Deputies. 
    
    
      
       The Order paper for to-morrow, as at present drawn up, is:&mdash;&ldquo;(1) Nomination   of the Executive Council by the President.&rdquo; That is in accordance with the Constitution.  &ldquo;(2) Motion by the President with regard to Ministries, the holders of which shall not be members of the Executive Council.  (3) Motion by the President for the appointment of a Committee in accordance with Article 55 of the Constitution.&rdquo;  That is to say for the appointment of a Committee to recommend to the Dail the names of Deputies who shall be Ministers but not members of the Executive Council.  The Committee under the Constitution must be appointed so as to be representative of all parties and it was appointed on the last occasion on the principle of the single transferable vote. 
    
    
      
       Will An Ceann Comhairle say whether the terms of these motions will be on the Order Paper? 
    
    
      
       It will be impossible for the terms of the second motion with regard to Ministries to be on the Order Paper until the names of the members of the Executive Council are disclosed, and also the name of the Ministry which each member of the Executive Council shall hold.  In so far as that information is not available the names of the External Ministries will not be on the Order Paper. 
    
    
      
       Are you in a position to inform us when we may expect to have the Governor-General's speech? 
    
    
      
       I have no information on that matter. 
    
    
      
       It might be information for the Deputies if I say that it will not be taken earlier than Tuesday week.  I may announce that it is our intention in the event of that resolution passing to accept nominations up to 12 o'clock on Saturday, and we would require another meeting of the Dail for the election on Tuesday. 
    
    
      
       Will the Dail sit on Friday? 
    
    
      
       It is not intended at present. 
    
     
    
      
       Would you allow me, a Chinn Chomhairle, to raise a matter on the adjournment in connection with a circular which emanated from Mountjoy Prison on Friday evening as regards the conditions which are stated to prevail there, and to ask whether an enquiry would be held at once into the contents of that circular for the purpose of either repudiating it or altering the conditions which the circular states exist.  I would like to get a few words in on the motion for the adjournment when the leader of the Farmers' Party raises the other question. 
    
    
      
       Allow me to correct the Deputy.  I am not in that position. 
    
    
      
       It has been our practice to allow only one matter to be raised on the motion for adjournment, and notice has already been given by Deputy Gorey. 
    
    
      
       In view of the great urgency of this matter and the sensational statements in this circular which is going broadcast over the country may I ask now whether the Ministry would take immediate steps to hold an enquiry?  There were two statements submitted to me by a deputation which called on me in connection with an other public position which I occupy. If the statement in the circular is not true I think, in the interests of the Government and of the Dail, it should be repudiated, and the only way to settle the matter is to have an enquiry If it is true I should say that those who are in authority in the prison, and have been named, should be removed from their positions which they occupy. I will hand over the documents to the President and the Minister for Defence for investigation. 
    
    
      
       I do not know whether I ought to deal with this matter here.  I have not seen the documents that Deputy Alfred Byrne refers to, but I am aware of what the conditions are in Mountjoy gaol. There are no conditions there that any objection can be taken to.  Certain disciplinary action had recently to be taken in Mountjoy gaol, but that action was taken to uphold the regulations   that are absolutely necessary for prison discipline. 
    
    
      
       I will hand to the Minister the documents that I have referred to. 
    
   
   
     THE ADJOURNMENT.&mdash;POSITION OF ANTI-TREATY DEPUTIES. 
    
      
       I beg to move the adjournment of the Dail until to-morrow afternoon at 3 o'clock. 
    
    
      
       I second the motion. 
    
    
      
       I beg to raise the matter of which I gave notice earlier, namely that reasonable facilities for meeting be accorded to the Deputies returned at the recent elections in the Sinn Fein interests.  I do so for the reason that every sane man recognises the critical position of the country. The agricultural industry is at a standstill, and I am speaking as one who has an intimate knowledge of it.  The agricultural industry of this country is in a most critical condition.  Never in my time, and I can remember since the eighties, have I known the industry to be in as critical condition as it is to-day.  I can say that never before was it faced with a graver or darker outlook than it is faced with at the moment.  The nation, and the component parts of the nation, whether as individuals or the nation as a whole, are faced with the question of bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is staring the industry in the face, and it is time that some means should be found so that the elements in the nation could mend themselves and be put upon solid grounds and carry on under normal conditions.  At the present time we have very little else besides bitterness, jealousies and recriminations.  I have been speaking to men on both sides, and I do not think there is any man with any sense of responsibility but regrets the present position.  There are men without responsibility who do not regret the position, because it enables irresponsible men to do things that in normal times could not be done.  But every responsible man on both sides that I have met, every man who loves the country, regrets the present position, and wishes he could see a means towards a happy ending of it.  We,   too, on these benches here, wish that a happy ending would take place, but the position as far as we can see it does not seem to mend itself, or does not seem to give any indication of moving in that direction.  At the outset, I ask that our action here be not misconstrued in any way.  We do not pretend that we have found a solution of the difficulty, but in all matters affecting the life of the nation we are determined to maintain an independent and constitutional attitude and steadfastly pursue what we believe to be right. 
    
     I said a moment ago that we are not so bold as to claim that we have found a solution of the difficulties that beset the life of the nation, but we have sufficient regard for the fair fame and good name of the country and of its future, honestly to endeavour to bridge over the minor difficulties that stand in the way of a final solution of the main question.  Men hold different views regarding the release of the prisoners, and to be quite candid the average man in the country has not had an opportunity of making up his mind on the question.  Some hold that the prisoners should be released unconditionally; on the other hand there are those who hold that the prisoners should not be released unless the arms and ammunition, the dumps and the other paraphernalia of war, if such a thing exists, should be handed up; and again there are others who hold that sufficient assurances are contained in the recent utterances of Mr. de Valera in regard to constitutional action in the future which should result in bringing about the immediate release of the prisoners unconditionally.  Now, all this to my mind, and to the minds of the people I am connected with here, indicates a great diversity of opinion, but the main difficulty arises from the fact that the people are not really aware of what is the real policy of the Sinn Fein party, and I say that as one coming from the country.  My opinion is that the average man in the country is not aware of what the policy of these people is.  They are not aware whether these people are going to pursue the attainment of their objects by constitutional means, or whether they arrogate to themselves the right   to resort again to unconstitutional weapons.  As the matter stands, one can understand the difficulty as there is no authoritative definition of what their policy is likely to be.  Some Sinn Fein Deputies are in prison, some are on the run and a few who are free must find it impossible to take counsel with their brother Deputies.  Taking into consideration all the circumstances, we consider it is essential, in the interests of the nation, that the Sinn Fein Deputies should be accorded reasonable facilities to meet, and it is for that reason I have raised this matter on the adjournment.  We, on these benches, have been approached, as perhaps most Deputies in the Dail have been approached, as to what our attitude is to be on certain matters, as to our attitude with regard to the release of the prisoners and with regard to other questions.  We are not in a position, and neither is the average man in the country in a position, to make up our minds until these other people get an opportunity of meeting, and of giving a clear answer to certain specific questions.  We want to know whether the militant method is going to be left aside, and the constitutional method adopted or not.  It is time that the country had a clear answer on that issue, and it is time that these 44 men had an opportunity of meeting and saying whether the constitutional method is going to be their method, or whether they reserve to themselves the right of going into the unconstitutional field again.  That is why I have raised this matter to give them an opportunity to declare what their policy is going to be. 
    
      
       I am afraid that the knowledge of the last speaker who raised this matter about Sinn Fein is very inadequate.  He speaks of allowing the Sinn Fein Deputies who are in prison to be released and of giving them an opportunity to meet.  So far as I know most of the Sinn Fein Deputies are at large and are here present to-day.  I believe an old device used by certain pirates when they approached a victim ship was to hoist a friendly flag and when they came near the ship down came the friendly flag and up went the Skull and Cross-bones. These gentlemen and ladies   for whom Deputy Gorey has so much solicitude have reversed the process and hoisted the Skull and Cross-bones until they could do it no longer, and now they hoist the friendly flag of Sinn Fein.  I deny that they are the Sinn Fein Party.  I deny that they have any right to speak in the name of Sinn Fein.  We are here acting in that principle to establish the right of the Irish nation to decide its own fate. We attempt to prevent that from external or internal aggression.  Deputy Gorey says that the average man has not had time to make up his mind. 
    
    
      
       I do not think I said anything of the sort. 
    
    
      
       Well, I made one mistake. The average man had not an opportunity of making up his mind. I am glad of the correction; I like to be corrected in my quotations.  Who is the average man?  Is Deputy Gorey an average man? 
    
    
      
       When I am sober I hope so. 
    
    
      
       Well, I hope that gentleman is in that average state at the present moment.  But at any rate, whether he is or is not an average man, he seems to have been incapable of making up his mind as to what Irregularism has meant up to the present. We have had over twelve months of very clear demonstration of what those 44 elected representatives of the people stand for and what they mean. Is there any man, any Deputy here, who has not made up his mind as to whether or not that is a good or a bad thing for this nation?  Is there any sane human being within the four shores of Ireland who has not made up his mind as to whether the burning of houses, the breaking of bridges and destruction of the economic life of the country is a bad thing, a damn bad thing, for Ireland?  I hope by the time I have finished that Deputy Gorey will have made up his mind.  Those 44 Deputies to whom Deputy Gorey has referred are rather a mixed grill. There are certain of them at large because really they had not the courage to take the desperate steps their   colleagues took.  I do not know whether Deputy Gorey means to give, say, Mr. Frank Aiken, facilities for expounding his theory of poison gas. I suggest that Deputy Gorey would ask that particular Deputy to go down to his constituency, to his own holding, and expound the theory of poison gas there.  It is true that certain of these Deputies are coming like sucking doves.  They talk about peace and unity and concord and the salvation of the nation.  They would be better employed for the next ten years in saying Acts of Contrition.  They would be better employed in showing the country how to repair the ravages of war that they have brought upon it without provocation, unless the provocation be that we declined to assent to the principle that all authority within the State, legislative, judicial and administrative, should be derived solely from Mr. De Valera and Miss Mary McSwiney.  So far as I understand the attitude of the Government, so far as I understand the elementary principles of common sense and of democratic Government, these persons can meet unmolested the moment they assent to this principle that the will of the majority shall prevail in this country, but if they persist in the attitude that they have adopted up to now, that the will of the majority shall go down before a self-selected clique, a small minority, I say, if I had anything to do with the Government, that they should never meet together to try to spread that principle or doctrine. There is not one man or one woman interned by the Free State Government so far as I know who cannot walk out of jail to-morrow the moment they assent to the principle that Government of the people, by the people and for the people shall be the fundamental rule of authority in this country. Deputy Gorey speaks about both sides. I thought we had heard enough of that cant in the last Dail.  That may be an unparliamentary expression, but one cannot resist alluding to this kind of peculiar terminology in some emphatic way.  What are both sides?  I recognise no both sides in this question any more than I suppose the Almighty recognised two sides when Lucifer tried to set up a rival government   with a minority in the celestial regions. 
    
    
      
       There must be no applause in the Gallery and if anyone else applauds in the Gallery he will be removed. 
    
    
      
       I think that was applause from the celestial region. There can be no question of two sides in this matter.  Either the people must prevail or the Nation goes down in chaos and confusion.  Either the will expressed by the people must be accepted as the definite and unchallengeable basis of law or the terms law, Government, and democracy become so many shibboleths that have no meaning to a sensible being.  I do not really understand what Deputy Gorey is driving at. 
    
    
      
       You had a right to wait then before you replied. 
    
    
      
       I do not really understand what was his purpose in raising this matter unless it was to get a column and a half of his prepared speech in to-morrow's Press.  I think that he might have saved the Dail all this discussion if he had written a letter to the Press and signed his name to it.  But there is another thing that has struck me, the singular transformation of the Deputy since the last Dail.  In the last Dail we had Deputy Gorey rampant against the Irregulars. 
    
    
      
       And he is still. 
    
    
      
       But there was this difference, an election was then pending and the election is now over. Deputy Gorey is now elected for four years.  At the beginning of this Dail I think that it is time to stop this attempt to appeal to the gallery, this attempt to figure in the limelight for the sake of cutting a figure.  I think the time has come to stop talking and to get on with the work of the nation. 
    
    
      
       The simple question which we raised this afternoon, that we asked that the 44 people who are representing, each perhaps 6,000 citizens of Ireland, should be given an opportunity to consult together, has brought forward an effusion such as   that, and if we were to depend on effusions like that in this Dail and if we were to take a speech like that of the last Deputy as voicing the views of the people of Ireland, then I would say that our case is hopeless.  We are asking what is only a reasonable request. These 44 people who have had no opportunity of coming together, and to whom under these laws you were supposed to have sent notices to attend here, are not in a position to come together.  They are inside prison walls and on the hillsides, and are not in a position to give expression to their views in order that their followers in jail might be advised by them in the right direction, to follow the Constitution and to come in here and work with us.  Is that a reasonable request, or is it not, and why should it bring forth from the back of the Government a man who instead of meeting the question has turned it into ridicule, and has dealt with the past, refusing to look to the future?  All our hope and strength lies in meeting the future united and not wasting our strength in these weakening attempts at destruction and turmoil.  After all, they are not a minority that are to be unrecognised; everyone of the 44 members of the 153 is a member who must be recognised.  I myself am very much disappointed that there were in this country 44 people who could be brought into this Dail with the opinions which these people hold, but I must look at the facts and I must say that these people have been elected, and it is our duty to do the best we can for the country, and give them every facility to come together and formulate their policy.  If we could induce them to come inside and work through the Constitution in this Dail we would be doing something for the country, and something which would enable us to let out the prisoners and get to work for the economic development of the country, which is badly needed. 
    
    
      
       I am genuinely surprised that a matter of this importance has been brought forward in this fashion by the Farmers' Party. 
    
    
      
       Most interesting. 
    
     
    
      
       And I think it is likely that every thinking Deputy outside the Farmers' Party in the Dail at the moment is also genuinely surprised.  It was brought forward first by way of resolution.  Surely the Farmers' Party knew that they had to give notice of motion.  I can hardly make myself believe that they did not, and even if they were under the impression that they could deal with a question like this by a motion without notice surely they believe it was one of those matters so important that at least other Deputies who have an equal interest in the country should get notice of it. 
    
    
      
       I agree. 
    
    
      
       But, as I say, I cannot believe that they were under the delusion that they could move a motion without notice.  Now we have it on the adjournment.  What is the point of raising a matter like this on the adjournment?  What is the urgency? Is it suggested that the matter could not wait for four days, and that we could not all get notice of it, or is it one of those casual, trivial matters that could be decided off hand?  It is not the business of the Farmers' Party. Those Deputies, Sinn Fein Deputies as Deputy Gorey calls them, are amongst the people and represent the people, ten thousand or fifteen thousand of whom we have now in gaol.  It cost us 50,000,000 to put them in, it cost us the lives of many gallant men to put them in, and it cost us the life of Michael Collins.  Do the Farmer Deputies suggest as reasonable men that a question like this should be decided on a moment's notice on the first day the Dail meets?  Is that the suggestion? Now it is a serious matter.  I can understand any Deputy from any party putting down a motion on that, but not discussing it on the adjournment of the Dail.  I suggest that we have got just far enough with it. 
    
    
      
       The matter that has been raised by Deputy Gorey on the adjournment is the same as the question raised by me on the first stage of the 1922 Session of the Dail.  I only want to ask one question, and that is whether the 34 members interned have got the opportunity from the Government of deciding whether or not   they would come in and work with the remainder of their colleagues selected by the people of Ireland?  I want some Minister, probably the Minister for Defence, to answer whether they have received any written notice that if they had decided on attending this first Session of the Dail that they would be released and get sufficient guarantee that they will not be arrested, and especially so with regard to the nine men or women Deputies who are not interned.  Now, from the arguments put forward on behalf of the prisoners by Deputies Gorey and Wilson one would imagine that all the prisoners interned belong to the Farmers' Party. 
    
    
      
       Not at all. 
    
    
      
       As an Independent Labour man I say that there are more workers interned than there are farmers' sons. 
    
    
      
       Very interesting. 
    
    
      
       The point that Deputy Gorey and Deputy Wilson are going on is that there are pending elections for County Councils and District Councils. I quite agree with the motion raised on the adjournment advocating the release of prisoners.  Deputy Milroy said a moment ago that any prisoner has the opportunity of coming out if he is prepared to act according to the will of the people.  Now, would it be information to Deputy Milroy to know that there are several prisoners to my knowledge who have signed the usual form of undertaking six months ago and they have not yet been released? 
    
    
      
       Would the Deputy understand that certain people who signed that are not prepared to act on it? 
    
    
      
       I am afraid I will have to allow the Dail to decide as to whether or not they are prepared to do so, but I know they have signed it.  If the 44 Deputies elected by the minority come in here and take their seats and act according to the wishes of the Irish people I am sure that no Government elected by the people of Ireland will keep their followers in prison.  They are selected   by the people to do the work of the people, as employees of the people, and I think it is only right that they should get the opportunity of voicing their opinion as to whether they will accept that position, or not, by giving them the option and a sufficient guarantee as was given to many Deputies in the Dail in 1920 by the British Government who were at that time interned.  That guarantee was given to Deputies then, and to members of the present Government, and other Deputies, that they would get a free pardon and sufficient guarantee that they would not be arrested if they came in and acted in the first Parliament of the Irish people.  I think the same facilities should have been given to the people arrested and interned during the recent trouble.  I congratulate Deputy Gorey and Deputy Wilson on the fact that they have laid a foundation stone, and that they are going to swell their representation in the County Councils and District Councils. 
    
    
      
       It is a matter of very great surprise to me that this motion or discussion should be raised at this particular time.  It appears to me to be a constitutional complexity to say the least of it.  In the first place if it were a matter of serious moment if occurred to me that it ought to have been raised on the question of the election of President.  If it were not thought advisable to raise it at that particular juncture in our proceedings I should say it might reasonably have been raised on the nomination by the President of the other members of the Executive Council.  But the manner in which it was raised, and the statement made on its introduction appear to me to be extraordinary.  I should say that two members of the Dail&mdash;I believe they are here, I have not seen them though I am sure they are here&mdash;informed me that they were approached within the last fortnight, close upon midnight&mdash;the hour selected, I believe, was after ten o'clock&mdash;by men who came to them with a document to sign, On that document was the request that they would raise questions here; first for the release of prisoners, and secondly for the alteration, or to put it   in their own inimitable phraseology the provision that no bar and no obstacle should stand in the way of any man taking a seat here in this Dail. 
    
     Now, mark the particular method adopted.  If an honest man has got a bargain to make with you it is not near midnight he comes to make it, and he does not usually bring two or three aides-de-camp with him when he is going to make a bargain unless you are not going to be a free agent in the bargain.  As I see the situation it comes to this&mdash;and I am the only person here now with serious responsibility with regard to the matter; the other members of the Executive have not been nominated; they still hold their offices as Ministers&mdash;to raise this matter now and to put upon one person the responsibility of answering it is a thing I am sure the Deputies will appreciate.  The position was unquestionably decided by the people in the recent Election.  One hundred and nine Deputies were returned, not one of whom put on his placard that he stood for one or both of those conditions put by the midnight visitors. If he did I am satisfied that on that issue the return of those who stood for a programme such as that would not have been as secure as it has been. Those forty-four people have been returned.  Are they the petted children of this Nation?  Must the Nation stand to attention while these forty-four are making up their minds whether they are to pass through the doors of this representative Assembly; whether or not they will honour this country by coming in here without first apologising to the Nation for the blood they have spilled, the destruction they have caused, and the horrible twelve months through which we have passed?  Any time during that period, the whole of the eighteen months, and certainly for the first six months, we actually brought the Treaty into jeopardy, brought it to the very edge of the abyss in order to try and bring back those men to a sense of their citizenship to this Nation.  When that failed and even after we had attacked them, many a time we offered here not only to make peace with them but even to get out, only on condition that they would get out too.  What was the   response?  Our houses were burned, some members of our families were shot, and now we read in the Press, from the relative of one of these prisoners, the squeal that ten days have elapsed without getting a reply to a letter she sent to her husband.  How many graves are there in Ireland from which no letters will ever come?  How few squeals are there from the people who have made these sacrifices that this Nation should stand for the elected rule of the majority?  Not one.  I have not heard a squeal from one person whose family has made sacrifices for the right of this country and the right of citizenship and for the right of mapping out and marking out its progress and advancement. 
     Posturing Republicans!  Ridiculous politicians!  They ask and they demand of the people in Ireland that they should call themselves Republicans. For years I subscribed to that and fought for it as hard as any of them and my friends here have done likewise.  What was our revenue in two years?  The revenue of the Dublin Corporation.  That is what they want to condemn the people of this country to with their nonsense&mdash;not one single month's revenue of the State we are now administering.  That is what they want to condemn the people of this country to, in the future, in order that a few of their so-called intellectuals shall decorate themselves with the order of Commandant-General, or President, or Vice-President, or Acting President or something of that sort. They ask us now, having failed in doing their damnedest to get the British back here, they ask us now to pitch away in a moment of sentimentalism what we have gained, in order that they may be allowed to walk in through these doors and to say here in this Assembly of the Nation: &ldquo;We are men and women of principle.&rdquo; The possession of that word is one of their conservations.  Is the future political history of this country to be written in this manner: that a man or woman has only to get into jail and has only to stand for election and get elected, and our courts and our institutions, and the order of citizenship that we have established, are to   be swept away in order that a number of persons returned in a constituency perhaps under false pretences, can order the Courts to open the doors and demand their freedom and do and say whatever they like?  Forty-four of these people have been elected; eighteen of them are in jail.  What are the twenty-six doing?  What contribution are they going to make to the stability of this State?  What apology have they got to make for the wrongs they have done this country?  Until we get some evidence of a real change of heart I say it is not for us to be swept off our feet by sentimentalism because an actual minority of forty-four people say they are going to determine and mark out the progress of this country. 
    
      
       Can I not reply? 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       Can I not make a personal explanation? 
    
    
      
       Yes, the Deputy can make a personal explanation, but it must be a personal explanation. 
    
    
      
       The President has referred to men being waited on in the night.  I have been waited upon in the night without an Army to protect me.  So have other Deputies here been waited on, and they have flatly refused to sign those undertakings. The object of raising this motion here was not to pander to anybody.  It was merely to ask a definite answer from these forty-four representatives whether they accepted the Constitutional platform or not.  Then we would know what to do. 
    
    
      
       That is not a personal explanation. 
    
    
      
       What are you going to do with the murderers in that fortyfour&mdash;&mdash;? 
    
    
      
       Deputies have made personal reflections on us across the floor. 
    
    
      
       Order. The Deputy must sit down.  The Motion is that the Dail do now adjourn until 3 o'clock to-morrow. 
       Motion agreed to. 
       The Dail rose at 4.45 p.m. 
    
   
 