 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Cromadh ar obair an lae ar a 3 p.m. Bhi an Ceann Comhairle, Micheal O hAodha, sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - SIX-COUNTY INTERNEES. 
    
      
       asked the President if any communications have passed between the Executive Council, or persons with the knowledge or authority of the Executive Council, and the Northern Government in regard to the 520 Nationalist internees arrested in or since May, 1922?  Further, to ask if it is contemplated making any representation to the Northern Government, whose Advisory Committee has been recommending releases, contingent upon the men concerned crossing the Border.  Mr. Darrell Figgis added: In putting this question I would like to call attention to the fact that there is an error in punctuation, by which it appears that I am suggesting that representation should be made contingent upon the men crossing the Border, whereas the real point of the question is that the Northern Government had been recommending releases contingent upon men crossing the Border. 
    
    
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative. Relative to the second part of the question, the matter has been and is still under consideration.  If the Deputy has the interest of the internees at heart, I am prepared to consider any definite proposal he may wish to put forward. 
    
    
      
       Would the President request the Northern Government, under the circumstances, to give the releases under the conditions that have been suggested, and which, apparently, the prisoners themselves are willing to accept&mdash;that the releases should   be made contingent upon their crossing the Border? 
    
    
      
       I think that scarcely arises out of the question. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - CUSTOMS DUTY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance in connection with fiscal arrangements between Ireland and Great Britain, whether he will take steps to secure that the baggage, other than hand baggage, of passengers from Ireland to the Continent and to America  via  England, and  vice versa,  shall be immune from examination and from duty in transit through England. 
    
    
      
       I will bear the Deputy's suggestion in mind in connection with any fiscal arrangements that may be made between this country and Great Britain. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - UNEMPLOYMENT COMMISSION. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if the Commission mentioned by him in the discussion at the Second Reading of the Unemployment Bill, to enquire into the fiscal system, has commenced operations, and, if not, at what date is it likely to start; whether he will consider the advisability of notifying Irish manufacturers who desire protective tariffs to prepare statements of their cases immediately, and thus facilitate the Commission in its deliberations; and, further, if he would recommend the Commission to deal with the question of each industry separately; and is he prepared, in the event of an interim report being submitted on any specific industry, to place same before the House for its consideration. 
    
    
      
       The constitution and terms of reference of the body to investigate the present fiscal system are still under consideration, and I am, therefore, not yet in a position to state when it will begin work.  There will be no avoidable delay, but it will be appreciated that the preliminaries to so important an inquiry need due deliberation.  It would not be desirable to bind the Committee in the matter of procedure before it has been   set up, but it would be advisable for those who wish to propose changes in the existing fiscal system to prepare a detailed statement of their case.  It is intended to lay reports received from the Committee before the Oireachtas. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - ROSSLARE ROUTE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state what steps are being taken to have the Rosslare route opened, and, if possible, the G.W. Railway boats to resume their sailings. 
    
    
      
       It is improbable that there will be sufficient traffic offering to justify a resumption of the sailings from Rosslare until the repairs of some of the large viaducts damaged on the Great Southern and Western Railway Company's southern lines have further advanced.  This work has had to be undertaken by the Government, and is being expedited as much as possible. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - FOTA RAILWAY BRIDGE. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that the railway bridge at Fota, Co. Cork, is not yet repaired; whether he will take immediate steps to have competent engineers, with suitable machinery, sent at once to put this bridge in order, and have the line opened up immediately to receive the American and other Continental trade which has been diverted to British ports owing to the destruction of this bridge. 
    
    
      
       A contract for the permanent repair of this bridge has already been placed, and the work is proceeding. The repair is due for completion by 16th June next. 
    
    
      
       It is now over five weeks since I asked a similar question to this, and was told that the bridge would be repaired within a fortnight from then, but still nothing has been done.  Is the Minister aware that the country is losing some hundreds of thousands of revenue owing to the continued state of this bridge as a result of it not being able to handle overseas traffic?  Can I rely upon it that the bridge will be repaired within a fortnight or some definite period? 
    
     
    
      
       I have given the answer that the repairs are due for completion by the 16th June next.  The previous answer dealt with temporary repairs to be carried out by the Maintenance Corps. 
    
    
      
       Do I understand from the Minister that the Maintenance Corps are about to re-open this bridge temporarily in the near future, and that we can get communication between Cobh and Cork over this bridge within the next fortnight or three weeks through the medium of the Maintenance Corps? 
    
    
      
       I have stated, in answer to the Deputy, that permanent repairs are to be completed by the 16th June next. 
    
    
      
       That is a long way off. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - LIMERICK CO. HOME&mdash;ATTENDANTS' PAY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government what is the reason for the delay in giving sanction to increases in the pay of attendants granted by the Governing Body of the Limerick County Home, Newcastle West, in May, 1922, and whether, in view of the long interval which has elapsed since that date, and of the repeated applications made on December 8th, January 22nd, and March 5th by the Irish Transport and General Workers' Union, of which the attendants are members, the Minister will have the matter settled forthwith. 
    
    
      
       This matter has just been settled.  Certain increases have been sanctioned, and a communication is being sent to the County Board of Health to-day. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - TUAM UNION TAILOR. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government whether his attention has been called to the case of John Gilligan, who was regularly employed at the Tuam Union as tailor for a period of 48 years; whether, on the occasion of the amalgamation scheme, Mr. Gilligan was awarded by way of compensation only one year's salary,  i.e.,  a lump sum of £80; whether the   Local Government Department ap proved of this sum as sufficient compen sation, and, if so, had they before them at the time a full statement of all the circumstances of Mr. Gilligan's case, including the fact that a wife and daughter are dependent on him; whether the matter is still open to revision, and will the Minister undertake to have the case reconsidered. 
    
    
      
       I am making careful investigation into this matter, as if the facts are as stated Mr. Gilligan would have received inadequate compensation. The Deputy will be further informed as to the position. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - BUTTEVANT MOTOR CAR COMMANDEERED. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that a car, in splendid order, and owned by Mr. John Goggin, 30 Station Road, Buttevant, was commandeered for Government services in Buttevant on the 29th December, 1922, under the orders of Captain O'Donnell, 1st Western Division; that the car, when being returned recently, was examined by Lieut.  Hogan, Transport Officer, Charleville, and certified as useless and derelict; whether he is aware that possession of this car, in working condition, constituted Mr. Goggin's only means of livelihood; that the want of it means to him the loss of a substantial weekly income to be derived from plying between the stations at Mallow North and South; that this man's furniture had been gradually sold to maintain himself and family owing to the lack of his ordinary means of livelihood; and to ask, considering all the circumstances of the case, if it is proposed to give Mr. Goggin substantial compensation to cover his losses and to replace his car. 
    
    
      
       I am aware that Mr. Goggin's car was commandeered from the 29th December until the 24th February last, and I am having enquiries made into its condition when taken over and returned. The question of compensation is receiving consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - CORK VICE-GUARDIAN'S ARREST. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will   state the reasons for the arrest and detention of the Vice-Guardian recently appointed by the Cork Board of Guardians; further, to ask if the Minister would instruct the O/C., Cork Command, to consult with the Chairman and members of the Board on the question of this arrest. 
    
    
      
       It is presumed that the question refers to Mr. Denis Morgan, who was arrested early last month.  He is suspected of being concerned in the armed resistance to troops when landing at Passage in August last, and of being concerned in sniping attacks since then.  His case is under enquiry, and all sources of information will be utilised. 
    
    
      
       I take it there is no charge preferred against this man.  Is the Minister aware that the Guardians who elected this man are supporters of this Government, and that it is scarcely likely they would elect a person who would be engaged in Irregular activity? 
    
    
      
       Every source of information that may throw light on the suspicions against this person will be considered. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - DEPENDENTS' ALLOWANCES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence why dependent's allowance has not been granted to Martin Keating, Ballyshannon, Co. Kildare, and his daughters in respect of his son, Volunteer Thomas Keating, No. 20757, at present stationed in Clonakilty; whether the Minister is aware that Martin Keating is 78 years of age, that he and his daughters were dependent on the son and received £1 weekly, apart from maintenance, from the son prior to enlistment; that the son joined the Army in May, 1922; and to ask that the claim be granted, as these people are in a bad way financially. 
    
    
      
       On local investigation it was ascertained that Volunteer Keating was in the habit of contributing £1 per week to his household prior to his enlistment, and that this contribution covered the cost of his own maintenance therein, which was estimated at 12s. per week.  The extent of the dependence of his home, namely, 8s. per week, was therefore less than the   minimum required by regulations, that is to say, 12s. per week, before an allowance may be issued. 
       It should be stated that the regulations governing the matter are based on the recognition of an obligation on the part of an unmarried soldier to contribute to the support of his dependents a reasonable portion of his Army pay, this portion being calculated as 8s. per week in the case of a soldier receiving ordinary rates of pay. 
    
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence why Mrs. Kathleen Timon, Upper Irishtown, Athlone, has not received dependent's allowance in respect of her husband, who joined the National Army the 8th February, 1923, and is now stationed at Castle Barracks, Athlone; whether he is aware that Mrs. Timon forwarded her marriage certificate on two occasions by registered post and has received no acknowledgment, and to ask whether allowance is to be granted in this case. 
    
    
      
       The marriage certificate does not appear to have been received at G.H.Q.  The allowance is, however, being granted forthwith. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - ARMY APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he can assure the Dail that all officers will have equal opportunities of appointments and promotions, and that those not yet appointed will not be penalised because their qualifications have not yet been appreciated by Commanding Officers who had no knowledge of them previously. 
    
    
      
       All officers have had, in the circumstances that confronted us, equal opportunities of giving service and of disclosing their abilities.  Appointments and promotions of officers are made on the grounds of special ability, distinguished service, and of good service generally, and the Deputy may be assured that there is little danger of able men being overlooked through the cause mentioned by him. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - ATHLONE ARREST. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence why Martin Egan, of   Creeva, Athlone, was arrested at his father's residence, Upper Irishtown. Athlone, and detained in Custume Barracks, Athlone, during the past four months; whether he is aware that the prisoner is willing to sign the usual undertaking, and to give sureties if required. Further, to ask if Lieutenant Masterson, O/C., Shannonbridge Garrison, recommended release of the prisoner, who bears an excellent character, and if, in view of this, it is intended to release him. 
    
    
      
       Egan was arrested at Ballymurry on the 29th January last on suspicion of being concerned in the cutting of roads and raids on canal boats.  He has signed the usual undertaking and has secured guarantors. Lieut.  Masterson has recommended his release.  It is not, nevertheless, the present intention to release him. 
    
    
      
       Is it the intention of the Minister to put this man on trial?  If you have any charge, bring the charge against him, but do not keep the man behind prison bars without letting him know what he is in for. 
    
    
      
       That will be considered if the Deputy wishes to press the matter, but it might not be to this man's advantage to be placed on trial. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   [ORAL ANSWERS.] - ENNISCORTHY ACCOUNTS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence why the accounts of John Whelan, Vinegar Hill Hotel, Enniscorthy, have not been paid, although furnished at least six times, and certified by the responsible officers in the area. 
    
    
      
       I regret that the settlement of Mr. Whelan's accounts has been delayed.  They are now receiving due attention. 
    
   
   
     PROPOSALS FOR PEACE. 
    
      
       I beg to ask the President the following question, of which I have given him private notice: &mdash;&ldquo;If he is yet in a position to give the Dail any information arising out of the statement published in the newspapers of Saturday, the 28th ultimo, over the name of &lsquo;Eamon de Valera&rsquo;?&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       It will be recalled that Mr. de Valera issued through the Press, on the evening of Friday, 27th April, the following document:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;DAIL EIREANN 
       &ldquo;(Government of the Republic of Ireland). 
       &ldquo;PROCLAMATION. 
       &ldquo;The Government of the Republic, anxious to contribute its share to the movement for peace, and to found it on principles that will give governmental stability and otherwise prove of value to the nation, hereby proclaims its readiness to negotiate an immediate cessation of hostilities on the basis of the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;1.  That the sovereign rights of this nation are indefeasible and inalienable. 
       &ldquo;2.  That all legitimate governmental authority in Ireland, legislative, executive, and judicial, is derived exclusively from the people of Ireland. 
    
     &ldquo;3.  That the ultimate court of appeal   for deciding disputed questions of national expediency and policy is the people of Ireland&mdash;the judgment being by majority vote of the adult citizenry, and the decision to be submitted to, and resistance by violence excluded, not because the decision is necessarily right or just or permanent, but because acceptance of this rule makes for peace, order, and unity in national action, and is the democratic alternative to arbitrament by force.  Adequate opportunities and facilities must, of course, be afforded for a full and proper presentation to the Court of all the facts and issues involved, and it must be understood that 1 and 2 are fundamental and non-judicable. 
     &ldquo;4.  That no individual, or class of individuals, who subscribe to these principles of national right, order and good citizenship, can be justly excluded by any political oath, test, or other device, from their proper share and influence in determining national policy, or from the Councils and Parliament of the nation. 
     &ldquo;5.  That freedom to express political or economic opinions, or to advocate political or economic programmes, freedom to assemble in public meeting, and freedom of the Press, are rights of citizenship and of the community which must not be abrogated. 
     &ldquo;6.  That the military forces of the nation are the servants of the nation, and, subject to the foregoing, amenable to the National Assembly when freely elected by the people. 
     &ldquo;We are informed that many in the ranks of our opponents will accept these principles, as we accept them.  If that be so, peace can be arranged forthwith. 
     &ldquo;We hope that this advance will be met in the spirit in which we make it, and that it will be supported by all who love our country, and who desire a speedy and just ending to the present national troubles. 
     &ldquo;As evidence of our own good-will, the Army Command is issuing herewith an order to all units to suspend aggressive action&mdash;the order to take effect as soon as may be, but not later than noon, Monday, April 30. 
     &ldquo;EAMON DE VALERA 
     (President). 
     &ldquo;Dublin, April 27th, 1923. 
     
       &ldquo;Oglaigh na h-Eireann (Irish Republican Army). 
     &ldquo;General Headquarters, Dublin, April 27th, 1923. 
     &ldquo;Ard Oifig, Ath-Cliath. 
     &ldquo;Dept. C.S. Ref. No. Special Army Order. 
     &ldquo;To O.C.'s Commands and Independent Brigades. 
     &ldquo;SUSPENSION OF OFFENSIVE. 
     &ldquo;1.  In order to give effect to decision of the Government and Army Council embodied in attached Proclamation of this date, you will arrange the suspension of all offensive operations in your area as from noon Monday, April 30. 
     &ldquo;2.  You will ensure that&mdash;whilst remaining on the defensive&mdash;all units take adequate measures to protect themselves and their munitions. 
     &ldquo;FRANK AIKEN, Chief of Staff. 
     &ldquo;Enc. 1.&rdquo; 
     On Monday, 30th ultimo, Senators Andrew Jameson and James Douglas were asked by Mr. de Valera to meet him and discuss proposals for peace. 
     The Senators reported the matter to the President on Wednesday, 2nd May, and conveyed to him a request from Mr. de Valera for a conference.  The President declined to accede to this request for a personal conference, but Senators Douglas and Jameson were authorised to lay before Mr. de Valera the following document as embodying the terms on which peace could be arranged:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;All political action within the country should be based on a recognition by every party in the State of the following principles of order:&mdash; 
     
       (a) That all political issues whether now existing or in the future arising shall be decided by the majority vote of the elected representatives of the people: 
     
       (b) As a corollary to  (a)  that the people are entitled to have all lethal weapons within the country in the effective custody or control of the Executive Government responsible to the people through their representatives. 
     The acceptance of these principles and practical compliance with  (b)  by the surrender of arms to be the preliminary   condition for the release of prisoners who shall be required to subscribe individually to ( a ) and ( b ). 
     Signed in acceptance of the foregoing principles, this... day of May, 1923.&rdquo; 
     On the 3rd of May the two Senators had an interview with Mr. de Valera, and on May 7th had a subsequent one, after which meeting they brought back from Mr. de Valera the following document: 
   
   
     PROPOSED TERMS OF SETTLEMENT&mdash;DRAFT, 7th MAY, 1923. 
     We are agreed:&mdash; 
     1.  That the sovereign rights of this nation are indefeasible and inalienable. 
     2.  That all legitimate governmental authority in Ireland, legislative, executive, and judicial, is derived exclusively from the people of Ireland. 
     3.  ( a )  That, as a practical rule of order and democratic government, political issues shall be decided by the majority vote of the duly elected representatives of the people, subject always to the right of referendum and appeal directly to the people, and to an understanding that 1 and 2 are fundamental. 
     ( b ) That, as a corollary, the people are entitled to have all lethal weapons within the country in the effective custody or control of the Executive Government responsible to the people through their representatives. 
     4.  That no citizen who subscribes to the foregoing can be justly excluded by any political oath, test, or other device from his or her share in determining national policy, or from the councils and parliament of the nation. 
     5.  That freedom to express political or economic opinions, or to advocate political or economic programmes, freedom to assemble in public meeting, and freedom of the Press, are rights that must be guaranteed. 
     In order to give practical effect to the foregoing&mdash;in the present circumstances, and as a condition of the immediate restoration of peace:&mdash; 
       We are agreed further:&mdash; 
     
       a.   That a general election shall be held not later than September 15th, of this year. 
     
       
       b.  That a further opportunity shall be afforded as soon as possible, for the hearing of any claims and objections to the Register now being revised, and that a Commission, representative of all parties, shall be appointed to guarantee fair play in all election arrangements. 
     
       c.   That all censorship of the mails, and and of the Press shall be abolished, that the Press shall be requested by the undersigned, jointly, to guarantee a fair proportion of space for the advocacy of the Republican programme; and that adequate protection shall be guaranteed to Republican printers and newspapers. 
     
       d.   That, pending the election, effective control of lethal weapons shall be secured by&mdash; 
     I.  the strict supervision and control of all arms in the hands of the F.S. forces and their auxiliaries. 
     II.  assigning to the Republican forces at least one suitable building in each province, to be used by them as barracks and arsenals, where Republican arms shall be stored, sealed up, and defended by a specially pledged Republican guard&mdash;these arms to be disposed of after the elections by re-issue to their present holders, or in such other manner as may secure the consent of the Government then elected. 
     
       e.   That within twenty-one days from the date on which the general election is held the newly-elected representatives shall assemble and all powers and machinery of Government shall then be handed over without question to the Executive chosen by the majority of the assembly. 
     
       f.   That the funds of the Republic, subscribed in the U.S. and elsewhere, and at present sealed up by Injunction, shall be made available immediately for peaceful efforts in support of the Republican cause, and that all property of the Republican party seized by F.S. forces shall be restored. 
     
       g.   That in awarding compensation for   losses sustained by individuals during the direct conflict with England, there shall be no discrimination against those who in the present conflict have been supporters of the Republic. 
     
       h.   That immediately on the signing of this agreement peace and a general amnesty shall be proclaimed, and when it is announced on behalf of the Republican Authorities that (II.), para.  (d)  has been complied with, all political prisoners and prisoners of war shall be released, and further military or civil action shall not be taken or lie against any person who has supported the Republican cause in this conflict. 
     Signed in acceptance of the foregoing, this, the day of May, 1923. 
     On yesterday (Tuesday) the document was considered by the Executive Council, and the following letter thereon was sent to Senator Jameson:&mdash; 
     8 th May,  1923. 
     DEAR MR. JAMESON, 
     The Government was hopeful from what you reported to us of the conversation Mr. Douglas and yourself had with Mr. de Valera, that even at this late hour he was minded to turn definitely aside from the paths of violence and destruction he has trodden for so many months, and along which he has led those who looked to him for guidance.  The Government, anxious to facilitate the restoration of peace to the country, set down in writing in short and unambiguous terms, the fundamental preliminary conditions upon which peace must rest.  You have brought back to us not an acceptance of these conditions, but a long and wordy document inviting debate where none is possible. 
     Paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of this document are guaranteed by the Constitution, and, therefore, should have no place in peace conditions. 
     We have already informed you we could not consider para. 4. 
     Mr. de Valera well knows we are already preparing for an early election, and if he accepts the preliminary conditions, we have made it clear we would give every possible opportunity to all parties to obtain votes. 
     We have informed you that we must   insist on effective control of all arms, but we would be prepared to invite the Bishops to act through local clergy as intermediaries for their collection. 
     Once we were satisfied arms had been handed over in good faith prisoners who admitted that the terms had been accepted on their behalf, and that they were bound by them would be released. 
     The Government has to say now that the conditions already specified are conditions from which the Government cannot and will not depart.  Accordingly, no further communication with Mr. de Valera can be entertained, save only a communication indicating his definite acceptance of the terms stated in writing and handed to you for his signature. 
     Mise le meas, 
     LIAM T. MACCOSGAIR. 
     Senator Andrew Jameson, 
     Leinster House, Dublin. 
     The following letter was then sent by the two Senators to Mr. de Valera:&mdash; 
     
       Dublin,  8 th May,  1923. 
     DEAR SIR&mdash;We enclose herewith a copy of a letter received this evening from Mr. Cosgrave which requires no comment from us.  An Dail meets to-morrow afternoon, and we assume the Government will then make a statement, and possibly read our report to them. It is, therefore, essential that any reply which you may wish to send through us should reach us to-morrow not later than 1 p.m., when our responsibility in this matter will come to an end. 
     (Signed) ANDREW JAMESON. 
     JAMES DOUGLAS. 
     To: 
     Eamon de Valera, Esq. 
     To-day (9th May), Senators Douglas and Jameson received the following reply from Mr. de Valera:&mdash; 
     DEAR SIRS&mdash;I have received your letter and Mr. Cosgrave's reply, which has disappointed me not a little.  My offer generously embraced every principle of National value that I could conceive our opponents to be honestly fighting for.  I have been met by rigid insistence on a condition in a form which is well-known by everyone conversant with the situation to be impracticable. 
     May I thank you both for your good offices, and express my appreciation of   the impartial manner in which you reported our discussions. 
     Yours faithfully, 
     (Signed) EAMON DE VALERA. 
     I am having copies of these documents circulated amongst Deputies, and if the Dail desires to discuss the matter I will be prepared to meet the convenience of Deputies by moving the adjournment at an hour earlier than is customary, if it is so desired. 
    
      
       I would suggest that the Minister should defer any such proposal to-day, so that we shall have time to think over these documents.  I would suggest that to-morrow would be a more suitable day to discuss the matter. 
    
    
      
       I am quite agreeable to that. 
    
   
   
     MOTION ON ADJOURNMENT. 
    
      
       On the motion for the adjournment, I intend to raise a question in regard to civilian workers who are requested to attest in the Military Barracks at Athlone, Mullingar and elsewhere. 
    
   
   
     OIREACHTAS (PAYMENT OF MEMBERS BILL, 1923&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of the Oireachtas (Payment of Members) Bill, 1923.  This Bill gives effect to a Clause in the Constitution which provides for the payment of members.  It is, I think, an agreed measure.  Certain details in the Bill satisfy the peculiar conditions that may arise, accidents that may befall Deputies, and so on.  If a Deputy is unable, by reason of illness, to take his seat within the prescribed time, he will not be penalised by reason of that fact. Travelling expenses are allowed in a way which, I think, will satisfy the majority of the Deputies.  Generally speaking, the Act has been framed on the recommendations that were made by a Committee specially set up to deal with the matter.  I do not think there is anything contentious in it, and if there be any provisions which do not give satisfaction, they would be open to necessary amendments that might be considered when we are on the Committee Stage. 
    
     
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
    
    
      
       In connection with railway tickets, I wish to suggest to the President that the present arrangements whereby Deputies must apply every time for a railway voucher, should be superseded.  Deputies should be given a season ticket to and from the points between which they are allowed to have railway travelling free. 
       Secondly, I wish to press upon the Minister the desirability of having postal franchise for Deputies in respect of letters posted in the Dail.  That would be a matter of very considerable convenience to Deputies.  It is not the kind of thing that is likely to be abused, and I suggest it is not a case where Treasury parsimony ought to be allowed to come in so as to prevent what is a very common privilege to Members of Parliament in all parts of the world. 
       I also desire to suggest that Deputies who wish to receive regularly the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; or &ldquo;Official Gazette,&rdquo; should be supplied with it without being called upon to pay the subscription. 
       There is one further matter to which I would draw attention.  In Section 2 an allowance of £30 per month is prescribed. I suggest that the words &ldquo;towards expenses&rdquo; should be added by the mover of the Bill on an amendment. These words appear higher up in the recital.  The reason for inserting them in the Bill is to avoid certain Income Tax authorities coming along and saying that these payments are payments in which they also would have an interest. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if any representations have been made to the railway authorities concerning the question raised by Deputy Duffy.  As well as being a convenience to Deputies, the privilege, if it is a privilege, of having a season ticket to any part of their constituency, would also mean a saving for the Ministry of Finance.  It is pretty well known that cattle dealers and other people who travel pretty regularly on the railways, get concessions from the Companies. The Government would be making no unreasonable demand to ask for similar concessions for Deputies.  Those concessions, in addition to being a convenience, would be a saving for the Ministry   of Finance.  There is another aspect to the case.  A Deputy may leave Dublin for a particular portion of his constituency. When he would arrive there he might, perhaps, be requested to go to another place which, when leaving Dublin, he did not intend to visit.  It would be unfair to expect Deputies to bear the very heavy charges of going from one area to another.  By the issuing of a season ticket, provision could be made for all the requirements of Deputies. This is a matter upon which representations should be made to the Railway Companies in the interest of Deputies. 
    
    
      
       I support the suggestion put forward.  It is a very desirable thing, and more in keeping with the position of the Government, that Deputies should be supplied with season tickets.  It is not a good thing to be issuing vouchers week after week.  A lot of trouble is involved.  I support the suggestion of Deputy Duffy that the words &ldquo;towards expenses&rdquo; should be inserted.  Some newspapers are beginning an attack in regard to salaries. Anyone who has to keep in touch with his constituency, and has to be up here week after week, finds that the allowance will never make him a millionaire. 
    
    
      
       I also wish to associate myself with the Deputies who have urged the getting of season tickets. Deputies domiciled in the country find it almost impossible to get to their constituencies. We get a voucher here from the Dail, but if we happen to be a minute or two before the train leaves, the difficulty of getting a pass is such that we have to wait probably for the next train.  The train, on the other hand, may be going out, and we would have to run and &ldquo;get the wind up&rdquo; in order to catch it.  That has happened to myself on a few occasions, whereas if I had a season ticket I could enter the train immediately on arriving at the platform. 
    
     Furthermore, I fail to see how the people of the country can talk, or the newspapers can print animadversions as to the large salary that the present Teachtai of the Dail are receiving.  It is not a salary.  It is portion of the expenses they incur.  Now, any Deputy who is domiciled in any part of the country and who has a home to keep up, and has to pay hotel expenses here   and other out-of-pocket expenses, will have nothing at all left to keep the home.  I can assure those people from outside who complain of this large salary that that is so.  The Teachtai would want some other income to keep their homes.  A Teachta would want some other income before he can live on £30 a month salary from the Dail.  If it could be possible for these expenses to be increased, I think they ought to be increased.  I think this would be necessary, for if the Minister for Finance does not see his way to do so shortly, I will try to do my best to organise what will be known as the &ldquo;Teachtai's Union,&rdquo; and then you will have a strike in the Dail. 
    
      
       I would be sorry if the question of season tickets had obscured the matter raised by Deputy Gavan Duffy, namely, that copies of the the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; be supplied to the Dail Deputies. 
    
    
      
       I am afraid that the raising of the question of supplying documents to the Teachtai does not arise in a discussion on the Oireachtas (Payment of Members) Bill, and is not relevant to the Bill.  If one reads the title one will be quite clear on that point.  I am sure Deputy Gavan Duffy is quite clear on the matter himself. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps, having mentioned the mystic words will be quite sufficient. 
    
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       I handed in an amendment to section 2.  Perhaps that will come up on the Committee stage. It is with regard to the attendance of Deputies here, and those Deputies who are receiving £30 a month expenses and who are staying at home are only an incubus on the Treasury and are not rendering the service which they should. 
    
    
      
       As far as this Bill is concerned, it provides for carrying out the recommendations of the Committee set up for the purpose of this matter.  I think I can give an assurance to the Deputies who think there is a likelihood of this sum being included in the assessment of their Income Tax, that that will not be the case.  There is no such intention. I think it would be a very serious matter if Deputy Lyons' suggestion were   carried out and that there should be a strike here.  That would be a very serious matter.  I think the Truck Act prevents us stopping payment to any person who does not attend.  It would be serious if we disobeyed our own laws. 
       With regard to the franking of letters, I do not know that is a matter which could come in for discussion now.  I think it was under the consideration of the Committee, and I think it was turned down by the Committee.  With regard to the season tickets, I think that that matter was also considered.  It was found that only on one line would there be a saving.  I will, however, look into the matter for the next day, and see if anything can be done with regard to it.  But I should say that in the case of Deputies who are only travelling once or twice a week, there might not be a saving.  We cannot compel the railway companies to give those season tickets if they are not agreeable to it themselves. I do not think it would be right to compel them in order to facilitate Deputies of the Dail.  But I shall look into the matter more carefully and see if anything can be done in that direction. 
    
     
    
      
       Might I say that Deputy Lyons is too modest to raise the matter himself, but I think he had the intention of asking the Minister to agree to a system of Dependents' Allowances.  He has eleven children. 
    
    
      
       Might I just refer to the reference made by the President to the Committee's action on free postage and franking letters for the Deputies.  My recollection is that it was not turned down, but rather it was dropped when they got a plain intimation from the Finance Department that it would not be favourably considered. 
    
    
      
       Matters such as documents and Teachtai's rights with regard to free postage merely point to the need for a Committee on privileges. Such a Committee would prevent me from being constantly asked what Deputies' privileges are.  The Bill is for a specific purpose and does not include any matter relating to documents and free postage. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Bill be read a second time,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Wednesday, 16th May. 
    
   
   
     UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL, 1923&mdash;MONEY RESOLUTION. 
    
      
       I have received the required message from the Governor-General. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE ON MONEY RESOLUTION. 
    
      
       I beg to move: 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Chun foralacha aon Achta den tSioson so a leasuionn an dli i dtaobh Arachas Diomhaointis do chur i bhfeidhm, go bhfuil se oiriunach:&mdash; 
             That, for carrying out the provisions of any Act of the present Session to amend the law relating to Unemployment Insurance, it is expedient:&mdash; 
           
         
         
           
             (a) a udaru go n-iocfar as airgead a sholathroidh an t-Oireachtas, leis an Aire um Shaothar agus Thrachtail agus chun chreidiuna don Chiste um Dhiomhaointeas, suim a bheidh dothanach chun daoine a liostail i bhforsai armtha Shaorstait Eireann do chimead fe Arachas do reir fora- lacha aon Achta den tsort san; 
             (a) to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas to the Minister for Industry and Commerce for the credit of the Unemployment Fund of an amount sufficient to maintain in insurance, in accordance with the provisions of such Act, persons enlisted in the military forces of Saorstat Eireann; 
           
           
             (b) a udaru go dtabharfai as an bPrimh-Chiste no as a thora fais aon tsuimeanna is ga chun fiachaisi an Chiste um Dhiomhaointeas d'ioc fe sna hAchtanna um Arachas an Diomhaointis, 1920 go 1922, mar do leasuiodh le haon Acht den tsort san; 
             (b) to authorise the issue out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof of any sums required for the purpose of discharging the liabilities of the Unemployment Fund under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, as amended by such Act; 
           
           
             
               (c) a udaru go gcuirfi de mhuirear ar an bPrimh-Chiste no ar a thora fais colann agus us aon urrusanna a thug an t-Aire Airgid amach chun iasachtai d'fhail fe sna hAchtanna um Arachas Diomhaointis, 1920 go 1922, mar do leasuiodh le haon Acht den tsort san. 
             
               (c) to authorise the charge upon the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof of the principal and interest of any securities issued by the Minister for Finance for the purpose of borrowing under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, as amended by such Act. 
           
         
       
     
     These are resolutions which I move in connection with the Bill.  I do not know whether it is the desire of the Dail to take them separately.  I do not think there will be any objection. 
     Motion put and agreed to. 
   
   
     [THE DAIL RESUMES.] 
    
      
       I move that the Dail agree with the Committee in the said resolution. 
    
    
      
       I second the motion. 
       Motion agreed to. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BILL, 1923. 
     1.&mdash;In this Act. 
     the expression &ldquo;Principal Act&rdquo; means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920; 
     the expression &ldquo;Act No. 1 of 1921&rdquo; means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1921; 
     the expression &ldquo;Act No. 2 of 1921&rdquo; means the Unemployment Insurance (No. 2) Act, 1921, and 
     the expression &ldquo;Act of 1922&rdquo; means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1922. 
    
      
       I beg to move Section I. of this Bill. This Section is merely a definition of terms used in the Bill.  It is proposed to delete the reference to Act No. 1 of 1921 in this Section.  It does not occur elsewhere in the Bill, as introduced. 
    
    
      
       I move amendment No. 1: &ldquo;To delete the words, lines 13 and 14, &lsquo;the expression Act No. 1 of 1921 means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1921.&rsquo;&rdquo;  The expression does not occur in the Bill, and therefore, it is not necessary to include it in the interpretation clause. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Section I., as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       SECTION 2. 
       (1)  So much of Sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act of 1922 as provides that the fourth special period established by that Sub-section shall terminate on the 1st day of July, 1923, is hereby repealed. 
       (2)  The said fourth special period shall terminate 
       (a)  on the 16th day of May, 1923, in respect of every person who shall on or before that date have received all the benefit authorized to be paid to him in the fourth special period; 
       (b)  on the 6th day of June, 1923, in respect of every person who shall, after the 16th day of May, 1923, and on or before the 6th day of June, 1923, have received all the benefit authorized to be paid to him during the fourth special period; 
       (c)  on the 1st day of July, 1923, in respect of every other person. 
       (3)  Section 11 of the Principal Act shall apply to every question which shall arise as to whether the fourth special period has or has not terminated in any particular case as fully as if such questions were specifically mentioned in that section. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Section 2 of the Bill.  Under the Act of 1922, the Fourth Special Period was current from the 2nd November to the 1st July, during which the maximum of 132 days' benefit was payable.  Persons continuously unemployed during that   period will begin to exhaust their benefit early in April.  We propose, under the present Bill, to take power to bring these people into benefit earlier than the 2nd July, which was the earliest date, under the 1922 Act, on which they could again come into benefit.  Sub-section III. dealing with Section 11 (eleven) of the Principal Act merely applies to Courts of Referees, or, if necessary, to an umpire where the claimant is dissatisfied with the ruling of the Ministry.  I formally move Sub-section 2. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Section 2 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       SECTION 3. 
       (1).  For the purpose of determining the amount of benefit to which, having regard to the proportion of benefit to contributions fixed by para. 3 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act, any person is entitled, but for no other purpose, 
       
         (a)  no account shall, after the termination of the fourth special period, be taken of any benefit which may have been received by such person between the 7th day of November, 1920, and the commencement of the first benefit year, and 
       
         (b)  during the first benefit year each of the total number of contributions actually paid in respect of such person after deducting from that total five contributions in respect of each week's benefit received by such person before the 8th day of November, 1920, shall be treated as equivalent to three contributions or such lesser number of contributions (not being less than one) as the Minister may from time to time prescribe by regulations made for the purpose. 
       (2)  So much of Sub-section 1 of Section 6 of the Act of 1922 as is inconsistent with the foregoing sub-section is hereby repealed. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Section III.  When this Bill becomes operative law only persons who have contributions to their credit will be entitled to benefit.  Uncovenanted benefit will disappear, and this section marks the transition from uncovenanted benefit to the original scheme of insurance against unemployment, under which payment of benefits was dependent on the   number of contributions which claimants had to their credit.  Under the emergency scheme of uncovenanted benefit, in operation since 1921, large amounts were paid to persons who had contributed very little, or who had never contributed.  We propose in this Bill to put all persons on an equal footing.  Section III., Sub-section 1  (a)  preserves the right conferred on unemployed contributors under previous Acts, and Section III.  Sub-section 1  (b)  is designed to ease the transition from uncovenanted benefit to covenanted benefit, as it will reduce the rate at which people will exhaust their benefit during the first benefit year&mdash; that is the period ending the 17th October next&mdash;and leave them better off at the beginning of the winter season than they would be if the ratio fixed by the Act of 1922 were continued.  Sub-section 2 is merely a consequential amendment, dependent on Sub-section 1. 
    
    
      
       I have an amendment to this section:&mdash;&ldquo;In Sub-section 1   (b)  to delete all words from &lsquo;or such lesser number...,&rsquo; in line 5 to the end of the sentence.&rdquo;  One reason I have for putting down this amendment is to find out exactly what is the intention of the Ministry in regard to this matter.  If the amendment were carried, the Clause would simply say that the three contributions would be the minimum, but according to the proposal some lesser number may be the minimum if the Minister so desires or so decides.  I am not able to understand the intention in regard to that, and I should like to have some explanation from the Minister if he would give it to us. 
    
    
      
       The effect of Deputy Johnson's amendment would be that all contributions would have to be multiplied by 3 in the first benefit year, and there would be no discretion at all left with the Minister.  It is considered necessary that the Minister should have some discretion in the matter, especially in the case of multiplying by 3, because it may be found that this would prove unduly expensive, and make perhaps a very large demand on the finances of the Bill.  Besides, the full benefit which people would be entitled to under this Bill would be 15 weeks' benefit, and of the unemployed 25,930 would be entitled, as the Bill stands, to 15 weeks' benefit, so that the big majority would secure the   maximum benefit under the present scheme.  The Minister would necessarily require some discretion as to the application of the rule of multiplication by 3 in respect of the others so as to work out the amount as equitably as possible for the whole lot.  Of the small minority remaining, 3,770 would be entitled to from 9 to 15 weeks' benefit, and over 3,000 more to periods averaging from 4 to 9 weeks' benefit, so that only a few hundred would receive no benefit.  It is the Ministry's desire to reserve a discretionary power, so as to work out, as fairly as possible, the rate at which they should draw unemployment benefit.  As pointed out, the vast majority of the unemployed &mdash;25,930 or 78.6 per cent.&mdash;would be entitled to fifteen weeks' benefit, or more, as it stands.  It is in the first benefit year&mdash;between now and the 17th October&mdash;that, in the case of extravagant expenditure, it is desired to reserve the power to try and minimise that expenditure. 
    
    
      
       This rather upsets the whole scheme as it was explained to us in the introduction.  Now we are told that the new proposal is not to ensure that people shall go forward with a certain guaranteed benefit, but that it will be in the discretion of the Minister. It may be quite right to talk about the first benefit year, but we have to think of the people who will be unemployed from October onward.  There was a certain satisfaction expressed at going on to insurance when we were dealing with the Second Reading, but now we are told it is not insurance; it is insurance at the discretion of the Minister. The rate of insurance is to be at the discretion of the Minister.  Either three times or something less than three times the contributions are to be taken into account.  I do not think that is satisfactory; it is not consistent with the promise outlined in the Second Reading discussion.  This brings about the question of the position of insured contributors at the close of the first benefit year, the close of October.  The Bill can only be considered reasonably satisfactory provided that there is running along with it during this next few months a very general revival in trade and employment. If that revival does not pan out as it is hoped by the optimistic, then the position of these insured persons is going to be very, very bad indeed in October, and   it will be obviously necessary to bring forward a new provision by that time, especially if these less fortunate people are going to be placed in so bad a position going into the next benefit year. After all, I suppose it is a case of &ldquo;to them that have shall be given.&rdquo;  Those who have been less lucky in regard to employment will have less contributions to their credit.  But here is a proposition that seems, judging from the Minister's explanation, to ensure those people will be still less fortunate than they have been.  I want to emphasise the position of the less fortunate, the less regularly employed workmen.  Take certain of the building trades as an instance.  They depend very largely on the summer season. Unless things are very much better during the next six months, those men will be entering upon the ordinary, normal, black season in November, and their position will be very, very difficult indeed unless some consideration is given to the winter cycle of trade and the conditions of such persons in that winter period.  People going into the next benefit year are going to be badly placed indeed unless we are going to guarantee in this way and look forward at least to a very great acceleration in the rate of employment between now and then, so that they will have contributions to their benefit.  Even those who have been fairly well employed going into the next benefit year will only have about one in six to their credit.  If a man had been working, say, a full year, and had sixty contributions to his credit in the last two years or so, he would have to have something like regular employment between now and then to be put into anything like reasonable benefit for the winter season.  I feel that this option to the Minister to reduce the credits ought not to be put into the Bill, that at least the people ought to be assured of the equivalent of three contributions, and that there should be no suggestion of any lesser number.  I beg to move the deletion of these words following &ldquo;or such lesser number,&rdquo; in line five to the end of the sentence. 
    
    
      
       Perhaps I did not make it perfectly clear to Deputy Johnson. So long as any substantial number require to have their contributions multiplied by three, in order to keep them in benefit, their contributions will be multiplied   by three, but if after some time it is found that a large number of people will have made new contributions, then obviously it would be unfair that we should have to multiply all these contributions by three.  Suppose there be a great increase of employment or a great diminution of unemployment, if large numbers of people become re-employed, these people will contribute, and would the Deputy insist that we should multiply these contributions by three. I do not think it would be fair to ask us to do that.  With regard to some people being placed in a bad position, large numbers of people have undoubtedly been receiving benefit who never contributed a penny at any time.  It may interest the Deputy to know that large numbers of people drawing benefits at the present moment will have fifty contributions to their credit because under the present scheme people who had contributions to their credit before the 1921 Act will be credited with these contributions in the second benefit year, as I understand it. 
    
    
      
       The Minister is rather harping on those more fortunate.  I, on the other hand, am harping on the less fortunate ones.  For the Minister to put forward the more fortunate ones and build his case on their position does not carry with it any conviction to me.  I want to think of those who are less fortunate and who just as much require to live as the more fortunate. 
    
    
      
       It is the less fortunate ones who will have their contributions multiplied by three.  That is our case.  We are prepared to multiply the contributions of the less fortunate ones by three.  Should the Deputy insist by deleting &ldquo;or such lesser number&rdquo; then we are also multiplying those who have a large number of contributions to their credit. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister agree to put in a phrase that will ensure that so many of those with less than so many contributions will have their credits multiplied by three, so that there will be some assurance.  This trusting to the judgment of a Minister is not satisfactory to the average man.  It may be all very good for the Ministry if the Ministers think they are going to be in   permanent occupation of their present positions.  If they can assure us that that is the case, we may trust them, but a new Minister may come in and may decide &ldquo;economy is my cry and nothing but economy.&rdquo;  I would like some assurance.  What is it Shylock said: &ldquo;I cannot see it in the bond.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       My word is my bond, and I hope as long as this emergency scheme is necessary we will exist. At least I hope that. 
    
    
      
       Once this Bill is an Act, the risks are too great. 
    
    
      
       The first benefits only run to the 17th October. 
    
    
      
       It is the succeeding period I am thinking about. 
    
    
      
       Who has the discretion in this matter?  Is it the different local managers that will calculate the contributions or will they be sent to the Minister in every case? 
    
    
      
       I think the Minister has made it perfectly clear now, at all events, that only those absolutely and genuinely entitled to receive contributions, under this Act, shall receive them henceforth.  I personally dislike the Act, and I think I am right in saying that every decent citizen throughout the country dislikes the Act, and included in these is every decent workman. I have been up and down town and country, and I find they do not like it. We must all admit that they are entitled to genuine contributions, but we must also realise&mdash;and the workmen themselves realise it&mdash;that there is a certain small proportion who never seek work, but who are continually seeking money from the Exchanges.  I hold it is absolutely demoralising to any decent workman to have to wait shivering at the door of these Exchanges for his dole. and I am confident that the ordinary workman to-day wants decent work instead of the continuance of this demoralising system. 
    
    
      
       Does the Deputy know whether the ordinary workman wants this amendment or not? It is the amendment which is before us now, and not a general discussion upon unemployment benefit. 
    
    
      
       I do not want to   raise a general discussion, but to mark my appreciation of the statement made by the Minister that only genuine people shall receive contributions henceforth.  I think it is only fair to the taxpayer that that should be the case.  The Minister has admitted that there has been an almost criminal abuse of this Act up to this, and people have been drawing contributions&mdash;property owners and so forth &mdash;and the poor Irish taxpayer has to foot the bill.  That might be all very well up to 12 months ago, when the money came from the British Treasury. It was all very well to fleece them and to console ourselves with the idea that we were only getting our own back.  Now the Irish taxpayer has to foot the bill, and consequently I was very glad to hear the Minister state that only those who were genuinely entitled to receive payment shall receive it henceforth. 
    
    
      
       With regard to   what Deputy Hennessy has said, I should like to recall the statement I made, on the Second Reading, which was to the effect that while abuses were very difficult to check, that uncovenanted benefit was the order of procedure and the cases of criminal abuses were very, very few.  I think the Deputy may be under some misapprehension as to what I said upon the Second Reading. I do not agree that there were many cases of abuse.  There were very few cases of abuse.  With regard to what Deputy Corish said as to who would do the multiplication by three, the procedure is that the manager of the Exchange applies to the Record Office to find out the money contribution which the claimant has to his credit and the Minister will do the multiplication by three, not the local manager of the Exchange. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided.  Ta, 12; Nil, 34. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Tomas de Nogla. Tomas Mac Eoin. Seoirse Ghabhain Ui Dhubhthaigh. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. 
             Sean O Laidhin. Cathal O Seanain. Sean Buitleir. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Domhnall O Ceallachain. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hAonghusa. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig Mac Ualghairg. Peadar Mac a' Bhaird. Sean O Ruanaidh. Sean Mac Garaidh. Pilib Mac Cosgair. Micheal de Staineas. Domhnall Mac Carthaigh. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Sir Seamus Craig, Ridire, M.D. Eoin Mac Neill. Padraic O Maille. Seosamh O Faoileachain. 
             Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Fionan O Loingsigh. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Criostoir O Broin. Risteard Mac Liam. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Proinsias Bulfin. Tomas Mac Artuir. Seamus O Dolain. Proinsias Mag Aonghusa. Eamon O Dugain. Seamus O Murchadha. Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Alasdair Mac Caba. Earnan de Blaghd. Domhnall O Broin. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 3 stand part of the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to 
     SECTION 4. 
     The first benefit year shall be the period beginning on the day next following the day on which the fourth special period shall terminate under this Act and ending on the 17th day of October, 1923, and the second benefit year shall be the period beginning on the 18th day of October, 1923, and ending on the 15th day of October, 1924, and every subsequent benefit year shall be the period beginning on the next day following the day on which the preceding benefit year expired and ending on the Wednesday nearest to the 16th day of October in the next following calendar year. 
    
      
       I beg to move   Section 4.  Hitherto the benefit ran from July to July and the books should be completed at the end of July, but in practice it was found that the books were not completed until September, and so we propose that the new benefits shall be from October to October.  Besides there is another advantage and that is that this Section makes the benefits begin with the approach of the winter season, and it is consequently a little more serviceable to the claimants. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 5. 
       The following enactments shall not operate or have effect during the first benefit year, that is to say 
       
         (a)  condition (i) of sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Principal Act; 
       
         (b)  sub-section (4) of section 8 of the the Principal Act. 
    
    
      
       Paragraph  (a)  provides for the transition from covenanted to uncovenanted benefit; for those contributors who came into insurance for the first time at the beginning of the year and who, owing to the depressed condition of trade, have been practically unemployed all the while.  5  (b)  proposes to suspend Sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the Act of 1920 and to make available for computation for benefit unexhausted contributions under the earlier Acts, so that by the suspension of Sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the Act of 1920 those who had exhausted contributions will have these made available for benefit. 
       Question put and agreed to 
       SECTION 6. 
       (1) The following paragraph shall be substituted for paragraph  (b)  of Part I. of the First Schedule to the Principal Act:&mdash; 
       &ldquo; (b)  Employment under such a contract as aforesaid as master or a member of a crew of any ship registered in Saorstat Eireann or of a Saorstat Eireann or British ship or vessel (not being a ship registered in Great Britain or Northern Ireland) of which the owner, or, if there is more than one owner, the managing owner or manager resides or has his principal place of business in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
    
     
        (2) The following paragraph shall be substituted for paragraph  (c)  of Part II. of the First Schedule to the Principal Act:&mdash; 
     &ldquo; (c)  Employment in the military service of Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
     (3) The following paragraph shall be substituted for paragraph 2 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;2.  &mdash;No person shall receive unemployment benefit for more than fifteen weeks during the first benefit year nor for more than twentysix weeks during any subsequent benefit year, nor at any time in respect of any period less than one day.&rdquo; 
     (4)  The following paragraph shall be substituted for paragraph 5 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;5.  &mdash;A period of unemployment shall not be deemed to commence until the date on which the insured contributor makes application in the prescribed manner for unemployment benefit. 
     Provided that regulations may be made under this Act for allowing some earlier date to be substituted for the date of application in any case in which good cause is shown for delay in making the application.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I beg to move Section 6.  Sub-section 1 is an amendment of the Act rendered necessary by our severance from Great Britain.  As between the Saorstat and Great Britain, it provides in effect that the crew of a ship registered, or, if not a registered vessel owned in the Saorstat, will be insurable in the Saorstat, and  vice versa.  The provision herein has been agreed to by the British Ministry for Labour.  In Sub-section (2) it is intended merely to remove any doubts as to soldiers in the Saorstat being in the same position under the Insurance Acts as the soldiers of the British Army are.  Enlistment in the military forces is very obviously not employment of a kind which the Insurance Acts contemplate.  In Sub-section (3) the maximum benefit between the coming into the operation of the Act and the 17th October is limited to 15 weeks, and after October to 26 weeks for the benefit year.  It will be noticed that only 20 weeks run from this to the 17th October.   Hence, the 15 weeks' benefit may be considered favourable when compared with the normal maximum of 26 weeks in the year.  Sub-section (4) is merely a matter of administrative machinery intended to regularise a practice which has obtained of allowing claims to be antedated when claimants can prove they have been unemployed and prevented from lodging claims. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister tell us what arrangements have been made, or are contemplated, for seamen drawing their benefit when they are resident in the Saorstat and unemployed, and are registered under the British Act and draw from the British unemployment fund? 
    
    
      
       At the present moment there exists reciprocal arrangements for the provision of Saorstat stamps in Great Britain, and the provision of British stamps in the Saorstat for the purposes of unemployment for such persons as the Deputy mentions. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 6 stand part of the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
       (1)  The Minister may by Order approve of any agreement between an employer and an insured Contributor or Contributors whereby such employer agrees to take into or retain in his employment the insured Contributor or Contributors on work which in the opinion of the Minister is work of public utility, subject to an amount equal to the weekly amount which each such insured Contributor would, but for such agreement, be entitled to receive as Unemployment Benefit, being paid weekly by the Minister to the employer for so long as each such Insured Contributor would otherwise be entitled to receive Unemployment Benefit, and such Order shall provide that the period for which each such Insured Contributor would otherwise be entitled to receive Unemployment Benefit during the first benefit year shall be reduced by one week or part of a week in respect of each week or part of a week in which such amount is paid by the Minister to the employer. 
    
     (2)  Any agreement submitted to the Minister for his approval under this section shall contain the name or names of the Insured, Contributor or Contributors and particulars of the work on which   he or they is or are to be employed, and of the wages to be paid and conditions of employment to be observed throughout the period of the agreement, and no alteration in such work, wages or conditions of employment shall be made without the prior approval of the Minister in writing, and if any such alteration be made without the approval of the Minister, the employer shall re-pay to the Minister the amount received by the employer in respect of any Insured Contributor in whose case the alteration is made from the date on which the alteration was first made. 
    
      
       I beg to move Section 7.  As I pointed out in the Second Reading, the Section was merely intended to allow certain workers a choice in a particular circumstance as to whether they should receive the unemployment benefit of, perhaps, 20s. per week, or should continue to work and receive their usual scale of pay, the unemployment allowance going to the particular person who would guarantee them their usual rate of pay.  The Minister shall specify what particular works should be considered in the case.  Works of public utility only were contemplated, but, as I have said, if Deputy Johnson seriously objected to Section 7, we do not intend to press the matter.  We were not at all enamoured of it, and it would put considerable labour on the Ministry, and probably result in a good deal of unpleasantness. 
    
    
      
       We had better take Amendment (4) first. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In Sub-section (1) to insert after the word &ldquo;weekly,&rdquo; the words &ldquo;out of the Unemployment Fund.&rdquo; 
       The object of the amendment is to indicate the source from which the payments will be made. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
    
    
      
       I move Deputy O'Brien's amendment to delete the entire Section.  I had tried to think seriously of the arguments put forward in favour of this Section on the Second Reading, but the more I think of it the less I like it.  The more I think of it the more sure I am that it would cause interminable trouble if it were attempted to be brought into operation.  If it were not to be brought into operation, then   it is no use putting it into the Bill.  The very appearance of it in the Bill would immediately excite&mdash;I was going to say suspicion&mdash;attempts to make schemes, and would bring employer into conflict with employer, workman into conflict with workman, and employer into conflict with workman over even the prospect of such schemes.  I am sure it is not going to be a satisfaction to anyone. The object of it is, no doubt, a good one, but the method of aiming at that object would, I am sure, be full of all kinds of trouble, and, in view of what the Minister has said, there is no use extending the argument.  I would press for the withdrawal of the Section.  There may be possibilities of the best way to achieve the end sought and do it by other means, but I would urge it ought to be dissociated from this Bill. 
    
    
      
       I appreciate what Deputy Johnson said about the motives underlying the insertion of the Section. They were, I can assure Deputy Johnson, good motives.  I appreciate that he regards them as such.  We realise quite fully that the Ministry might have a very unpleasant task in the operation of that Section.  I accept the amendment moved on behalf of Deputy O'Brien, and am prepared to withdraw the Section. 
       Section 7 by leave withdrawn. 
       SECTION 8. 
       (1)  For the purpose of retaining in insurance soldiers enlisted on short service who, before enlistment, were normally employed in an insurable occupation, the Minister for Defence shall, out of monies to be provided by the Oireachtas, pay to the Minister for the credit of the Unemployment Fund such contributions for each person to whom this section applies as are necessary to secure that there shall be not less than twelve contributions to the credit of such person in respect of each insurance year during which, or part of which, such person has been a person to whom this section applies. 
       (2)  The sums to be paid in each year by the Minister for Defence to the Minister under this section shall be ascertained and paid at such times and in such manner as may be agreed between the Minister for Defence and the Minister. 
    
     
        (3)  This section applies to every person enlisted in the military forces of Saorstat Eireann for any period not exceeding twelve months who at the date of enlistment has had paid in respect of him under the Unemployment Insurance Acts either twenty contributions at any time, or ten contributions since the 8th day of November, 1920. 
    
      
       I move Section 8 This section is designed to secure that soldiers who are insured before joining the Army, and who will not be remaining in the Army, shall have their required 12 contributions paid for them in each insurance year. 
    
    
      
       Before proceeding, will the Minister explain what the effect of that Section would be?  Supposing a man were discharged from the Army in October and were unemployed for a period, what would be his position in the succeeding benefit year? 
    
    
      
       If he had been engaged in an insurable occupation before joining, and had 12 contributions to his credit, these contributions would be to his credit next October. 
    
    
      
       Does the Minister mean that he is not getting any credit for contributions during the period of service? 
    
    
      
       He gets the twelve contributions, provided he has not already got them to his credit. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 5. 
       In Sub-Section (1) to delete all after the word &ldquo;that&rdquo; in line 35, and to substitute:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;each such person shall have the same number of contributions to his credit as if he had been employed as an employed person within the meaning of the principal Act during the whole period of his service as a soldier.&rdquo; 
    
     From the explanation of the Minister, I take it that those twelve contributions, when the soldier would go out of the Army, would entitle him to two weeks unemployment benefit.  Will that be the position after October?  That is one in six.  If he were out of employment for five or six weeks he would have had only two weeks unemployment benefit.  Then it would depend entirely upon the   amount of employment available for ex-soldiers as to where they would be during the winter.  Now, I think that is not good enough, and I want to urge the acceptance of the amendment, on these grounds, that the soldier during the time of his service ought to have been considered to be insurable, not only insurable, but to be kept insured so that he would not be any worse off than he would have been had there been no new Act and had he been working during that time.  There is quite a considerable number of men who believe they were doing what was necessary for the country and left insurable employment to join the Army.  They may have been disemployed for a considerable time, and they may have only recently renewed their employment, and the amount of credits might have been very low, but the prospect of re-employment might have been fairly good with the particular class of man.  The proposal of the Bill is that he shall go out of the Army with twelve contributions to his credit, and unless he had by fairly regular work in the previous two years, been able to pile up credits, he is going into the winter very badly handicapped. 
     The amendment that I am proposing practically means that during the time of his employment as a soldier he would be treated as if he had been in insurable employment.  I do not think that is an unreasonable claim.  He took up work of an emergency kind and was called upon to do it.  I think it is a fair charge upon his employers, the State, that they should keep him insured and should have kept him insured, even though they had, as I said in the early part of the discussion, deducted his share of the contributions. Having failed to make that deduction, the responsibility lies with the employers for having kept his cards stamped and kept him in benefit.  I contend that a soldier who has done his service ought be kept insured just as though he had continued his insurable employment. But it is not reasonable to take him from insurable employment, put him into the Army, and then send him out of the Army, or let him withdraw from the Army under conditions which are much less satisfactory to him than they would be had he remained at his ordinary occupation.  I, therefore, beg to move the amendment. 
     
    
      
       The Section is not designed to give a soldier the right to benefit, because military service is not one of the occupations that is insurable under the Insurance Acts.  Deputy Johnson admits that the purpose of his amendment would be to treat military service as if it had been a service insurable under the Insurance Acts.  This, we are not prepared to do. However, when the general demobilisation of the Army approaches, the question whether soldiers are to be given the right to benefit will, of course, have to be carefully considered.  This Bill is dealing with ordinary unemployed insurance, and can hardly be expected to cause that a scheme will be operative on demobilisation. The effect of Deputy Johnson's amendment would be to treat military service as an insurable occupation, and I am afraid I cannot accept that.  We do not purpose at all the placing of the soldier in a worse position when he leaves the Army than he had been in when he entered the Army.  We are trying to avoid that, and we have no doubt at all that the Minister for Defence will endeavour, when demobilisation approaches, to secure that soldiers shall not be worse off.  Moreover, several of those who had been in benefit will continue to be in benefit by the very fact, which we have already stated, that we are reviving their contributions prior to the 1921 Act.  We cannot accept the amendment, because it would mean in effect that military service is regarded as an insurable occupation, which, of course, is not contemplated by the Act. 
    
    
      
       It seems that we are going to adopt the practice of the British Government; having taken all you can out of your soldiers you throw them on the market, and let them be employed, let them starve, or let them be dependent upon charity.  That is practically what the Minister has told us. 
    
    
      
       While it may be true that Deputy Johnson's amendment would have the effect that the Minister suggests, surely the Minister will not say that the present Army, or service in the present Army, is a normal service.  It is not, and I am very sure that his promise of fair consideration will not be satisfactory. 
    
     None of us knows what the position may   be then.  None of us knows how far the points that have been made will be met. There is no use in telling people that in a month or two months, or, perhaps, five or six months, something may happen. We do not know whether it will happen or not.  I think there is something in Deputy Johnson's point.  It certainly would look as if the treatment, which is going to be meted out, is not very nice, to say the least of it.  That makes me bring forward another point, on which I ask the Minister now for a public assurance. There has been some talk&mdash;a good deal of it without good information&mdash; that many people have got what is called &ldquo;the dole,&rdquo; who would prefer not to work and who do not want work.  The Minister, I am sure, is familiar with the case that was raised with the Ministry in which certain claimants were asked by the Chairman of an Appeals Court whether they had made application to join the Army.  He apparently considered that if they did not want to join the Army, it was a good reason for refusing to give them the benefit, because they were not properly seeking employment.  The Ministry is, I understand, to make inquiries into that kind of thing.  It arose in connection with a case in which the Chairman of one of these Courts happened to be appointed State Solicitor, and it is a very wrongful thing, approaching something like moral or economic conscription. I should like the Minister to give a public assurance, so that applicants will know where they exactly stand, and so also that prospective recruits for the Army will know where they stand in regard to these points. 
     An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the chair at this stage. 
    
      
       I thought I had made it perfectly plain that it was not the intention of the Ministry to place those who had entered military service in a worse position on leaving the service than they had been in when they entered, and there is no desire, and no intention, that they should be so placed. In fact, the desire is that they should, if possible, be very much better off on leaving the service than on entering it. I thought I had indicated that their treatment on leaving the service might very well be left for consideration by the Minister for Defence.  With regard   to the case raised by Deputy Cathal O'Shannon, I do not know if the Deputy was here when I was replying to Deputy Hennessy.  I said we had not been able to trace very many cases of abuse of the Unemployment Insurance Act.  There is no justification for saying that there had been many serious abuses.  With regard to the case raised, that case is under inquiry, and I am informed that the State Solicitors have been told that they must not act in the capacity which, in one particular case, a State Solicitor had been acting in.  With regard to making the definite statement which Deputy O'Shannon has asked for, it is the intention of the Ministry to see justice done to each claimant, and if any claimant has cause of complaint and brings his case to the knowledge of the Ministry, it shall have instant attention. Even should the claimant not be satisfied with the ruling of the Ministry, we will make available for him&mdash;in fact, it is already available&mdash;the Court of Referees and the Umpire.  He is assured of justice. 
    
    
      
       Will the Minister say whether it is just to put the question put by the Chairman to an applicant, &ldquo;Did you try to get into the Army, or were you willing to go into the Army?&rdquo;  or whether it would be just if a negative answer were given to that question to deprive the applicant of benefit? 
    
    
      
       I am informed that certain applicants for benefit did not appear to be genuinely seeking employment, and they were asked by the Chairman of the Court of Referees whether, as they had had no work for over a year, they had thought of joining the Army.  That question was merely intended to test what steps the applicants had taken to make provision for themselves.  It was as part of the inquiry into the genuineness of the claim for uncovenanted benefit that that question was put, and judging by the form in which it was put, I do not think it was an unreasonable question.  From the information available I would not think so. 
    
    
      
       I do not think the Minister has quite got the drift of the assurance I asked him for. I do not want to deal so much with the particular case the Ministry are familiar   with.  I want a public assurance so that applicants, intending recruits, and for that matter the Chairmen of Courts, would know exactly where they stood&mdash; an assurance that nothing in the nature of a refusal to join the Army would necessarily be full ground for refusing benefit to the applicant, because that is nothing less than economic conscription. 
    
     
    
      
       I thought I had made that perfectly clear in the particular case raised.  If the claimant had applied he would have had justice done to him.  We have no intention by any compulsion of any kind whatsoever to force unemployed persons to join the Army 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 13; Nil, 38. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Tomas de Nogla. Riobard O Deaghaidh. Tomas Mac Eoin. Seoirse Ghabhain Ui Dhubhthaigh. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. 
             Sean O Laidhin. Cathal O Seanain. Sean Buitleir. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Domhnall O Ceallachain.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Donchadh O Guaire. Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. Sean O Maolruaidh. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O h-Aonghusa. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. Peadar Mac a' Bhaird. Sean O Ruanaidh. Sean Mac Garaidh. Pilib Mac Cosgair. Micheal de Staineas. Domhnall Mac Carthaigh. Maolmuire Mac Eochadha. Sir Seamus Craigh, Ridire, M.D. Liam Thrift. Eoin Mac Neill. Liam Mac Aonghusa. 
             Seosamh O Faoileachain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Fionan O Loingsigh. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Criostoir O Broin. Risteard Mac Liam. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Proinsias Bulfin. Tomas Mac Artuir. Seamus Dolain. Eamon O Dugain. Seamus O Murchadha. Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Tomas O Domhnaill. Earnan de Blaghd. Uinseann de Faoite. Domhnall O Broin. Seamus de Burca. 
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
    
      
       There are two amendments to Sub-section 3&mdash;Nos. 6 and 7.  I would wish to know if Deputy Johnson accepts No. 6. 
    
    
      
       Might I suggest, following the precedent of an earlier amendment&mdash;the Ceann Comhairle himself suggested taking a later number before the first&mdash;that you take No. 7 before No. 6. 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move amendment 7.  In Sub-Section 3 to delete all after &ldquo;twelve months&rdquo; in line 45.  The arguments run pretty much on the lines of the last discussion.  The object will be to ensure that all persons enlisted for a period not exceeding twelve months should be considered in respect of this Clause.  I need not go over the arguments again. 
    
    
      
       As Deputy Johnson has said the arguments in this case are exactly similar to those we had on the first amendment to Section 8.  The effect would be to treat every soldier as employed in an insurable occupation, and after leaving the Army where he might not be insured at all, he would be treated as if he had been in an insured occupation during his term in the Army.  Of course, we could not accept this because obviously he is not in unemployment insurance all the time. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move in Sub-section (3) of Section 8, after the words &ldquo;twelve months&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or enlisted before the 1st May, 1923, for a period of service which terminates on or before the 1st May, 1924.&rdquo; 
    
     The Sub-section as it stands applies only to men enlisted in the Army for a period not exceeding twelve months.  It   appears some men were enlisted for longer than twelve months, and the object of the amendment is to ensure that the Sub-section shall apply to these men also. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     Question: &ldquo;That Section 8, as amended, stand part of the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 9. 
     (1)  The Minister for Finance may, out of the Central Fund, or the growing produce thereof, advance any sums required for the purpose of discharging the liabilities of the Unemployment Fund under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, as amended by this Act, and for the purpose of providing the sums to be so advanced the Minister for Finance may borrow money in such manner as he may think proper. 
     (2)  Any sums advanced under the foregoing sub-section, together with interest thereon (if any) at such rate as may be fixed by the Minister for Finance, shall be charged on and be re-payable out of the Unemployment Fund. 
     (3)  The principal and interest of any securities issued by the Minister for Finance for the purpose of borrowing under this section and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof. 
    
      
       I beg to move this section which makes provision for the financing of unemployment. 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       There are no amendments to the remaining sections, and I think it would facilitate the Dail if I move Sections 10, 11, and 12, and so on to the end. 
    
    
      
       I suggest that the Minister should give a short explanation of each section, as he moves it. 
    
    
      
       Very well. 
       SECTION 10. 
    
     (1)  Where any person is liable to repay to the Unemployment Fund any sum received by him by way of benefit, and does not show that such sum was received by him in good faith and without   knowledge that he was not entitled there to, such sum may, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, be recovered by means of deductions from any benefit to which such person is or thereafter becomes entitled under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, as amended by this Act. 
     (2)  Section 11 of the Principal Act shall apply to every question which shall arise as to whether a person is or is not liable to have a deduction made under this section from any such benefit as aforesaid as fully as if such questions were specifically mentioned in that section. 
    
      
       Sub-section 10 simply provides machinery for the recovery of benefits not properly received. They are at the present moment recoverable only after legal proceedings.  This section provides an additional means by giving power to the Ministry to deduct from what may become due under the Sub-section an amount equal to the amount that had been improperly received. Any dispute in the case under Sub-section (2) might be referred to the Court of Referees or the Umpire. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       Does the Minister intend under the machinery of Section 10 to recover sums improperly obtained during the past twelve months? 
    
    
      
       Section 10 has already been agreed to. 
       SECTION 11. 
       (1)  For the purpose of securing that like rates of benefit shall be payable under any Special Scheme made under section 18 of the Principal Act as are payable under this Act, and that the benefits under such Special Scheme shall otherwise be not less favourable than those provided by the general provision of the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, as amended by this Act, but for no other purpose, the Minister may, by Order made after consultation with the body charged with the administration of such Special Scheme, alter the terms and provisions of any such Special Scheme in such manner as shall appear to the Minister to be necessary to carry out the purpose aforesaid. 
    
     (2)  Wherever any Special Scheme made under section 18 of the Principal Act, and before the passing of this   Act applies to or includes persons employed in Saorstat Eireann as well as persons employed elsewhere, the Minister may by Order exclude from the application of such Special Scheme persons employed in Saorstat Eireann, and thereupon every person so excluded shall become subject to the general provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, as amended by this Act in such manner as shall be prescribed by such Order. 
    
      
       This Section will enable the Minister to make a condition of this Bill part of any special insurance scheme under No. 2 Act, 1921, where each industry may undertake its own unemployment insurance.  Sub-Section (2) enables the Minister to include in the general scheme persons who do not wish to be associated with schemes not confined to Saorstat Eireann.  I move. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 12. 
       Notwithstanding anything in any Act, it shall not be necessary for the Minister to require any society or other association to which section 17 of the Principal Act applies to make, before the end of the first benefit year, any greater provision for unemployment benefit than such society or association could have been required to make under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of the said section 17 as originally enacted. 
    
    
      
       Under Section 17 of the principal Act the Ministry can make arrangements to pay unemployment benefit to their members, provided the Trade Union undertakes to pay an amount not exceeding one-third of that provided by the State.  But it is realised that owing to the recent unemployment being so abnormally high, and to a certain extent, the increased benefits that people insured under the scheme become entitled to, it is hardly fair to insist that the Trades Unions shall contribute in proportion an increase of one-third, so that we are simply here asking them to continue the one-third increase as under the original scheme.  That would not be asking them to increase the amount of their pay.  I move. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
    
     
        SECTION 13. 
     Sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Act No. 2 of 1921 is hereby repealed. 
     Agreed. 
     SECTION 14. 
     In this Act the expression &ldquo;Minister&rdquo; means the Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
     Agreed. 
     SECTION 15. 
     This Act may be cited as the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1923, and shall be construed as one with the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1922, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920 to 1923. 
     Agreed. 
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - TITLE. 
     &ldquo;An Act to amend the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1923,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - [THE DAIL RESUMES.] 
     Bill reported.  Fourth Stage ordered for May 16. 
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - STATUTORY UNDERTAKINGS (CONTINUANCE OF CHARGES) (No. 2) BILL, 1923&mdash;FOURTH STAGE. 
    
      
       I beg to move: &ldquo;That this Bill be received for final consideration.&rdquo; 
       I should like to state in connection with the point raised here on the last occasion by some Deputies that we are making arrangements to set up an inquiry into the Tramway charges, and I find, on looking at the Act, that we have some more power than we thought we had when speaking on the last occasion. Of course obviously there is no purpose in setting up an Inquiry until the Bill becomes law. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
    
    
      
       Is it only in connection with the Tramways that this Inquiry will be instituted?  Have you any authority to institute an Inquiry into the railways? Certainly some of the charges made by   the railways on some goods are out of all proportion to the value of these goods. 
    
    
      
       The Minister has performed a very remarkable  tour de force  in regard to this Bill.  He has got the Bill through without the change of a comma, and in spite of that he has satisfied his critics.  The Minister, in the course of the discussion, although he did not accept the improved machinery suggested to him, has definitely undertaken to give us the inquiry we wanted, and to set up an Advisory Committee.  I only rise for the purpose of putting on record a fact of some importance in connection with the inquiry.  It was stated, on the last occasion, that there was doubt as to whether the Minister would have power to revise the stages for which fares are charged by the trams.  It is obviously important that he should have that power. Nobody wants to be unfair to the Tramway Company, but it will be considerably easier to deal with the matter properly if the present stages can be adjusted by an adjustment of fares.  I wish to draw attention to Section 1 of the Tramways Act of 1920 which expressly says &ldquo;that an order authorising any increase in the Statutory maximum charges applicable to the Tramway undertaking may attach such conditions thereto as the Minister may think proper and may modify the statutory provisions.&rdquo;  Therefore, if there be at the present moment special Acts of Parliament relating to the Dublin and Cork Tramways whereby certain stages are provided, or if there be orders under certain Acts of Parliament whereby certain stages are provided for certain fares, the Minister is not bound by such provisions. I trust we may take it that, in the general inquiry which is going to be made, that fact will be borne in mind, and that the public desire to have the present stages modified will also be borne in mind by the Minister. 
    
    
      
       I desire to say that I am going to oppose this Bill, because I think the powers given in it under Clause 3 are a hindrance to the development of the trade and commerce of this country, and anything that is a hindrance to the development of the trade and commerce of the country adversely affects employment. If the powers under Clause 3 are extended to 31st December, they will increase, rather than decrease, the number   of unemployed in the country.  The powers asked for under this Clause state that it shall be lawful &ldquo;for each of the several Canal Undertakings specified in the First Column of the Third Schedule to this Act to continue for so long as this section remains in force to charge the several rates, fares, tolls, dues and other charges which were respectively directed by the Orders specified in the Second Column of the said Third Schedule to be charged by such Undertakings respectively.&rdquo; 
       I contend that any inquiry such as that promised by the Minister must naturally confine itself and its recommendations to matters connected with the Dublin Tramway Co., and has no power whatever to revise, or to deal with, the rates of canal companies.  Canal rates, especially where canal companies act as carrying companies, have private agreements with railway companies.  In many cases these canal companies are owned and controlled by railway companies, and therefore any increased or decreased rates fixed by canal companies are generally the outcome of conferences dominated by railway directors.  I contend that, so far as the railway rates now in operation in the Free State area are concerned, they will always be a guide to the canal companies which are under the control, and in some cases owned by, the railway companies.  So far as any reduction of rates is concerned, the high railway rates and charges at present in operation were authorised at a time when the cost of labour and materials was much higher than it is at present.  Railway and canal companies have always contended, so far as the public is concerned, that any reduction in wages, or in the cost of materials, would be followed by a decrease in railway and canal rates and fares.  That has not been the case in the Free State area.  In the case of the railway companies, the wages of their employees, taken on an average, have been reduced by £1 per week, while the reduction has been something less in the case of canal companies' employees. 
    
     I want to know from the Minister, who asks us to give an extended period for the increased rates, on what grounds such an increase has been justified?  I have had reason to think, from the knowledge I have gained, particularly within the last couple of days, that there is a move on, so far as the Northern Railway Companies   and the British Railway Companies who act as carrying companies to Free State ports, are concerned, to place the traders of the Free State at a disadvantage in regard to rates and charges. The railway rates generally in the Free State are, at the present time, 150 per cent. above the pre-war figure.  The railway rates for carrying companies to Free State ports from British ports are 75 per cent. above pre-war rates.  The railway rates for certain classes of agricultural produce within and around the border of the Six County area are 100 per cent. over pre-war rates.  Therefore, that is giving a decided advantage to the people who wish to import goods either from Great Britain or the Six Counties into the Free State, so far as the selling prices of their goods are concerned.  I contend that the influence of the State under the present administration, or under any administration that may succeed it, especially in foreign lands, through the League of Nations or any other association of world powers with which it is associated, will depend on its ability to maintain its position in the British and world markets, and not upon the sentimental influences of its citizens in foreign countries, such as prevailed in the past. I urge that powers of this kind, given without satisfying ourselves that there is a necessity for extension of such powers will put a chain around our own necks, and destroy trade and commerce in the Free State area.  It was possible, previous to the Treaty, to revise rates and freight charges so far as railway and canal companies were concerned, by the bodies affected making an appeal to the Rates Tribunal, which has now ceased to exist. If such a Rates Tribunal were in existence, I could see a means by which a Clause such as No. 3 could be modified. 
     I am not satisfied that any inquiry such as that promised by the Minister here, especially regarding tramways, is going to deal with the situation we are confronted with in regard to canals and railways.  It seems to be the policy of the Canal and Railway Companies, especially since the Treaty was signed, to cut down, as far as possible, running expenses and to maintain, and where possible increase, dividends, and particularly and significantly to add whatever they can to the reserve funds of the Companies.  That is in anticipation of some declaration of policy on the part   of the Government as to how it intends to deal with the transport services of the country.  By postponing a declaration of Government policy regarding the future of such services, you are hindering instead of helping the trade and commerce of the Free State.  The Government should, at the earliest possible moment, make a declaration of its policy regarding the future of such an undertaking. Taking the Canal Company as an example, I have gone to a lot of trouble looking through their balance sheets.  I find that in 1919 their reserve fund stood at £60,000.  In 1920 it was increased by £2,000, and in 1921 it was increased by £40,000.  The Railway Companies are in the same position.  Huge reserve funds such as those should not be added to. The undertakings should, in the ordinary course of events, give the benefit of such profits to the trading community and to the development of commerce within the area.  While they have those powers, and while there is no body in existence to revise the rates now in operation&mdash;and they will be allowed to remain in operation until 31st December &mdash;there is no possible chance of these Companies doing anything different to what they have done since they got the power in September, 1920.  The Grand Canal Co. has an understanding with the G.S.W.R. Co.; by the way, some of the Directors of the Canal Company are also Directors of the Railway Company. They have an agreement in operation that they will take traffic according to arrangement at certain contract points so far as the canal and railways are concerned. The Canal Company shows in its balance sheet for 1921 a figure of £13,333 representing deferred maintenance. That was a sum voted by the British Government out of the Irish taxpayers' or traders' pockets for the purpose of building new boats or putting their boats in a proper and satisfactory condition.  That amount still remains in the balance sheet of the Grand Canal Co.  In that year also they show £38,500 as money on deposit and on loan.  Seeing that the Directors of this particular company are the men who run the Dublin Stock Exchange, I cannot understand why they would leave £38,500 on deposit at 11⁄2 per cent. while there was a possibility of having a little flutter and securing a better rate of interest. Some of those very people have   advised the Irish people to have nothing to do with internal loans.  Now you see what you are faced with.  I do not wish to worry the Dail by going at any considerable length into figures, but on looking at the 1921 balance sheet of the Grand Canal Co., I think any Deputy will find it very hard to discover what amounts have been set aside under different headings.  For Accident Insurance and Contingency funds in 1920 the amount was £5,337; in 1921 the amount was increased to £27,552, so that all the available Contingency and Reserve funds of the Canal Co. had a considerable increase in every direction.  Seeing the reserve funds have been added to to that extent, I contend that the Minister is not justified in giving powers such as are in Clause 3, enabling the canal companies to carry on at the same rates as heretofore when labour and the cost of materials were at their highest points. 
     I notice also in the balance sheet for 1921 £759 representing unclaimed dividends. These must be very conscientious people to leave their money with the Canal Company unclaimed.  Possibly they may devote it at a later stage to some charitable fund with which the Government may be connected.  There is another aspect of Canal Control which I think it is desirable I should draw attention to.  The Grand Canal Company, as a carrying company, has the same number of boats plying on the Grand Canal as what are known as the bye-traders, yet the bye-traders, who use on the canal only half the number of boats, have to pay actually up to 80 per cent. of the cost of maintenance.  I notice Deputy Gorey looking at me very curiously with regard to that, but, I think if he examines the balance sheet of this Company, he will find I am correct. There is another aspect to which it is necessary to draw attention, and that is that 52 per cent. of all the traffic carried over the canals consists of agricultural produce, and that was one reason why I thought Deputy Gorey and his colleagues in the Dail should take a greater interest in matters of this kind than such a person as myself. 
    
      
       You are too modest. 
    
    
      
       Now, the Canal and Railway rates are agreed and revised in   conference where both the canal and Railway companies are represented.  I contend that where the railway companies refuse to decrease their rates, the canal companies will carry on under the present powers given them under this Bill.  I urge the Minister, therefore, at the earliest possible date, to consider the formation of a tribunal that would take the place of the Rates Tribunal that existed when the Treaty was signed. That body, which would have very extensive powers, would be called upon to deal with the grievances of traders and others who consider that they are being very unfairly treated by the railway company and the canals.  During the last day or two I happened to be speaking to people in the West of Ireland, and I understand that the railway companies with lines running to that part of the country from Belfast give the towns in the West of Ireland considerably reduced and special rates from Belfast. They give reduced rates into Sligo, Leitrim, Roscommon and Cavan, and they are doing all they can to capture and hold the West of Ireland trade by methods of that kind.  I was told, in the case of meal and flour, that the unmanufactured article, which costs £10 or £11, was actually sold in the shape of flour or meal for 10s. extra.  Taking into consideration the cost of freight charges and the cost of manufacturing, one cannot see how such a thing can be done.  I do know that during the period of the Belfast Boycott, which was cancelled after the signing of the Treaty, Belfast traders who had certain Southern traders on their list actually sent goods into the South of Ireland without being ordered. In some cases the goods arrived, and in other cases the goods were destroyed.  In all these cases, although there were no orders given for the goods, at the present moment Belfast merchants are prosecuting and summoning Southern traders for the recovery of the amounts involved.  There is one particular reason why I wish to stress the position regarding the question of canal rates, and that is, if the peat industry in this country is to get any assistance, or to be developed on proper lines, the canals are the natural highways by which this particular class of traffic can be dealt with at an economic rate.  We are faced with the position at present in this country of having to depend upon   fifty-five per cent. of coal for heating and producing purposes sent here from England.  If this Government intends to give any assistance to the development of the peat industry, so that the import of coal can be reduced to a minimum, these freights and tolls over the canals, which are the only natural highways for carrying such traffic, must be considerably reduced.  The position at present is that peat is charged the same as coal for freights and tolls. Taking what the selling value should be in normal conditions, and the heat producing power of peat and coal, the freight for peat should be considerably lowered and should be considerably less than that on imported coal.  I urge the consideration of these things on the Minister as a reason for the setting up of a tribunal that can alter or amend portion of Clause 3 of this Bill.  I do contend that if the Government delays in making a declaration of their policy regarding the future of undertakings such as the canals and railways, it is a delay at the cost of the trading community, and by delaying you are adding to, instead of decreasing, the amount of unemployment in this country. 
    
    
      
       Do I understand that the Minister intends that the fares of the Cork Tramway Company and other Corporations shall be investigated by the Inquiry which he is going to set up? 
    
    
      
       As regards the point raised by Deputy Hennessy, the undertaking given the last day was that the rates and charges of the Dublin Tramway Company should be investigated by the Inquiry.  With regard to the Cork Tramway Company, the Ministry has power, on representation being made to it in the ordinary regular manner, to have the case for an increase or a reduction of charges of the Cork Tramway Company inquired into and investigated if this Bill becomes law.  If the Bill does not become law the Ministry will not have that power.  With regard to Deputy Davin's objection to the Bill, I would point out, in the first instance, that Deputy Davin dealt largely with Railway Companies.  This Bill does not deal with Railway Companies at all. Deputy Davin is, I understand, a member of a Commission set up to investigate   the case for the canals, and he said with regard to the canals&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       I wish to point out to the Minister that I dealt with nothing. I would be very slow to deal with any subject that would come within the terms of reference of that Commission. I did not want the Minister to harp upon that.  I could say many things that I have not said, but, being a member of that Commission, I refrained from doing so. 
    
    
      
       Now we know where you got your information. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Davin is a member of that Commission, and my point is that a lot of the things he has given the Dail is information which could very well be submitted to the Canals Commission. 
       An inquiry by that Commission is proceeding, and the Ministry awaits a Report from that Commission.  On a case being put up by the Commission the Ministry will certainly act, but I would point out to Deputy Davin that if this Bill does not become law there will be no occasion to act. 
    
    
      
       But might I point out to the Minister that no Commission, the Canal Commission or any other, has authority to deal with or set up a Rates Tribunal, and that is a contention I put up. 
    
    
      
       I am endeavouring to point out to the Deputy that on a case being made by the Canal Commission the Ministry would act, but Deputy Davin will not give us the power to act.  He stated in the opening of his address that the Ministry was getting power to continue increased rates for an extended period.  The Bill gives the Ministry power to increase the rates if they find there be a case for increasing the rates, but the Bill also provides the power whereby the Ministry may reduce the rates if it find the rates should be reduced.  The Bill merely proposes power to the Ministry to increase rates or to reduce rates.  That is the position. On representation being made to the Ministry with regard to canals the Ministry will act in a similar way to that in which we will act in regard to tramways if the Bill becomes law. 
    
     
    
      
       The Minister is still going on the assumption that the first thing to do is to give the companies power to maintain the increases; then you can come to us if you can persuade the Ministry to force a reduction.  But the Bill is first of all saying &ldquo;You may continue your increased charges before the case for these increased charges has been made,&rdquo; and that is the point of Deputy Davin's argument.  The Minister is trying to evade that by saying &ldquo;Let these people increase their charges or continue their increased charges, and then we will consider about making provision for a reduction.&rdquo;  Again, as we contended on the earlier stages of the Bill, the case for continuing increased charges should first be made, and it has not yet been made to the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I think I pointed out on the Committee Stage the other day that it is not my duty to make a case for increased charges.  If there are no increased charges there obviously will be no case for setting up an inquiry to reduce charges&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Hear, hear; but they will revert back to the pre-war&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       But I think equally obviously, taking the cost of labour and other costs incidental to the working of the various means of transport referred to in the Bill, there is a case for increased charges.  As to whether the charges ruling at present are excessive or not is a case for investigation. If the case be made to the Ministry that there should be an investigation, the Ministry will investigate, but if we do not have increased charges after the 31st May, obviously there will be no necessity for an investigation. 
    
     
    
      
       As this question of the Canal Commission has been raised, I wish to say that our Party and the people we represent in the country did not get representation on this Commission.  Although we asked for it, we were deliberately ignored, and that is the reason why we are not in possession of figures that Deputy Davin is in possession of. 
    
    
      
       Might I point out to Deputy Gorey that the figures I used are available in the public Press, and the account can be got if he likes to give a shilling for it 
    
    
      
       I do not think so. 
    
    
      
       I cannot follow the Minister very clearly.  I think it is admitted by all that the charges are absolutely extravagant.  Everybody agrees that that is so.  There is no use in talking of the cost of labour, and this and that and the other thing.  Take up the balance-sheets which are being published and look at the enormous profits given there and the enormous dividends paid. I do not think it should be necessary for any particular individual or set of individuals to approach the Minister and say, &ldquo;We want you to investigate the state of affairs of this company.&rdquo;  The Ministry should take the initiative and say, &ldquo;We are going to investigate its affairs.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       I should point out that Deputy Hennessy has expressed an opinion, but he is wrong if he assumes that a case has not been made to the Ministry why charges should be increased on the pre-war standard.  He is quite wrong in that. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Bill be received for final consideration.&rdquo; 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 36; Nil, 13. 
       Ta 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Donchadh O Guaire. Uaitear MacCumhaill. Sean O Maolruaidh. Sean O Duininn. Domhnall O Mochain. Padraig Mac U lghai g. Peadar Mac a' Bhaird. Darghal Figes. Sean O Ruanaidh. Sean Mac Garaidh. Pilib Mac Cosgair. Micheal de Staineas. Domhnall Mac Cart aigh. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Sir Seamus Craigh, Ridire, M.D. Liam Thrift. Eoin MacNeill. 
             Seosamh O Faoileachain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Piaras Beaslai. Fionan O Loingsigh. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Criostoir O Broin. Risteard Mac Liam. Proinsias Bulfin. Tomas Mac Artuir. Seamus O Dolain. Proinsias Mac Aonghusa. Seamus O Murchadha. Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Tomas O Domhnaill. Earnan de Blaghd. Uinseann de Faoite. Domhnall O Broin. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Micheal O hAonghusa. Tomas de Nogla. Riobard O Deaghaidh. Tomas Mac Eoin. Liam O Briain. Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin 
             
               Sean O Laidhin. Cathal O Seanain. Sean Buitleir. Domhnad O Muirgheasa. Risteard Mac Fneorais. Domhnad O Ceallachain.  
           
         
       
     
     Motion declared carried. 
     Question: &ldquo;That the Bill do now pass,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - THE LANE PICTURES. 
    
      
       The next business is Deputy Figgis's motion: &mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail ask the Executive Council to press upon the British Government the return to Dublin of the pictures mentioned in the unwitnessed codicil to Sir Hugh Lane's will.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       I hail Deputy Gorey as a prophet.  It is not my intention to give any lengthy attention to this motion that I put now before the Dail, because, it having been stated by Deputy Gorey that the matter is agreed, it is, of course, unquestionably agreed. The circumstances and the facts are generally fairly well known, and may only very briefly be resumed here.  They have been raised before in this Dail and they were raised in the Second Dail, and they were the matter of attention of the Provisional Government both in the Treaty negotiations and the negotiations that followed them.  It was well known that the late General Michael Collins was for some time actively concerned with the attempt to get these pictures back, according to the intention of Sir Hugh Lane as expressed in the codicil to his will.  I need not go into the facts prior to that copiously, but simply to read the opening sentence of it, in which he expressed his firm wish that Dublin should have these pictures that are of very considerable value, and the value of which will increase with time.  They would, in fact, make a very useful addition to what is now in an incomplete state in the Harcourt Street Gallery, and which, with the addition of these pictures that now lie in the next Gallery, make a very fine collection of modern art, which it was his intention that the citizens of Dublin should have.  This codicil reads: &ldquo;This is the codicil to my last will, to the effect that the group of pictures now at the National Gallery, London, which I have bequeathed to that Institution, I now bequeath to the City of Dublin, provided that a suitable building is provided for them within five years of my death.&rdquo;  That codicil he signed.  It bears his signature in two places, but it was not witnessed.  It was signed in 1915.  Sir Hugh Lane perished in the sinking of the &ldquo;Lusitania.&rdquo; Then certain circumstances arose that brought this question&mdash;and I desire to give special emphasis to it&mdash;unfortunately, into the political arena.  I remember, at a time when I was in England the following year, mentioning this matter to art critics in London, and while they admitted quite clearly, what has never been in question&mdash;that is, that Sir Hugh Lane did intend that this city should have this collection of pictures&mdash; the intention being clear, they, nevertheless, added: &ldquo;But what have you in Ireland done during this past twelve months to deserve them?&rdquo; 
    
     It is unfortunate that attitude should have been taken at the time.  I believe it did contribute considerably to the result.  In any case, the position is now tangled by a legal consideration.  I am sorry that Deputy Fitzgibbon cannot be here to-day owing to a family bereavement. He had promised to deal with the legal aspect of the case.  It was his opinion, I think I might say it is very largely the opinion of competent lawyers, that the will was in fact, having been drawn in war years, with the codicil, an effective and legal instrument. But though it was such, it does happen that the earlier will to which it was a codicil has been administered and now, before Dublin can get the pictures back, a special Act of Parliament becomes necessary in England.  It is with a view to getting that Act adopted that I have been asked to move, and I have the greatest pleasure in moving, the motion which I now put before the Dail.  It may be asked how it is that this motion should be moved precisely at this moment. It is well known that the Provisional Government was actively concerned in the matter, and I know that   the present Executive Council, from the President down, have also been actively concerned in the matter.  But I am also advised that circumstances are such at the present moment that if there could be, as no doubt there should be, an expression of opinion from the united Oireachtas, and that expression of opinion coming from both Houses could be presented to the British Government at the moment, due to events and circumstances into which I will not go, the British Government would be more prepared now than it was at an earlier stage to give the legal facilities required before Dublin could get possession of the pictures according to the intention of Sir Hugh Lane.  For that reason I briefly put this motion before the Dail. A motion in the same terms has to-day been moved and adopted by the Seanad, and if this motion can be moved and adopted without any great waste of time, seeing that we are actually resolved and determined about the matter, and both such resolutions coming into the hands of the Executive Council, it would give assistance to the Executive Council at this particular moment owing to the circumstances I have mentioned.  For that reason I move the motion standing in my name. 
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
    
    
      
       I support this motion. I do so because I understand that there are certain objections raised in England against giving effect to the desire of Sir Hugh Lane on the ground that it is only a small coterie of people in Dublin who have any anxiety about these pictures.  I want to say just one word in favour of the motion for the purpose of showing that it is not merely a small coterie of people, but a very general desire from the people of the country that these pictures should be placed on exhibtion in Ireland permanently with a view to creating an art centre, and to set a taste, or, shall I say, to improve a taste, and generally to establish a higher level of culture in respect to pictures.  I want to say that it is not because of the very considerable value in monetary terms we should consider this question of the return of those pictures.  Undoubtedly pictures do acquire a very great monetary value when   they are good, and universally regarded as good, but it is from the art point of view that the country is demanding the pictures as desired and designed by Sir Hugh Lane, who had collected them.  I therefore wish to add to the speech of Deputy Figgis, seconded by Deputy Magennis, the view of this side of the Dail that it is the desire that the Executive Council should press for the return to Ireland of these pictures. 
       At this stage An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. 
    
    
      
       Is doigh liom go gceapan gach einne gur ceart go dtabharfae na pictuiri thar n-ais.  Ce na bhfuil aon difriacht ins an Dail mar gheall air sin ni doigh liom gur ceart go nglacfai leis an run ins an bhfuirm seo.  Is fearr go dtairneofae an run siar. 
    
     The object of the resolution that has been brought before us is very clearly expressed, and that object has been concurred in with unanimity as a matter of justice and a matter of advantage to this country and to this capital city.  At the same time I do not think that the resolution in this form ought to be accepted. It may create a precedent for future resolutions. A resolution giving a direction to the Executive Council on behalf of the Dail would, I think, create altogether a new precedent in our proceedings, more especially when the direction given by that resolution is one that requires the Executive Council to take certain action with regard to another Government.  I press that point on the mover of the resolution and on the members of the Dail. They should not cast a resolution in that form.  The effect will be that if that becomes a precedent it will become possible to take away from the Executive Council and from the Ministry the full responsibility that ought to rest upon them for any action of importance they might take, especially in regard to another Government.  I am not suggesting a change of words.  I take it for granted that the object obtains unanimity from the Dail.  I have not heard of the proceedings which took place at the Seanad, but I am sure that the same unanimity would be given to it there; but the Government certainly could not accept as acceptable a resolution put in this form. It is a form that would be quite in place   in a resolution of censure were the Dail differing from the action of the Government; but where no censure is implied, where the mover of the resolution has stated that the Provisional Government and the present Government, so far as he is aware, have not been inconsiderate or neglectful in any degree in this matter, I think a resolution worded such as this should not be passed. 
    
      
       There is no intention whatsoever to dictate to the Executive Council.  Nothing is further from our purpose.  Neither is it intended to ask the Dail to give a direction.  Possibly the resolution might have been more effective if we had used an ancient formula and said, &ldquo;We humbly petition the Executive.&rdquo;  Instead we used ordinary simple words.  We ask the Executive.  Now, to ask is one thing; to instruct the Ministry to do the same thing is quite another.  Inasmuch as the Minister for Education regards this as something about which the Oireachtas should be unanimous, one sees attention is drawn to the harmless character of the words used by Deputy Figgis. I think he should allow us to have the resolution passed unanimously.  I am as strongly opposed as he is to the procedure he thought was taken.  Undoubtedly it would be incompatible with control over public policy, and with control over the outlook of a foreign Government, for a private member to seek by resolution to control that policy and to bring pressure to bear on it by voting. It would be unless the Ministry had been glaringly pursuing a course of action which was at variance with the expression of opinion of the representatives in the Dail, but the Deputy who introduced this humble petition of advice was careful to give credit to the Provisional Government, of which the Minister for Education was a distinguished member.  He pointed out, in the short history he gave of the proceedings up to this, that the Provisional Government had not been supine in the matter&mdash;quite the reverse&mdash;and the present Dail simply seeks to add strength to whatever may be done in this behalf by the Executive Ministry.  Personally I do not like that our Government should petition the British Government to do something which requires the introduction of a new Act of Parliament.   Personally the thing is repugnant to me.  I make that confession. On the other hand, the gain to the Irish Nation is so great that it seems to me to make a matter which is only sentiment stand in the way of securing such valuable aid to the higher education of our people would be insisting too much on form and ritual.  When I balance the measure of gain and loss it seems to me, while I do not like going to ask an Act of Parliament to be introduced, on the other hand the advantage gained in the matter is too great.  The validity of the codicil in question has been seriously debated by lawyers, as you know. The late Sir Hugh Lane was not a combatant, and to make a will disposing of his property merely by a signed instrument not witnessed has been held by certain lawyers as not a privilege given to the ordinary civilian.  The equity of the matter is clear, and there was a period when it was obvious to everyone that the better mind of England was in favour of allowing this country to have the advantages which the testator intended by his codicil.  I do hope the Minister will withdraw his objection, inasmuch as it is merely to a form of words which is not implied. 
    
    
      
       It is not to a form of words I object, but to creating a precedent in a matter of this kind. 
    
    
      
       The question of wording should not impose between this Dail and the unanimity which it has actually in fact with regard to the return of pictures and general approval of the action hitherto taken in this matter by the Executive Council, and with regard to endeavouring to strengthen the hand of the Executive Council in circumstances which prevail at the moment.  The renewal of negotiations might now cause the return of pictures where action a month ago might have failed.  The suggestion has been made by Deputy Johnson that this form of words might be suitable: &ldquo;That the Dail approves of action being taken by the Executive Council to secure the return to Dublin of the pictures mentioned in the unwitnessed codicil to Sir Hugh Lane's will.&rdquo;  If that would meet the case of the Minister it would meet my case fully, and I am perfectly sure that of my seconder. 
    
     
    
      
       I am afraid that would have very much the same aspect.  It would be a very curious thing for the Dail to approve of future action of the Executive.  I do not think that would cover the ground.  You would find it would create a very inconvenient precedent.  Other people might in the future bring forward very mischievous motions indeed. 
    
    
      
       I am not quite clear that I understand the objection to the last proposal, but the intention here is to strengthen the hands of the Government in any action they may see fit to take. We have had the assurance that the Government is taking action in this matter.  It is not unusual for the Ministry to accept the support of the Dail in any action they are taking, and that is the intention, and I think it is the meaning, of this proposal.  Whether it is action that has been taken, that is being taken, or that may be taken&mdash;provided the action that is to be taken in future follows on the precedent of the action which has already been taken&mdash;is to support the action of the Ministry in endeavouring to secure the return of the pictures to Dublin.  It does not even mention the British Government.  In that form, or some such form, I think it ought to be accepted. 
    
    
      
       I think such a form would not in the least strengthen the hands of the Executive in the present circumstances.  It would, of course, strengthen the hands of the Executive if its attitude in regard to the matter was challenged outside or by a section of the Dail.  When it is not challenged, this form would have no effect at all, as far as I can see, in strengthening the hands of the Executive, and certainly, as the Minister for Education has said, there is cause to take care that we do not set up a precedent of having motions brought in instructing the Executive to take action, either by direct instruction or by implication, without having regard, perhaps to every feature of the case.  I am not thinking now of the pictures, but there might be things which it would be thoroughly desirable for the Executive to do and, yet, the Executive might have reasons for knowing that the time is not opportune, or that there were certain difficulties in the way.  It might not be   in the public interest to state these objections, and it would be undesirable for us to have the precedent of Deputies coming along proposing motions giving instructions to the Executive to do things at a time when the Executive might know it was inopportune to be asked to do them, and when it might not without, perhaps, injuring the interest that was concerned be able to argue in the fullest detail the reasons for delaying or against.  I think, also, that any form of asking the Executive by a majority is definitely an instruction to the Executive, and even if the thing is put in a little more oblique way we could hardly get rid of the instruction. Instructions ought not to be given except, as somebody said, when the Executive is pursuing a line that dissatisfies the Dail, and when something in the form of a censure is implied and is intended. 
    
    
      
       No censure is implied or is intended.  I made that perfectly clear.  What I did make clear was that it was felt that if a resolution came both from the Seanad and the Dail, so that the Executive Council in approaching the British Government in this matter could show that it had the unanimous consent of both Houses of the Oireachtas, it would be strengthened in the negotiations it had been conducting and was conducting.  In point of fact, if there be any error in the form of words adopted that error in fact has actually occurred, because the Seanad has adopted this resolution, I understand. 
    
    
      
       The Government is not responsible to the Seanad. 
    
    
      
       The Seanad has adopted this form of words, I understand, and it was felt that the Dail might adopt the same form of words&mdash; for which I am not personally responsible&mdash;in order that both Houses of the Oireachtas might come to some agreement and present this extra strength to fortify and strengthen the hands of the Executive Council in what we desire to have done and what we know it has led the way in from the very beginning. However, if the form of words that has been suggested is not altogether such as the Executive Council feel is appropriate&mdash;I do not wish to use the words   offensively, and I hope I will not be misunderstood&mdash;to the dignity of the Executive Council, as has been suggested by the Minister for Education, or is setting up an unfortunate precedent for the future, then I think one might fairly request the Minister himself to suggest the form of words that would be suitable.  If such a form of words was suggested that carried the same sense, the essential matter of the resolution, and carried the agreement of the Dail, it would come exactly to the same ending. 
    
    
      
       If I may speak again I would say that the time at which I might have been asked to suggest the form of words would naturally have been when the resolution was being drafted.  The Deputy has dwelt on every point except the point which I wish to enforce.  I said nothing about the dignity of the Executive Council at all, nor do I think that any member here could imagine that I was thinking of such a matter as the dignity of the Executive Council, although possibly the dignity of the Executive Council is of some importance to the Dail.  It is not a matter of dignity; it is really a matter of the form of resolutions of this kind.  As my colleague has stated, no matter in what way you change the words, if it be a request, even if you put in the antiquated word &ldquo;humbly&rdquo; that another Deputy suggested, and pass it by a majority, it still becomes an instruction, once it is passed by a majority, to the Executive Council, because it cannot be ignored and must be followed. That is the point that I wish to make.  It is to the interest of every member of the Dail not to create that precedent of governing by instruction. If you do you will find it will lead to great difficulties in future and great inconvenience for the Dail itself.  The Deputy who moved this rather avoided the point I pressed from the beginning, not to create a bad precedent which other people might act on in future.  It is not for me to suggest what amendment would make this resolution a proper one, an acceptable one, and I cannot at the moment undertake that responsibility. 
    
    
      
       We have had a certain amount of irregularity in the proceedings on this motion.  We   have already come to the conclusion that a motion may be withdrawn and another form of words put forward for consideration if there is general agreement to that course.  It now seems clear that we cannot get another form of words which would be accepted unanimously for consideration, so that the matter before the Dail is the original motion.  Does Deputy Johnson think he has a remedy? 
    
    
      
       I think from what the Minister has stated something in these terms might suit: &ldquo;That the Dail supports the claim that the pictures mentioned should be returned to Dublin.&rdquo; That does not bring the Executive Council into it at all, as the claim might be from outside or by any person. 
    
    
      
       I would suggest that that would be hardly worthy of the dignity of the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I do not like to make a suggestion, but I wonder, if the motion was withdrawn now, would it be possible for the Deputy and the Minister for Education to arrive at an agreed form of words before, say, Friday, and put them forward.  Otherwise we must go on with this motion as it stands, as we cannot go on discussing different forms of words all the evening. 
    
    
      
       If the Minister for Education is agreeable, I am entirely agreeable. 
    
    
      
       May I say, as seconder of the resolution, that, in view of what has been said, it ought to be withdrawn, as we are interested in getting back the pictures, and nothing else. 
    
    
      
       If Deputy Figgis would withdraw the resolution, he will find no difficulty at all in arriving at an entirely acceptable motion. 
    
    
      
       I am quite agreeable, and withdraw the motion. 
       Motion, by leave, withdrawn. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - THE ADJOURNMENT: FORTHCOMING LEGISLATION. 
    
      
       I move the adjournment of the Dail until 3 o'clock to morrow.  I promised at the last sitting to give an indication of future business. 
    
     
        We intend to take up next week the Estimates; and the Bills that are in course of preparation, apart from those already before the Dail, are:&mdash; 
     1.  Civic Guard Bill. 
     2.  Army Pensions Bill. 
     3.  Superannuation Bill.  (In this connection a measure will be introduced when agreement is reached in connection with the pensions of the teachers affected by the 1914 Rules.) 
     4.  Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill. 
     5.  Increase of Rent (Restriction) Bill. 
     6.  Land Commission Bill.  (Setting up Land Commission and Congested Districts Board as a single Commission.) 
     7.  Army Bill. 
     8.  Bill to Regulate the Sale of Intoxicating Liquors. 
     9.  Dail Courts Validation of Decrees and Winding Up Bill. 
     10.  Ministries Bill. 
     11.  Peace Establishment Bill. 
     12.  Land Purchase Bill. 
     13.  Dail Bonds Payment Bill. 
     14.  Health Insurance Bill. 
     That is a very considerable list.  I cannot say at the moment what will be the order in which the Bills will be taken. I may be able to do so next week. 
    
      
       Can the Minister say if any decision has been come to in regard to Provisional Orders? 
    
    
      
       No.  We have not that in order yet. 
    
    
      
       There is at least one scheme held up which would give a certain amount of public employment by the fact that we have no procedure touching Provisional Orders.  Will the Minister expedite the Health Insurance Bill, inasmuch as everything has to be in order before the 1st July; really before the 1st June the business should be proceeded with? 
    
    
      
       I hope to have that within a month. 
    
    
      
       And we are now at 9th May. 
    
     
    
      
       I will see if it could be ready earlier.  It is a highly technical Bill.  When I mentioned a month I did not know it was pressing. However, I will look into the matter. 
    
    
      
       With regard to the Health Insurance Bill, the interests of a very large number of insured persons are affected, and the whole transfer must take place before the 1st July.  The terms and conditions of that transfer must be approved by the Act.  I understood a month ago it was ready for introduction. 
    
    
      
       I did not know that. 
    
    
      
       I would urge the President to look into it because it is a matter of great importance. 
    
    
      
       Would it be possible to get copies of the list circulated amongst Deputies? 
    
    
      
       If the list of Bills is given to the Clerk it can be circulated amongst Deputies to-morrow. 
    
    
      
       In regard to the order in which these Bills will be taken I think due stress should be laid on the fact that the Land Bill is very urgent.  It is thirteenth on the List, a very unfortunate number. 
    
    
      
       I had not got it originally in that number.  I took out another bill which was there and put in the Land Bill. 
    
    
      
       Seeing that it is possible we may have another war over the land, I think it should be left to the last. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - PROPOSALS FOR PEACE. 
    
      
       When is it expected that the correspondence we had read to-day will be considered by the Dail?  There was some mention of its coming on to-morrow.  I think it would help in the country if the matter were discussed in this Dail as soon as possible. The President spoke about moving the adjournment to-morrow.  I do not know whether that is his plan. 
    
    
      
       I am entirely in the hands of the Dail with regard to it. If the Dail wishes it taken up at any time I will do my best to suit its convenience. 
    
     
    
      
       The President stated he would move the adjournment to-day in order to have a discussion on the matter, if it was deemed necessary. It was not then discussed as it appeared to be the desire of the Dail that Deputies should have some time to consider it. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Johnson suggests to-morrow.  I am in the hands of the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I only asked to have it deferred so that it might be discussed later.  I suggest to-morrow.  It should be discussed at the earliest date, if there is any need for discussion. 
    
    
      
       There would be no difficulty about any Deputy raising the matter as one of urgent public importance to-morrow or later on. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - JUDICIARY BILL. 
    
      
       Is it intended to drop the Irish Judiciary Bill? 
    
    
      
       No. 
    
    
      
       It is not in the list. 
    
    
      
       No, because it is hardly in the same position as the others. These are Bills actually drafted but not yet considered.  It is not proposed to drop the Judiciary Bill, but we are very much ahead of that Bill.  It may be necessary if we do manage to get this mass of material through to ask the Dail to sit longer and on more days of the week so that we may meet the wishes of those who wish for an adjournment for the Summer. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL IN COMMITTEE.] - EMPLOYMENT OF CIVILIANS IN MILITARY BARRACKS. 
    
      
       I gave notice earlier that on the Motion for the Adjournment I would raise the question of the employment of civilians in military barracks.  I want to know from the Minister for Defence why the Army Council request civilian workers employed in military barracks to attest, and to wear military uniform, and allow the Officers in charge of those barracks   to order these workers to go to any part of Ireland.  Some of these workers have been employed in military barracks for nearly 30 years, and during all that time they were never requested to attest or to wear any kind of uniform against their wishes.  The view I take of the action of the Army Council is that they are trying to enforce an act against the will of these workers: the same act that the British tried to enforce here in Ireland, namely, conscription.  I cannot find any other word to explain the action that has been taken by the Army Council, because it is conscription when you request a worker to attest, against his will, as a soldier, and to take up arms and go out to fight if necessary.  Fancy the idea of a carpenter, a man who uses a plane, a hammer or a chisel, having a rifle put into his hand.  Take also the case of a painter or a tailor.  These men have been called on to attest, and if they refuse they are told to go outside the gates, and the gates are closed against them.  At the present time, in the town of Athlone, you have about 21 men who have been thrown out of employment.  Some of these men have worked in the barracks in that town for the last 25 or 30 years.  One man who was over 60 years of age, and an apprentice to a plumber under 16 years of age, employed in the local barracks, were requested to attest and to wear army uniform.  For refusing to do so, they were told they could go: that their services were no longer required.  It is a great hardship on workmen who have been employed in these barracks for a great number of years, that when their own Government came into power, the very Government that they had been longing for, its first act should be to throw them out on the street to starve, and because of their disemployment to see their little ones die by their sides for the want of food.  These are the tactics that are used by the Army Council for the purpose of trying to force these working men to attest and to wear uniform.  In the town of Mullingar 15 men refused to attest.  Five of them are married men with families of four children; that is to say an average of six in each family. In all, 36 people have been refused the right to live.  The fathers of these children have been refused the right by their own Government to earn food for the support of their children, and to keep body and   soul together.  I do not want to make an attack upon the Minister for Defence or upon any of the Army Council, but I want to get a proper explanation of this matter, so that the working people in Ireland may fully realise the form of Government that they longed for, and above all things that they gloried in seeing when it first came into operation.  All classes of workers are affected in this matter.  You have plasterers, shoemakers, plumbers, carpenters, tailors, and, in fact, all classes of tradesmen as well as labourers affected by this order.  During the time the British Government were in this country you had 50 or 60 men in constant employment in Athlone barracks. Even during the time of the Anglo-Irish War, these employees were not disturbed in their employment, and were never required by the British Government to attest.  Take, for instance, the case of an engine driver that happens to be working on any of the railways or driving a traction engine through the country and is capable of driving the engine of an armoured train: that man has to work 18 hours a day.  I can assure you that the days of long hours in Ireland, I mean extravagantly long hours, anything over 10 or 8 hours a day, are not going to continue.  Eight or ten hours a day are quite long enough for any man to work.  These working men in Athlone were told that it was for the sake of economy they were requested to attest, but, in my opinion, it is the thin end of the wedge to reduce the wages of the employees. 
    
     The Government certainly is the leading light of the country at the present moment, but I warn the Government that they must be very careful for fear that light may be extinguished by the working people. If that Government refuses the workers' right to live or if that Government throws the breadwinners out into the street they let them starve.  I fail to see why the Irish workers at the present time are requested to attest in the Army.  It does not matter what kind they are. Some of them I am well aware could not possibly, or would not possibly pass any medical man.  Well, after all, they were well able to do their daily work and out of this they succeeded in keeping the bodies and souls of their children together. They are now requested to attest and   because they would not do so, they are thrown out on the street and their children are almost dying with hunger.  In some of those cases you have six or seven children in the family and the breadwinner who was taking £3 or £4 a week into that house is deprived of that. Surely there must be nothing in that house but starvation and that family must be destitute.  I have nothing more to add to that but I want the Minister for Defence to do his best with the Army Council to try and abolish this thing of having the workers of Ireland attesting I can assure you that it is impossible for you to carry on if you get the workers of Ireland up against you.  Take the army man at the present time, a soldier with £1 4s. 6d. a week.  That is the wage paid to a man who has attested. Before attesting, before he had been conscripted, he would be in receipt of £4 a week.  Now he is paid £1 4s. 6d.  Of course I am well aware that if he is a married man who is getting Dependants' Allowance that this will bring his wages up to more than he had been receiving before he was attested.  But the principle of Trade Unionism is there.  In my opinion the present Army Council are out for no other purpose only to smash trade unionism, but before you do that your lights shall be extinguished. 
    
      
       Deputy Lyons, inadvertently I think, used a phrase that does exemplify a very common opinion in the country.  He asked the Minister for Defence to use his influence with the Army Council to prevent certain things being done.  That may seem to be a very indefinite phrase, but it is, I say, an impression in the country and in relation to this matter that Deputy Lyons raises, that the Army Council has taken this thing in hands and that the Ministry are following instructions.  I hope that is not true.  Deputy Lyons has touched upon the case of Athlone where a number of men who have been engaged for many years, some of them in civilian work in the barracks, have quite recently been called upon to join up and submit themselves to military law and discipline or their places will be taken by those who will join up.  That is to say, soldiers will be taken to do what has for very many years been civilian work.  That applies to Athlone but it applies to other places too.  A certain grievance of this kind had   been mentioned to the Minister for Defence some months ago.  When it was first brought forward the explanation was given that military exigencies necessitated in a great measure that all men working within the barrack walls should be subject to military discipline because of certain dangers that accompanied ingress and egress from and to the Barracks. That excuse or explanation can hardly suffice to-day.  Many of the men that are being now asked to attest have been working as civilians all these months and were not then during that time asked to attest, and no danger resulted from their going in and going out.  But they are now being asked to attest for the last month or two and no explanation has been given as to why this new policy has been adopted through the country.  Similar complaints have been made as to the policy of displacing civilian labour in the Curragh, and some other military centres. It is necessary that some public explanation should be made.  But in addition to the substitution of military labour for civilian labour and skilled occupations there is also a matter that requires some explanation and it seems likely to be bound up with a change of general policy. I asked a question the other day respecting the reduction of the amount of living-out allowances of craftsmen, who had hitherto been working for 28s. a week living-out money in addition to their pay.  The reduction of 50 per cent. had been decided upon.  The men were told to take it or leave it, and no explanation was given except one by the Minister for Defence that a decision had been come to, to the effect that the allowance was to be reduced to 2s. a day.  Then another complaint from another part of the country, Claremorris, to the effect that painters who joined the Army in Dublin had a recognised pay of 53s. 6d., plus 3s. of grade pay.  These men have been told, without any notice and without any question of a new agreement or anything of the kind, that they were to be reduced by 1s. a day, that is, instead of 3s. a day, to be reduced to 2s.  I want to call attention to the fact that the Dail was notified by the Minister of the rates of pay and allowances that were to be given to the various classes of men in the Army. That notification was in effect an agreement and without any further reference to the Dail and without any consultation   with the men or their representatives these reductions are insisted upon.  That is not likely to excite loyalty amongst the men concerned.  I have a case where a soldier is put to do the duties of a signal man in a railway station, in Cork.  He is expected to be on duty at that railway signal for 16 hours in the day. 
       I think that the Dail is entitled to some explanation of this change in Government policy regarding the Army.  Why has it been found necessary to dismiss men who have been working for years at civilian work and replace them by attested men? This is important because it means that it is not a desire to reduce the expenses but to offer those men the right to continue the work provided they attest. The dismissal of civilian labour from barracks and the substitution of that civilian labour by military labour is a matter of considerable importance to very many people.  It means that with the extension of work within the army and for the army work which has hitherto been done by contractors, public employers and workmen who are civilians is going to be done by military labour on military terms and under military discipline.  Then comes the question of the change of conditions and breach of contract.  Men have been engaged on certain terms, and without any formal notification to the Dail or the people concerned, they are simply told that there is to be reduction in their pay and they have nothing to do but to agree to it. To refuse to work under the new conditions would be mutiny and those who refuse would be liable to all the penalties of the mutineer.  Those are considerations that I think require some explanation, and probably after the explanation a good deal of discussion. 
    
    
      
       Much of what Deputy Lyons has said on this matter is on a par with some newspaper notices that have appeared recently.  You have a paragraph in the Press headed &ldquo;New Army Order&rdquo;; then you have material following that shows nothing at all about any Army Order because there is no such Army Order. 
    
    
      
       On a point of explanation, I have not seen anything in the Press on this matter.  There were references in the Press to Kildare. 
    
    
      
       You have the   statement that there are three or four hundred men in the Curragh under notice.  Apparently there was no notice at all; at any rate there is no notice. When the British military left Fermoy and Dublin very many people were thrown out of employment and very many people lost much of the custom that the British military, concentrated in those particular towns, brought to those towns.  As has been stated in an answer here there were in Athlone barracks approximately 59 employees engaged on some kind of general maintenance work.  The weekly wage bill of these employees was approximately £180, amounting roughly to £9,000 a year for the up-keep of Athlone barracks. Some of our barracks are maintained by the Board of Works and some by ourselves. In those barracks that are maintained by ourselves any repair or maintenance work on a large scale, involving a cost of £200, including time and material, goes to an outside contractor.  In Athlone the barracks did not come under the Board of Works; we took them over directly from the military and we had our own men there.  We had the nucleus of our own engineering companies and we had good engineering officers.  There was no reason from the economic point of view&mdash;to look at that alone&mdash;why we should spend £180 a week on maintenance work which, in the first place, when investigated, might be considered unnecessary, and in the second place might be done by our own men much more readily and in a much more convenient way, taking into consideration the requirements of our men at the particular time.  Therefore it was first and foremost a matter of necessity from the point of view of our organisation at the time, and a matter of economy, to dispense with civilian labour in Athlone barracks.  There was very great consideration for men who would be displaced like that and as an alternative to unemployment they were offered attestation in the army which would mean that at any rate the more elderly men would be left in Athlone and the other men, if they were not required in Athlone, could be more usefully employed elsewhere.  It is absurd to talk of ever imposing conscription or throwing people out in the streets and letting themselves and their children die.  That is exaggeration that does not lead us anywhere.  Another way in which   the civilians become disemployed is when we take over from the Board of Works, as we are doing in certain places, the maintenance of the barracks.  The Board of Works employees are then naturally disemployed. 
       We were recently taking over Kildare and Newbridge from the Board of Works. Because of certain representations I held up the transfer of Newbridge, involving twenty-six civilian workers, but at Kildare, where there are 100 of our own Works Companies, a detachment consisting of carpenters, plumbers, and a number of people like that in the different companies, there was obviously no reason for keeping in employment, as was suggested, eleven men, consisting of three carpenters, a bricklayer, a plumber, some labourers, a carter and an electrician.  It is questionable whether, for the ordinary running, day to day maintenance of barracks, a staff like this is required at all, and it is certainly not required when we have our own men there who, as a side issue to their own work, can do most of the maintenance required, and when any large piece of maintenance or constructive work would be given to an outside contractor. There is not, in the working out of our schemes, disregard of unemployment, and this very great throwing out of employment that has been stated. 
       The Dail may be assured that we are shaping ourselves towards efficiency, economy, and business-like control, and having work done in a proper and systematic way, and that in working out that policy we are not going to create either serious unemployment or discomfort even to small groups of people, or that we are doing anything that would be so sinister as pressing conscription on the working classes.  I think all that is absurd.  I am not able to deal with the point that Deputy Johnson raised with regard to the reduction of painters in Claremorris, but if there are any of these points that, as he says, require to be further discussed it would be useful if we had some notice of what these particular points are. 
    
    
      
       I would like to know from the Minister for Defence whether, in the case of those men who refuse to attest, the Ministry of Defence or the Army Council advise the managers of the Labour Exchanges that they are not to receive any out-of-work benefit, or   do they stand in the way of them receiving out of work benefit? 
    
    
      
       I say that most certainly we would not interfere in the matter at all. 
    
    
      
       You do not interfere the matter? 
    
    
      
       I say that most   certainly we would not interfere in the matter at all. 
    
    
      
       In regard to conscription&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       I do not think we can have another debate.  The Deputy has made a long speech on the matter, and he cannot go into it again. 
       The Dail adjourned at 7.32 p.m. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - PENSION CLAIM. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government if a decision has yet been given in the case of Michael Duane, of Kylebrack, Loughrea, Co. Galway, whose claim to a pension was referred to the Local Government Department some three months ago. 
    
     
    
      
       The first claim of Mr. Duane to old age pension was rejected by the Loughrea Pension Sub-Committee on the ground of means on the 16th November last.  It appeared that he was employed as a carpenter and in receipt of wages of 6s. 8d. per day, with board and lodging estimated at 12s. 6d. per week.  His total means were, therefore, in excess of £49 17s. 6d. per year, and no pension was allowable. 
       Mr. Duane then appealed to the Ministry against the decision of the Pension Sub-Committee, stating that he was out of employment since the 18th November last, but the Ministry on the 25th January confirmed the decision of the S Committee. 
       On the 22nd March last the Pension Sub-Committee proposed, as a result of a second application, to allow a pension of 10s. a week to Mr. Duane on the grounds that he was too feeble to work, and was not therefore in a position to earn any income.  The Pension Officer appealed to the Ministry against this decision on the same grounds as in the first application.  Mr. Duane was in employment on the 16th March according to a letter received from him on that date, although he stated that it would cease in a fortnight from then.  It is proposed to disallow the second claim, as no definite proof has been submitted to show that the applicant has left his employment or that he is physically incapacitated, or that his earnings do not exceed £49 17s. 6d. per annum. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - A DUNSHAUGHLIN ARREST. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that strong local representations have been made for the release of James Mahon, Clonross, Dunshaughlin, Co. Meath, who was arrested on February 3rd, and is still detained in Dundalk; whether any charge has been, or is to be, preferred against this man, and, if so, what is the nature of the charge; and if he is not charged, whether it is the intention of the Minister to have him released immediately. 
    
    
      
       I am not aware of the representations of the kind referred to.  Mahon was arrested on strong suspicion of being an active Irregular and of being concerned in the burning of Kilmessan   Railway Station on the 23rd January last.  It is not considered advisable to release him at present. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - ARREST IN RATHMINES 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether Jeremiah Reilly, of Richmond Hill, Rathmines, arrested some weeks ago, has had no connection with Irregulars; if the guns found in his stable are not, to the knowledge of persons who are now officers of the National Army, old guns that were hidden there before the Truce, never having been moved or used since; and if, under these circumstances, and having regard to the circumstance that Reilly is the main support of his family, he will order his release. 
    
    
      
       O'Reilly was arrested on suspicion of being engaged in Irregular activities.  His release would be favourably considered if he signed the usual form of undertaking, and if two responsible persons guaranteed that he would faithfully observe the undertaking. He has, however, refused to sign the form.  His release cannot, therefore, be considered at present. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - MOTOR CAR COMMANDEERED. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he has heard the result of the enquiries promised in answer to question on the agenda paper, Wednesday, 3rd January, 1923,  re  motor car commandeered by military from Daniel Devitt, Racecourse, Cashel, Co. Tipperary. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Devitt's car is now being returned to him, and a payment has been made to him in settlement of his claim. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - A COUNTY WICKLOW ARREST. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that it is alleged that Robert Keogh, Stratford-on-Slaney, Co. Wicklow, arrested on March 4th, was ill-treated by troops at the time of his arrest, and kept in a cattle wagon at Baltinglass Station for three days; that no charge has been made against him; that he is at present interned in Baltinglass Union; that it is stated on his behalf that he had taken no   part in hostilities on either side in the present conflict, and that he was the sole support of an aged and blind father; and that testimony as to his character can be obtained from reputable local citizens; and to ask the Minister to state the reasons for his arrest and detention, and whether he can cause him to be released. 
    
    
      
       Keogh was not ill-treated by troops who had charge of him, but he was, I regret to say, struck by an officer who was labouring under excitement consequent on recognising Keogh as one of the principal Irregulars in the district in which he and others were wounded and four men killed. Keogh shared quarters in a cattle truck with troops for a time after his arrest, and was eventually transferred to Carlow Barracks.  He is detained on a strong suspicion of having aided the Irregulars. It is not considered advisable to sanction his release at present. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - MILITARY SEARCH AT BRAY. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence on whose authority a party of military raided his house at Bray Head on Tuesday, the 10th inst., and stated his brothers and he were all Irregulars.  In view of the fact that about five months ago a party of military, evidently acting on the instructions of the same officer, shot up this house, and caused damage to the extent of about £25, will he now cause an enquiry to be held into both incidents.  Will he also consider the advisability of transferring the officer now in charge of Bray, and also all other officers who are doing duty in the districts in which they previously resided? 
    
    
      
       Enquiries have been made.  The house in question is situated very close to the Coastguard Station, which is occupied by troops, and has, I am informed, been uninhabited since about September last.  At about 8 p.m. on the 10th April a soldier on duty noticed a light in one of the windows, and naturally reported the fact.  The officer in charge instructed a corporal and a soldier to investigate the matter.  The corporal entered the house, and met a man who stated that he was Mr. Staines, Senior, and that he was doing some repairs.   They had, I understand, a friendly conversation for a few minutes, and nothing more occurred.  It is not known who caused the damage referred to in the question.  Under the circumstances no further action appears to be necessary. 
    
   
   
     [WRITTEN ANSWERS.] - HIRE AND REPAIR OF MOTORS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he has received a claim from Mr. James T. Glennon, Motor Agent, Loughrea, for payment of an account for motor hiring and repairs; whether several applications have been made for payment without success, and if he will see that the claim receives immediate attention. 
    
    
      
       Claims received from Mr. Glennon were settled on the 20th April. 
    
   
 