 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do cromadh ar obair an lae ar 3.20 p.m.  Bhi Seoirse Mac Niocaill sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEIST&mdash;QUESTION. - MOUNTMELLICK GAS COMPANY. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that the Mountmellick Gas Company (Messrs. Anderson, Ltd., London), have increased their pre-war price of Gas of 5/- per 1,000 to 15/- per 1,000 at present; whether he is aware that, owing to reduction in price of coal, etc., the Portlaoighise Company have reduced their price to 10/- per 1,000 for the past two years, and whether, in view of the repeated and unsuccessful representations made by the consumers and residents to this Company, if he will approach them with a view to having the present exorbitant prices considerably reduced. 
    
    
      
       The Mountmellick Gas Company is not a statutory undertaking and I have consequently no control over the charges made by it.  I will, however, communicate with the Company on the question of its prices, and will inform the Deputy of the result. 
    
   
   
     APPOINTMENT OF COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR-GENERAL. 
    
      
       Before proceeding with the Electoral Bill I wish to say that I gave an undertaking to Deputy Johnson on the day when we were discussing the Comptroller and Auditor-General Bill that I would agree to a Committee to consider the appointment of Comptroller and Auditor-General.  On looking into the matter afterwards I found that there were two Committees already in existence dealing with matters affecting the Dail.  One of them was a Committee on Procedure and the other was a Committee on Salaries, and I am in some doubt as to whether it would be advisable to refer the matter to either of these two Committees. I think it would be better if another Committee were appointed to consider this question and in that connection if it were agreeable to the other members of the Dail, I propose we should select a Committee now and receive the report at the earliest moment, and put the question down for consideration to-morrow, or, at the latest, Tuesday or Wednesday next.  As I have already explained, the fact that we have not got at this moment a Comptroller and Auditor-General means that, to some extent, we are operating against the principles of the Constitution. Matters such as that are, perhaps, excusable, having regard to the circumstances of the time.  It should not be allowed to continue for any length, however, and, it is only through the courtesy and the co-operation of our bankers that we are in a position to carry on at all without this officer.  Every payment made is an extra legal payment and must get the sanction, and has got the sanction of every member of the Executive Council.  It will be necessary from that, to have the matter considered and the position regularised, at the earliest possible moment.  If the various sections of the Dail would nominate members, I think a committee of, say, seven might meet after the Dail adjourns.  I do not think the Dail will sit late and so the   committee might meet to-day, and the matter be considered at the earliest possible moment. 
    
    
      
       I agree with the remarks of the Minister with regard to the urgency of this appointment, and I think the suggestion that he has made for the appointment at once of such a committee and of its earliest possible meeting, commends itself to the Dail. 
    
    
      
       There has been a certain quota allotted, I think, to each of the different parties of the Dail.  Might I take it that that quota will stand, and that if I submit names now from what is called the Government side of the Dail that the other parties would also nominate members, and we can have the committee appointed here now? 
    
    
      
       I suggest if the Ministry, through the usual channels, make arrangements, we might appoint a committee a little later.  We will then have time to give some little consideration to the proposal.  I think if your assistants in the back bench would speak to Deputy O'Connell, Deputy Gorey and others, the arrangements could be completed. I suggest it might be deferred to the motion on the adjournment. 
    
    
      
       Might I suggest that Deputy Gorey or some other member of his party, if agreeable, to the proposal, would consult with Deputy O'Connell with a view to putting forward names for the Committee by half-past four.  The Committee might then meet after the Dail rose and possibly if agreement were reached we might be in a position to make the appointment to-morrow. 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       If I might intervene again for a moment, I understand the Minister for Local Government yesterday said that he did not intend to proceed with the Electoral Bill this evening. Evidently there was some misunderstanding. I did not know that it would appear on the Order Paper this evening.  It was certainly the intention of the Government to put forward the Amnesty Bill this evening.  In view of the fact that it is not on the agenda, I take it, it is only by getting the consent of the Dail, that it can be taken, this evening.  It was carried over from yesterday for two reasons, one of which was that a Deputy   who had amendments tabled occupied the chair, and, naturally was precluded from putting from the chair matter that might be contentious.  Agreement has been reached upon these amendments, and we propose now, with the leave of the Dail, to take the Amnesty Bill this afternoon in the Committee stage. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Amnesty (British Military) Bill be now taken in Committee.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       To what date is the Electoral Bill postponed? 
    
    
      
       Yesterday I proposed that the Bill should be postponed until Friday, that is to-morrow, and that we should take up to Clause 45 on that day, if we could get through so much.  The only way to prevent the Dail from being held up, is to fix a time-table, so as to give members time to put in their amendments to any section of the Bill.  Then, if we do not reach the particular part of the Bill, to which the amendments refer, they can be carried over.  I suggested, yesterday, that we should take up to Clause 45 to-morrow, and that at the next sitting of the Dail, we might carry on up to the end of the Bill.  Then we could begin with the Schedules.  It would be desirable if members would put in their amendments, even to the schedules, so that the Government may have an opportunity of considering them, and may be able to determine whether they would accept them, or put in alternative amendments or definitely oppose them.  By setting out a time table, even if we have to vary it, members will be induced to send in their amendments, and we would gain time rather than lose it.  I suggest that we should take up to Clause 45 to-morrow, and to the end of the Bill on the next day that the Dail sits, and that we take the first two schedules, the first day after that, that the Bill is before the Dail.  If we can get the amendments up to the end of the two first schedules, we will be able to consider them, and make better progress with the Bill. 
    
    
      
       Does that mean that to-day we have the Comptroller and Auditor-General Bill and the Amnesty Bill only?  We have three pages of amendments on the paper to the Electoral Bill, and why not get ahead   with them after finishing the other business? I gather that these amendments are in from the Labour Party and other members and are representative of the various bodies in the Dail, up to Clause 45.  What then is to hinder us, from getting on with this portion of the Electoral Bill before us? 
    
    
      
       If there is any doubt as to what occurred last night, I can give my record of it, as I was in the chair.  Of course, the Orders for to-day were in print before the Dail rose yesterday, and that is how the amendments to the Electoral Bill appear on the paper to-day.  I asked at the rising of the Dail what business the Government proposed to take to-day, and the Minister for Local Government stated that he would not go on with the Electoral Bill, but proposed to take up to Clause 45 on Friday.  &ldquo;To-morrow,&rdquo; that is, of course, to-day&mdash;he said, &ldquo;we will take the Amnesty Bill and the Comptroller and Auditor-General Bill.&rdquo;  Anybody who was present in the Dail at that time got notice that the Electoral Bill would not be coming on to-day. 
    
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - AMNESTY (BRITISH MILITARY) BILL. 
    
      
       The Dail is now in Committee on the Amnesty (British Military) Bill. 
    
    
      
       I beg to move Clause 1:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;No action or other legal proceeding whatsoever whether civil or criminal shall be instituted in any Court of law or equity in Saorstat Eireann for or on account of or in respect of any act, matter or thing done after the 23rd day of April, 1916, and before the date of the passing of this Act, by any person or under the authority of any person who, at the time when the act, matter or thing was done, held any office under or was employed in the service of the British Crown or the British Government in any capacity, whether naval, military, airforce, police or civil, provided such act, matter or thing was done or in good faith purported to be done in execution of the duty of the person doing the same, or in exercise or execution of any authority conferred on such person or on the person under whose authority such person was   acting by any statute of the British Parliament or any statutory or other order of the British Government, or was in good faith purported to be done for the defence of the then existing form of government in Ireland, or for the public safety or otherwise in the public interest.&rdquo; 
     There are three amendments put down, and it will be only a matter of form accepting these.  I would accept them now, but I think it better to have Deputy Fitzgibbon move them. 
    
      
       The amendments that I have put down to Clause 1 of this Bill and the amendment to Clause 3 are all directed to the same purpose&mdash;namely, preserving the rights of citizens of Saorstat Eireann to recover compensation from the British Treasury for property commandeered or taken under a contract expressed or implied to pay for it during the war.  I do not know the precise origin of the particular Bill that is before the Dail, but it was foreshadowed in the Address at the opening of this Session by a statement that &ldquo;a Bill will be submitted securing by legal sanction the amnesty and indemnity proclaimed by the late General Michael Collins in favour of the members of the British forces engaged in military operations prior to the Treaty.&rdquo;  That appeared to me to be confined to an amnesty of members of the British military forces. I should not have quarrelled with it if that amnesty had been extended to people who had not been members of the British military forces, but civilians who had been engaged in support of the then form of Government in this country.  The British military forces are here and gone, and do not come back, but there are many of our own citizens who, in the performance of what was then their duty also supported the then existing form of government.  Some of them have left this country, and some are willing to return, but are afraid to do so in consequence of having taken sides with the form of government now abolished.  Therefore, I should have found no fault with this Bill if in addition to extending the amnesty to the British forces it extended it to our own citizens engaged on the same side. But this Bill seemed to me to go a great deal further, and to extend an amnesty to the British Exchequer, and I do not think that it was our intention, and I doubt very much if it was the intention   of the Government to abate one penny of any lawful claim of any Irish citizen against the British Exchequer.  When I read Clause 1 of this Bill it seemed to me to have a very close resemblance to the first clause of a Bill that was passed in 1920 in the Imperial Parliament, called the Indemnity Act.  The necessity for an Indemnity Act in Ireland was that martial law had been enforced here for a considerable period. Martial law is not law, and it requires an Indemnity Act, either before or after the period covered by martial law, and it has been a universal constitutional practice to introduce after any period of martial law an Indemnity Act to indemnify those who in carrying out martial law have broken the law of the land.  It was so in 1815 and 1845; and in this country in 1798 and in South Africa after the South African war, both in the Cape and Natal, but there was no martial law enforced in England during the Great War.  Therefore the Indemnity Act that they passed was not the kind of Indemnity Act that was required in this country to relieve the military people and the civilians siding with them who had been acting under martial law.  And so when I saw this clause was practically identical with that of the British Indemnity Act, it occurred to me that it might go a little further than we had really desired, and in the British Act the desire of the Government which brought it in was, not so much to protect soldiers who had been carrying on martial law, but to protect the Treasury against claims that citizens might have against the Treasury for property taken by the Crown for the purpose of carrying on the war, or for providing accommodation for those who were engaged in ministerial and other offices connected with the war.  The first clause of the English Act commenced, as I say, identically with ours, except that in our Act we put in the 23rd of April, 1916, which was the outbreak of what is described in the Preamble &ldquo;as the recent period of conflict with the British Government,&rdquo; instead of the European war, which is the war with which the English Act dealt. In the English statute which I have here there was a long proviso for protecting the rights of citizens.  One clause, for instance, of the half-dozen provided &ldquo;that this section shall not prevent the institution or prosecution of proceedings in   respect of any rights under or alleged breaches of contract; the institution of civil proceedings founded on negligence in respect of damage to person or property elsewhere than in a foreign country,&rdquo; and several other matters including even an infringement of patents.  All that protection for officials who had contracts with the Government, which the Government had broken, or who had property which had been damaged by the negligence of officers of the Government, was omitted in the first clause of this Act.  I first framed some amendments with a view to preserving rights and claims of that description, but on consideration I thought that possibly to introduce a proviso preserving the rights as they are preserved in the British Indemnity Act might be better than two or three scattered amendments that I had originally put upon the Orders of the day.  I have framed an amendment that I think has been handed round to Deputies, proposing in Section 1, line 32, to insert the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Provided that nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent any person from instituting or prosecuting any proceedings under the Indemnity Act, 1920, or from claiming or obtaining any payment or compensation under the said Act which he might have instituted or prosecuted or claimed or obtained if this Act had not passed.&rdquo; 
    
     The Bill before the Dail in its present form absolutely bars all legal proceedings and action of every kind whatsoever against the Government for anything they did during what is called &ldquo;the period of the recent conflict,&rdquo; and if any of our citizens had come before the compensation tribunal or any other tribunal with a claim under the Indemnity Act of 1920, they would have been met by the representative of the Treasury with a copy of our own Bill, and he would say &ldquo;You can go home, because your own Dail has passed a Bill which prohibits you from taking any legal proceedings, or from carrying on any action whatsoever, and there is no use in your coming here.&rdquo; Now, the amendment that I have framed seems to me to prevent that.  It seems to me to leave everybody where he was so far as he has any claim that he could prosecute if this Act had not passed, but it does give protection to any person for anything done, provided that it was   done in good faith in accordance with his duty, for the maintenance of the then existing form of Government in Ireland. The Minister has already accepted an amendment which proposes to substitute &ldquo;maintenance&rdquo; for &ldquo;defence of the then existing form of Government in Ireland,&rdquo; and it seems to me that if this second amendment that I have proposed is passed, and the mere verbal correction is made in the title of the Bill it will afford all the protection that we can give to citizens of Saorstat Eireann in claims that they may have against the British Treasury.  Therefore, I would ask leave to substitute for amendments&mdash;&mdash; 
    
      
       On a point of order, as I have not moved anything beyond Section 1 I think it would be better if Deputy Fitzgibbon would move these amendments first. 
    
    
      
       I am quite prepared, if the Government prefer, to move the three verbal changes.  That would assist me.  I will move in accordance with the Order Paper, that after the words &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; in line 18 the words &ldquo;against any person&rdquo; be inserted.  The object is the same.  Whatever I have said in support of the amendment that has been handed round in type is equally valid in support of the amendment I have put on the Paper in this case. 
    
    
      
       I understood that Deputy Fitzgibbon wished to have these three alterations as well. 
    
    
      
       I should like to, certainly.  I move to insert after &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann,&rdquo; the words &ldquo;against any person&rdquo; in line 18.  The object of that is that in a Petition of Right or claim against the Crown, the Crown not being bound under the Statute, would not, I think, be included. That protects the servants of the Crown but not the Crown itself.  I move amendment Number 1 on the list. 
    
    
      
       There are three alterations; do you move the three of them? 
    
    
      
       I move the first amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
    
    
      
       Amendment 2 has been accepted by the President, that is,   to substitute the word &ldquo;maintenance&rdquo; for the word &ldquo;defence,&rdquo; so that it is unnecessary to move that.  Now, I do not move the amendments to lines 31 and 32 but in lieu of that I move the proviso that is in type, to add to Clause 1 the following: &ldquo;Provided that nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent any person from instituting or prosecuting any proceedings under the Indemnity Act, 1920, or from claiming or obtaining any payment or compensation under the said Act which he might have instituted or prosecuted or claimed or obtained if this Act had not passed.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Clause 1 as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       I move Clause 2, &ldquo;If any such action or other proceeding as is mentioned in this Act was instituted before the passing of this Act and is now pending the same shall be discharged and made void subject to such order as to costs as the Court in which such action or proceeding is pending or a Judge thereof shall think fit to make.&rdquo;  I do not think there is any amendment. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Clause 2 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       I move Section 3:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;For the purposes of this Act:&mdash; 
       ( a )  a Petition of Right shall be deemed to be a legal proceeding and the proceeding shall be deemed to have been instituted on the date on which the petition was presented; 
       ( b )  the institution or prosecution of any claim before any tribunal appointed to enquire into claims for compensation under the enactments relating to criminal injuries or any enactment amending the same shall not be deemed to be an action or legal proceeding within the meaning of Section one of this Act.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       There is an amendment in my name on the paper to Sub-section ( a ), but when this Bill was before the Dail for the Second   Reading I stated that instead of the amendment which is in print I should move to delete the Clause altogether. Therefore, I move that Sub-clause ( a ) of Clause 3 be deleted; the reason Deputies will gather from what I said originally when putting in the words &ldquo;against any person&rdquo; in Clause 1.  It goes to preserve our rights against the Crown as representing the British Treasury as head of the State, because contracts made by servants of the Crown for the State are treated as contracts by the Crown as representing the State, and you sue in respect of them by what is known as a Petition of Right, that is a petition claiming that the Crown has contracted to pay certain rent or compensation or something of that sort is brought forward.  I move now to delete this exception of a Petition of Right, because I am quite clear that the right of any subject to proceed by Petition of Right where that is available ought to be preserved. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       CLAUSE 4. 
       A statement in writing signed by any Secretary of State of the British Government certifying any of the matters mentioned in this section shall be conclusive evidence of the matters so certified, that is to say:&mdash; 
       ( a )  that at the time when the act, matter or thing complained of in any such action or legal proceeding as is mentioned in this Act was done, the person by whom or under whose authority the same was done held office under or was employed in the service of the British Crown or the British Government: 
       ( b )  that any such act, matter or thing as aforesaid was part of or within the duty of the person by whom the same was done: 
       ( c )  that any such act, matter or thing as aforesaid was within the powers and authority conferred on the person by whom the same was done or on the person under whose authority such person was acting by a statute of the British Parliament or an order of the British Government. 
    
    
      
       Clause 4 has three   Sub-sections.  I move that Clause, ( a ), ( b ), and ( c ). 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Clause 4 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       CLAUSE 5. 
       Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect any final judgment given before the passing of this Act by:&mdash; 
       ( a )  any Court from whose decision no appeal lies by law; 
       ( b )  any other Court where the judgment is not at the passing of this Act the subject of a pending appeal. 
    
    
      
       I move Clause 5, ( a ) and ( b ). 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Clause 5 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       CLAUSE 6. 
       This Act may be cited as the Indemnity (British Military) Act, 1923. 
    
    
      
       I move Clause 6. 
    
    
      
       I think it was understood at the Second Reading that &ldquo;British Military&rdquo; would be omitted because &ldquo;The Indemnity&rdquo; refers to civilians, police and other officials. Should it not read &ldquo;British officials&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;British Military&rdquo;? 
    
    
      
       I think it is preferable as described, because they constitute by far the largest number of those who would be likely to be affected, and it is thought that as regards other people that it is set out fairly clearly in the Clause who is affected.  It is in the Short Title in this case, and it gives a better appearance to the thing from the point of view of the actual parties that were immediately engaged in the conflict. 
    
    
      
       They were war operations. 
    
    
      
       Yes, I think that having regard to that that it would be better described as it is&mdash;&ldquo;British Military.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Is that the Short Title? 
    
     
    
      
       Yes. 
    
    
      
       Will the title have any effect in interpreting the intentions of the Act? 
    
    
      
       It will, it cannot help having. 
    
    
      
       If so, I will support the proposition or suggestion that is made by Deputy Professor Magennis, that we should leave out the words &ldquo;British Military&rdquo; entirely.  I do not suppose it will make any difference in the Indemnity Act of 1923. 
    
    
      
       In one sense this is not an Indemnity Act at all; it is an Amnesty Act.  It is called at the head of the Paper &ldquo;Amnesty (British Military) Bill.&rdquo;  In the Short Title, it is described &ldquo;Amnesty (British Military)&rdquo; Act, 1923.  It does not seem to me to matter very much whether you call it &ldquo;Amnesty&rdquo; or &ldquo;Indemnity.&rdquo;  Indemnity usually means that you are paying something back, recouping something that is lost, but there is in the Title, not in the Short Title but in the Long Title, a necessary amendment arising out of what has happened, that is instead of the Act being one to restrict the taking of legal proceedings in respect of certain acts and things done during the recent period of conflict, it ought to be amended by stating &ldquo;things done in the recent conflict,&rdquo; because Amnesty is only to people who were engaged in the maintenance of the then existing form of Government, and the Long Title would make it to appear to cover anything that was done by anybody after the 23rd of April, 1916, whether it had connection with the conflict between Great Britain and Ireland or not.  Therefore I did hand in an amendment to amend the title by striking out the words &ldquo;during&rdquo; and &ldquo;period of&rdquo; and substituting &ldquo;in,&rdquo; so that the title would read after the word &ldquo;and&rdquo; in the third line &ldquo;Things done in Saorstat Eireann in the recent conflict with the British Government.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       It was held during the last five or six years that the British Government maintained its authority here through the Army of Occupation. It was assumed that a public official maintained his right or status or office or administration by reason of the fact that he was   supported by the British military.  That, I think, was the idea underlying the particular title.  There were certainly fewer persons, or there would be fewer persons, on the civil side affected by this than on the military side.  From that point of view, I think, it would be better leave it as it is. 
    
    
      
       What does the President propose to do about this amendment in the description of the long title? 
    
    
      
       We have not come to that.  We agreed to it the last day, but this one must come first. 
    
    
      
       If we are on Clause 6, which is a short title paragraph, I do think that the word chosen at the head of the Bill, &ldquo;Amnesty,&rdquo; is a better word than the word &ldquo;Indemnity&rdquo; in this clause.  &ldquo;Amnesty,&rdquo; I suggest, is clearly a more accurate description.  You have &ldquo;Amnesty&rdquo; in one place and &ldquo;Indemnity&rdquo; in another. Of the two, I suggest &ldquo;Amnesty&rdquo; is the better word. 
    
    
      
       &ldquo;Amnesty,&rdquo; I think, refers very largely to a forgiveness for some act, usually a criminal act done, and, in the majority of cases, an act for which punishment is meted out.  In the particular cases that we have under review here no punishment is inflicted. This is a promise that you will not inflict punishment.  To that extent the word &ldquo;Amnesty&rdquo; is stretched sometimes.  The word is usually used when people are in revolt, and it is asked will you give them &ldquo;amnesty.&rdquo;  In this case I take it you mean by &ldquo;indemnity&rdquo; that you are relieving the person from the possibility of being proceeded against in the civil courts for some acts done on behalf of the Government he served during that particular time.  For that reason, I think, it is better described as it stands. 
    
    
      
       I entirely accept what the President says.  My main purpose was that the word should be the same in both cases.  As it stands you have one word in the beginning and a different word in the end. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That Clause 6 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
    
      
       Now I move the title: &ldquo;An Act to restrict the taking   of legal proceedings in respect of certain Acts, matters and things done in Saorstat Eireann during the recent period of conflict with the British Government and to provide for matters consequential thereon.&rdquo; 
    
    
      
       Consequential on the amendments already adopted I now suggest that it is necessary to amend the title by striking out the word &ldquo;during&rdquo; and the words &ldquo;period of&rdquo; in line 9, and substituting the word &ldquo;in&rdquo; after Saorstat Eireann.  We have now confined this Bill to acts done in the course of a particular war that was going on during a particular time, but not to other acts that were not connected with that.  I move that the word &ldquo;in&rdquo; be substituted for &ldquo;during&rdquo; and that the words &ldquo;period of&rdquo; be struck out. 
    
    
      
       I accept that. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the title as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL RESUMES.] - AMNESTY (BRITISH MILITARY) BILL&mdash;FOURTH AND FIFTH STAGES. 
    
      
       I do not know what is the view of the Dail with regard to this Bill.  If the Dail were willing we would proceed with it.  If there is any objection to any Clause I would not now go on, but if the Dail is willing I would suggest that we would proceed with it If there is an objection from any Deputy we will not go on with this now. 
       The Dail agreed to proceed with the Bill. 
    
    
      
       I move now that the Amnesty (British Military) Bill be received for final consideration by the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I second that. 
    
    
      
       Taking this Bill now as it comes out of Committee and reported to this Dail I suggest that it might be desirable if the President could say something with regard to one outstanding case.  There is a kind of feeling in this country, that may be altogether uncharitable or altogether wrong, and it is that once this Bill has been disposed of, so is Dowling.  I would   like to feel as we are passing this Bill through that we might know exactly what is the position as regards one outstanding prisoner, Dowling, and three other prisoners in Scotland, and to press for their release, with the passing into law of this Bill.  I do not know exactly what the position is, or whether it has changed since the matter came before us last; but any one outstanding case of that kind is bound to create a certain amount of disquietude and sense of injustice that is not desired on either side, and it would be a good opportunity to celebrate the enactment of a Bill of this kind by having an announcement that all Irishmen who were in any way connected with any kind of political or semi-political offences in the past shall be released.  I need not mention to members of this Dail who will be familiar with the case of Dowling that it is one of special moment, because he did play his part by holding his tongue, when, had he spoken the full knowledge at his disposal, he might have made things very uncomfortable at the time. His is a special case.  The Connaught Rangers have been let out.  His case is no worse or better than theirs; it is on all fours with theirs.  They have been released, and I sincerely hope the President will be able to announce that the case of Dowling has also been favourably considered; that he is to be released, as well as the other three prisoners who are now in Scotland.  It has been suggested that I may have, by not mentioning the particular Dowling, led to confusion with the Dowling who shot Max Green.  I am not referring to that man; I am referring to the man who landed at Clare in 1918. 
    
    
      
       There was quite a number of prisoners whose cases were the subject of many representations by the late General Collins, by the late President, by Mr. O'Higgins, and, during the term of office of the Provisional Government after the deaths of the President and General Collins, by myself.  I think that no effort was spared to bring before British Ministers or the British Government, both the late British Government and the present one, the views that were held in this country regarding the release of these prisoners, how strongly their release was demanded and expected, how much that act would go towards effecting more cordial relations between the two countries, and how much stronger evidence   it would afford of the determination of the British Government and the Government of Saorstat Eireann to efface the bitter memories of the long conflict that had taken place between the two countries. Now, to some extent, I am at a disadvantage with regard to many of the prisoners.  There were others who were in touch with us, and who were working with us during the period of conflict, who had intimate knowledge of each and every one of those cases.  That knowledge, as far as I am concerned, is not intimate. Their cases, as far as that is concerned, have not suffered to any extent by reason of that lack of intimacy.  I think the Dail must appreciate the different position that the Government of Saorstat Eireann is in now.  That is to say, it is a coequal member of the community of Nations, and I expect that the relations between the Saorstat and the British Government must be conducted on certain lines with regard to those prisoners.  The Dail may rest assured that the Government has done everything that was reasonably possible, before and since the establishment of the Saorstat, to effect the release of those particular prisoners, and of Dowling. They are not matters that one can really discuss with any great freedom, because it will be appreciated that there is a certain dignity a Government must maintain, and we have been accustomed for so long to making representations about this or that or any other matter that we may easily lose sight of the fact that we are now an independent Nation, and that the course of representations with regard to these matters has to some extent altered.  The alteration of these circumstances has not prejudicially affected this prisoner Dowling or any other prisoner.  I expect that sooner or later no one will have any reason to complain, but I am not in a position just now to give any greater grounds of hope than that, and the fact that the Government thoroughly appreciate the necessity for the release of this man, who has certainly suffered more, I think, than any other prisoner has suffered, but about whose intimacy with the particular period of time in which he was arrested I had no actual knowledge. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in its report.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
     
    
      
       With the leave of the Dail, I move that the last stage of the Bill be now passed.  It is certainly, I think, a matter upon which the Dail may be congratulated that it has passed this Bill with a good grace, and I thank the members of the Dail individually for their consideration with regard to this matter, having regard to the fact that there are just one or two little remembrances, if I might say so, of the recent conflict which might prejudice an Act of this sort.  I accordingly move that the Bill be now passed. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second that. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Bill be now passed.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL RESUMES.] - COMMITTEE ON COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR-GENERAL'S APPOINTMENT. 
    
      
       I have the Committee now that has been agreed upon. The names are:&mdash;Deputies Alderman Wm. O'Brien, Gorey, Dr. Keogh, Professor Whelehan, Dolan, Hughes, and D. McCarthy.  I have got another nomination and I presume that I may read it out also, that of Deputy Professor Magennis.  I move that Committee to consider the question of the appointment of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second that. 
    
    
      
       The Committee is to be seven, I think. 
    
    
      
       I am informed that Dr. Keogh's name has been taken off and Professor Magennis's substituted for him.  I have no objection to the eight. 
    
    
      
       I have no objection, but I would like to know where we are. 
    
    
      
       I am quite prepared to have mine taken off.  Mine was the last name upon it and with propriety it ought to be the first to come off when there is an excess. 
    
    
      
       It was agreed that there should be a Committee of seven, so of course there can be a Committee only of seven.  Certain parties have nominated their men and the only   question then would be between Dr. Keogh and Professor Magennis, each of whom is an Independent or a party in himself. 
    
    
      
       Professor Magennis is put on. 
    
    
      
       That is the point I want to raise.  Deputy Magennis repudiated the fact that he belonged to an Independent group or party in this Dail, with the result that Mr. O'Connell, the Whip on the other side, and myself, did not consult any of the Independent Deputies, but we put down Dr. Myles Keogh's name.  That was an agreed list. Is there an Independent Party here or is there not, so that the Whips can get in touch with them? 
    
    
      
       The point was made very clear that there is a group of Independents here to put forward names.  We agreed with regard to the name of Deputy Magennis now. 
    
    
      
       I would very much prefer not to be included in the list inasmuch as it gives rise to trouble and discussion.  I do not ambition the place to any extent. 
    
    
      
       That is not why I raised the point.  If there is a Party there, we could deal with them.  Let one act as a Whip for them and we can get in touch with them. 
    
    
      
       They are all independent of each other. 
    
    
      
       I think that applies to the whole Dail.  If not, it ought to. 
    
    
      
       If there is not an Independent Party, it is difficult to see how the Whips could put on anybody representing an Independent Party. 
    
    
      
       Precisely. 
    
    
      
       I take it they are not an Independent Party, but they are an Independent group of Independent units, each of which is a party in itself. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Gorey has put the thing very skilfully, and from that group so aptly described we are in agreement that Deputy Professor Magennis should go on the Committee. 
    
     
    
      
       I think the time has come when we should make our minds clear as to what is the situation. This designation of Independent member came into being at a time when there was a panel in accordance with the Pact.  I think in Clause 4 of that Pact any and every interest in the country was allowed to put forward candidates.  The newspapers for convenience described all candidates who went forward outside the Panel as Independent candidates.  Now, as I conceive it, for an Independent Party to exist, there should be a number of Deputies here united in pursuance of a common policy.  That policy should explicitly, to some extent, have been formulated and be the basis of their joint action.  That has never been formulated so far as I am aware.  It is not correct, therefore, to describe certain members as forming an Independent Party.  Scrutinise the division lists of the Dail, and you will find that some of the staunchest supporters of the Government, even a Minister, have voted in the minority against the Governmental majority. Consequently, I suggest that even a scrutiny of the lists would not indicate whether A, B, C or D was a Deputy who belonged to an Independent Party. That those of us who have exercised a certain amount of independent judgment with regard to the Constitution are not recognised as belonging to any party&mdash;we are political pariahs&mdash;is an undoubted fact, and that for certain political purposes certain Deputies could find it convenient to perpetuate that view I have not the slightest doubt.  I seize this occasion to repudiate the description of attempting to pose as a party in myself, and I am quite sure that some Deputies described here as Independent will repudiate that epithet with equal force. 
    
    
      
       It may be well to clear this point up.  There is nothing in the Constitution or the Standing Orders that recognises the existence of any parties in the State.  It is simply for the convenience of business that we have grouped ourselves in parties.  You, sir, have no right to recognise parties, except for the purpose of convenience, and as a matter of convenience those members who have not attached themselves to any existing parties formed themselves into a little block, and suggested a certain name.  That is all that is required in this matter, surely. 
    
     
    
      
       That is the point I want to raise.  If they have done that we can deal with them, but they repudiate the fact that they are an Independent Party.  Professor Magennis tells us that they are men who stood outside the Pact, but Deputy Figgis told me that Deputy Gavan Duffy is a member of their Party and he stood on the Pact. 
    
    
      
       He is a Panel member. 
    
    
      
       If there is any definite Independent Party, our Whips could deal with them. 
    
    
      
       We are not discussing the general question; we are simply discussing this simple thing, that certain persons here have put forward a name and Deputy McCarthy as Chief Whip chooses to exercise his discretion as to what we ought to do for ourselves. 
    
    
      
       The truth of the position is that the names that have to be submitted must be moved by an individual Deputy and any other Deputy could move an additional name and if there is a division on it, the decision of the Dail can be taken. 
    
    
      
       I want the onus put on the Dail now of appointing seven, and there has been a question as between two names, Professor Magennis and Dr. Keogh.  I think the best thing would be to take the names one by one. 
    
    
      
       Would the Dail not allow me to withdraw my name? As a man of peace I protest against being made a bone of contention. 
    
    
      
       Deputy Keogh is not present and as this Committee wants to get to work at once, I think there should be no objection to allowing Deputy Magennis's name to go on. 
    
     
    
      
       I have not the slightest objection. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Committee to consider the question of the appointment of the Comptroller and Auditor-General consist of the following:&mdash;Deputies O'Brien, Gorey, Professor Magennis, Professor Whelehan, Dolan, Hughes, and D. McCarthy.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL RESUMES.] - ADJOURNMENT OF THE DAIL. 
    
      
       I move the adjournment of the Dail until 3 o'clock to-morrow. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second that. 
    
   
   
     [DAIL RESUMES.] - BALBRIGGAN COMPENSATION CLAIMS. 
    
      
       I just want to raise a small question that the Minister for Finance may be able to answer.  It is in relation to compensation claims that have been passed by the Commission and are outstanding.  I am referring to small claims of householders who lost furniture in Balbriggan.  There are five or six houses which have been rebuilt, houses which were burned, and the tenants of the burned houses were awarded certain compensation ranging from £20 to £70.  I think there are only five and probably the total amount is not £200, but they are ready to go into the houses and practically cannot go in because they have no money to buy furniture.  I wonder would it be possible to expedite the payment of these small compensations in such cases? 
    
    
      
       I will undertake to look after that personally.  I do not know anything at all about the circumstances of it, but if Deputy Johnson will give me any particulars regarding the names I will look into it just now when I go over to my office. 
       The Dail adjourned at 4.35 p.m. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN REPLY. - THE CASE OF MR. JOHN E. KELLY. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether Mr. John E. Kelly, of Knockbrack National School, Letterkenny, was arrested by National troops on October 4th, and is since detained, whether any charges have been made against him, and whether, in view of Mr. Kelly's statements to the effect that he has taken no part in the present campaign against the Government, he will give instructions for his release. 
    
    
      
       The matter has been considered   and it is not proposed to release Mr. Kelly, who was arrested in circumstances which warrant his detention.  A charge has not formally been made against him. 
    
   
 