 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i g-Ceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE IRISH-BRITISH TREATY. 
    
      
       asked the President whether it is the intention of the Executive Council to apply for the registration of the Irish-British Treaty at Geneva, in accordance with the requirements of the League of Nations. 
    
    
      
       The subject of the question is one which must obviously receive consideration in its due course and proper time. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask the President if that answer is to mean that it has not yet received proper consideration. 
    
    
      
       The answer contains all that I have got to say on the subject, and is sufficiently illuminative if the Deputy will consider it. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PENSIONS APPEAL TRIBUNAL (BRITISH PENSIONS). 
    
      
       asked the President whether he will ask for a return from the Pensions Appeal Tribunal (British Pensions), South Frederick Street, Dublin, showing the number of cases considered by them within the past 18 months, the number of appeals allowed, the number rejected, and the number of dependents and ex-service men who had their pensions reduced, and the cause for the reduction; further, whether he will secure the same information from the Ministry of Pensions, Dunlop House, Dublin. 
    
     
    
      
       This tribunal is not under the control of the Government of Saorstat Eireann and I am consequently not in a position to ask for the returns referred to. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of the President's reply, I would like to ask whether the British Authorities have the right to reduce pensioners' allowances without any regard to the circumstances in these cases, or whether it is the intention of this Government to protect the citizens of the Free State from these undue cuts that are now taking place? 
    
    
      
       The Government, as I have stated, has got no control whatever over this Committee. 
    
    
      
       Will the President make representations to the proper authorities to secure, and to safeguard, the interests of these Irish citizens? 
    
    
      
       That is another question, and I do not know that it is possible to do so. 
    
    
      
       Is it not possible for this Government to make representations to the Colonial Secretary, or through whatever medium is the proper one, to see that this British Committee should look after the interests of Irish citizens? 
    
    
      
       I do not think that this Dail, if it were made aware that representations were made to us as to how we should conduct our business with regard to any persons placed in the same position in Great Britain, would be satisfied that such representations should be made to us.  If that be our view in regard to that question, I do not see how we could interfere in a matter which concerns them. 
    
    
      
       Surely the President will admit&mdash;&mdash; 
    
    
      
       Order. That is entering upon an argument. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BURNING OF A HOUSE (COUNTY COURT DECREE). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware   that Michael Kenny, Castlepollard, Westmeath, obtained a decree in the County Court, Mullingar, on June 12th, 1922, for £1,150 for the burning of his house on the 3rd May, 1922, and further, whether he is aware that the State Solicitor has offered Michael Kenny £400 in full payment, and whether he can state by whose authority such an offer was made, and further, to ask when the full amount granted by the Court shall be paid? 
    
    
      
       The decree granted in this case by the County Court was reopened by me under Section 2 (1) of the Damage to Property Compensation Act, and an offer was made pursuant to Section 2 (3).  This offer was refused, and the question of making an amended offer is at present under consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOUSING SCHEMES (PRIVATE BUILDERS). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether the Government have yet considered the advisability of assisting private builders in any effort they may take to build houses containing three, four and five rooms; whether he is aware that private builders are prepared to build five houses for the same grant as is given to Municipal authorities for the building of two houses. 
    
    
      
       The question of reviving grants to private builders is at present under consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COURTS OF JUSTICE STENOGRAPHERS. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs whether he can state how many official stenographers will be required to execute Section 63 of the Courts of Justice Bill, and what is the estimated total cost of this service, including salaries, bonus, allowances and travelling expenses. 
    
    
      
       Eight stenographers should suffice for the purpose of the Section in question, and the maximum cost of this service may provisionally   be estimated at £4,000. Every effort will, of course, be made to keep the cost to a minimum. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOUSING ACCOMMODATION (NORTH WALL AREA). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs whether he is aware that many landlords are at present seeking to take possession of cottages and rooms from their tenants without providing alternative accommodation; whether he will take steps to improve the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1923, by including a clause to safeguard the tenants' interests; if he is aware that many residents in the North Wall area are now being threatened with eviction notices from their landlords. 
    
    
      
       I have no particular knowledge of the facts stated by Deputy O Broin, but I have no doubt that hardship occurs.  Under the Act, however, possession is not to be given to the landlord unless the Court is satisfied that the hardship to him, in consequence of refusing him possession, would be greater than the hardship to the tenant in consequence of being forced to give up possession.  This provision puts upon the Court the duty of deciding which is the lesser hardship and making an order accordingly. There does not seem to be any better way of deciding such points.  It is not proposed to amend the Act, which represents the practically unanimous report of a Committee representative of all sections of the community. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SPORTING CARTRIDGE SUPPLIES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs when he purposes arranging for supplies of sporting cartridges to recognised dealers in country towns, as the present arrangement of endeavouring to obtain through Dublin agents is practically impossible for persons residing in country districts, and as the matter is urgent, owing to the great destruction being done to the crops by vermin. 
    
    
      
       In accordance with the Regulations made pursuant to Section 8 of the Public Safety (Emergency   Powers) Act, 1923, dealers duly registered and authorised thereunder may now on application obtain licences to import direct a certain quantity of sporting ammunition. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TOWN TENANTS (PURCHASE FACILITIES). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government whether it is his intention to introduce legislation on behalf of the town tenants, giving every tenant facilities for purchase similar to those given to the land tenants under the Land Bill? 
    
    
      
       (who replied) said: It is not the intention of the Government to introduce legislation of the nature referred to. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WESTMEATH OLD AGE PENSIONER (QUESTION OF AGE). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government whether he is aware that James Fin, Ballinagore, Westmeath, was granted the old age pension in March, 1923, and whether it was withheld subsequently on the question of age, notwithstanding that two older men than himself have sworn affidavits that the applicant, James Fin, is over seventy; further, whether the Minister will have the matter investigated with a view to having the old age pension granted, as Fin has no means of livelihood. 
    
    
      
       The claim of James Fin, Ballinagore, to the old age pension is at present before the Ministry on appeal on the ground of age, and has not yet been decided.  A birth certificate has not been received nor any other reasonably conclusive evidence of age.  When a previous appeal was under consideration the two declarations referred to in the question were submitted, but the deponents had not given adequate reasons for their belief that the claimant was the statutory age.  The evidence was, therefore, held to be insufficient and the claim to a pension disallowed on the 30th April last. 
    
     A decision on the present application will be deferred for a short time to give the claimant an opportunity   of submitting further documentary evidence of age or affidavits containing definite statements and reasons therefor to show that applicant has reached seventy years. 
    
      
       Is the Minister aware that many of these poor people are in a very destitute condition?  This man is over seventy years of age, and can prove it by affidavit.  There are many people in that position all over the country. 
    
    
      
       I would like to be made aware of that by receiving the affidavits. 
    
    
      
       The affidavit has been made in this case. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NATIONAL TEACHERS AND IRISH COURSES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he can state when it is likely that National School teachers who attended Irish courses will be paid, as these courses finished on the 3rd August last, and to ask that payment be expedited. 
    
    
      
       Payment of salary as National School teacher has, where such payment is regular, been made to all teachers who attended the special course of instruction in Irish held in July and August last.  Payment for services as Professor and of the grants in aid of lodging and travelling expenses has been made, except in a few cases under consideration, to National School teachers and others who acted as Professors during the course.  The claims for the grant-in-aid of lodging expenses and travelling allowances made by the teachers who attended the course as students are at present being examined and passed for payment. The scrutiny of these claims, involving in each case a reference to the class roll, is onerous, but it is hoped to have the great majority of the payments under this head made before the end of November. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - POST OFFICE SAVINGS CERTIFICATES. 
    
      
       asked the Postmaster-General if he can state how   many Post Office Savings Certificates have been bought in Ireland, and the total amount of money, both gross and net, that has been received by the State in this way. 
    
    
      
       Up to the 27th September 11,105 Savings Certificates were sold, and the amount realised in respect of them was £218,206 18s. 0d.  Of those, 109 Certificates representing £1,799 6s. 0d. have been repaid, thus leaving the net sales 10,996 Certificates, and the net receipts £216,407 12s. 0d. 
       The actual figures for the period, 28th September to 4th October, are not yet available, but it is estimated that the number and value of the Certificates sold during that period will have been 950 and £13,000, respectively. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of that answer I would like to ask if, in ascertaining these net figures, regard was had to the cost of collection, and if the Postmaster-General can state what percentage that cost of collection was estimated to be? 
    
    
      
       The cost of collection is not included, nor can I say at the moment what it was.  Notice will be required to get the further information asked for. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BROADCASTING LICENCES. 
    
      
       asked the Postmaster-General whether, in pursuance of the undertaking given by the President in the last Dail, that no broadcasting licences or monopolies would be granted in or by the Free State until this Dail had first been consulted, he will now lay his proposals in these matters before the Dail for discussion and sanction. 
    
    
      
       The negotiations in connection with the proposed establishment of a Wireless Broadcasting Station in the Free State are still in progress, and I am not yet in a position to lay the proposals in the matter before the Dail.  It is the intention to seek the sanction of the Dail for any scheme which may be agreed upon. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SANDYCOVE POSTAL DELIVERY. 
     
    
      
       asked the Postmaster-General whether he is aware that in Sandycove, Co. Dublin, there is now only one delivery of letters daily, and whether there is any precedent for such a restricted service in a thickly populated district within six miles of the General Post Office? 
    
    
      
       I have had enquiry made respecting the delivery of letters at Sandycove and I find that with a view to retrenchment the second delivery of letters at Dun Laoghaire has been confined to the central portion of the township for some months past. The restriction allows one delivery only to Sandycove and other portions of the outlying district, the amount of correspondence for which is not regarded as justifying the expenditure necessary for a second delivery.  The question of restoring the second delivery is, however, receiving further consideration, and a final decision in the matter will be given as soon as possible. 
    
    
      
       Arising out of the Minister's reply, might I ask if he is aware that until recently Sandycove had four deliveries daily, and that precisely similar districts on each side of it, Dun Laoghaire and Dalkey, have three, and will he take these facts into account when considering the matter? 
    
    
      
       I am aware of all these facts and they are being taken into consideration. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SUNDAY POSTAL SERVICE (ABOLITION OF). 
    
      
       asked the Postmaster-General whether he can take any steps to minimise the great inconvenience caused to the business community by the abolition of Mail despatches on Sundays to provincial centres; and whether it would not be possible to institute an express service for Sundays and holidays at extra rates? 
    
    
      
       Arrangements have recently been brought into force by which Mails for Provincial Centres in   Saorstat Eireann, to which there is a suitable train service, and where the circumstances are deemed to justify exceptional treatment, are despatched from Dublin on Sundays.  Mails from Great Britain which reach Dun Laoghaire by the Mail Packet on Sunday morning, are included in the despatch. 
       An express despatch service from Dublin is afforded on Bank Holidays also; in addition to important centres in Great Britain, as on Sundays, the arrangement is extended to Cork and Belfast on Bank Holidays. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY PENSIONS ACT, 1923. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state to whom persons claiming to be entitled to pension or gratuity under the Army Pensions Act, 1923, should make their applications, and if dependents or the men of the 1916 movement will have their claims considered by the same authority? 
    
    
      
       I anticipate that in about a week's time a public announcement will be made regarding the authority to whom all persons who appear to have claims under the Army Pensions Act, 1923, should make application. All claims will be dealt with by the one authority. 
    
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACCIDENTAL SHOOTING (QUESTION OF COMPENSATION). 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether compensation will be paid to Patrick Murray, Mace, Rathowen, Westmeath, in respect of his son, John, who was accidentally shot in Athlone on the 7th October, 1922; and further, to ask that, as Murray is in very poor circumstances owing to the loss of his son, payment of compensation be expedited. 
    
    
      
       Mr. Murray's claim will be considered as soon as possible by the authority referred to in my reply to the previous question. 
    
    
      
       Would it be possible to send this man something on account; he is in a very bad way? 
    
   
   
     RESIGNATION. 
    
      
       Fritheadh an litir seo leanas o Theachta Eoin Mac Neill.  The following letter has been received from Deputy Eoin Mac Neill:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Tigh Laighean, 
       &ldquo;Baile Atha Cliath, 
       &ldquo;3adh Deire Foghmhair, 1923. 
       &ldquo;A Chara,&mdash;Do reir foralacha Alt 55 den Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923, faisneisim leis seo gur rogha liom Dailcheanntar Chontae an Chlair d'ionadu sa Dail. 
       &ldquo;Mise, 
       &ldquo;(Sighnithe) EOIN MAC NEILL. 
       &ldquo;Teachta a toghadh i gcoir Dailcheanntair Phriomh-Scoile Naisiunta na hEireann agus i gcoir Dailcheanntair Chontae an Chlair. 
       &ldquo;Do Cleireach na Dala.&rdquo; 
       Under the Electoral Act of 1923, Deputy Eoin MacNeill has elected to sit for the constituency of Co. Clare. 
    
   
   
     NEW WRIT FOR DUBLIN CITY, SOUTH. 
    
      
       I beg formally to move the following motion standing in my name on the Order Paper:&mdash; 
    
     &ldquo;Go n-ordoidh an Ceann Comhairle do Chleireach na Dala a rit a chur amach chun ball do thogha chun an fholuntais a tharla imease ballra na Dala so de bharr Miceal O hAodha do thabhairt suas a shuiochain i nDailcheanntar   Buirge Bhaile Atha Cliath Theas.&rdquo; 
     &ldquo;That the Ceann Comhairle direct the Clerk of the Dail to issue his writ for the election of a member to fill the vacancy which has occurred in the membership of the present Dail, consequent on the resignation by Deputy Michael Hayes of his seat in the Borough Constituency of Dublin South.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I second the motion. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S SPEECH: RESOLUTION OF THANKS. 
    
      
       I rise to propose the following resolution:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail returns thanks to the Governor-General for his speech, and approves of the legislative programme of the Government as outlined therein.&rdquo; 
       On the last occasion on which this resolution was proposed, the country was confronted with dangers of a very serious and threatening kind.  It was a time of doubt and uncertainty for all of us, a time when no one could say that the future was secure.  We are not yet out of the wood.  The dangers which confront us are still serious, though of a different nature, but by continuing to follow the path we treaded in the old days and in the manner outlined in the Governor-General's address, by continuing to tread that path cautiously and warily, but withal firmly, I believe that this Dail and the nation it represents has every reason for looking forward with confidence to the future. 
    
     I am particularly pleased to see here that this historic nation is now a member of the body known as the League of Nations.  It is only an embryonic institution at the present moment, but in it are the seeds of great things for the world and for humanity.  Ireland before played a very important part in international affairs when her scholars went all over the Continent spreading the light of reason and the light of Faith, and it is a welcome thing to us to see that we are about again to take part in the same or a similar task.  It   is also a good thing that we have participated in the Conference of the States making up the British Commonwealth of Nations.  That will strengthen us, I am sure; it will strengthen our financial position, which is a matter to be very seriously considered at the present time. 
     The enactment of the Electoral Act, I am sure, was gratifying to all the people who have democratic ideals before them.  By the adoption of adult suffrage our Constitution takes its place as one of the most democratic in the world.  We are also about to put into force a new Act which embodies reforms in the administration of law and justice.  The Irish people were, in the past, reputed, even by their enemies, to be a people that held justice and law and order very dearly, and it was the abuse of law and the abuse of justice in this country that was responsible for a great deal of the disorderliness and the lack of that law-abiding spirit that we found in other countries; but those remedial measures in our judicial system will bring about a return to the old ideals in this matter.  It has been an excellent thing that in the very difficult crisis through which we have passed we have been able to organise a police force.  I think it was one of the most creditable performances of the last Dail that we were able to organise such a force in the face of such tremendous difficulties. Our military forces are after going through a very critical period, a period during which, in many respects, they had to take on the character of guerillas and which is now over.  We can say with confidence that we have a regular army which, from the point of view of courage and efficiency, is second to none in Europe. 
     The problem of unemployment confronts us.  It is a problem of course that has been made, to a very great extent, by the Irregular campaign in this country.  It is a problem we have to tackle with all our energies, so as to see if we can overcome it, and I am sure, if the same capacity is shown in handling this difficulty as was shown in handling other difficulties during the last Dail, we will have no difficulty in surmounting it. 
     I am glad to see that a measure for   the encouragement and development of agriculture has been outlined.  This, as we all know, is the key industry of the country.  It is at the present time, I am sorry to say, in a very serious condition, and it behoves us all, every interest in the country, whether commercial, labour or professional, to put our heads together and to see how this great industry can again be put on a sound and paying basis. 
     I have only looked over the Governor-General's address, and I am sorry I cannot do full justice to the various points mentioned.  I will leave it now to the seconder to perform the part that I should have performed. 
    
      
       Ba mhaith liom-sa cuidiu leis an ruin do chuir an Burcach os ar g-comhair.  Do chuireas run mar seo os comhair na Dala anuiridh a' moladh clar an Rialtais.  'Se an Rialtas ceudhna ata againn fos.  Dubhradh nach rabh meas ag muinntir na tire ar an Rialtas acht nuair a bhi feall acu theasbanadar nar mar seo a bhi an sceul.  Ta suil agam go n-eireochaidh leis an Rialtas an clar seo a chur i bh-feidhm co maith agus a rinneadar 'san tearma ata caithte. 
       I rise to second the motion proposed by Deputy Burke, and I may say that in the last Dail I had the privilege of proposing a similar motion to that which Deputy Burke has proposed to-day. It was a motion approving of the Ministerial policy.  We have to-day practically the same Ministry as we had in the last Dail.  We heard that the Ministry were unpopular and that they were doing things that were not right.  Well, the Ministry has been vindicated.  Every member of the Ministry who went up for election was returned at the top of the poll, I think, with one exception.  That shows to my mind that the people of the country are behind the Ministry and behind the Government.  And the sooner, to my mind, the misguided individuals who think that the Ministry have not or will not have the support of the people, realise the fact that they have and will continue to have the support of the people, the better for these individuals themselves. 
    
     I am in the same difficulty as Deputy Burke, who kindly said that I would   deal in detail with this address, more fully than he did.  I do not intend to do so.  I did deal, to a certain extent in detail, with the Address on the last occasion, but I have not had a chance of doing it this time.  I know that on the last occasion we had a very long debate.  I think, as a matter of fact, the debate on the Address went on for several weeks.  I do not think there is any need for dealing in detail with a subject like this.  The only thing I would attempt to point out is this.  We have the same Ministry that laid a programme before us in the last Dail, and it is the same Ministry that is laying the programme before us in this Dail.  They have been vindicated, and I hope they will be in the position of carrying their present legislative programme into effect, as they did in the last Dail. 
    
      
       The Address by the Governor-General, which has been circulated as a Paper to the Dail, has only been before the Dail for thirty minutes.  Consequently Deputies have not had an opportunity of reading the Address, and they cannot determine whether it is deserving of thanks or otherwise.  I, therefore, beg to move the adjournment of the discussion on this motion until the next meeting of the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I wish to second that. 
       Agreed. 
       Debate accordingly adjourned. 
    
   
   
     COUNTY COURTS (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1923.&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I move that the leave of the Dail be granted to introduce a Bill to remove certain difficulties in relation to the holding of Quarter Sessions and Civil Bill Courts, and the service of certain documents relating thereto. 
    
     This Bill will be a temporary one.  It is a purely provisional measure and it is framed to meet two administrative difficulties in the conduct of the Courts. The first is the impossibility of holding Courts at the accustomed place, the place named by Statute, owing to the destruction of the building, or for some   other good and sufficient reason; the second is the impossibility of personal service of documents in the usual way, owing to the absence of suitable process servers, or some other cause, and it is proposed to legalise service by post. These provisions were contained in a temporary Act which we passed in the last Session which has now lapsed.  I ask for leave to introduce the Bill to meet those two difficulties. 
    
      
       Perhaps the Minister will inform me, does this Bill only refer to the interregnum between now and the time that the Courts of Justice Bill shall become law? 
    
    
      
       That is correct. 
       Motion agreed to. 
    
    
      
       When will the Second Stage be taken? 
    
    
      
       This may be regarded as an urgent Bill and it is already in print.  I would be glad if the Second Stage could be taken the next day the Dail meets. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 10th October. 
    
   
   
     LICENSING (RENEWAL OF LICENCES) BILL, 1923.&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
    
      
       I move for leave to introduce a Bill to validate certain licences for the sale of intoxicating liquors which have lapsed by non-renewal, and to give effect to certain transfers of such licences. 
    
     It is a small Bill dealing with the question of the renewal of licences. Owing to the absence of Petty Sessions Courts in September of last year, certain holders of licences were unable to obtain their annual renewal, and their licences lapsed technically.  The District Justices this year were in the position that they could not grant a renewal of these licences.  There was no licence to renew, strictly and legally.  There were similar difficulties arising out of the disturbed conditions of the last few years, and this will be a short Bill to get over those difficulties and to enable the licences to be renewed by the District   Justices.  I anticipate the Bill will be non-controversial. 
     Motion agreed to.  Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, October 10th. 
   
   
     SPECIAL COMMITTEES. 
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       &ldquo;Go n-iarrtar ar an gCoiste Roghnathoireachta nuair a bheid ag ainmniu ball chun fonamh ar Choisti Speisialta cuimhneamh ar cho-dheanamh na Dala agus ar chailiochta na mball a toghfar amach; agus go mbeidh comhacht acu chun baill de Choisti do scur mara dtagaid chun na gcruinniu agus chun baill eile do cheapa in ionad na mball a scuirfar.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;That it be an instruction to the Committee of Selection that, in nominating members to serve on Special Committees, they have regard to the composition of the Dail and to the qualifications of members selected; and that they have power to discharge members of Committees in case of non-attendance, and to appoint others in substitution for those discharged.&rdquo; 
       I do not know whether the new Deputies have read the Standing Orders, but Standing Orders 63 and 64 will be complied with if this resolution be passed.  I think there is general agreement in regard to the spirit of the resolution, that it is non-contentious and that it is purely a matter of facilitating the work without having to come to the Dail regularly to get members appointed.  The main question that ought to be considered in the selection of Committees is met here; and that is that the Committees of Selection, in appointing members, should have regard to the composition of the Dail and the qualification of members for the particular work involved in any terms of reference that would be made. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
    
    
      
       If I rightly understand the last sentence of this motion, it is that the Sessional Committee of Selection, without reference to the Dail, will have power to discharge members from any committee nominated by that Committee of Selection, but appointed by the Dail.  That seems to be the intention from the   wording of this motion.  I would like to have it made clear if that is the intention. If it be the intention, I suggest it is a rather dangerous principle to adopt, seeing that the Committee of Selection in the first instance is nominated by this Dail and it might very easily suggest to the Dail the discharge of members of a Special Committee for non-attendance, but this Dail should assume the responsibility for that discharge. 
    
    
      
       The terms of the motion imply that.  In the case of non-attendance the Committee of Selection will have the power to discharge members and appoint others in substitution for those discharged. It has been found to work out well in another place, I think. 
       Motion agreed to. 
    
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON PROCEDURE AND PRIVILEGES. 
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       &ldquo;Go gceaptar Coiste ar a mbeidh aon Teachta deag, a ainmneoidh Coiste Roghnathoireachta an tSiosoin, mar Choiste ar Nos-Imeachta agus Pribhleidi, go mbeidh se de chomhacht ag an gCoiste pe aguisini agus leasuithe ar na Buan-Orduithe a cheapaid a bheith riachtanach do mhola agus breithniu do dheanamh agus tuarasgabhail do thabhairt uatha i dtaobh na pribhleidi ata ag Teachtai Dhail Eireann; gur lear cuigear mar quorum.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;That a Committee, consisting of eleven Deputies to be nominated by the Sessional Committee of Selection, be appointed on Procedure and Privileges, that the Committee be empowered to recommend any additions and amendments to the existing Standing Orders that may be deemed necessary, and to consider and report as to the privileges attaching to Deputies of Dail Eireann; that five constitute a quorum.&rdquo; 
       The terms of reference were already agreed to in the last Dail, and I think there is general approval of the appointment of this Committee. 
    
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
    
    
      
       On this point, while I think this is a desirable   course, I was under the impression that the Dail decided on the last occasion that the Committee which was then elected would act as a Committee on Procedure and Privileges. 
    
    
      
       What was decided at the last meeting of the Dail was that the Committee elected to carry out the terms of Article 55 of the Constitution would be the Sessional Committee of Selection, which is a different matter. 
       Motion agreed to. 
    
   
   
     STANDING ORDERS FOR PRIVATE BILL BUSINESS. 
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       &ldquo;Go gceaptar Coiste ar a mbeidh chuig Teachtai, a ainmneoidh Coiste Roghnathoireachta an tSiosoin, chun Dreacht do Bhuan-Orduithe i gcoir rialuithe gno Billi Priohaideacha d'ullamhu agus do chur os coir na Dala agus go n-iarrtar ar an Seanad a cho-oiread ball den tSeanad do cheapa chun gniomhu ar an gCoiste seo.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;That a Committee consisting of five Deputies, to be nominated by the Sessional Committee of Selection, be appointed to prepare and submit Draft Standing Orders for the regulation of Private Bill Business, and that the Seanad be requested to appoint an equal number of members of the Seanad to act on this Committee.&rdquo; 
       I think that our experience in the last Dail was that a Committee to deal with this particular matter was essential, and I think it would give general approval if this Committee were appointed without delay. 
    
    
      
       A draft of Standing Orders for the regulation of Private Bill business has been prepared. A practising Barrister has been engaged in preparing these Standing Orders, and they were submitted during the last Dail to a small Committee of Deputies and Senators nominated, in the one case, by our Committee on Procedure, and, in the other case, by the Standing Orders Committee of the Seanad.  What is needed now is another Joint Committee to put the draft before us. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     HOUSE COMMITTEE. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move: 
       &ldquo;Go gceaptar Coiste ar a mbeidh tri Teachtai, a ainmneoidh Coiste Roghnathoireachta an tSiosoin, chun feachaint i ndiaidh na n-aiseanna laistigh is coir a bheith ag Baill an Oireachtais agus chun Seomra an Bhidh do stiuru, agus go n-iarrtar ar an Seanad a cho-oiread ball den tSeanad do cheapa chun gniomhu ar an gCoiste sin; gur leor mar quorum.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;That a Committee consisting of three Deputies to be nominated by the Sessional, Committee of Selection, be appointed to supervise the internal accommodation arrangements for the members of the Oireachtas and to control the Restaurant, and that the Seanad be requested to appoint an equal number of members of the Seanad to act on the said Committee. 
       In the selection of this Committee, I am sure that the Sessional Committee of Selection will take into consideration the age and the peculiarities of the tastes of the particular Deputies who will be appointed, as well as the different parties from which they are drawn.  I think it is the desire of all members of the Dail that we should make the new Deputies comfortable. The old Deputies did not seem to suffer any disadvantages from the arrangements made in the old Dail, but with new Deputies coming along it is quite possible that it might be necessary to make other arrangements. 
    
    
      
       Might I ask the President why it is necessary that this Committee should only consist of three Deputies, because if there are only three Deputies it cannot possibly represent every section of the Dail.  There is the Government Party, the Labour Party, the Farmers' Party and the Independents, and I think the President will agree that this is a Committee on which it is very necessary that every section of the Dail should have a representative.  I ask him, therefore, if he would not allow the Committee to consist of five Deputies instead of three.  Even with the Seanad representatives that will not make it unwiedly in size, and will allow for two Government representatives, and one   from each of the other sections of the Dail. 
    
    
      
       I have no objection. 
    
    
      
       Is leave given to have the motion amended so that the Committee may consist of five Deputies? 
       Agreed. 
       Motion, as amended, put and agreed to. 
    
   
   
     SESSIONAL COMMITTEE OF SELECTION. 
    
      
       Before the next Order is taken up, I would like to know what has been done about the Sessional Committee of Selection.  It has not met, and I would like to know when and where it is to meet. 
    
    
      
       I understand that a meeting of the Committee is being called for 11.30 a.m. to-morrow. It was originally contemplated that it would meet this morning, but owing to the religious services held this morning it was thought that the meeting could not be held, and, therefore, no notices were sent out.  It is proposed that the Committee should meet to-morrow morning at 11.30, if that would meet the convenience of Deputies, or if the Deputies on the Committee would meet immediately after the adjournment of the Dail they could decide it themselves. 
    
    
      
       Do I understand that notices have been sent out? It is most important that they should. 
    
    
      
       Notices have not been sent out.  It was thought necessary to consult Deputies who are on the Committee this afternoon, and if 11.30 a.m. to-morrow suits them notices will be sent out. 
    
    
      
       I suggest that notices should be sent out in future for every such meeting. 
    
    
      
       I suggest that the Committee should be asked to meet immediately the Dail adjourns.  I know that some Deputies cannot attend to-morrow at 11.30. 
    
     
    
      
       Notices are always sent out for meetings of Committees or for the summoning of which I am responsible.  I am not responsible for the summoning of this Committee, and I rather deprecate the suggestion that notices which should have been sent out were not sent out. I can assure Deputy Captain Redmond that notices are always sent out for meetings which it is our business to summon.  It is the business of Deputies appointed on this Committee to meet, and it is necessary to have a very full meeting, because the quorum is very high.  It was therefore necessary to wait until this evening, when Deputies met together, in order to fix a proper time for the meeting. 
    
    
      
       Might I suggest, sir, that you would exercise your great influence, if not  ex cathedra  at any rate outside, and have notices sent out for every meeting.  I fully realise that you are not responsible in any way for this Committee. 
    
    
      
       I agree to the suggestion of Deputy Hughes, that a meeting of this Committee might be convened for this evening.  A fixture at 11.30 a.m. to-morrow would clash with a private meeting of our party. We can meet after the adjournment or even while the Dail is sitting. 
    
    
      
       I understand that it is not the intention of the Government to proceed with the Committee stage of The Courts of Justice Bill this evening. 
    
    
      
       That is so. 
    
    
      
       In that case we will adjourn in five or ten minutes.  If it would be more convenient for Deputies on the Committee to meet now in the Ministerial Committee Room upstairs, we will supply them with a Clerk, and they could proceed with the business at once, or fix a date for another meeting. 
    
    
      
       Unless they are all present I suppose there cannot be a meeting as it was not called? 
    
    
      
       That is so. 
    
   
   
     THE COURTS OF JUSTICE BILL, 1923. 
     
    
      
       I move: &ldquo;That item 9 on the Orders of the Day (The Courts of Justice Bill, 1923&mdash;Committee) be discharged and that it be inserted on the Orders of the Day for Wednesday next.&rdquo;  I intended to move the adjournment of the Dail this evening for a week as we are arranging conferences and otherwise are engaged in connection with the industrial unrest in the country.  It appears to us that it would be better that we should be able to devote the whole of our time to try and find an accommodation which we hope will be satisfactory.  I have called one meeting for this evening. It was not possible owing to other activities to have called it earlier.  I intend if possible to have another meeting to-morrow and a third meeting, if it be possible, on Friday.  For that reason I would ask that the Dail should adjourn for a week.  In that case we would not take up The Courts of Justice Bill until this day week. 
    
    
      
       On that point may I ask if it will be possible to take further amendments now, in view of the fact that the Government has thought fit to postpone this Bill? 
    
    
      
       Certainly. 
    
    
      
       It will be feasible then to accept further amendments. I might suggest that, as far as I am aware, very few people in the country are in great haste over this Bill, and I have seen it mentioned in the newspapers that the Attorney-General is about to take his place in the Dail.  If that is so, I would seriously suggest that it would be a good thing for the Dail and the country if the Government could wait until the Attorney-General could be present here to take part in the discussion of the Bill, and give us the great benefit of his knowledge and experience in dealing with the legal aspects of this measure. 
    
    
      
       I do not know that the Deputy is in a position to be as closely in touch with the general   opinions throughout the country as I am.  I made many pilgrimages through the country during the last few months. My impression is that there is a desire for this Bill, but, apart from that desire, the Constitution is not yet complete without it.  This matter has been before the country for some time.  It was objected to in the last Dail that it should be rushed, but I would say that, even in the case of measures which, perhaps, were hastened in the last Dail, there was at all times&mdash;it may be admitted by all Deputies&mdash;very fair and considerate expressions from Ministers with regard to recommendations made about the Bills.  I do not know that the Deputy is quite aware of the fact that there was very serious misgiving in certain parts of the country that this question had not been dealt with earlier, and many representations were made to us on that point.  There was in general, I think, the impression that we intended to act in good faith and that the delays were not unreasonable. Even since the Bill had been introduced very little criticism or suggestions which would improve the measure have come from the business people on whose behalf application was made that the Bill should be postponed.  I think there have not been material recommendations from them, and I think the Deputy will be satisfied when it is considered here that it will get very fair consideration, and it should not appear necessary to wait until any other legal gentlemen are returned to the Dail.  I think the legal gentlemen in the last Dail were surprised at the ability with which measures were dealt with by those who have not had any association with the law. 
    
    
      
       I would like to ask the President to give the Dail some indication of what is to be the course of business. 
    
    
      
       I think we have to settle what we have to do about the Committee Stage of this Bill before we take up that question.  Am I to take it that the Committee Stage is to be taken on Wednesday next? 
       Committee Stage postponed to Wednesday, the 10th October. 
    
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT OF THE DAIL. - COURSE OF BUSINESS. 
     
    
      
       I move the adjournment until Wednesday next at 3 o'clock. 
    
    
      
       I second the motion. 
    
    
      
       The adjournment from to-day until this day week involves, as I gather, a discussion, first on the motion of Deputy Burke, the Second Reading Stage of the two Bills which have just been introduced by the Minister for Home Affairs, and the Committee Stage of the Courts of Justice Bill.  I want to ask the President if he can give the Dail some indication of what his intentions are regarding the course of business.  Dail members were given to understand that they were to come to-day presumably to carry on business, but now they may go back to the country, and that, of course, as the Minister for Finance would know if he were here, involves a considerable amount of expense.  If they have to come on Wednesday, I think they would like to know if they have to go back on Thursday, and if it is to be one day a week session, and also if it is the intention to carry on continuously, say, until Christmas, in dealing with the various Bills mentioned in the Address which has been laid on the table. 
    
    
      
       I think I would be able to promise two days' business next week and the following week, and I think it is possible that we may then have to ask for an adjournment. The course of business next week would be the consideration of the two Bills which have just been given First Reading.  The third item, I think, would be the Courts of Justice Bill.  I should say that the whole of the evening will be given to it.  On Thursday the Courts of Justice Bill, if it survives, will be taken up, and also on Friday, and it may be possible to sandwich in during these hours, the debate on the Governor-General's speech.  I take it members would like an opportunity of reading that speech fully, as many matters of legislation   are dealt with in it, and I suppose the policy of the Government will be open to criticism upon it.  I think it is reasonable that members should have an opportunity of studying it before making any statement. 
    
    
      
       When will the Debate on the Governor-General's speech be resumed and how many days will be allotted to its consideration? 
    
     
    
      
       In the last Dail, at no time during its existence did we move the closure.  Every subject got the fullest consideration, and we hope to be able to afford the same facilities in this Dail, so that members will have an opportunity of discussing the Address to their heart's content. 
       The Dail adjourned at 4 p.m. until Wednesday, October 10th, at 3 p.m. 
    
   
   
     
     
     
        ORAID O'N t-SEANASCAL 
     (ADDRESS BY GOVERNOR-GENERAL). 
     Thainig Oireachtas Eireann le cheile ar 2.15 p.m.  Bhi Micheal O hAodha (Ceann Comhairle Dhail Eireann), 'sa chathaoir. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS - (CLERICAL OFFICERS IN PRISON SERVICE&mdash;ALLOWANCE IN LIEU OF UNIFORM). 
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Home Affairs whether it is a fact that, in accordance with Treasury Letter 159/22 and General Prisons Board's Circular 977/22 the clerical officers in the Prisons Service are entitled to an allowance in lieu of uniform equal to the  actual  cost of the uniform supplied to the uniformed ranks; whether he is aware that these officers are, and have been, receiving an allowance equal to the cost of the unmade material, and that the cost of making the uniform has not been included in the allowance; and whether, as this means that those officers are not compensated for the making of their clothing and are not in receipt of an allowance equal to the  actual  cost of the uniform, as laid down in the Letter and Circular above referred to, he will now take the necessary steps to have this matter rectified and the officers put in receipt of the full allowance to which they are entitled? 
    
    
      
       An allowance in lieu of uniform is granted to officers of clerical grades in the Prisons Service. As uniforms for prison officers are made up by prisoners' labour, the actual cost to the State is the cost of the materials, plus five per cent. for wear and tear of tools.  The allowance in question is equivalent to such actual cost. 
    
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS - CIVIL SERVICE BONUSES. 
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether the Civil Service bonus has recently been revised on the English or Irish cost of living figure; whether it is a fact that, according to the cost of living report published by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce the cost of living figure was 91 in March, 1922, and 85 at the first of the present month, showing a decrease of six points; whether during that period the Civil Service bonus has been cut on a decrease of twenty points, and will he now explain by what way this cut has   been arrived at; further, whether he is aware that, in accordance with the Whitley Council cost of living agreement, the bonus should be revised every six months by averaging the index figure on the first of each month for the six months preceding the date of revision; whether the index figure is being only ascertained every three or four months in the Free State, and whether he will now say whether this method of revising the bonus is in accordance with the Whitley Council Agreement. 
    
    
      
       The bonus payable to Civil Servants is revised every 1st March and 1st September by reference to the average Saorstat cost of living figure in the preceding six months.  This average is arrived at for the Saorstat by ascertaining at the middle of each quarter the increase in the cost of living as compared with the pre-war period; the expense involved would not justify the carrying out of this investigation monthly instead of quarterly. 
       The bonus payable by the Saorstat to its Civil Servants is higher than the bonus payable by the British Government to British Civil Servants under the British Agreement referred to in the question.  The relative figures are as follows:&mdash; 
    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Cost of Living figures for purposes of bonus. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             Saorstat. 
             British 
           
           
             For period 1st September, 1922, to 1st March, 1923 
             90 
             85 
           
           
             For period 1st March, 1923, to 1st September, 1923 
             90 
             80 
           
           
             For period 1st September, 1923, to 1st March, 1924 
             85 
             75 
           
         
       
     
    
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that in February, 1922, an Act was passed by the British Parliament whereby the supplemental pension of retired Civil Servants is revised in accordance with the cost of living; whether this Act was not in force at the time the Irish Civil Servants were taken over by the Provisional Government; and, if so, whether he will now   say why this British Act, passed into law after the transfer of the Irish Civil Servants to the Provisional Government, is being applied to those Civil Servants. 
    
    
      
       The method of calculating bonus for the purposes of Civil Service pensions to which the Deputy refers, and which it may be observed was put in force not by an Act of the British Parliament, but by the Treasury as a service regulation, existed prior to the transfer of the Irish Civil Service. 
       No Civil Servant was transferred to the Provisional Government prior to the 1st of April, 1922. 
    
   
 