 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gCeannas ar a 4.45 p.m. 
   
   
     NATIONAL COALITION PANEL JOINT STATEMENT. 
     Following statement signed by Eamon de Valera and Micheal O Coileain read by An Ceann Comhairle:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;We are agreed:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(1)  That a National Coalition Panel for this Third Dail, representing both Parties in the Dail, and in the Sinn Fein Organisation, be sent forward on the ground that the national position requires the entrusting of the Government of the country into the joint hands of those who have been the strength of the national situation during the last few years, without prejudice to their present respective positions. 
     &ldquo;(2)  That this Coalition Panel be sent forward as from the Sinn Fein Organisation, the number for each Party being their present strength in the Dail. 
     &ldquo;(3)  That the Candidates be nominated through each of the existing Party Executives. 
     &ldquo;(4)  That every and any interest is free to go up and contest the election equally with the National Sinn Fein Panel. 
     &ldquo;(5)  That constituencies where an election is not held shall continue to be represented by their present Deputies. 
     &ldquo;(6)  That after the election the Executive shall consist of the President, elected as formerly, the Minister of Defence, representing the Army, and nine other Ministers, five from the majority Party and four from the minority, each Party to choose its own nominees.  The allocation will be in the hands of the President. 
     &ldquo;(7)  That in the event of the Coalition Government finding it necessary to dissolve, a General Election will be held as soon as possible on Adult Suffrage. 
     &ldquo;Signed, Eamon de Valera, Micheal O Coileain.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I moved yesterday a motion that is still before the House on the election.  With the leave of the House now I ask that the motion be amended to this:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Subject to the agreement arrived at between the Minister of Finance and Deputy de Valera and approved by Dail Eireann an election is hereby declared for the following constituencies:&mdash; 
     
     (1) Mid. Dublin; (2) North-West Dublin; (3) South City (Dublin); (4) Borough of Cork; (5) Cavan; (6) Donegal; (7) Monaghan; (8) Dublin; (9) Offaly, Leix; (10) Kildare, Wicklow; (11) Wexford; (12) Carlow, Kilkenny; (13) Longford, Westmeath; (14) Louth, Meath; (15) Clare; (16) East Limerick, Borough of Limerick; (17) Kerry, West Limerick; (18) Cork East, Cork North East; (19) North Cork, Mid. Cork, West Cork, South Cork, South East Cork; (20) Tipperary,   East Waterford, Borough of Waterford; (21) North Tipperary, Mid. Tipperary, South Tipperary; (22) Galway; (23) North Mayo, West Mayo; (24) South Mayo, South Roscommon; (25) East Mayo, Sligo, (26) Leitrim, North Roscommon; (27) National University; (28) Dublin University; dates as follows:&mdash; Nominations, 6th June, 1922; Polling, 16th June, 1922.&rdquo; 
     I ask now the leave of the House to substitute that motion for the motion I have already proposed.  I understand the Whips on both sides have agreed and I just formally move the motion. 
    
      
       Just before the motion is moved, may we take it that the agreement has the approval of the House, or will this motion imply approval? 
     
    
      
       It does not in words. 
     
    
      
       I beg to propose that the agreement be approved. 
     
    
      
       I want to make it quite clear that in moving this motion I meant the approval of the House for this agreement. 
     
    
      
       If it is understood that the motion implies approval of the agreement I have great pleasure in seconding the proposal of the President. 
     
    
      
       If there is any doubt about it, we had better remove that doubt. 
     
    
      
       There is not any doubt. 
     
    
      
       This is a serious matter and there must be no doubt about it.  In moving this motion, I meant the approval of the agreement arrived at.  I want that clearly understood. This motion seems to me to imply the approval of the agreement before the House. 
       Amended motion put and carried unanimously. 
     
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT OF DAIL&mdash;RELIEF GRANT. 
    
      
       I would move now, under the circumstances that have arisen and the hope&mdash;as we all sincerely have who have the interests of our country at heart&mdash;of our working together, as there are certain contentious matters on the programme, that this Dail adjourns until Wednesday week. We have certain work to do and we have the Ard-Fheis on Tuesday.  I move the adjournment of everything on the Orders except one very important matter.  That is a matter, I think, there is no Party feeling about&mdash;what Deputy Cosgrave brought up about the £100,000 vote for the relief of distress.  I think that ought to be dealt with now and after dealing with that we should adjourn.  If, therefore, the Dail agrees I move now that having dealt with the matter of the £100,000 for distress in Ireland the Dail adjourns until Wednesday week. 
     
    
      
       I second that. 
     
    
      
       I have a report from the Joint Committee&mdash;an agreed report&mdash;with regard to that particular report.  It is: 
       &ldquo;The Committee approve of the allocation of £100,000 towards the formulation of definite schemes for the purpose of affording employment in districts where acute distress prevails. 
       &ldquo;The distribution of the grant to be made according as advised by the Committee, subject to the approval of the Ministers of Labour and Local Government. 
       &ldquo;That the Schemes put forward are to be based on the maximum amount of employment locally on construction works. 
       &ldquo;That when real and permanent advantage is derived by any district for works which should be inaugurated within some years a local contribution shall be demanded in accordance with the ability of the local authority in that area. 
       &ldquo;That when it is possible to avail of the machinery of local authorities the Committee shall utilise these bodies in expending monies.  That a sum of £20,000 be made available immediately for the aforementioned purposes. 
       &ldquo;Signed L.T. Mac Cosgair, Art O Conchubhair, Tomas O Donnchadha, P.C. Ruithleis, Domhnall O Cealleachain, Richard Corish, Vincent White, Padraig O Maille, S. MagCraith.&rdquo; 
       Report adopted. 
       Motion for adjournment agreed to. 
     
   
 