 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Thainig an Dail le cheile ar a 5.15 p.m. 
   
   
     UDARAS O SHEANASCAL AN t-SAORSTAIT. 
    
      
       Ta udaras fachta agam o Sheanascal Shaorstait Eireann Teachtai Dhail Eireann do chur fe mhoid.  Ba mhaith liom da dtiocfadh na Teachtai go dti an bord na nduine agus nduine. 
       I have been authorised by the Governor-General of the Irish Free State to administer the oath to the Deputies of Dail Eireann.  I would ask the Deputies to come to the table singly. 
       TEACHTAI DO CHUR FE MHOID NO FE DHEARBHU. 
       The Deputies took and subscribed the Oath in the following order:&mdash; 
       Liam T. MacCosgair. 
       Caoimhghin O h-Uigin. 
       Eamon O Dugain. 
       Eoin Mac Neill. 
       Risteard O Maolchatha. 
       Earnan de Blaghd. 
       Padraig O hOgain. 
       Seosamh Mag Craith. 
       Deasmhumhain Mac Gearailt. 
       Seamus Breathnach. 
       Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. 
       Sean O Maolruaidh. 
       Criostoir O Broin. 
       Risteard O hAodha. 
       Liam Mac Sioghaird. 
       Seoirse Ghabhain Ui Dhubhthaigh. 
       Uinseann de Faoite. 
       Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. 
       Peadar O hAodha. 
       Sir Seamus Craig. 
       Tomas O Domhnall. 
       Aindriu O Laimhin. 
     
     
        Liam Thrift. 
     Peadar Mac a Bhaird. 
     Earnan Altun. 
     Seoirse Mac Niocaill. 
     Sean Mac Garaidh. 
     Proinsias Bulfin. 
     Sean O hAodha. 
     Proinsias Mag Aonghusa. 
     Micheal de Staineas. 
     Gearoid Mac Giobuin. 
     Sean Mac Haol. 
     Seosamh O Faoileachain. 
     Darghal Figes. 
     Padhraic O Maille. 
     Seamus de Burca. 
     Domhnall Mac Cartaigh. 
     Micheal O hAonghusa. 
     Pilib Mac Cosgair. 
     Piaras Beaslai. 
     Seamus O Dolain. 
     Seosamh Mag Fhionnlaoich. 
     Seamus Cruadhlaoich. 
     Padraig O Braonain. 
     Eoin O Dubhthaigh. 
     Sean O Lideadha. 
     Fionan O Loingsigh. 
     Liam O hAodha. 
     Donnchadh O Guaire. 
     Sean O Ruanaidh. 
     Risteard Mac Liam. 
     Domhnall O Broin. 
     Micheal O Dubhghaill. 
     Sean O Duinnin. 
     Liam Mag Aonghusa. 
     Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. 
     Ailfrid O Broin. 
     Micheal de Duram. 
     Seamus O Murchadha. 
     Domhnall O Mochain. 
     Padraig Mag Ualghairg. 
     Tomas Mac Eoin. 
     Cathal O Seanain. 
     Liam O Briain. 
     Tomas O Conaill. 
     Gearoid O Suileabhain. 
     Alasdair Mac Caba. 
     Liam O Daimhin. 
     Domhnall O Ceallachain. 
     Risteard Mac Fheorais. 
     Aodh O Culachain. 
     Nioclas O Faoileain. 
     Domhnall O Muirgheasa. 
     Tomas de Nogla. 
     Sean Buitleir. 
     Sean Laidhin. 
     Riobard O Deaghaidh. 
     Sean Mac Eoin. 
     
    
      
       Before proceeding with the business on the Agenda I would like to make a short statement. It is as follows: On the occasion of making our Declaration of Allegiance to the Constitution of Saorstat Eireann and of faithfulness to King George V. we desire to place on record the following:&mdash;&ldquo;In conforming to clause 17 of the Constitution we follow the practice of the political parties of the workers in all countries where Capitalism is the established order, whether it works through the institutions of a Monarchy or through the Institutions of a Republic.  We recognise the act of taking an &ldquo;Oath of Allegiance&rdquo; as a formality, a condition of Membership of the Legislature, implying no obligation other than the ordinary obligation of every person who accepts the privileges of citizenship.  In complying with such a condition of membership we are giving effect to the will of the organised workers, that we should through our election endeavour to influence the laws and the administration thereof, in such manner as will lighten the burden of the poor, remove the evils of unemployment, bring to realisation the ideals of justice and liberty and finally lead to the dethronement of Capitalism and the substitution therefor of a Commonwealth based upon labour and service.  The terms of the Treaty between Great Britain and Ireland signed on the 6th December, 1921, and the clauses of the Constitution conditioned by that Treaty concerning the relations between Great Britain and Ireland are accepted by us, as they are accepted by the people generally, under protest, having been imposed upon Ireland by the threat of superior force, and were not freely determined by the people of Ireland or their representatives. We make our Declaration of Allegiance intending to fulfil our pledge, with the proviso that if at any time it shall be deemed wise and expedient by the people of Ireland in the exercise of their sovereign right to denounce the Treaty or alter or amend the Constitution, in any respect whatever, nothing in our Declaration of Allegiance shall be a barrier to our freedom of action.  We desire further to record that in promising to be faithful to King George V. and his successors we also promise to be equally faithful to   the men and women of all nations whether they be rulers or subjects, heads of States or plain citizens.&rdquo; 
       That is signed by all the Labour Party, and practically says for our Party what was said by the representatives of the other parties in the last Dail in January last. 
     
   
   
     ELECTION OF CEANN COMHAIRLE. 
    
      
       I have the honour to propose the selection of Micheal O hAodha as Ceann Comhairle. He has discharged the duties of the office of Chairman for some time past to the entire satisfaction of all the Members of the Dail.  The task of presiding is an enormous one and to some extent a hazardous one.  During his term of office, he has shown remarkable ability. He has been extremely courteous and has shown very good temper.  I suppose it would be out of order to say that he has shown unusual temper.  We are entering on the real work of the Parliament and it will require all the ability of the Chairman to regulate the business in such a way that the reputation he has earned and the distinguished character this Assembly has achieved will be maintained. I believe I am giving expression to the unanimous wish of this Assembly in moving that Deputy Hayes be elected Ceann Comhairle. 
     
    
      
       I have the greatest possible pleasure in seconding the proposal of Deputy Cosgrave.  I endorse emphatically, and with the greatest pleasure, everything he has said in regard to Deputy Hayes, whose conduct in the Chair during these last few weeks shows that he has grip and method in conducting business, and an impartiality which I am sure gives satisfaction to every Member of the Dail.  I have great pleasure indeed in seconding the motion. 
     
    
      
       The motion before the Dail is that Micheal O hAodha be elected as Ceann Comhairle. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       Is breagh liom-sa an onoir ata sibh ag tabhairt dom, am' thogha aris mar Cheann Comhairle, agus nil le radh agam ach an rud ceudhna a dubhras nuair a toghadh   cheana me; se sin&mdash;&ldquo;go ndeunfad mo dhicheall chun cothrom na Feinne do thabhairt do gach Teachta pe dream gur ab as e agus pe saghas duine e fein.&rdquo; 
       I deeply appreciate the honour that you have conferred upon me by choosing me as Ceann Comhairle of the Dail, and I think I could not say any more in acknowledgment of that honour than what I said before.  I shall do my very best, whether successfully or unsuccessfully, to see that the business is properly carried out, and to see that every Deputy, whether belonging to a Party or whether a Party in himself, will get the utmost consideration and the utmost fair play. 
     
   
   
     LEAS CHEANN COMHAIRLE DO THOGHA. 
    
      
       Is mor an athas dom tairisgint go dtoghfar Padhraic O Maille mar Leas Cheann Comhairle.  Thug se cothrom na Feinne do ghach duine, suas le seo. 
     
    
      
       Cuidighim le sin. 
       Aontuithe. 
     
    
      
       A Chathaoirligh agus a lucht na Dala, taim an-bhuidheach dibh mar gheall gur thoghadh sibh mise agus geallaim dibh go ndeunfad mo dhicheall ach ni folair dom a radh gur beag ata le deanamh agam mar ta an Ceann Comhairle go h-an-dhubhrachtach agus mar sin, ni chuireann se moran oibre orm a dheanamh. 
       Thangamar go leir annso chun ar ndicheall do dheanamh ar son na tire, agus taim cinnte go ndeanfar e agus go dtiurbhfaidh an Pairlimint seo bealach agus slighe do'n naisiun Gaedhealach le tuilleamh fais a dheanamh, san gcaoi go mbeidh Eire chomh saor le tir ar bith eile san domhan.  Ni dhearfad a thuille anois ach buidheachas aris do thabhairt dibh mar gheall ar mise do thoghadh. 
     
   
   
     ELECTION OF PRESIDENT. 
    
      
       I rise to nominate one who I believe will do this Dail and this country infinite credit in the position of President.  He has been before the Dail and before the country for a considerable time, and the person I am going to nominate   for your acceptance is the man who has been in charge for the last few months of the destinies of this country, and he has justified himself.  That man is Deputy Liam T. MacCosgair.  I do not believe that it wants any words from me to recommend Deputy MacCosgair to this Dail, or this Nation.  He is going to have during his term of office, perhaps, a troublesome, and perhaps a stormy time, but I am sure, with the Deputies here from all over the country at his back, that, from what we know of him, he will carry that office through, and carry it successfully.  There is no use &ldquo;painting the lily&rdquo; as we all know the abilities of Deputy MacCosgair. We in the Dail know him, and the people in the country know him, and without saying any more I propose Deputy Liam T. MacCosgair for the Presidency. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second the proposition of Deputy Hughes.  When the Provisional Government came into office we looked around for our strongest man, and we found him.  We are satisfied that he has done his duty faithfully and well, and I have the greatest possible confidence in his future Presidency of the Free State. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Deputy Liam T. MacCosgair be elected President of Dail Eireann.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADOPTION OF STANDING ORDERS. 
    
      
       Before the President makes a statement we might take the next item on the Orders of the Day&mdash;Temporary adoption of Standing Orders. 
     
    
      
       I beg formally to propose the adoption of the Standing Orders temporarily. 
     
    
      
       Standing Orders of the Provisional Dail. 
     
    
      
       May we understand what is meant?  Is it the Standing Orders that have been only temporary that are being adopted?  Are we to consider these are being adopted temporarily, or are we adopting them subject to the normal course of alteration? 
     
    
      
       I think that is the view, subject to alterations, that the Committee on Procedure might recommend. 
     
     
    
      
       I desire to second the motion. 
     
    
      
       Is it not a fact that the Standing Orders are at present in force, because this is not the Lower House, but still the Constituent Assembly, which is authorised by the Constitution to continue to assemble as if it were the Lower House of the Oireachtas. It is the same body was sitting all the time, and I do not think any new Standing Orders are necessary. 
     
    
      
       Supposing we agree that the present Standing Orders should continue as our Standing Orders. 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       Certain additions will be suggested very shortly.  The next business is No. 7.  A Committee of Dail Eireann to appoint Ministers who shall not be members of the Executive Council as set down in accordance with Article 55 of the Constitution.  It provides that every such Minister shall be nominated by Dail Eireann on the recommendation of a Committee of Dail Eireann chosen by a method to be determined by Dail Eireann so as to be impartially representative of Dail Eireann.  The matter was raised at the Committee of Procedure on one occasion, and certain suggestions were made.  Committees heretofore have consisted of not more than nine members, and I think it was suggested that the Committee should be a much larger one, say 15, and that nominations should be taken, and the Committee elected by proportional representation.  Deputies might, perhaps, be inclined to express their views as to whether that course should be adopted or not.  It would be necessary under the Standing Orders to give the Committee terms of reference, to fix a date for report, and fix a quorum. 
     
    
      
       I would think that it is impossible to give the Committee its terms of reference until we know what Ministries will be included in the Executive Council in the President's nomination, but if there was any inclination to discuss it we could discuss the number of the quorum and the date by which the Committee should be asked to report.  Then it would be a matter of   discussing merely the precise terms of reference when the President had announced his nominations.  I think 15 would probably be a very good number. The recommendations submitted by the Committee will have to be passed afterwards by the Dail, and it would be desirable that the Committee should be very fully represented, so that there will be as little risk as possible of these recommendations being turned down by the Dail.  I would also be inclined to fix the quorum at a pretty high figure, perhaps 11 or so. 
     
    
      
       I think that the necessity for preparing the terms of reference will not arise until the Committee has been elected.  Consequently that need not delay us.  I agree with the suggested number of 15, and that the quorum should be a high one, perhaps not less than 10, and, I think, as we have already experienced the procedure, to insure that the Committee should be impartially representative of the Dail, and for the purpose of making it a precedent for future elections of the same kind, we should have that Committee elected by the method of the Single Transferable Vote. If it is in order I would propose that. 
     
    
      
       Strictly it is necessary to state the terms of reference, but that could be waived for the moment.  If we get all the other details first it would expedite matters. 
     
    
      
       Is it not a fact that these outside Ministers might be chosen&mdash;I do not see that there is any likelihood that they would be, but they might be chosen&mdash;from amongst members of the Seanad?  If so, it scarcely seems to me that the Committee could proceed with the elections until the choice of a Seanad by this Dail has been completed. My impression is that under the Constitution it is provided that these Ministers who are not members of the Excutive Council might be chosen for Members of the Seanad. 
     
    
      
       Nothing is provided; it is presumed that they may. 
     
    
      
       Presumed that they may, but if so&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       If they become members of the Seanad they will not be precluded. 
     
     
    
      
       It would seem that the Committee would be in great difficulty. 
     
    
      
       That rather arises when the Committee has been elected, but I think it will take at least two days to elect the Committee, and after the Committee has been elected the names of those who are to be in the Seanad, those nominated by the President and those elected by the Dail, will be known. 
     
    
      
       I was going to suggest that we should not go further than the choice of the Committee at the present stage. 
     
    
      
       We cannot go further than to say how many members there shall be and how they shall be elected.  This Motion is proposed: &ldquo;That a Committee of the Dail, consisting of 15 Deputies, shall be appointed, in accordance with Article 55 of the Constitution, to make nominations of Ministers who will not be members of the Executive Council; that the Committee shall be appointed by the Single Transferable Vote and that the quorum of such Committee shall be ten.&rdquo; There is nothing in that motion except the setting up of the machinery for electing the Committee.  It will be necessary to say what the last day for the nominations would be and when the voting papers will be taken up. 
     
    
      
       They may be nominated now verbally. 
     
    
      
       Is it presumed that the Ceann Comhairle will be the Returning Officer?  I think it would be better if we had the nominations formally.  Do I take this motion as being agreed? 
     
    
      
       There is one matter, I suggest, that may perhaps have been omitted from the wording of the motion and that should be considered; that not merely the filling of certain Ministries might not be included in the Executive Council and that the Committee might suggest a re-constitution of these Ministries.  It is rather an important matter. 
     
    
      
       That is for the terms of reference. 
     
    
      
       That will arise in the discussion when we come to   the terms of reference.  Our terms of reference will have to be very explicit as to whether they are included or excluded. That is the process, I think, clearly. 
     
    
      
       I think that the motion, as it stands, is perfectly correct. Perhaps it would be well to fix the latest time for receiving nominations for this Committee, as the hour at which the Dail shall rise to-morrow, and the election should then be made at the first possible date. 
     
    
      
       I do not think that we are well advised in being rushed into the adoption of any procedure at the present time.  I think that we will be in a much better position to judge the course to pursue when we have heard the President's statement and the officers that will be elected to the Executive Council.  The balance of officers might be open to discussion.  Personally, there is one I have in mind, that I propose to make a certain motion on, but before we know what the proposed nominations that are to be made are, we will have to know what number of offices are going to be filled.  We will be much wiser in that respect when the President has finished his statement, and I respectfully suggest that we adjourn the whole consideration of the matter until then. We are bound to appoint a Committee by the Constitution, in any case, whatever else may happen, and the only question is whether that Committee should be appointed now in the interval. 
     
    
      
       I take it that this discussion is quite informal, because it has not been moved, and I am strongly opposed to that. 
     
    
      
       I formally seconded the motion, and did not speak on it because I took it as a formal motion to the Dail.  There is no reason why the motion should not be discussed, debated, accepted, and, if necessary, divided on now.  It does not require the Dail to wait until the President nominates his members of the Executive Council before we can set up a Council to nominate members who are not members of the Executive Council.  No one has suggested that this evening the Ministers who are not members of the Executive Council should be nominated or discussed.  All that is the business of the Committee we propose to set up.  I   do not see why there should be any delay, but as some precision may be required on the Terms of Reference, the sooner we get to work upon the decision to appoint a Committee the better.  All that has been asked by Deputy Johnson's resolution is to appoint that Committee by a certain method, and to make a certain number of that Committee a quorum, but that does not commit anyone to pick any particular Deputy for membership of the Committee, much less as Minister in any Executive Council. 
     
    
      
       The Standing Order which governs the appointment of a Committee is No. 46. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order, the procedure we adopted a few moments ago was that we disposed of items 3 and 4, and it was suggested that we should take the next&mdash;No. 5.  I suggest we should proceed in the order on the paper. This discussion, after all, is quite informal, as you yourself said. 
     
    
      
       I do not remember saying so.  The motion made was quite regular.  Standing Order 46 says:&mdash;&ldquo;In addition to the Committees consisting of the whole of the Dail, the Dail may appoint Special Committees upon motions appearing on the Agenda. Such motion shall, save as otherwise provided in these Standing Orders, specifically state the terms of reference to the Committee, define the powers devolved upon them, nominate the members to act upon them state the quorum in each case, and, if necessary, fix a date upon which they shall report back to the Dail. 
     
    
      
       If we are going to strictly observe the Standing Orders we have to refer back to Standing Order 12, which points out that there must be four days' notice of a motion.  It is obviously impossible we could have four days' notice of this motion, but, of course, it can be taken by general consent. 
     
    
      
       I suggest we should arrange the basis of representation from the various parties in the Dail.  I suggest that the Government should nominate their members, and that each party should have one representative to every six of its members, or a fraction of six over four.  That would give the Government   eleven, our people one, the Independents one, and Labour two. 
     
    
      
       The Committee might be appointed now if no objection is taken. 
     
   
   
     STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT. 
    
      
       On this notable day when our country has definitely emerged from the bondage under which she has lived through a week of centuries, I cannot deny that I feel intensely proud to be the first man called to preside over the first Government which takes over the control of the destiny of our people, to hold and administer that charge, answerable only to our own people and to none other; to conduct their affairs as they shall declare right without interference, not to say domination, by any other authority whatsoever on this earth. 
       I appreciate the honour of the position to which I am called amongst my own people. 
       Yet if it is a note of appreciation rather than of gratitude, that will surprise no one who has watched for the past twelve months since the Treaty between this country and our old enemy was signed; the futile struggle; the unnecessary sufferings and bloodshed which have been inflicted upon our people at the behest of a small minority, inspired whether with vanity or I know not what. 
       Twelve months which might have been spent conserving the fruits of our struggle have been wasted in resisting the mad efforts of those who first called upon the people to throw aside these fruits and go again into the battle and then took up arms in order that they might, by violence and tyranny, wrench from the people what they had won, what the age-long struggle had given them and which the people in truth, as they have shown by many a demonstration, prized most dearly. 
     
     We have had to dissipate our energies in trying to hold what we have won&mdash; not from those lately our enemies, but from those, many of whom fought with us of old, who set their own narrowness or what they would call intellectualism against the broad good sense of the people&mdash;and here let me say that from   the hour when the British people were committed to the Treaty by signature of their delegates and the approval of their Parliament, they have never tried to whittle down by one iota the fullness of what they had yielded back to us.  They have stood by the letter and the spirit of that bargain with unscrupulous and undeviating good faith. 
     I have just received from the Prime Minister of England, Mr. Bonar Law, a telegram, and it is as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;On the inauguration of the Irish Free State I desire on behalf of my colleagues and myself to convey to you a message of greetings and goodwill. You may be assured that we on our part will do all that lies in our power to further the common ends we have both in view&mdash;the peace and prosperity of Ireland and the lasting concord between the two countries.&rdquo; 
     Would that we could hope that the same could be said of ourselves and our own people; but the stipulated year of preparation has passed and in fulfilment of their bond the proclamation has gone forth to-day acknowledging on behalf of the British people the existence of the Irish Free State which we call Saorstat Eireann, acknowledging that another nation has been admitted to take her place in that group of nations, formerly an Empire, but now a free partnership, in which all are equal, and we may pause for a moment to think of what it means. 
     The present position of the free nations which constitute the British Commonwealth is something that every Irishman should examine, know and dwell upon. 
     I will not give you my own statement of what that position now means. 
     I will tell you what the most British of British statesmen have admitted that it means. 
     I am not even asking you to take what a great Dominion statesman like General Smuts says about it. 
     The words that I am about to quote are the words of Lord Milner, who, in July, 1919, said:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;The only possibility of a continuance of the British Empire is on a basis of absolute out and out equal partnership between the United Kingdom and the Dominions.&rdquo; 
     In March, 1920, he said:&mdash; 
     
       &ldquo;The United Kingdom and the Dominions are partner nations not yet indeed of equal power, but for good and all of equal status.&rdquo; 
     Mr. Balfour wrote in the  London Times  so far back as February, 1911&mdash; and I would remind you that there has been great development since that time in Dominion status.  He wrote this:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Legally, the British Parliament has supremacy over the Parliament of Canada and Australia, of the Cape and of South Africa, but in reality, these Parliaments are absolutely independent.&rdquo; 
     So that General Smuts did not merely make a claim, but he asserted a real position when he said in September, 1919:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;We have received the position of absolute equality and freedom, not only among other States of the Empire, but among other nations of the world.&rdquo; 
     I take these passages to-day as summing up for you in vivid fashion the great accomplishment which this day signalises. 
     It was because of their vision and their understanding of what it all meant and stood for, that the two great leaders whom we have so lately lost, boldly asked the Irish people to accept that position, and that almost unlimited measure of freedom and independence which the Treaty offered. 
     We whom they have left behind to carry on their great work come to appeal again to the people who stand out in arms against this Agreement&mdash;not merely agreement, but against this free Constitution, the work of their own countrymen &mdash;to open their eyes and to realise, for they must be dreaming, to realise the fact that freedom is in their hands, though they know it not. 
     Let me say a word as to North East Ulster.  Our position is very simple and very clear.  We stand by the Treaty signed by our plenipotentiaries and by which we are bound in honour; hence our Northern policy, as our policy in every other sphere, must be construed with respect to the signed Articles. I have been informed that the North Eastern Parliament is to meet immediately to decide whether it will join us on the terms of the Treaty (which I   will refer to presently).  It is not for me to anticipate what that decision will be, but I do in all sincerity and goodwill and for all our people say that we are looking Northwards with hope and confidence that, whether now or very soon the people of that corner of our land will come in with the rest of the Irish Nation, and share with us its Government as well as the great prosperity and happiness which must certainly follow concord and union.  Let them, we beg them, weigh well the substantial guarantees assured to them in the event of their deciding to recognise the Treaty position, as it regards them. 
     See what it means.  By the very Treaty itself they would be guaranteed in perpetuity, securely entrenched, for ever, you might say, in every inch of territory that for the moment is under their control.  This is guaranteed by Article 14 of the Treaty, which provides that after the expiration of the month, and in the event of the North Eastern Parliament not opting out, &ldquo;the Parliament and Government of Northern Ireland shall continue to exercise, as respects Northern Ireland, the power conferred on them by the Government of Ireland Act, 1920,&rdquo; and the Parliament and Government of the Free State shall assume the position with regard to the Northern Parliament which the British Parliament holds at present.  In other words, the Provincial Parliament of Northern Ireland is guaranteed for ever, or so long as it wishes, in its present territory in the event of the North East deciding to remain with the Free State. 
     By the Treaty we are precluded, even if we wished, from removing their Government or interfering in any way with their domestic legislation, and their development along their particular traditional lines. 
     Should they decide to remain with us, not only will they have all the powers over Local Government, Education, Public Works, Agriculture, Old Age Pensions, etc., and the limited powers of taxing which they at present enjoy, but they will have the following further very substantial privileges:&mdash; 
     (1)  According to Article 26 of the Free State Constitution the people of the Six Counties would have a representation of about 51 members in the   Dail.  At present they have only 13 members altogether in Westminster in a Parliament of 600 odd members. 
     (2)  The Queen's University of Belfast would have three members in the Dail, like Trinity College and the National University, as against the solitary member Queen's sends to the British House. 
     (3)  The majority in the Six Counties could combine with the minority in the Twenty-six Counties to elect under Proportional Representation at least a fourth of the elected representation of the Senate. 
     (4)  The administrative expenses of a land Customs boundary (for which the North Eastern Government will be liable to a share as apportioned by the Joint Exchequer Board) and the inevitable and unavoidable depressing effects on commerce resulting from such a fiscal separation would be avoided. 
     These are only some of the material advantages resulting from such a Union as the Treaty provides for.  There are many others too numerous to single out now. 
     On the other hand, should they decide to cut themselves off from all contact with us, we will regret very much such a decision.  We will consider it both inopportune and unwise, believing, as we do, that it is bound to have disastrous reactions on Northern enterprise.  Nevertheless, as they are perfectly entitled to take this course under the Treaty, we are bound to respect such a decision in the event of its coming to pass. 
     I have noticed from time to time that prominent members of the North Eastern Government in their public utterances credit us and our supporters with a desire to force under our Government those portions of Ulster in which there is a majority of the inhabitants against remaining within the jurisdiction of the Free State. 
     Believe me, nothing is further from our intention.  So far as I know or can discover, nobody in the Free State cherishes this crude wish, save that small minority who support the calamitous policy of Mr. De Valera and, his Irregulars, with whom, of course, those who have the faintest idea of conditions in Ireland would never think of confusing us. 
     
        On the other hand, whilst we will observe our bond with those people in the North East who may not want us, we must not, cannot, forget our solemn pledges to those great sections of the population in the Six Counties who  do  want us, and who are crying out daily to be included in the Irish Free State.  They have not been forgotten either in the Treaty.  Article 12, that part of it at any rate, which deals with the Boundary Commission, has been specially put in to rectify these cases of obvious injustice. As Mr. Lloyd George, the chief British signatory to the Treaty, very justly remarked on the 15th December, 1921, when explaining this portion of the Treaty:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;If Ulster is to remain a separate community you can only by means of coercion keep them there (meaning by that, in this particular instance, the majority of the inhabitants of the two counties of Tyrone and Fermanagh), and although I am against the coercion of Ulster, I do not believe in Ulster coercing other units.&rdquo; 
     This is very fair and proper, and I am sure every reasonable man agrees with this statement of the British ex-Premier. Why there has ever been the slightest confusion about this part of the Treaty I could never understand.  It is perfectly clear and perfectly definite, and we stand by it. 
     The British Government and our Government are pledged to see that the wishes of the inhabitants in the various parts of the Six Counties are respected in this connection.  It is part and parcel of the Treaty.  There is certainly no intention of acting otherwise.  To do so would be to acquiesce in a great injustice, more so now than ever, after the result of the recent Election in the great constituency of Tyrone-Fermanagh.  That constituency was contested on the sole issue as to whether the people wanted to remain with the Free State, or go out with Antrim, North Down, and other parts under the North Eastern Parliament. The result was a vast and unmistakable majority of over 6,000 for remaining within the Free State&mdash;a verdict which it is impossible to ignore. 
     In so far as my Government and myself are concerned we shall say nothing, nor do anything, that may in any way hold apart from us that part of the   Province of Ulster now separated or retard the advent of that union which alone can bring real harmony, and lasting and genuine security to our Common Motherland. 
   
   
     NOMINATIONS TO EXECUTIVE COUNCIL. 
    
      
       My nomination as President of the Executive Council has been approved by the Governor-General, and I now nominate the other six Members constituting the Executive Council. I nominate for the approval of the Dail Deputy Kevin O'Higgins as Vice-President and Minister for Home Affairs; General Mulcahy, as Minister for Defence; Deputy Eoin MacNeill, as Minister for Education; Deputy Earnan de Blaghd, as Minister for Local Government; Deputy Joseph McGrath, as Minister for Industry and Commerce; and Deputy Desmond Fitzgerald, as Minister for External Affairs.  While moving those, I would like to say that recently, in reviewing the business of the various Departments of the Government, we set up a Committee called the Government Contracts Committee, which is placed under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and there is general approval, so far as the Ministry is concerned, that this particular new service would require the association of another person, either as Assistant Minister or as Minister to be responsible for that particular service.  I think it would be better that the appointment should be at first that of Assistant Minister, as the Ministry in question has perhaps the best possible means of ascertaining what the duties of this particular Ministry should be.  It would be possible to discover during the next six or eight months whether a particular and separate Ministry ought to be set up for that service, or whether an Assistant Minister should be appointed acting under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and so enable us after the Elections had taken place to be in a better position to recommend to the Dail what in our opinion is the best means for dealing with that particular matter.  I would suggest to the Dail the appointment of an Assistant Minister in order to give us an opportunity of seeing what the result would be. 
     
     
        There was one other matter that I thought, after consultation with my colleagues, would be, in my opinion, necessary. We have now got, or we will have after next Monday or Tuesday, a Second House.  That House will be dealing with business which has been sent from here. It may initiate legislation and it will generally have pretty much the same amount of business to transact as we have here in this House, and we have come to the conclusion, after considering the matter at very considerable length, that some liaison between the two Houses would be necessary.  I would ask the Dail, as far as that is concerned, to approve of the appointment of a Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry.  I think it would be better if he were appointed a Minister.  He would be in a position to attend either House and to summon whatever Ministers would be necessary to deal with any matter arising in the conduct of the business, either from the point of view of the Executive Council or of this Dail.  At any rate those two appointments are, in my own opinion, necessary, if not vital, to our business. After six or seven or eight months, when the Elections will have been held, we will certainly be in a better position to see what the necessities of the case are, but I think the Members will generally agree, having regard to our experience here, and the pressure of business in taking over various departments, in dealing with the administration, in bringing in legislation, and so on, that the Ministry will certainly have for six or eight months, and possibly for a much longer period, a great many more duties to perform than will be the case, say, in one, two or three years' time.  I think the Dail, after considering the matter, will come to the conclusion that I put before them now that those two offices ought to be granted&mdash;in the first case an Assistant to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and in the second case the Cabinet should have the advantage of this Parliamentary Secretary. The Minister for Finance should be in that Cabinet and I am nominating myself for that office. 
    
      
       Has this to be seconded? 
     
     
    
      
       It is merely a nomination by the President, and it does not require a seconder. 
     
    
      
       Would I be in order in expressing my regret that the President has included in the Executive Council the Office of Minister for Education.  I have not any intention of touching the personnel of the Ministry, but I think it is an unfortunate precedent that the Ministry for Education should become one of the political offices that is contemplated in the Constitution. I think everybody who discussed the question of the Constitution and the Executive Council and the possibility of other Ministers being appointed by the Dail had in mind that the Ministry of Education would be removed from the category of party political Ministries.  I am very sorry indeed that the President has been advised to include as one of the Executive Council the Minister for Education.  In regard to the two other Ministers, an Assistant Minister as suggested in one case, and in the other a Parliamentary Secretary, I can only say that the Dail will be bound by the Constitution, I presume, and such persons will have to be Ministers or heads of Departments, and until the functions of those Ministers are defined and the Departments over which they will preside are indicated, it seems to me that we have no option but to defer the appointment of this Assistant and Parliamentary Secretary until some new arrangements are made.  So far as the other Ministries are concerned we are bound, I think. 
     
    
      
       I think Parliamentary Secretaries are different.  I would like to give the characters of Ministers to them, so that there would be no difficulty with regard to the Seanad.  Regarding what Mr. Johnson has said about the Minister for Education, we must, I think generally admit that the Ministry of Education is a sort of institution in itself.  That is rather unfortunate.  The Executive Council in this case requires I think such a person.  Ordinarily this particular type of Ministry would have been much more happy had it come into operation after the next election.  To place upon seven individuals now the sole political responsibilities that Deputy Johnson outlined is certainly placing a very large responsibility on a very small   number of men.  It is with very, very deep regret that I have not included the Minister for Agriculture.  I feel that very keenly.  I know the ability he has shown, the attention he has given, the energy he has thrown into his work and the usefulness of his counsel and advice in the Executive Council.  I have put in the Minister for Education in this case not so much from the point of view of his service as a Minister, but from the point of view of the individual.  I think the appointment would certainly have very general approval from the people, and at the present moment one must certainly look to such a matter as that in making up the Executive Council.  With regard to the Parliamentary Secretaries, I do not think it an unreasonable request.  I would like to dignify them by the name of Ministers so that there would be no difficulty with regard to the other House, because I look for great results from the other House.  I would like that our relations with it would commence to be very cordial, and it is possible that they might resent the appointment as a liaison with that institution of a person not properly clothed by this Dail with responsibility. 
     
    
      
       Would it not be better to take up the nomination of the six Ministers, and then take up this question when we are discussing the terms of reference for the Committee. We have to get the assent of the Dail for these six names. 
     
    
      
       Very good. 
     
    
      
       I would like to disabuse the mind of the President of the thought that he might have, that I had any desire to exclude from the Executive Council the recent Minister for Education. 
     
    
      
       I know that. 
     
    
      
       I certainly expected and would desire that that Minister would be a member of the Executive Council, but I was hopeful that he would not be at the same time Minister for Education. not because he is not fully worthy of the office, but because I desire that the office should be detached from the political body called the Executive Council.  Further, I think one might say that the conception that what might be called or have been called External   Ministers are to be unavailable for consultation, is quite apart from my view of what the intention of the Constitution is.  I imagine they will always be available for consultation and discussion to the fullest extent that the Executive Council desires.  As regards the question of the Liaison Officer, I imagine that can be got over very easily and that the communication between this Dail, the Upper House, and the Senate, the Lower House can be managed quite satisfactorily even without the appointment of a separate Ministry. 
     
    
      
       I do not want to detain the Dail very long, but before this list of nominated members of the Executive Council is passed I might refer to one of them.  That is the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.  I understand there has been no change in the relation between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, since the Provisional Government was inaugurated in this House.  I am still of opinion that a serious blunder was made in merging these two Departments.  I propose some time in the near future to initiate a discussion by motion on that and to ask the Dail to agree to the reconstitution of the Ministry of Labour as a separate Ministry or Department.  If the Government can show that what they have done is the wise thing, I am anxious to give them that opportunity; but I think they will find it very difficult to indicate that such is the case.  I do not want vital factors in the life of the country, such as Industry and Commerce, to meet the same fate as the Seanad which is being put into the Museum.  I am given to understand the Seanad is to be housed there.  I merely wish to give notice that such is my intention.  I think it is a profound mistake and one which is calculated to vitally jeopardise the most important interest of the country.  That may happen if this present arrangement is continued. 
     
    
      
       The President has nominated for the Executive Council, Mr. Kevin O'Higgins, as Vice-President and Minister for Home Affairs; General Mulcahy, Minister for Defence; Eoin MacNeill, Minister for Education; Ernest Blythe, as Minister for Local Government; Desmond Fitzgerald, Minister for External Affairs;   and Joseph McGrath, as Minister for Industry and Commerce.  It is necessary to get the assent of the Dail to these nominations.  Do I take it that that assent is given? 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       Would the Minister say what Ministries, in his opinion, are requisite, apart from the Ministries he has already indicated? 
     
    
      
       The Ministries I want are connected with Agriculture and the Post Office.  I would certainly ask the Dail to give us a Ministry of Fisheries. I do not anticipate the person appointed to that office will be able to show any remarkable results for a long period, but I think he would be necessary.  Those are the only Ministries I know of at the moment.  I have suggested an Assistant Minister for Industries and Commerce, and I would ask the Dail to very carefully consider that matter before they reject it.  It is well known that this particular Ministry has under its control a great number of services which, in our view, cannot well be distributed amongst different heads, or apportioned to different Ministries.  These Ministries require co-ordination.  A particular service administered by this particular Ministry would require the special attention of a particular individual.  We know we have a Railway Commission, and we know that these conferences in connection with the railways take a very long time.  I think I have already told the Dail that it practically broke down the health of the Minister for Agriculture during the time he was acting as substitute Minister in the absence of Deputy McGrath.  I think it will be found in the long run that particular Ministry will always require an Assistant Minister, and it would be a mistake to divide it up because you will not get the best results if you do divide it up. 
     
    
      
       May I suggest that the proposal of the Minister could be quite correctly, formally and rightly dealt with by a recommendation from the Minister to the Dail, that an assistant should be appointed?  He would be in a different category from one of the external Ministers provided for in the Constitution. 
     
    
      
       Very good. 
     
     
    
      
       Under the terms of the Constitution seven Ministers only are allowed to be appointed members of the Executive Council.  Is this Assistant Minister to be a member of the Executive Council? 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
    
      
       This Assistant Minister would not have the power of sitting on the Executive Council although he might be working in the same department?  Is that the idea? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       What we next require are the terms of reference for the Committee which is to appoint the other Ministers. 
     
    
      
       The terms of reference are not easy things to draft, and they are peculiarly difficult things to draft in any body as large as this.  A small committee of two or three should be appointed to suggest terms of reference, and these terms could come before us, say, to-morrow.  They should be as brief as possible, and inclusive of the range of matter to be covered. 
     
    
      
       The Ministries suggested are Agriculture, Post Office, Fisheries, and a Minister to deal with relations between this Dail and the Seanad, and in addition an Assistant Minister.  Is the Assistant Minister independent of the 12 mentioned in the Constitution? 
     
    
      
       No.  I do not mind so long as you give him to me. 
     
    
      
       Do the Ministers suggested now exhaust all the possible Ministries?  Would it be possible to have any further Ministries after that? 
     
    
      
       If it is found desirable to create any further Ministry, I will come here and ask for it. 
     
    
      
       It is not possible to have more than twelve Ministers under the Constitution.  That is quite plain. 
     
    
      
       If the President comes down to the Dail can he ask for more than twelve? 
     
    
      
       He can. 
     
    
      
       Does this list exhaust the number?  If it does, I would like to know it. 
     
     
    
      
       Under the Constitution, when you reach the figure twelve you stop. 
     
    
      
       He has not reached it yet.  You have seven Ministers, and then there is the Postmaster-General and the Minister for Agriculture; that is nine, and the Assistant Ministers were spoken of. 
     
    
      
       I suggest a Minister for Forestry, Reclamation and Drainage, one of the crying needs in the country. It would be a big sphere, big enough for any Ministry.  I suggest that to the Government. 
     
    
      
       Am I right in saying that these suggestions that have been put forward by the President are suggestions properly for the Committee and that the Committee will not merely have to find the names of Deputies for these Ministries, but also to name the Ministries?  In other words, that the matter is not one for us to decide now, but that ultimately it is to come before the Dail to decide when the Committee shall have reported. 
     
    
      
       That is a matter for the decision of the Dail. The Committee will be appointed to nominate five Deputies as Ministers.  It will be quite simple. 
     
    
      
       Certain new Ministries have been suggested, and what I want to know is this: do these new positions fill the remaining five vacancies? 
     
    
      
       Agriculture, the Post Office, and Fisheries have been suggested as Ministries.  I take it that the President suggests these as full Ministries? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       That is, three out of the five are filled.  The President suggested a Minister to deal with the Seanad; does that mean a full Minister? 
     
    
      
       I am afraid you cannot have him a full Minister. 
     
    
      
       Could not that question of the relations between the Seanad and the Dail be discussed fully by the Committee on Procedure and Privileges? 
     
     
        If the views of the Ministry were submitted to the Committee, recommendations could come from that body to the Dail, and that would simplify matters. 
    
      
       It is proposed to bring before the Dail a draft of the Standing Orders which will deal with the relations between the Dail and the Seanad. 
     
    
      
       I do urge that these are matters that could be very much better discussed by the Committee. Let the Committee decide what Ministries are necessary and suggest the Deputies for these Ministries.  I think that should be included in the Terms of Reference.  It would save a great deal of time and it would achieve a more efficient result. 
     
    
      
       I am inclined to think that that should be part of the Terms of Reference.  Later on these Offices will be more or less Statutory Offices and there will be a certain number of Ministries constituted by Act of Parliament; certain of them will be filled by members of the Executive Council, and certain others will be nominated by a Committee of the Dail, and it will require some definite Act in the way of legislation if an additional Ministry is to be constituted, or if the scope of any particular Ministry is to be varied.  I do not think it would be desirable to give a roving commission to the Committee. 
     
    
      
       We require, as a matter of procedure, that a motion should be made setting out the Terms of Reference of the Committee of Dail Eireann appointed under Article 55 of the Constitution, or in the alternative that you appoint the Committee first, as suggested, and then define its Terms of Reference. 
     
    
      
       Suppose you amend that by putting in three names? 
     
    
      
       Deputy Johnson's suggestion is that these three, the Postmaster-General, the Minister for Agriculture, and the Minister for Fisheries, should come in now.  Is the resolution itself the Terms of Reference? 
     
    
      
       The resolution can contain the Terms of Reference. If the Terms of Reference are not   agreed on, they ought to be discussed separately, because there will be some difference of opinion with regard to the men selected on the Committee. 
     
    
      
       If the Dail will agree to appoint a Committee I will undertake&mdash;as it was only late last night that this matter was brought before the Cabinet&mdash;to have this matter further considered.  I have not given the matter full consideration since last night. If you were to appoint a Committee in accordance with that Article of the Constitution by which they are to select Ministers for Fisheries, Post Office, and Agriculture, then to-morrow or some other time I will bring up a motion on the other matters and let the Dail decide. 
     
    
      
       Then the names of the Ministries will be decided by the Dail and not by the Committee? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That a Committee be set up to nominate Ministers for Agriculture, Fisheries, and the Post Office.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       I take it, therefore, that this Committee of the Dail, consisting of fifteen Deputies, shall in the first place make recommendations for the Ministries of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Postal Service.  Such Ministers shall not be members of the Executive Council; and that the Committee shall be appointed by the single transferable vote and that the quorum of such Committee be ten. 
     
    
      
       I suggest eleven as a quorum.  An odd number would be much more desirable. 
     
    
      
       I think so. 
     
    
      
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       That motion is proposed by Deputy Johnson and seconded by Cathal O'Shannon. There is the question under the terms of that motion, of fixing a time for the nominations of the Committee. 
     
    
      
       I move that the hour be 12 o'clock to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       I suggest that that hour is too early.  It is getting late in the evening now. 
     
     
    
      
       Five o'clock to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       That is a matter for arrangement.  I will take the sense of the Dail on it.  The Dail meets to-morrow for the election of 30 members of the Seanad.  The nominations must be in by five to-morrow evening.  Deputies nominated for the Committee must be nominated by some Deputy and seconded. 
     
    
      
       Is there any necessity for such a long period?  Would not nominations be received in a comparatively short time?  Is it not necessary to get over these preliminaries as soon as possible? 
     
    
      
       I do not think the Committee can be very well rushed. 
     
    
      
       When are the nominations for this Committee? 
     
    
      
       That is what we are endeavouring to agree on. The Minister for Local Government desires to have the period for nominations prolonged until 5 o'clock to-morrow evening. 
     
    
      
       I think it would be much better, and I do not think there would be much gained otherwise.  The election can be carried out to-morrow night, I take it. 
     
    
      
       We cannot carry out the election until Friday. The Seanad election takes place to-morrow and the avalanche of candidates proposed by the President will mean a long count.  There is, therefore, no great purpose in having the time too early to-morrow, as we cannot have the election until Friday.  Nominations will be received up till 5 o'clock to-morrow evening.  I will have a Ballot Paper on Friday and voting can take place at the meeting on Friday. 
     
   
   
     PRESIDENT'S NOMINEES FOR SEANAD. 
    
      
       I am giving my nominations for the Seanad in alphabetical order.  The first name is Mr. John Bagwell, who lives in Clonmel and who is an engineer, I think, on the Great Northern Railway; the second is Mr.   H. G. Burgess; the third is the Dowager Countess of Desart, who is the only Kilkenny nomination on the list; the fourth is Lord Dunraven; the fifth is Mr. J.C. Dowdall, of Cork; the sixth is Sir Thomas Grattan Esmonde; the seventh is Sir Nugent Everard; the eighth is Edmund W. Eyre; the ninth is Mr. Martin Fitzgerald; the tenth is Dr. Oliver St. John Gogarty; the eleventh is Mr. James Perry Goodbody, of Limerick; the twelfth is Mr. Henry Guinness, Governor of the Bank of Ireland; the thirteenth is Lord Granard; the fourteenth is Lord Glenavy; the fifteenth is Capt. Grear, the Curragh; the sixteenth is Mr. Benjamin Haughton, of Cork; the seventeenth is the Marquis Headfort; the eighteenth is Mr. Andrew Jameson; the nineteenth is Mr. Arthur Jackson, of Sligo; the twentieth is Sir John Keane, Cappoquin, Co. Waterford; the twenty-first is Lord Kerry, son of the Marquis of Lansdowne; the twenty-second is Sir Bryan Mahon; the twenty-third is Lord Mayo; the twenty-fourth is Mr. James Moran. Now I have not had a reply from Sir Hutchinson Poe, but I think he will accept; the twenty-fifth is Mrs. Wyse-Power; the twenty-sixth is Sir Horace Plunkett; the next is Dr. Sigerson; the next is the Earl of Wicklow; and the last is Mr. W. B. Yeats. 
     
    
      
       May I ask the President whether there would be any relationship or any barrier between a peer nominated for the Senate and a peer who is a member, whether an Irish Representative Peer or not, of the House of Lords? 
     
     
    
      
       The only point that I took into consideration was, if they were Irish, or had residences in Ireland, if they were willing to act and if they represented an order that was not adequately represented in the Dail. These are the points that I took into consideration. 
     
    
      
       In connection with the election of the thirty members of the Seanad by the Dail, I would remind Deputies that to-morrow at twelve o'clock is the last moment for receiving nominations.  I take it that the Dail will adjourn until 3 o'clock to-morrow for the purpose of the election. 
     
    
      
       Will any list be issued to-night of the nominations that have been received up to to-night? That was more or less hoped for. 
     
    
      
       All the nominations received by me from Deputies have been issued, except the nominations which the President proposed to put in of those people whose names were sent to him from the various bodies in the country.  These we have only just received and their names have been published in various places, but we would make an endeavour to get them out.  Any other nominations received by me will be sent out.  I think there is none to-day. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail adjourns until 3 o'clock to-morrow.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
       The Dail adjourned at 7.50 p.m. 
     
   
 