 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do cromadh ar obair an lae ar 3.15 p.m.  Bhi an Comhairle Micheal O hAodha sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - INCOME TAX PAYMENTS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance whether the Inland Revenue authorities are justified in demanding payment of income tax assessed in respect of periods before the signing of the Treaty, and, if so, whether this tax is demanded for the benefit of the Irish Exchequer or of the British Exchequer. 
     
    
      
       replying for the Minister of Finance:&mdash;All arrears of income tax and of other taxes, for whatever period charged, form part of the Irish revenue, and none of these sums accrue to the benefit of the British Government. It is the duty of the Revenue authorities to enforce payment of amounts still outstanding, the prompt collection of which is essential in the National interest.  The Government must expect taxpayers to recognise their responsibility to the State by making immediate payment of their revenue obligations. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - REDUCTION OF POSTAL RATES. 
    
      
       To ask the Postmaster-General what steps, if any are contemplated in connection with the reduction of postage rates, and whether representations have been made to this end by the commercial community? 
     
    
      
       Representations urging a reduction in the existing rates of postage have been received and carefully considered. In view of the estimated large deficit in the working of the Post Office during the   current financial year, the Government is not prepared to sanction general reductions in the postage rates at present. 
       I am glad to announce, however, that the minimum rate on &ldquo;Printed Papers,&rdquo; a class of mail largely used for commercial purposes&mdash;will, as on and from the 1st proximo, be reduced from 1d. to 1⁄2d. This corresponds with the similar rate now in force in the British Post Office. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - CORK GUARDIANS&mdash;REINSTATEMENT OF A NURSE. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government whether, in view of the fact that the Vice-Guardians of Cork Union have persistently refused to obey the order of the Minister for Local Government to reinstate Nurse Denn, which order was conveyed to them on several occasions since July 29th last, he will order their removal from office, and direct the elected Board of Guardians to function forthwith. 
     
    
      
       A letter was written by the Ministry to the Vice-Guardians of Cork Union on the 20th September, directing that Nurse Denn should be permitted to resume duty at once.  It was subsequently learned from our Inspector in Cork that this letter had not been received by the Vice-Guardians. A copy of the letter was given to the Inspector on the 9th instant for personal delivery to the Vice-Guardians.  Inquiry has been made by wire to Cork, and it is hoped to have information as to the matter in the course of the day.  I am satisfied that the Vice-Guardians have not refused to obey the orders of the Ministry in this or any other matter.  The following resolution was passed by the Board of Guardians of Cork Union on the 28th June last:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That we, the Board of Guardians, do hereby place on record our utmost confidence in the Vice-Guardians in their administration of the Union, and that we condemn every and any effort to misconstrue their actions and to cast suspicion on them.&rdquo; 
       Every care will be taken to ensure that the Vice-Guardians will not be permitted to remain in office longer than is necessary in the interest of efficient and economical administration. 
     
     
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if it is proposed to surcharge the Vice-Guardians for the pay stopped from Miss Denn during the time she has not been allowed to resume? 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - ATHY RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL, ELECTION OF OFFICERS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government to state the reasons why the proceedings of the meeting of the Athy No. 2 Rural District Council, held on June 12th, for the purpose of electing officers, was declared void, and whether he will agree to a sworn inquiry into all the circumstances before ordering a new election. 
     
    
      
       The Ministry are aware of the fact that certain elected representatives of the Athy No. 2 Rural District Council were forcibly prevented from attending the meeting of the Council convened for the 12th June.  The members who were present purported to elect two of their number as Chairman and Vice-Chairman for the current year. On the 15th September the Ministry intimated to the Council that the proceedings of the 12th June were invalid and directed the summoning of a special meeting for the election of officers.  This procedure should be complied with.  As the facts are sufficiently known the holding of a sworn inquiry would not materially assist. 
     
    
      
       Can the Minister say upon whose information he has arrived at this decision, whether it is information supplied by the Clerk of the Council or one of his Inspectors, or who would it be? 
     
    
      
       You had better give me notice of that. 
     
    
      
       It is a fair question to ask, and it should be answered. 
     
    
      
       The Minister asked for further notice of that Supplementary Question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - ADULT SUFFRAGE&mdash;(MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS, 1923). 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government if he can state whether the Adult Suffrage proposal will be ready for inclusion in   the Voters' Lists to be used in Municipal Elections in January, 1923, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken to prepare a new Voters' Register, or whether the Municipal Elections of January 1923, will be postponed. 
     
    
      
       The instructions in reference to the preparation of a new Register of Electors will issue in time to admit of the commencement of the work after the 15th inst, the end of the qualifying period as fixed by the resolutions of 19th September last.  The instructions are in proof and will be out in a day or two. It is not possible to compile and publish that register in such time as to be available for any elections which may be held in the month of January, 1923, and the question of the postponement of the Municipal Elections is under consideration. If it is decided that they must be postponed it must be necessary to come to this House for authority. 
     
   
   
     REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON EXECUTIVE ARTICLES OF CONSTITUTION OF SAORSTAT EIREANN BILL. 
    
      
       The Dail will recollect that this Committee was appointed by a resolution of the House moved by Deputy William Thrift and adopted on the 6th October, 1922, in the following terms:&mdash; 
       (a) That this House approves as a general principle, of the proposal that certain Ministers who shall not be members of the Executive Council, nominated by the Dail, and individually responsible to the Dail alone for the departments respectively under their charge, need not be members of the Dail, and that the details of the provisions for appointing such Ministers and for regulating their position should be referred to a Committee of the House, to be nominated by the Ministry, for consideration and report to the House. That the consideration of their Report should come before the House later, whilst in Committee on the present Bill.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON EXECUTIVE ARTICLES OF CONSTITUTION OF SAORSTAT EIREANN BILL. - TERMS OF REFERENCE. 
     (b) &ldquo;To arrange the details of the provisions for appointing Ministers who shall not be members of the Executive   Council, and need not be members of the Dail, but shall be nominated by the Dail, and shall be individually responsible to the Dail alone for the Departments respectively under their charge; further, to make such consequential changes as may be necessary in Articles 50B to 59, inclusive, of the draft Constitution; the Committee to consist of Deputies FitzGibbon, Thrift, Johnson, Davin, Gavan Duffy, O'Connell, Gorey, McGoldrick, Sears, and McCarthy; the quorum to be 5, and the Committee to have power to examine witnesses, and to report to the Dail not later than Wednesday, the 11th October.&rdquo; 
     The Committee met that afternoon, and on several subsequent occasions, and on Tuesday last we completed our report which is in the following terms: 
     &ldquo;We have recast Articles 50B to 59 inclusive, of the Draft Constitution, in accordance with our instructions.  We considered that the terms of our reference precluded us from considering Article 58.  We append a draft of the new clauses recommended by us for the consideration of the Dail.  The alterations, recommended by us, will, if adopted by the Dail, necessitate verbal alterations in clauses which were not included in the reference to us, and which have already been passed by the Dail.&rdquo; 
     We have set out and recommended the insertion of a new clause, perhaps, strictly not in the terms of our reference, and we have set out in the appendix nine new clauses which we recommend for the consideration of the Dail in lieu of the nine clauses referred to us by the resolution.  The reason we had to do this was that as soon as we tackled our work we found it was practically impossible to comply with the terms of our instruction by making merely verbal alterations in the clauses referred to us, and we found it necessary to recast nine clauses completely, and we have set out, as I have said, the new clauses we recommend. Now, in presenting this report I beg to move that it be adopted by the Dail, and that these clauses which have been unanimously recommended by your Committee should be taken into consideration by the Dail subsequently in Committee if this resolution is passed, in lieu of the clauses dealing with the Executive Council that were referred to us, I do not know whether that motion will commend itself to the Dail or to the Government; but I feel it my duty to the   Committee which did this work to move that these clauses be taken into consideration in substitution for the ones referred to us.  In adopting this resolution, if you do adopt it, the only question of principle to which this Dail will commit itself is the question of principle which, it seems to me, it has already accepted in the terms of the resolution under which the Committee was appointed, because that resolution reads: &ldquo;That this House approves as a general principle that certain Ministers&rdquo;&mdash;and it defines them&mdash;&ldquo;are not to be members of the Executive Council,&rdquo; and so on, &ldquo;and need not be members of the Dail.&rdquo;  It will be within the recollection of the Dail that the Executive Council in the Draft Constitution comprised all the Ministers of the State.  They were all to be members of the Executive Council, and it went on to provide that certain of these Ministers need not be elected members of the Dail&mdash;indeed, that certain of them must not be elected, but must be selected from outside.  Now, when these clauses came before the Dail, they were criticised from every quarter and from every point of detail, and the Committee, in dealing with these clauses, when they came to try and recast them in accordance with what we gathered was the opinion of the Dail found it necessary to introduce safeguards and modifications to meet what we believed to be objections raised in the Dail upon points of detail.  I would implore the Dail, when they come to debate the resolution I have proposed, not to devote their attention too much to matters of detail, which can be raised in Committee, if you go into Committee on these new clauses, but to confine the discussion upon this resolution to the one question of principle, which it appears to me, with all respect, the Dail has been committed to already&mdash;that there may be some Ministers of the State selected from outside the Dail itself.  We have met the two main objections urged in this Dail&mdash; the objection that the policy of the country will be dictated by people not elected by constituents&mdash;by providing in our draft that no member of the Executive Council can be taken from Ministers who have not been elected to this Chamber. We have endeavoured to meet another objection by providing that, whatever number of Ministers may be chosen from   people outside the Chamber, they shall not be a majority&mdash;that is, the entire Executive Council and the majority of Ministers, whether Executive Council or not, must be men elected to this Dail by their own constituents and who are Members of this Dail.  Another great objection urged was that the original clause drawn prescribed that anybody who became a Minister should at once face his constituents.  A number of Deputies thought that it was a ridiculous thing that a man who had been first honoured by election by his constituency, and who had then been honoured again by being made a Minister should have to vacate his seat and make a new election necessary.  We have eliminated that provision from the draft which we submit to you, but as I say these are all matters of detail.  The question of the number of Ministers or the mode by which they are to be selected whether by the Dail or by a body selected by the Dail are all questions of detail that can be considered in Committee.  I ask you to adopt this report and refer these questions to yourselves, in Committee&mdash;they are all these questions of detail&mdash;as soon as you have passed the resolution which we have unanimously adopted.  I am not going to weary the Dail by repeating the arguments on the matter of principle. You have had two days of that already and if all the arguments which have been brought forward have failed to convince these Deputies who stand for the principle that no man shall be a Minister who is not elected&mdash;if they are not convinced by the arguments already heard, I am not so conceited as to think that I could make them change their minds.  Perhaps some member of our Committee, which was unanimous in preparing that report, will favour me by seconding this motion. 
    
      
       Before the matter goes further, would I be in order in asking the Deputy who proposed, or the Deputy who will second this motion, to give a little time to the explanation of what are called the verbal changes referred to at the foot of page one? 
     
    
      
       I think these will come out better in Committee.  The reason for the verbal alteration is this, the word &ldquo;budget&rdquo; is objected to by many people on the ground that it was   taken from another Parliament, and we are substituting the word &ldquo;Estimate&rdquo; instead. It is necessary as we used the expression &ldquo;Estimate&rdquo; in our draft Clause and we think that the word &ldquo;Estimate&rdquo; should be substituted for the word &ldquo;budget&rdquo; where it occurs in Article 35 the first time, and also where it occurs the second time, and in cases where the word &ldquo;Estimate&rdquo; does not fit we used the words &ldquo;financial resolution.&rdquo; In Article 50A that has already been passed by the Dail, the words &ldquo;seven or less than five&rdquo; should be substituted for the word &ldquo;twelve.&rdquo;  At that time all Ministers were to be members of the Executive Council, but the Committee recommended that there should be certain Ministers that should not be upon the Executive Council, because no member chosen from outside the Dail ought not to be on the Executive Council, and therefore we are substituting the words &ldquo;not more than seven&rdquo;&ldquo;and not less than five&rdquo; for the Executive Council, which would otherwise be called the Cabinet, which is the body of Ministers who rule State business, external affairs, and questions which touch every branch of the policy of the Irish Free State as a whole and therefore we arrived at the conclusion&mdash;and this is a matter for the Dail at another time&mdash;that there ought not to be less than five, because if there was less than five there might be the danger of a one-man government, because a Cabinet of four might be dominated by one man, and objection was raised to that in debate.  On the other hand, we thought that more than seven might tend to split into two sections, and then you would run the danger of having two sections, one of four dominated by one man, and the three other members of the Executive Council in substance would find themselves outside the debates. Therefore we recommend that the Executive Council be not more than seven or less than five.  That would leave whatever would be a minority of the Ministers of the Council to be selected from outside this Chamber or from this Chamber.  Thus, if you had twelve Ministers in all, not less than seven would come from this Chamber and not more than five from outside. 
     
    
      
       As a matter of order, for the information of Deputies,   if this motion proposed by Deputy Fitzgibbon is passed, I take it the Dail is not committed to the consequential changes, to the additional Article suggested, or even to the exact wording of the new Articles.  It is committed to the principle which has been mentioned by Deputy Fitzgibbon, and which is embodied in the resolution passed before, and in the terms of reference given to the Committee.  If the resolution is passed, therefore, the Articles in the Appendix will come up for discussion, and may be amended in Committee; but if, on the adoption of this Report, we have a debate on the principle that there may be Ministers who need not be Members of the Dail, then if the motion is subsequently passed we cannot accept amendments to the Articles which would aim at a reversal of that principle, and which would give us further discussion on a matter already discussed twice. 
     
    
      
       Do I take it you suggest that even if this motion is passed to-day, that at the next reading of the Constitution Bill we will not be in a position to move amendments? 
     
    
      
       At the next reading, certainly; but if this motion is passed now, we shall consider the Articles in the Appendix in Committee of the Dail, but we shall not be able to discuss in every Article the principle again. 
     
    
      
       What is the actual form of the motion&mdash;that the Report be received? 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;That the Report of the Committee appointed by resolution of the Dail, dated 6th October, 1922, be received and adopted, and that the draft Articles Nos. 50b to 59 be taken into consideration. 
     
    
      
       I firmly hope that that calamity you apprehend, of this being passed, will not be consummated. I am rising now to urge, as strongly as I can, that we reject this report, and reject the principle which it defends, for the present at any rate.  I have been looking forward with a certain amount of interest to the production of this report.  I am not, I think, an unreasonable man; I am always open to   conviction.  This Committee was sent to perform some kind of surgical operation upon Article 50B, and in the report I see no reference whatever to Article 50B&mdash;not the slightest allusion.  No one would suspect that there was such a thing as Article 50B, save for the fact that Article 50A is alluded to.  I want to know did this Committee consider Article 50B at all?  I understood that was what they went to consider. 
     
    
      
       On a point of explanation, may I ask Deputy Milroy to read the first four words of the report of the Committee? 
     
    
      
       Oh, I have discovered a clue&mdash;&ldquo;We have recast Articles 50B to 59 inclusive.&rdquo; That is the only indication that this Committee took cognisance of Article 50B.  We have no information as to how Article 50B was recast.  I think we will have to ask this Committee to go back to do the work they were asked to do, when they were set up.  I gathered from the statement of the mover of this report that he wishes the discussion here more or less to hover around the principle involved. I am not at all disinclined to follow that line of discussion.  I recollect on the last day when we were discussing this, before this Committee that has not done its work was set up, that the President made a few observations on the matter which were put forward as arguments, and when I got up to try to throw some light on the rather misty logic of the President the Ceann Comhairle told me I had already exceeded the time limit.  I am at least in order in referring to those arguments of the worthy President.  So far as I could gather his arguments were that a snatch vote of this Dail should not be sufficient to remove one of those stone age Ministers, one of those men who come from God knows where, and who remain for all eternity in the Government of the Dail I want to know is that a democratic principle, that a vote of the Sovereign Assembly of the Irish Nation cannot remove one of these freaks of administrative genius?  Another argument the President made was that he wished these gentlemen who would be placed in these positions to be independent of the opinion of the Dail.  Unless I misconstrue what he said, his words were something   like this: &ldquo;That Ministers who were simply carrying on internal administration should be in a position of absolute independence of the change of opinion in the Assembly.&rdquo;  I do not want to misconstrue the words of the President, but both of these arguments were, to my mind, exceedingly strange, to come from the head of the first democratic Assembly we have had in Ireland for many generations. Another argument that was used was that some such curious system as this must be evolved in order to secure individual responsibility to each Minister.  I say it is quite unnecessary, and it is quite easy to insert in the Constitution provisions which will have the effect of securing that a mere adverse Departmental vote shall not mean the resignation of the Government.  The easiest thing in the world to say is that an adverse vote of this Dail, on a merely Departmental question, shall only affect the Government to the extent of the head of that particular Department.  I think, if the Government acted with its general shrewdness, that the one argument that ought to have conclusive weight with them would be that Deputy Gavan Duffy is in favour of this proposal, because, so far as I have seen, they have always acted on the assumption that whatever Deputy Gavan Duffy favours must be wrong.  I would like them to give some consideration to that&mdash;the attitude of Deputy Gavan Duffy.  Is it possible that in all other matters of constitutional law he is fundamentally wrong, and that on this, which is admitted to be freak legislation, he is right?  I ask the Government to exercise their usual shrewdness in the discussion of this matter. Now, if ever there was a time when we should be on our guard against such a proposal as the present one, it is now. I do not know that I am fundamentally opposed to the principle, but I say it is an exceedingly dangerous experiment to try just now.  The Dail will recollect that in the early stages of this Session, when the proposal was made to merge two or three large Departments under one head, I opposed that, and I predicted that by giving so much administrative work to one Minister, that he would not be able to do it, and the effect would be that permanent officials would control that Department, and run that Minister instead of the Minister controlling the Department and the officials.   I believe we will have, if this principle is accepted and endorsed, and carried into effect, just what I then predicted. Five or six years hence, when under the influence of a free Irish Government with Irish Ireland ideas permeating the whole functions of Governmental life, we have trained up a crop of what you might call expert officials, who had an Irish outlook and an Irish point of view; then I would say, there is not so much risk.  At the present time the President, or whoever is at the head of this Sovereign Assembly, whenever this Article takes effect, has several vacancies to fill, and he has to look out for efficient men to nominate to these positions.  Well, I used to hear years ago of Diogenes, I think, a gentleman who used to go home with a lantern looking for honest men, and I can imagine our President in the role of Diogenes looking around for efficient administrators in the immediate future. I can imagine him going round all the benches of this Dail and failing to secure that individual, and then he goes out with his lantern, and where will he search for efficient administrators?  I am very much affraid he will have to search amongst the ranks of those who filled the positions of permanent officials under the old Dublin Castle regime. Do not let us get away from the fact that permanent officialdom of the old Dublin Castle regime has not yet relinquished its hope of controlling the economic life of this country.  I tell you I am not going by my vote to give them a helping hand to secure that menace over the life of this country. At least the men who go through and run the gauntlet of election have to abide by the popular will; they have their credentials established, and I certainly will do all that is in my power to try to prevent a situation arising, that will enable the men who have changed their tactics&mdash;not their outlook&mdash;with the change of events that has come, to come and sit in this Assembly, not merely as heads of Departments, but responsible Ministers, who will run these departments, not upon the lines of National thought that we want, but on the old routine lines, that kill initiative and stifle progress. That is what I am afraid of, and for that reason I say, at least suspend for some years yet, the adoption of this principle. As a matter of fact, I do not think it is   necessary at all to embody it in the Constitution. I have heard very constitutional lawyers&mdash;I nearly said liars&mdash;in this Assembly say that it is taken as one of the things which every people and every government have a fundamental right to do; that is to call upon any citizen to fulfil any ministerial function. If that is a common fundamental right, why put it into writing, why have it written in your Constitution, unless the purpose is to carry it into effect immediately, and in my opinion, the carrying of it into effect immediately will bring you within measurable reach, if not actually right into that danger to which I have alluded.  I say it is unnecessary to the Constitution; it is undemocratic; it is a menace to the development of our National and economic life, and real life lines, and it is something which no other country, so far as I know, has embarked upon.  The President referred to two Ministers in America&mdash;Mr. Hoover and Mr. Hughes. I do not know what position Mr. Hughes filled, but we all know Mr. Hoover's position was simply one created by the abnormal circumstances of the war, and I do not know whether the President anticipates that we are going to declare war and engage the services of several Hoovers or not.  But what is the necessity of bringing in non-elected Ministers. If there is any man of outstanding capacity, surely to goodness, under Proportional Representation, he will get a quota to return him to this Dail, and if he cannot get a quota, what right has he to speak with the voice of authority in the Sovereign Assembly of the Irish nation?  I am utterly opposed to the principle of this thing.  The more I have seen of it, studied it, thought of it, the less I like it, and I was hoping to see the proposer of this report throw some ray of enlightenment, that would show that this report or the principle it advocates is going to help us in the slightest degree.  My opinion on the matter was open to conviction and change, but not a single atom of argument worthy of consideration was adduced in favour of the principle of this Article, and for that purpose I wish to register my vote against it. 
     
    
      
       I must congratulate the Deputy who has just sat down in getting in at this stage the speech in which he was interrupted on the last occasion.  I can see no other   reason why he should at this stage of the proceedings make that speech, because, to my mind in any case, it has very little reference to the matter before us at the present time. I can hardly believe that Deputy Milroy has read the Report of the Committee, in view of the statements which he has made.  We had, in the first case, reference to 50 (b), and then we had his picture of the President going around with the lamp looking for a suitable Minister. Now, the facts are, briefly, these:  The Minister nominates his Executive Council, and he must pick the Executive Council from the members who are elected to this Dail.  He cannot go outside the Dail.  If the Deputy has read the Report of the Committee carefully, he will find that it is fully provided for that he cannot go outside the elected members for his Executive Council. Then, so far as the other members are concerned, they are selected by the Dail &mdash;they are nominated by the Committee set up by the Dail&mdash;and they, therefore, must have the confidence of the Dail.  I do not anticipate that those people of whom Deputy Milroy is afraid will get into the Council of the Ministry.  I would agree with him that they should not get into the Ministry, but I do not think that a popularly elected Dail will be anxious to give these people positions in the Ministry.  That is what Deputy Milroy seems to predict.  I think that we should not spend time now debating the principle of this, seeing that we have spent already two days debating it, and the principle has been carried by this Dail. 
     
    
      
       Not before. 
     
    
      
       I maintain, in any case, rightly or wrongly, that the principle has been voted on and carried, and that the Committee which was appointed on the last day, and now reports, is only showing how the principle which has been already agreed upon can be put into practice.  I respectfully suggest to Deputies that the Report be received, and that it should be allowed to be carried, and that we should go into Committee, if necessary, to change these various Articles in any manner in which we think they ought to be changed. 
     
    
      
       I agree with the previous speaker that this Report is   not exactly open to the same charges as the original draft proposals that we put before this Chamber; but I think they have avoided a considerable amount of the matters that to me, at least, were not desirable in that original draft.  I think they have not avoided them all, from my point of view, but that was hardly to be expected, as we are all looking at this thing from different angles.  I would have wished the mover of this Report to have spent a little time in explaining why they have introduced into this Report an entirely new principle altogether, even more offensive and less desirable than the principle underlying the original clause, the principle being that there will be henceforward, if this be carried and becomes the form of Ministry for the Free State, two parts to the Ministry&mdash;an Inner Ministry and an Outer Ministry&mdash;because the Executive Council, in effect, will be the Inner Ministry, and the Ministers who do not form part of the Executive Council&mdash;from wherever they be appointed&mdash;either from within the Dail or without the Dail&mdash;will be directly responsible, and it is so stated in this Report to the Dail and will form two entirely different bodies.  You will have one group that is not to exceed seven and is not to be less than five.  In addition, however, there may be a certain number of other Ministers, each of whom will, if I might say so, swing in his own orbit, although, according to the intention of the Report&mdash;and I wish to bring it to the attention of the mover of the Report, it will not be so in actual effect.  I asked the mover of the Report, when he was bringing in this Report, to deal with what he alleged to be verbal alterations in Article 35.  I did so for the specific reason that what are called &ldquo;verbal alterations&rdquo; have been made.  A change has been made from the word &ldquo;Budget&rdquo; to &ldquo;Estimates&rdquo; in one case and also there is the change of the word &ldquo;Budget&rdquo; to &ldquo;Financial Resolutions&rdquo; in another case.  According to his explanation it appeared that my interpretation of these changes was not exactly the one that was in his own mind.  I venture to suggest to him that, if he looks into it, my interpretation will be exactly what will be produced in the future.  I gather that some offence had been taken to the   word &ldquo;Budget&rdquo; because it had been used across the water.  The word &ldquo;Budget&rdquo; is, I believe, rather French in origin.  There is a word in French that is called &ldquo;Le Budget,&rdquo; and I know that the standard work on the Budget is a work in French.  To fight shy of the use of the word &ldquo;Budget&rdquo; because it is used in England is not reasonable. What is the difference between &ldquo;Budget&rdquo; and &ldquo;Estimates?&rdquo;  Let me illustrate it in this way: here is one of these external Ministers who do not form part of the Executive Council.  He is, let us say, the Postmaster-General. In that case he would be directly responsible to the Dail for the administration of his Department, but in order to administer that Department effectively he will require certain moneys and will come to the Dail in order to get a vote for these moneys.  These moneys either can be granted by the Dail or cannot be granted by the Dail.  I am not quite clear whether the Dail can or cannot grant these moneys, irrespective of the recommendation of the Executive Council.  Either the Dail is restricted from granting these moneys, or it is not.  In the first case, what happens with the Postmaster-General directly responsible?  According to the theory embodied in this Report to the Dail, for the purpose of the administration of his Department, he comes to the Dail and asks for certain moneys to make that administration practical and efficient, and he finds between himself and the Dail another body interpolates.  It is that other body&mdash;the Executive Council &mdash;which informs the Dail that it cannot recommend these moneys; so that, you see, really in effect the Postmaster-General is one of those Ministers directly responsible to the Dail, but, although directly responsible to the Dail, he becomes very little more than an agent of the Executive Council, but without having the right to be present at the meetings of the Executive Council to make his own recommendations to them as to how that money should be allotted, as is the case in every other country.  The Minister has not only the right to come to the Dail, but he has the right to go to the spending or allotting body, which is the Ministry, and put his proposals before that body, and ask that there should be some general recommendation to the   Legislature that certain sums of money be given in order that certain Departments be efficiently administered.  You will have an Executive Council that will exist on the will of the Dail, and you will have certain independent Ministers either from within the Dail or without the Dail, each swinging, as it were, in his own orbit, but not one of whom will be able to establish an effective and direct contact with the Dail to which he is supposed to be directly responsible, for this fundamental reason, that this Executive Council has charge of finance. He cannot conduct his Department apart from finance, and so really he will become in the nature of an Administrative Officer dependent not directly on the will of the Dail, but dependent far more directly on the will of the Executive Council.  He is not to be, so far as I can understand from this Report, a member of the Executive Council, and, therefore, cannot be present at the meetings of the Executive Council, and I suggest that instead of getting greater efficiency, that this will get less efficiency; instead of establishing more direct contact between each of the Ministers and the Dail, less contact actually will be established, so that you will have the Executive Council and members of the Executive Council in a freer position and more responsible and effective position than any one of those outside Ministers. Whether they are appointed from the Dail, or whether they are not appointed by the Dail is not part of the case I am making against the Report at the present moment.  I think it unnecessary to say that they may or may not be members of Parliament.  I should imagine that it should be quite sufficient to have the Ministers who may not be members of the Executive Council to be chosen by the Chamber, but to leave it entirely open, as all other Constitutions do, with one or two exceptions, to the Chamber, whether it appoints them from within or from without.  The very fact that you introduce this form of&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Is that not purely a Committee point, the introduction of the words &ldquo;may&rdquo; or &ldquo;may not?&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I think not.  I think to introduce them here in this way does suggest that there would be a desirability that members should be appointed who are not members of the Dail.  But, in any   case, I agree at once that that is a great deal better than the form of words in the original draft, and that, as Deputy Fitzgibbon has pointed out, it could be amended, perhaps, in Committee.  But what could not be amended in Committee, or what it would be more difficult to amend in Committee, and what would require far more drastic revision than the report if it were to be so amended is this dual responsibility.  Now, I stated here before that I thought it very desirable that the responsibility of the Ministry to the Dail should not be quite so tight in its collectiveness as it is. It would be a point, I believe, that is desirable, and I believe that it could be effected, and that it could be effected without introducing what I must regard as a new principle and not a wise principle, of making your Ministry of two parts&mdash;one part with entire possession of recommendations for expenditure from the National purse, and the other part depending on that purse for responsibility for administration, and yet which could not get that administration put efficiently into effect until they can get into contact with that person, and so you get a dual responsibility between two parts of one administration, and for that reason I will vote against this report. 
     
    
      
       I must congratulate the members of the Committee on having formulated an exceptionally clear and intelligible scheme, but at the same time I cannot help feeling that any one of them with the ability for which each of them is noted, could have produced something better. It is the common experience that the collective wisdom of a number of men will work out at less than that of the average member of the Council.  It seems to me&mdash;I submit it with all respect to our distinguished colleagues&mdash; that this report sins by excess and by defect.  In the first place it claims to have worked &ldquo;within the terms of reference that we have drafted in accordance with our instructions.&rdquo;  I find on page 2 an insertion in the Constitution of an Article which has nothing whatever to do with the matter referred to&mdash;&ldquo;that Ministers shall have the right to attend and speak in the Senate.&rdquo;  I have not the slightest objection to that; in fact, I should cordially vote for it if it came up by itself as a separate resolution. Then, again, we are told that   they have remodelled Article 50 B. Article 50 B. appears nowhere in this. The elements of it have been disintegrated into separate elements, and some of these, but not all, will be found in the new combination elsewhere on another page.  Then we read of what seems to my poor understanding a contradiction, but which no doubt will be explained away, that all the Ministers are to be appointed by the Representative of the Crown on the nomination of the President, and yet the President of the Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the Chamber.  So that the President is to be nominated by the Chamber and by the President.  I daresay the procedure would work out as a contradiction.  Then, again, we have not only the doctrine upon which Deputy Darrell Figgis expatiated at some length, the doctrine of having an Inner Cabinet, which is the real Executive Council, and an Outer Ministry.  I do not presume to criticise that now, as it would be out of order for me, although it was not out of order for Deputy Darrell Figgis to debate what has already been settled by the vote of the House. 
     
    
      
       Deputy Magennis was not present when we began this particular debate, and it was decided that the Dail would not be committed to the exact wording of the Articles which are in the Appendix to the Report, but that they could reject the Report by rejecting the principle and these two Articles would fall. 
     
    
      
       Thanks very much.  This scheme of an Inner and an Outer Cabinet works deleteriously upon the principle which appears to have been the main concern of those who drafted the Constitution.  It was recommended to us as a superb expedient for securing the services of the best abilities of the country, that the Dail should be at liberty to go outside of its own membership and select for Ministerial positions as heads of Departments outstanding men of distinguished ability.  Now, in all such practices there are two sides.  Will your man of distinguished ability be willing to come in as an inferior Minister, the head of a Department, seated, as I called it on the last occasion this was before us, in comparatively outer darkness, not privileged to know any secrets of the   real administration of the country, but simply a glorified Civil Servant, allowed to expound or explain or defend the action of his administration in the House. Not only that, but he is to have a very qualified tenure of office.  I have seen it stated somewhere recently that he is to hold office by judicial tenure.  Now, judicial tenure, to give a free translation of the Latin phrase, is &ldquo;So long as he conducts himself properly,&rdquo; and judicial tenure means that the Judge, so long as he conducts himself properly in the discharge of his judicial functions, can be removed only on the joint petition of the two Houses.  What is to be done with this distinguished man who has been called to the service of the Ministry and to be the head of a Department?  &ldquo;The term of office of any Minister not a member of the Executive Council shall be the term of office of the Chamber&rdquo;&mdash; that is, four years at most&mdash;&ldquo;existing at the time of his appointment,&rdquo; so that if he were appointed towards the end of the period of the Dail, his office would be for just the residuum.  &ldquo;And no such Minister shall be removed from office&rdquo;&mdash; here is the semblance of judicial tenure&mdash;&ldquo;And no such member shall be removed from office during his term otherwise than by the Chamber/Dail itself, and by them for stated reasons, and after the proposal to remove him has been submitted to a Committee chosen by a method to be determined by the Chamber/Dail.&rdquo; In other words, we would have something like the trial of Warren Hastings on a small scale each time that a Minister has to be removed.  There must be a formal indictment and the articles of the accusations set out and a Committee of the Dail will sit in judgment upon these and find a verdict.  I presume all this will be in public&mdash;a nice alluring bait to a man of eminence outside the Dail to persuade him to come in and give his services to the Dail as the head of a Department.  There is no provision made in this&mdash;this is one of the defects &mdash;for filling vacancies when they occur. Unfortunately vacancies will occur, for even Ministers are not immortal.  There should be some provision of this sort: &ldquo;that if, from any cause, the position of a Minister becomes vacant, his successor shall be nominated and appointed in public manner  prescribed for nomination and appointment to such Ministry.&rdquo; There is no provision of that sort   whatever.  Deputy Gorey reminds me neither was there in the original draft; but then, the wisdom and experience of these capable members of the Committee were requisitioned to improve away the defects&mdash;to take away deficiencies of the original draft.  I am impugning them for having left this cardinal defect.  Then again, there is, in the Inner Cabinet, a Minister for Finance, and the words expressly used in the report are &ldquo;that he is to be in charge of the Department of Finance.&rdquo;  Consequently he is in charge of a department in precisely the same sense as each of the Outer Ministers are in charge of a department, and there is a provision made for arraigning the ordinary head of a Department and for bringing him to book; but there is no provision made here except this extraordinary provision that in order to indict a Minister for Finance it would be necessary to bring down the whole Ministry&mdash;all his colleagues&mdash;along with him.  That, I think, may on occasion prove a very useful and very serviceable scheme, but it does not belong to a report of a budget to work out the details of something along the lines of individual responsibility of Ministers.  We are trying to work out here two different principles&mdash;collective responsibility and individual responsibility.  As I understand it, or perhaps I should say as I misunderstand it, there are two sets of Ministers.  For one of them the doctrine of collective responsibility is laid down; for the remainder, taken individually, the doctrine of individual responsibility is laid down.  Is that a misunderstanding? 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
    
      
       Very good. Why is this differentiation made?  In order to enable the Dail to bring down an administration?  Is that fair, or is it just to the colleagues of the Minister for Finance?  He brings forward the Estimates.  According to the view of the majority of the Dail there is excessive expenditure in some Department.  There is something in his extremity of which they disapprove; they wish to give an adverse vote on that particular point, but to support the Ministry on its general policy.  According to this scheme it becomes necessary to fell the Ministry  en bloc  in order to disapprove of a particular item in the Estimates.  Although I have learned to have a more than usual   admiration for Deputy Gorey, I venture to suggest that in his calmer moments he, as a member of this Committee would not stand for this.  I will reserve what I have to say in regard to the other items for the Committee stage, but I need hardly add that I am giving notice I am going to vote against the adoption of this Report. 
     
    
      
       The Dail, instead of placing the issue of adopting or not adopting the Report is more or less inclined to go into Committee on the redrafted clauses of the Constitution.  On the general principle it does not matter who may dispute the fact&mdash;if the Deputies will refer to the original resolution submitted by Professor Thrift, they will have to agree that the principle has already been voted upon.  I would like to contradict what seems to me to be a wrong impression conveyed by Deputy Darrell Figgis.  He seems to understand, or to lead other people to understand, that the extern or outside Minister will not have the right under any circumstances to attend the meeting of the Executive Council.  The Executive Council on matters of general policy may determine the policy of the Department with which that outside or extern Minister is connected; but I am quite sure any Executive Council controlling the Government of this country will not go into the details of the administration of an extern Minister's Department without giving that Minister a chance of coming before the Executive Council when such matters are being discussed by that body. 
     
    
      
       The question raised by Deputy Darrell Figgis with regard to the Budget was the one point of importance, I think, and I want to say that the whole of the scheme harmonises with the suggestion that a Minister who is going to propose legislation involving finance must have that ratified and supported by the Treasury or it will not go through the Dail.  He may, under the scheme, if he has temerity enough, bring forward a proposal which may involve finance, but if the Treasury official or the Minister for Finance informs, the Assembly of the financial consequences of the proposal, and says they cannot support it, it immediately becomes a vote of confidence or no confidence in the Ministry. If the Minister's proposal is lost,   he need not resign.  That is the whole of the fact in this matter.  He is entitled to go beyond the Ministry to explain a scheme which may involve finance and which the Dail itself may agree should be involved and should be placed upon the country.  The Executive takes upon itself the responsibility of saying that this scheme of finance is not one that they can support.  They make it a vote of confidence.  It immediately becomes a question then of the wisdom of the Dail as against the wisdom of the Executive&mdash;that is to say, the Finance Minister. That is a very right and proper position.  The circumstances, if you had not this scheme, would be different.  A Minister of a Department would propose the same plan, involving the same expenditure, incurring all the expenses of the preparation of such a plan and such a scheme.  He would go before the whole of the Ministry, of which in this supposition he is a member, and it would be turned down, and he would have nothing more to say.  But he could not then come to the Dail and say, &ldquo;This is a scheme I wish to propose, and it is valuable to the country.&rdquo;  He would not have the right to go beyond his Ministry. I do not think the new scheme is a defect from any democratic point of view.  It is very desirable that if that Minister, who has been chosen by the Dail for his special wisdom and knowledge, has a proposal affecting his Department that he believes is of value, if he cannot persuade the Treasury or the Executive to approve of it, then he can come openly, without any wire-pulling or without any backstairs influence, to the Dail, and advocate his scheme, the Ministry frankly saying that this is a scheme we cannot support.  They make it a matter of confidence, and it then comes to be a question whether the Minister is so strongly in favour of his proposal as to risk its being turned down by the Dail, or to risk it being carried by the Dail in the teeth of the Treasury. That is a matter on which he is going to be responsible, and he must take that responsibility.  There you have an individual responsibility. 
     
    
      
       Why was it decided not to confer the same right and liberty upon individual members of the Executive Council in charge of constructive working departments? 
     
     
    
      
       Because as a matter of practice the Executive Council must act unitedly.  The Executive Council may consist of five members, none of whom except the Minister for Finance need have a portfolio.  That is to say, so far as this is concerned, only one Minister must necessarily have portfolio.  The Executive Council may deal with matters of general policy, and not matters of a departmental administration, and there is a very distinct difference. It was agreed that there should be that sense of collective responsibility in matters of general National policy, but that there are departments which are somewhat apart from general questions of National policy, that ought to be under a distinct Ministry and that ought not to depend, to any extent, upon the accidents of the political vagaries and thoughts of the time.  I contend that this is a reasonable proposition, and that it meets the criticism that was levelled against the original proposals very effectively.  I think that some of the arguments that were used by Deputy Magennis did not deal with the scheme, as presented in the revised form.  I am afraid that I was not able to pick up his points about the election or nomination of the President, but it seems to me clear that it was the intention that the President was to be nominated by the Dail.  He, in turn, would nominate members of the Executive Council.  I believe that is laid down very clearly in those clauses, and I do not understand where the difficulty of appreciating that arises.  The other members of the Ministry, that is to say the other members who are not members of the Executive Council, will be appointed by the Dail, direct on the nomination of a Committee representative of the various departments of the Dail.  The Dail has direct control of every Minister who is outside this Executive. The Dail has direct control of the Executive as collective body.  That is the scheme, so far as I can explain it.  It is a simple scheme, and I believe it meets with the objections of the critics in so far as they were not fundamental.  There are those who believe that no man, or no woman, should hold office unless he, or she, had gone through an election campaign, and had succeeded in being elected to the   Dail.  I believe the circumstances of the time justify a departure from that principle, which is supposed to be the essence of democracy.  I do not think it is the essence of democracy.  A departure, in so far as it is a departure, mounts to this, that instead of having a direct election for the Ministry, you have the collegiate system. The Dail directly elects the man who may not be a member of that Chamber. That is the only departure, and it is a departure perfectly justified, and I believe it will prove itself of value, and I support the motion to approve of the report. 
     
    
      
       As a matter of courtesy to Deputy Johnson, may I explain to him what this very trivial point of mine amounted to? It dealt with Article 50A. 
     
    
      
       The Committee went outside its terms of reference in suggesting anything whatever about Article 50A.  I intend to rule that particular matter out of order, and I think, therefore, it would be more desirable if we had no discussion whatever on it. 
     
    
      
       My point is with regard to Article 51.  The second clause states:&mdash;&ldquo;The President of the Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the Chamber/Dail.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I think when a Deputy has spoken to a particular point, that that is sufficient. 
     
    
      
       I quite agree.  I was desirous of speaking merely on a point of personal explanation. 
     
    
      
       May I point out with reference to your ruling that a very distinct difference is drawn in the wording of the report by the Committee, between the Articles drawn or revised by the Committee, and submitted as such to the Dail, and other Articles in which certain consequential changes are merely recommended as a necessary corollary? They are only put forward in that form as a necessary recommendation on the assumption that the main part of the report be accepted. 
     
    
      
       The end of Article 50A was the word &ldquo;Crown?&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       It is not competent for the report to contain words   following that, and, in this Appendix, to add after the word &ldquo;Crown,&rdquo;&ldquo;on the nomination of the President of the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       The point is that Article 50  (a)  has been passed. 
     
    
      
       Yes, up to the word &ldquo;Crown.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       No amendment to Article 50  (a)  can be accepted now. 
     
    
      
       50  (a)  is not an Article.  There would be no Article 50  (a)  in the new draft.  It was only put in there as a matter of convenience. 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       Article 50  (a)  meant, originally, Article 50, and Article 51 meant the latter part of 50. 
     
    
      
       We have already passed the Article which is called Article 50  (a).   That is passed as part of the Bill, and it must stand part of it for the present particular reading.  It can be amended later on. 
     
    
      
       A Chinn Chomhairle, I merely rise to say that this Committee's Report and the Articles appended to the Report of the Committee are accepted by those who have primary responsibility for this Bill.  On the principle of the new proposals, there is very little to add to the case that we have attempted to make for those proposals. We pointed out that it would be desirable to cut away as far as possible from the party system and the obvious evils of the party system; that it was particularly desirable, in view of the system of franchise now in existence in this country, in view of Proportional Representation and the kind of Assembly that Proportional Representation will give here&mdash; an Assembly composed, not as the British House of Commons is composed, of two or three large parties, but rather of a number of small groups, and that in an Assembly so composed you will not have the thing that is most needed in Ireland, the thing that will be most needed in Ireland for many a long year-you will not have a strong or stable Government.  You will have frequent changes in Government, and no continuity of policy in your Departments.  You will have a state of affairs pretty much like what you   had in Italy or in France.  And that state of affairs is not at all suited to the needs of an infant State endeavouring to go forward on a course of reconstruction. And so the suggestion is that collective responsibility be limited to a number which may be five, or six, or seven&mdash;at most seven, and at least five&mdash;and that those five or seven men would take collective responsibility for broad matters of policy, and that they would stand or fall together upon these matters of policy; but that outside that you would have Ministers individually responsible for the conduct of their own Departments.  It is strange that the controversy seemed to have ranged and raged most round the point that is not the most important point in the proposals, for the most important point in the proposals is undoubtedly this question of individual responsibility, rather than the question of whether a particular Minister may or may not be a member of the Dail.  We should try to have clearly in our minds what is our objective.  If our objective is to secure for the Irish people the most efficient conduct of the Departments of State, then it does not seem extravagant to leave to this representative Committee of the Dail the power of going outside the membership of the Dail itself if it seems that the efficiency of a particular Department will be best served by doing so, and if it seems that the people who, after all, do count and will always count, and should count&mdash;the whole administration, I take it, is for their benefit&mdash;if the interests of the people will be best served by going outside the membership of the Dail.  Personally, I am inclined to think that that will not occur very frequently.  I am inclined to think that it will be the exception rather than the rule.  It is certainly not an extravagant thing, and not an unwise thing, to say that this Committee of the Dail may, if it likes, go outside the rigid membership of the Dail and select the man who may be particularly suited for the headship of a particular Department.  There is nothing undemocratic in that, as Deputy Johnson has pointed out.  It simply means that this Committee will through its own representative cloak over the man it selects for the position: that, instead of the primary election of the people you have a man selected by   a body that is representative of the people.  Now, the alternative to these two things&mdash;the alternative to this question of individual responsibility&mdash;is that you will have this Dail tied up to vote for the measures, or practically all measures, that are brought forward by any particular Ministry, for fear that Ministry which represents a particular policy in external affairs may go down, and in its going down that a particular policy may go down with it.  Even in the short lifetime of this Assembly, we have seen the spectacle of people&mdash;particularly on that Compensation debate &mdash;voting for the Government while not very sure that in their own minds they felt that the thing the Government stood over was right or wise. If that is so in this Assembly, how much more would it be, or will it be, after the Constitution comes into operation and when you are more likely to have the bitter cut and thrust of Party Politics?  Then it will mean that everyone who approves of the external policy that the Government is standing over would feel bound to vote practically for any measure brought forward from the Government benches; and, on that account, you would not have the deliberation and the freedom necessary, and you would have men backing measures because they were brought forward by the Government which stood for a particular external policy.  We want to have the Parliament of Saorstat Eireann a deliberative Assembly in the fullest sense of the word, an Assembly endeavouring to do all things for the beet advantage of the Irish people, and so we want calm consideration for each measure &mdash; we want each measure analysed only on its merits, and we want the maximum of individual liberty for the Deputies in the Dail.  You will not have that by adhering to collective responsibility. You will have it by giving the largest possible measure of individual responsibility, and by limiting collective responsibility to a group of five, six or seven.  I have spoken of the kind of Assembly we are likely to have in Ireland under the system of Proportional Representation voting.  You will have an Assembly consisting of a number of groups.  You will not have two or three large parties, and that kind of Assembly will not make for stable Government if we have collective responsibility. 
     
     
        I have here a book &ldquo;Canadian Constitutional Studies,&rdquo; written by Sir Robert Borden, and Sir Robert Borden writing on that kind of Parliament where you have a number of small groups says:&mdash;&ldquo;Another tendency which does not make for efficiency or stability in government is group representation in Parliament.  Before Confederation there was experience of that tendency in Canada; administrations succeeded one another with startling rapidity, and stable government became practically impossible.  President Lowell of Harvard University has pointed out the effect of the group system in France. During the twenty-three years, from 1873 to 1896 there were thirty-four different administrations, so that the average duration of a French Cabinet in that period was less than eight months and a half. Lord Bryce mentions nine French parliamentary groups which existed in 1914, and eight at the beginning of 1920. He alludes to the kaleidoscopic changes of government in France.  Of the party as contrasted with the group system he says: `Parties are inevitable.  No free large country has been without them. No one has shown how representative government could be worked without them... When there are small groups each becomes a focus of intrigue, in which personal ambitions have scope. The groups make bargains with one another and by their combinations perhaps secretly and suddenly formed successive ministries may be overturned, with injury to the progress of legislation and to the continuity of national policy.  Since there must be parties, the fewer and stronger they are the better.'  In the first Parliament elected in Poland after the recent war more than a dozen political groups were represented, and no less than thirteen parties compose the present Parliament.  `They are perpetually involved in petty feuds and there is no stable majority.  As a result there are frequent and, to outsiders, inexplicable changes in the personnel of the Cabinet.  Constructive reforms are indefinitely delayed by the futile vicissitudes of the mere game of politics.' The dangers of the group system are intensified when groups are differentiated by occupation, race, or creed, rather than by political opinion.&rdquo; 
     We will have groups here&mdash;small   groups of seven or eight.  We will not have parties on definite lines of political cleavage; we will rather have a representation here and the reflection here of interest&mdash;particular interests in the community; and as there are many varieties, of interests in the community, we are likely to have representatives here of all these interests.  I do not consider that there has been particularly wise or sensible criticism of these proposals.  There has been vehement criticism, heated criticism, a lot of sound and fury signifying nothing, from behind us, and these statements were analysed by Deputy O'Connell, and they were found not to stand that analysis.  We, at any rate, while leaving these matters absolutely open to the Dail, approve of the Report of the Committee, and we accept it, and we recommend it to the Dail. 
    
      
       I do not rise to speak upon this Report, because I happen to be one of the members of the Committee, but I speak on it because I believe the Report carries out the idea adopted here, I think on Friday last, and I rise principally to protest against some of the dishonest tactics that are employed with regard to this matter.  I have no objection to a man standing up here at this Dail and saying what he means, but I do object to him going around the Lobby and saying what is not true; and if it is true, it ought to be said here in this Dail. It is said that the Ministry, or whoever may be the Ministry in the future, want to bring in here people of a certain society.  It was said to me, and therefore I repeat it here&mdash;it was said that they wanted to bring in Freemasons. Now, that is not fair to the Ministry or to us, that statements of that kind should be made, as they were made in the Lobby.  That is not honest criticism If it were true criticism, it ought to be stated here publicly, and not in this wire-pulling manner.  While I am here the Dail will hear plain speaking from me, and I will have none of this kind of thing to which I referred while I am here. Professor Magennis made a lot of comments upon the clauses, especially those giving the same opportunities to members of the Executive Council as we give the external, outside, Ministers.  Now, we do not think it right for any Executive Council to have the opportunity conferred upon any of its members to do any act   without the consent of this Council, and that is the reason we want them to act collectively and have joint responsibility. Because, if it were otherwise, no Executive Council responsible for the running of the country could work at all. We believe if you are going to have a centralized authority on fundamental questions the Executive should act as a whole and that any proposal to be put by members of the Executive Council should have the sanction of the Executive Council.  We are giving a different opportunity to the external members. They can come here and have the merits of their proposals discussed and decided upon by the Chamber.  It is true that we added a few clauses to the report, and perhaps that we went a bit outside the Terms of Reference, but these are sent down by our Committee more in the form of matter to be considered than anything else.  One was the clause relating to Deputies having to seek re-election. We thought, under proportional representation, that that clause should be put up for your consideration.  I think that Deputy Johnson has disposed of. Deputy.  Professor Magennis's objection to the President nominating his Executive and in the first instance having the President nominated by this Chamber. If the President is not to be nominated by this Chamber, then, by whom is he to be nominated?  Once the President is nominated by this Chamber, I think it is right that the President should nominate his Executive Council. 
     
    
      
       Certainly. 
     
    
      
       We are giving him that right now.  Now we are told that there is a great deal of danger to the country if we adopt these proposals.  Now the people who say that do not mean danger to the country at all.  They mean danger to themselves.  They do not think, perhaps, there are enough of jobs to go around, and therefore the great danger to their mind is the great likelihood that some of them might not fall into their share.  Now these amended clauses make nothing at all mandatory. This Dail is at perfect liberty to bring in outsiders, and they are at liberty to keep them out if they so desire; it is the free choice of this Dail whether these people come in or not, and this Dail will select the Committee which is to nominate the people whom they wish to bring in, and these names will   be put to the Dail, and if they do not like them they can turn them down, but the Dail will be absolutely free.  If the Dail does anything wrong it will be the Dail's own decision, and if the majority of this Dail goes wrong it is perfectly entitled to do so.  The Dail is entitled to have its decision whether it is right or wrong, because the majority must rule whether right or wrong. Even in my own case I sometimes go wrong.  The case of the Minister for Finance was cited.  Now we thought after the President and the Vice-President, the Minister for Finance was considered to be the most important man in the Executive Council. We thought it right that before he submitted his measures he should have the question considered by the Executive Council, and have its consent, if possible. We thought that was only following the usual method by which government is carried on, and I do not think we ought to depart from it.  We want it made possible to work smoothly.  If the Government cannot do that, they can be got rid of pretty quickly.  I do not think there is anything wrong with those proposals. The Dail will have the doing of the matter, in their own hands, and if there is anything done which is wrong it will be the wrong act of this Dail, and not the fault of these proposals. 
     
    
      
       I would like to express my entire concurrence with the views expressed by Deputy Gorey, that members are going around the landing canvassing.  They certainly have approached myself to try if they could get me to change my views in the matter.  This, to my mind, is a most undemocratic proposal, and I expressed my opinion on it in the beginning, when I voted against every amendment, and against the original proposition.  Ireland at the present time is in its infancy, as a free Nation, and I think the only argument that would be inclined to carry any weight in favour of this motion is that it was an experiment, and an experiment well worth trying.  I think Ireland is too young to start experiments.  I think we had much better follow precedent, until we have grown, from infancy to manhood, and then let us tackle experiments when we will be in a position to deal with them.  In my opinion, the proper thing for us now is to pick out the best from all the Constitutions   of the nations of the world.  We have an assorted Constitution before us.  I have read other Constitutions, and seen other points.  Pick out the best from them, and for Heaven's sake let not Ireland in its infancy start a drastic experiment like this.  I would not have spoken at all, only for the remarks of Deputy Gorey about canvassing in the Lobby.  I just rise to enter my emphatic protest against an experiment in our infant stage. 
     
    
      
       Listening to the Minister for Home Affairs, it appeared to me that he was arguing for the putting up of a dictatorship&mdash;a dictatorship that would not be limited to any specific time, but would be eternal. There is no such thing as individual responsibility in the Ministry.  Individual responsibility as it is set down here is nothing more than a pious hope or a pious expression.  The Ministry, I presume, will follow exactly the same rule as is followed in any Assembly, no matter whether it is Governmental or not, of consulting upon any measure that will be brought in, and the opinion of the majority will carry.  Now, the Minister for Finance is just as responsible for the carrying on of his Department as the Minister for Agriculture, who may be a non-elected member.  The Minister for Finance looks to his Secretary or to his Chief Clerk to carry on his Department properly, and he advises him.  I presume there will be Chief Clerks or Secretaries in all the Departments of those outside Ministers, or Ministers not elected to the Dail.  There will be Chief Clerks or Secretaries who will run their own Departments, and they will be responsible to them.  What is the use of setting up supernumerary Secretaries or supernumerary Chief Clerks&mdash;supernumeraries who will not only be Chief Clerks and Secretaries, but who will become dictators? Deputies have talked of experiments and innovations.  There is no experiment in this.  It is as old as the ages.  There is nothing new in history.  Those so-called experiments or innovations, though they might work out very well in the beginning, ultimately become a drag on the Nation's onward march.  This old-time Nation, now resuming its onward march, must not be shackled by anything hung on to it such as this&mdash;a proposal to elect gentlemen to be Ministers who have not been elected by any constituency in Ireland. 
     
     
    
      
       Cuidighim-se leis an run ata os coir na Dala.  Bhi a lan cainnte annseo i gcoinne an ruin, ach silim nach raibh moran ceile ann. 
     
     This resolves itself into one simple question, to my mind, whether a member elected to the Dail or a member elected by the Dail is going to be the best possible form of selection.  That seems to be what permeates the whole of the controversy that arises here.  I submit that this Dail, if it has been regularly elected, as it will be, by the people should be the concentrated electoral intelligence of the whole community, and it should comply with all the conditions that are attachable to the general electorate in the community, and it should discharge these duties even with a good deal more efficiency and ability than the ordinary electoral bodies would do.  I think that would be surely a principle that could hardly, be in question.  It is alleged that sinister influences would prevail, and that a great many agencies might be employed, and that a lot of energy might be spent in trying to drive this Dail astray and to make it do something that was against the interest of the people we are here to represent.  Any gentleman who stands up here and at once finds a verdict that this Dail is likely to do is not honestly following any logical line of reason.  These extern Ministers can be removed by the Chamber for stated reasons upon a report of a Committee representative of the Dail, and they can go out with the Parliament in any case when the life of the Parliament expires, or when there is a General Election.  They are bound to go out automatically, or they can be put out by the methods in the clause devised by this Constitution for the purpose.  It is alleged here that the extern Minister is going to be some sort of qualified Departmental official who is not to be elected in a democratic way, and that he can perform some sort of hypnotic influence over the whole body that will make them ride roughshod over everything the people may desire.  But the Dail can reject any proposal he makes without affect ing the Government.  They can deal with him as they think he deserves to be dealt with.  If any proposal of an intern Minister is rejected you at once proceed   to a General Election, with all the expense and delay it entails.  Deputy Magennis thinks this is useful.  He probably wants a new election with every change of the moon.  I think it is not at all in the interests of the country that you should have following one another these General Elections.  The country cannot afford them.  We have not demanded that these men should be selected. We have only allowed an option.  That is all we have given. If you do not give an option to National efficiency, what are you going to give an option to?  Are you going to close the door to National efficiency?  Are you going to adopt the British party system here, where you have two parties who continually keep fighting with each other, and where you have no Minister at all who will be independent of these parties?  Ministers will either be on the Government side, or waiting to get in with the turn of the tide, with the new Government.  I think you had better leave this option to the Dail, and show faith in the new Dail.  They will give as honest a decision as will be given by any constituents, and I have no doubt whatever or reservation in accepting this motion.  I urge you to accept it, and I am going to support it. 
    
      
       There are so many reasons given for voting here, and one thing or another, that I would not like to give a silent vote on this matter.  To my mind there is one very serious principle involved, and it did not occur to me when I voted for this motion on the last occasion, that we were taking the power from the people of Ireland, and giving it to a future President or future Dail.  I consider we should not infringe on the rights of the people, and for that reason I will vote against it. 
     
    
      
       As my colleagues have defended so successfully our joint work against criticism, I only want to reply to one or two points very shortly.  Deputy Milroy, who, apparently, had not read the first word of the Report, as he could not find Section 50B in it, complained that you would have the old Castle gang pitchforked into the Ministry, where he said they would remain for all eternity.  I leave him to settle that question with Deputy Magennis,   whose complaint was that the outside people would not be left long enough to get warm in their position.  They might be put out in three or four months, or possibly three or four years.  They can settle between themselves where the eternity comes in about that.  Deputy Figgis and Deputy Magennis, particularly Deputy Figgis, complained that the Committee had invented an entirely new principle, and he opposed the resolutions because they were a new principle&mdash;a Ministry in two parts.  He had read the report, but he had not read the resolution of the Dail which appointed the Committee, as we were directed by that resolution to divide the Ministry into two classes, those who were members of the Executive Council, and those who were not, and we had no other way of going about our business except in dividing it into two parts.  We were told the Dail approved the principle of certain members who should not be members of the Executive Council, and therefore you have the Ministry in two parts, those in the Executive Council and those who are not.  The Ministers who are not in the Executive Council were by the same resolution made individually responsible to the Dail alone and not to the Executive Council for the due performance of their duties.  So we did as we were told.  We made provision for the election of the Ministry in two parts, one for the Executive Council and one for the Ministers who are not in the Executive Council&mdash;the Executive Council which is to be directly responsible to the Dail, and Ministers who are to be individually responsible to the Dail.  That disposes of the real argument against the principle of this thing, except the one about our having included in the Executive Council the one single Ministry&mdash;the Ministry of Finance.  The reason, I think, is obvious. If there was one Minister out of the whole collection besides the President who must be a Minister elected by the people and a Minister in this Dail. it is the man who controls the finances of the Nation, who has to form the Budget, who brings in Estimates, and submits them to the Executive Council, and who is responsible for taxing the people.  If there is one Minister over all who should not altogether be outside this Dail it is the man who controls the purse, because he controls,   directly or indirectly, every other Ministry under him.  It is when a Minister in an independent office, like the Minister for Agriculture, or whatever office you please, is preparing legislation for the coining season finds he wants money to do it, he must go to the Minister for Finance, who is on the Executive Council, and he has to prepare the Estimate, submit the Budget, and he must deal by resolution under that clause we have already passed for the appropriation of every penny, and of course if he makes it a matter of policy for the whole Government whether the money is to be forthcoming or not, the Executive Council must either take up or reject the proposal of the individual Minister. If they take it up they stand or fall by   it.  On the other hand, they can say we do not approve of this.  We will submit your proposals to the Dail, and if the Dail backs you up, then we will see if we can do it.  For these reasons I respectfully submit these proposals to the Dail and ask them to let us get into Committee on them, and then we will welcome all the criticisms we can get for the purpose of improving these matters, because we do not set ourselves up, as Deputy Milroy said, to be Constitutional experts at all.  We are just common ordinary members of the Dail, probably not much worse and certainly not any better than any other Committee, and we welcome any criticisms in Committee. 
       The question was put, and, on a division, was defeated by 31 to 30, the voting being:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Ta. 
             Nil. 
           
         
         
           
             Padraig O Gamhna. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Donnchadh O Guaire. Tomas de Nogla. Riobard O Deaghaidh. Liam de Roiste. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. Tomas Mac Eoin. Seoirse Ghabhain Ui Dhubhthaigh. Deasmhumhain Mac Gearailt. Domhnall Mac Cartaigh. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Liam O Briain. Earnan Altun. Sir Seamus Craig. Gearoid Mac Giobuin. Liam Thrift. Padraig O hOgain. Padraic O Maille. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam O Daimhin. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Eamon O Dugain. Earnan de Blaghd. Sean Buitleir. Nioclas O Faolain. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Domhnall O Ceallachain. 
             Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. Sean O Maolruaidh. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hAonghusa. Domhnall O Mochain. Sean O hAodha. Seamus Breathnach. Peadar Mac a' Bhaird. Darghal Figes. Sean O Ruanaidh. Ailfrid O Broin. Micheal de Staineas. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Seosamh O Faoileachain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Criostoir O Broin. Seamus Eabhroid. Padraig Mac Artain. Tomas Mac Artuir. Seamus O Dolain. Proinsias Mag Aonghusa. Peadar O hAodha. Seamus O Murchadha. Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. Tomas O Domhnaill. Uinseann de Faoite. Domhnall O Broin. Seamus de Burca. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Micheal O Dubhghail. 
           
           
             30 
             31 
           
         
       
     
    
      
       There is a Standing Order of this Dail, I think, that when the Dail comes to a decision it cannot be altered within six months. Is that so? 
     
    
      
       It is, except under certain conditions. 
     
    
      
       The Dail came to a decision to submit this matter to a Committee.  It was submitted, and we have the Report of the Committee.  Deputy McCarthy knows as well as we do that there is nothing in his point. 
     
    
      
       The Dail did more than submit it to a Committee.  The Dail approved of a principle, and asked the Committee, in accordance with the   terms of that principle, to prepare certain resolutions and bring them back. The Committee acted on the resolution of the Dail, and brought in this Report, judging that the decision of the Dail had been given on these principles. Now, the vote that has been given to-day reverses the opinion of the Dail on that principle.  I ask for a decision as to whether the Standing Order holding that the decision cannot be reversed within six months applies in this case. 
     
    
      
       I made the point before, and I make it again, that the wish of the Dail on a general principle was declared.  Now, the principle is&mdash; certain Ministers are described&mdash;and the principle with regard to them is that they need not be members of the Dail. What is already decided, I submit, does commit us to the view, and we have put it into the Constitution, that Ministers may be appointed who are not members of the Executive Council.  I gave the illustration before, and I cannot think of a better one at the moment&mdash;if we were to decree that members of the Dail who wear white hate shall not receive the monthly allowance, that would have no application whatever if there were no Deputies of that description.  The same thing holds good and is an exact parallel here.  The principle that they need not be members of the Dail is applicable merely to a certain class described.  That is all the length we have got.  We should have a vote on the separate proposal of individual responsibility and the eligibility of non-members of the Dail to be elected Ministers, but that was refused.  The only thing we are committed to is that a certain class of men with whom we have no concern are eligible to be appointed from outside the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I submit that the words of this resolution contradict flatly the position taken up by the Deputy who has just sat down&mdash;that this Dail approves of the general principle that certain Ministers shall not be members of the Executive Council; there it is assumed that certain Ministers would not be members of the Executive Council. Such Ministers would be nominated by the Dail, and be responsible to the Dail alone; but the very inclusion of that phrase indicates acceptance of that position   by the Dail.  I think there can be no question in anybody's mind on that point.  The very fact that there is an assumption that there would be certain Ministers who would not be members of the Executive points to that. 
     
    
      
       The issue, to my mind, is quite clear. 
     
    
      
       Is it a point of order?  On a point of order, then, Deputy Gorey. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order, I say that this matter was decided on Friday.  The only question here for discussion is this particular, report. Did that report do what it was intended to do, or did it not?  As the Dail has rejected the report, you are in the position in which you were on Friday, and that is all. 
     
    
      
       The Dail committed itself to a certain principle.  Is the report not concerned with details rather than the principle itself? 
     
    
      
       Several speakers, in the course of the debate that has just concluded, drew attention to the fact that we were debating something that was decided last Friday on the debate on Deputy Thrift's motion, and that, in fact, the business of the Dail to-day should have been to go into Committee and to consider in detail the appended resolution of Deputy Fitzgibbon's Committee.  That was not done.  Any suggestions that we were discussing something that had already been decided were ignored by you.  The responsibility is on you now, Sir, to find the way out of the rather peculiar position in which the Dail finds itself. 
     
    
      
       To save the Ministry. 
     
    
      
       On Friday a Committee was appointed to draw up suggestions as to the procedure in applying the principle which had been approved in practice.  The suggestions made to apply the principle in practice have been rejected by the Dail.  I submit that, as the principle in practice has been found by the Dail to be unworkable, that the whole thing is rejected. 
     
    
      
       I submit that the discussion on this report, according to the resolution that was adopted on Friday, is somewhat irregular.  It says   that the consideration of the report should come before the Dail later whilst in Committee on the present Bill Either it comes before the Dail or it comes before the Committee unless the Dail embraced the two.  If before the Committee it is quite possible that the vote that has just been taken is a decision which does not abolish this report for all time.  There is no doubt about that, but such a very tight expression of opinion indicates that there are passages in this report which might be acceptable to the Dail, or at least the speech made by one Deputy confirms me in the view that that Deputy, at any rate, was voting wrongly, and not according to what could have happened if each paragraph, or each Article, rather, were being discussed.  Some deputies said that they were in favour of parts of the report, others said that they were in favour of other parts of it, and so on, and the Dail, as a whole, discussed nine Articles in bulk.  I wonder what the position would be if the vote had been thirty-one for and thirty against?  Would the Dail then have been in this position if the Dail had adopted the nine Articles of the Constitution in the Dail as a whole?  Is it that the Dail having done that, having passed the nine Articles, would send them after having already passed them twice, in the First Reading and in the Second Reading, before the Committee and run the gauntlet again?  The procedure, to my mind, has been somewhat irregular, and I submit that the nine Articles ought to have come before a Committee of the Dail, and have each Article dealt with on its merits.  It is quite possible that the method of dealing with the Articles together would not commend itself to the whole Dail, but the fact that it has commended itself to one less than the majority of the Dail certainly gives rise to the opinion that each Article ought to have been considered on its merits, and amended if they were not satisfied. 
     
    
      
       I do not understand what the meaning of this discussion is.  Do the Ministry want to reverse the decision of the Dail?  Can they not take their beating like men?  When you talk about the incompetence of the Dail to make this decision it is talking sheer nonsense in my opinion.  Suppose   this Dail had decided, say, on the Nationalisation of Railways, and appointed a Committee to consider ways and means, it would not follow that the Dail would reject the principle of the Nationalisation of Railways. 
     
    
      
       That is what we are explaining. 
     
    
      
       I am glad I have converted the Ministers to my way of thinking.  I am not contending that we have affected the decision of last Friday, but I am contending that this decision to-day is valid and binding inasmuch as it rejects this report.  I presume then we come back to consider the Articles in the original draft, or else appoint another Committee to do their work better than the last Committee. 
     
    
      
       I would suggest that in considering this matter of a way out of the difficulty that the Dail is in at the moment we should leave the six months' rule aside.  I do not believe the rule applies strictly, and I do not think it was intended on its adoption to apply in such a way as to hold up a discussion on a matter about which there was difficulty in Committee.  If we were agreed that the six months' rule would not apply it might facilitate matters. 
     
    
      
       To meet the difficulty I would suggest that we would accept the decision of the Dail, and revert to Committee stage on the particular clauses of the Bill concerned, and that Deputy FitzGibbon moves the deletion of the clauses and the substitution of this report, Article by Article. 
     
    
      
       I think the suggestion is a very good one.  We are now back where we started three days ago Now, it may be that there should be on the Notice Paper a number of amendments which are contained in Deputy FitzGibbon's report.  If for any technical reason these cannot be discussed to-day, then it will be permissible, I think, to proceed further with the Bill. I submit as we are on the matter it would be quite simple to proceed this way.  I suggest there can be no question that we are now back to the Committee Stage, and must take these clauses one by one, with or without amendment. 
     
    
      
       I desire to support Deputy Johnson's proposal. It enables the Dail to deal   with this matter systematically.  If, however, Deputy Fitzgibbon is allowed to move each of the recommendations set out here one by one, we shall find ourselves in reality debating the principle involved, and it might be possible, therefore, to vote for the permissive aspect of the proposal to select Ministers from outside the Dail.  It will admit of us voting separately on the question of individual responsibility and collective responsibility, and so on.  In that way we shall be doing what we ought to have done in the beginning, and which I did my best to recommend to the Dail at the time.  The opportunity was not seized.  It would have saved a great deal of valuable time, and the only thing now is to retrace our steps.  I agree with the Minister for Local Government in that regard. 
     
    
      
       I would be glad to have some enlightenment as to the procedure regarding possible amendments that Deputies may wish to submit.  If the debate in Committee is resumed tomorrow, according to the Standing Orders we could not submit amendments now. 
     
    
      
       Amendments in Committee can be received by permission, without notice. 
     
    
      
       I would suggest that the Dail gives permission for amendments in view of the situation which has arisen.  We are up against a novel situation. 
     
    
      
       Amendments to what?  There cannot be amendments to the clauses of a report that the Dail has rejected. 
     
    
      
       Not at all.  I refer to amendments to the original draft of the Constitution. 
     
    
      
       I take it the matter is not so difficult as it appears. 
     
    
      
       I wish to support Deputy Johnson's suggestion, and I do so because one Deputy has assured me that the reason he voted against the report was he did not like one line in one particular clause. 
     
    
      
       I said that when I was speaking; I knew that. 
     
     
    
      
       As regards the various points of order raised: When in Committee it was proposed to appoint a special Committee to go into particular clauses, I think I pointed out that only the Dail could appoint a special Committee.  We came out of Committee and I think the President himself moved that a special Committee should then be appointed.  It was appointed and it had to report to the Dail; it could not report to the Dail in Committee.  When it reported the adoption of the report had to be moved&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Not necessarily, I should say. 
     
    
      
       When it was moved to-day, the understanding was, that a vote for the report did not mean that the Articles put in the Appendix of the report became part of the Constitution.  It meant that these Articles would be taken up in Committee instead of the Articles standing in the draft Bill.  That was made quite clear.  But it was also understood that if the report were adopted after discussion on the principle again, we could not accept amendments in Committee to these clauses which aimed at the principle.  Now the report is lost and it seems to me that we go into Committee on the original clauses and not on these clauses of the report. 
     
    
      
       Do you rule them out as amendments? 
     
    
      
       When we are in Committee on the original clauses we have a Standing Order which enables amendments to be proposed without notice, if allowed; that is to say, with special permission.  That seems to be the situation. 
     
    
      
       The report, as a report, is gone.  In Committee we will consider clause by clause and anything in the report dealing with the particular clause under discussion could, I presume, be submitted as an amendment. 
     
    
      
       Certainly. That would be my ruling. 
     
    
      
       I move that the permission of the Dail would be given to Deputy Fitzgibbon to move that the recommendations which stand in his name as the Chairman of the Committee shall be taken as amendments. 
     
     
    
      
       I hardly think that is necessary.  The Standing Orders deal with that matter. 
     
    
      
       I think you might add to that that they might be moved by any member of the Committee. I am quite sure the other Members do not intend to run away and leave me to hold the fort. 
     
    
      
       My ruling was that the recommendations embodied in the Report, in so far as they are relevant to particular clauses, could be moved, without saying by whom.  If the Dail agrees, we can go into Committee on the clauses contained in the original draft. 
       The Dail agreed, and then went into Committee. 
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ARTICLE 50B. 
    
      
       After wasting 23⁄4 hours in a most preposterous debate, I wish to move Article 50B, which reads: &mdash;&ldquo;Four Ministers shall be Members of the Chamber/Dail Eireann, and a number not exceeding eight, chosen from all citizens eligible for election to the Chamber/Dail Eireann, who shall not be Members of Parliament/Oireachtas during their term of office, and who, if at the time of their appointment they are Members of Parliament/Oireachtas, shall, by virtue of such appointment, vacate their seats: Provided that the Chamber/Dail Eireann may from time to time, on the motion of the President of the Executive Council, determine that a particular Minister or Ministers, not exceeding three, may be Members of Parliament/ Oireachtas in addition to the four Members of the Chamber/Dail Eireann above mentioned.&rdquo;  We take it that amendments will be moved to that particular Article, and it would be our intention to accept such amendments.  The Article as it stands provides that, in addition to the Executive Council of four, there shall be a number of Ministers, not exceeding eight, selected from all citizens eligible for election to the Dail, and that these shall not be, during their term of office, Members of the Parliament.  Then there is a proviso that the Dail, on a motion of the President of the Executive Council, may determine that a particular Minister   or Ministers, not exceeding three, may be Members of the Parliament. That would leave that, in addition to the Council of four, there may be three others, Members of Parliament&mdash;that is seven.  The remaining Ministers would not be Members of Parliament during their term of office.  I move that Article. 
     
    
      
       This Article was so vigorously opposed on the last occasion that it does not require any preface from me.  It provides that there is to be an Executive Council of twelve, four of whom will be members of Parliament and eight of whom need not be. I beg respectfully to move as an amendment that &ldquo;The Executive Council shall all be members of the Chamber/ Dail, and shall include the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Council, and the Minister in charge of the Department of Finance.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I propose to amend this to read that the Ministers who form the Executive Council shall all be members of the Chamber. The attempt is to discriminate between two types of Ministers.  That is the leading idea throughout.  Certain Ministers form the Executive Council, and they shall all be members of the Dail. 
     
    
      
       Deputy Magennis has made a suggestion in the form of an amendment; what we want to know now is whether Deputy FitzGibbon will accept that or not? 
     
    
      
       In what form? 
     
    
      
       Instead of the &ldquo;Executive Council shall all be members&rdquo; read &ldquo;The Ministers who form the Executive Council shall all be members.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I am quite willing to accept that. 
     
    
      
       There is a question arising in my mind as to whether Deputy Magennis is arguing that all the Ministers shall form the Executive Council by that form of words, because we have in the new clause this sentence, &ldquo;That the Executive Council shall be responsible,&rdquo; without any reference as to who shall be responsible, and we quite agree that there is no need to run the risk of misrepresentation at a later   stage, where it might be said that the Ministers forming the Executive Council are intended. 
     
    
      
       To meet the acute observation of Deputy Johnson, I would suggest that these words be used &ldquo;those Ministers who form the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       That is a small grammatical point. 
     
    
      
       Is the amendment now accepted by the mover of the original amendment? 
     
    
      
       I accept it. 
     
    
      
       I much prefer the original form of this motion because there is in the suggested amendment this implication that there will be other Ministers.  That implication is now suggested.  That is a matter that I am out against all the time.  This amendment if it had been opposed originally might save us a lot of discussion because there is no objectionable feature to it at all.  I would be in favour of the amendment if what has been proposed now had been proposed in the original amendment. 
     
    
      
       If this amendment of Deputy Fitzgibbon's is carried are we to take it that the Executive Council, if it is formed from the Ministers, or the Dail, or outside, that they are to have collective responsibility? Because some Deputies here are, I think, interested in the individual responsibility rather than in the other question.  As I understand the amendment in the Article, it is that there is to be collective responsibility on the part of the Executive Council, and if that amendment is carried it would simply mean that the Executive Council would be the Government, and we would be back to the state of collective responsibility. And it does not matter then in the least whether you would appoint the other Ministers from the Dail or outside. 
     
    
      
       Has Deputy FitzGibbon accepted the words suggested by Deputy Magennis? 
     
    
      
       I have. 
     
    
      
       Therefore the amendment now reads:&mdash;&ldquo;Those Ministers who form the Executive Council shall all be members of the   Chamber/Dail and shall include the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Council and the Minister in charge of the Department of Finance.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I suggest without prejudicing the future, that the word &ldquo;those&rdquo; might be eliminated, because whatever is put into a subsequent Article will be drawn against by leaving the words &ldquo;Ministers who form the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I think it better leave it as it stands. 
     
    
      
       We will put that amendment before the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I accept that amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       That becomes Article 50b. 
     
    
      
       It has not been accepted yet. 
     
    
      
       The amendment has been agreed to, but it has not been put as a substantive motion yet. 
       The amendment was then put as a substantive motion and agreed to as Article 50b. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Article 50B stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ARTICLE 51. 
    
      
       In view of the Article that has been passed, I do not propose to move the first paragraph of Article 51, but I will move the second paragraph.  It is:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The President of the Executive Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the Chamber/Dail.  He shall nominate a Vice-President of the Council who shall act for all purposes in the place of the President, if the President shall die, resign, or be permanently incapacitated, until a new President of the Council shall have been elected.  The Vice-President shall also act in the place of the President during his temporary absence.&rdquo;  Now, I formally move that Article. 
     
    
      
       May I have your leave to move that for Article 51 there be substituted the following, of which I have given notice:&mdash; &ldquo;The President/Uachtaran of the Executive Council shall be the chief of the Executive Council, and shall be appointed on the nomination of the Chamber/Dail.  He shall, on his nomination nominate the other Ministers/Airi with the assent of the Chamber/Dail in each case.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       On a point of order.  Is not this one of the amendments to Clauses in the Report which has been rejected by this Dail, and not to the Bill which is before the Dail?  They are headed Amendments to the Bill. 
     
    
      
       They are. But Deputy Figgis has already two Amendments in the Orders of the Day (B. and C.), and this form is better than the form in which the same Amendments appear on the Orders of the Day. 
     
    
      
       Deputy Figgis' Amendment does not apply unless this Amendment is carried.  If the Amendment is carried he could propose it as a substantive motion.  If the Amendment which Deputy FitzGibbon moves is carried, then this might be put forward as an Amendment. 
     
    
      
       It is a simpler form than in the Orders of the Day. 
     
    
      
       Is Deputy FitzGibbon moving any Amendment to the Clause moved by the Minister&mdash;it seems to be the same? 
     
    
      
       No, I am not. 
     
    
      
       I take it that this amendment of Deputy Figgis' is a clear indication of what I said would happen if the Report of the Committee was rejected.  One Deputy said he was not going to take from the people of Ireland the opportunity they got and hand over to the President and Ministry power which should not be theirs.  That is precisely what Deputy Figgis wants to do here now.  He wants the President to nominate each and every one of the Ministers, which goes directly against the text of the speech made by Deputy Rooney.  I do not know what other meaning could be deduced from that. It was obvious to me, when I heard the speech of Deputy Rooney, that he was making a mistake.  The very thing   that Deputy Rooney voted against is what Deputy Figgis now wants to establish and perpetuate.  I do not agree with that at all.  I was against it from the beginning.  I object to having such power as that given to any man.  It damned this country during the last six months, because power, authority and responsibility was given into the hands of one man, who did not deserve it, a man who was propped up by a Party and his own Ministers, and who, having got to a position, kicked the platform from under him and the men who supported him, and divided the country and brought all this terrible trouble upon the country.  Here is the position you are in by this amendment.  One man is to be always leading the country, as if there was to be given to one man that power.  No one man is capable of doing that.  This country should be run, and this country should be worked by a team.  We hope to get into the minds of the Dail, and of the people, that that was the intention, but it was side-tracked and divorced actually from the motives we had in view, and so putrid is the whole thing now, that it is supported by the  Morning Post  (an extract from which has been put into my hands), in opposition to the proposals brought in by the Ministry. 
     
    
      
       It is an excellent thing to think that the  Morning Post  should, at least on one occasion in its life, be right.  But what I suggested in this Amendment is practically the exact wording of Article 52, as suggested by the Committee, except that I put it that &ldquo;Ministers shall be appointed&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;other Ministers shall be appointed.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Deputy Figgis wants to persuade the Dail that there is no difference in the world between his amendment and that of the Committee. He hopes to frustrate the proposal that Ministers are to be appointed by the President, and to ensure that only certain Ministers shall be appointed or nominated by the President.  There is, however, a great deal of difference between the two.  There is the difference that there is between a cup of tea and a breakfast. 
     
    
      
       I would like to suggest that Deputy Johnson is not exactly right.  I know he intends to be   perfectly fair, but my point is this, if the President comes into power, he comes into power by virtue of holding the majority of the Dail, and if he does hold the majority of the Dail, on general lines of policy, he would have the majority of the Committee.  I would rather that, than that the appointment should be by the Committee.  I am not referring to this particular Dail, or to this particular President.  I am referring to any President, if only one out of a possible six Presidents. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the amendment be made,&rdquo; put and negatived. 
     
    
      
       Will you allow me now to move an amendment, which is, that:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The President of the Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the Chamber/Dail.  He shall nominate a Vice-President of the Council, who shall act for all purposes in the place of the President if the President shall die, resign, or be permanently incapacitated, until a new President of the Council shall have been elected. The Vice-President shall also act in the place of the President during his temporary absence.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Article 51 is deleted. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the proposed amendment be made,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       The Amendment is carried, and will now be put as a substantive motion as Article 51 of the Bill. 
     
    
      
       Might I suggest to the President to consider if he would add to what has become a substantive motion the words of Article 52 drawn up by the Committee.  They refer to the same thing as Article 51, and I think the remaining words of Article 52 would just cover the point. 
     
    
      
       May I draw your attention, A Chinn Chomhairle, to the fact that a deliberate attempt is now being made to nullify the vote taken at an earlier stage this afternoon.  What was rejected was not only the report, but the proposal to submit the report of the Committee to the Dail.  Now, by a very ingenious device, this report of the Committee is being adopted as a substitute for the rejected articles.  I wonder if those who voted against the   report could be notified of what is going on. 
     
    
      
       It was distinctly agreed that the Articles in the Appendix to the Report could be moved as an amendment to the other Articles. 
     
    
      
       And there are points in them that Deputy Magennis agrees with? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       And there are points in them that you want to amend? 
     
    
      
       The only point is that we are doing under cover of a subtle device the very thing the Dail decided against doing earlier.  If the Dail decides to stultify itself, it is its own affair.  I am only drawing attention to the unpleasant fact. 
     
    
      
       The dose may have been too much for the Dail.  It is taking it now in smaller quantities&mdash;in tabloid form&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       And enjoying it. 
     
    
      
       The Dail distinctly agreed on this procedure without a dissenting voice, except that of Deputy Milroy, who objected to its going into Committee. 
     
    
      
       In support of the general principle, I entirely agree with the statement of the President.  But if he accepts Article 52, the Article suggested by Deputy Thrift, as one who supported the original thing I will have to vote against that.  The thing that has been moved by the President himself is that he shall have power to nominate the Vice-President, presumably without asking the approval of the Dail for the person he nominates.  Most certainly, I think, there will be a majority of the Members of the Dail against giving any President of this Chamber power to nominate those who are to be appointed, according to the first portion of Article 51, by the representative of the Crown, without submitting their names to the Dail.  They are two distinct things, and I would ask him to adhere to his proposition, simply to nominate the Vice-President. 
     
    
      
       I do not quite understand the point that is being made   by Deputy de Roiste.  I take it, the main objection to taking the whole of this Clause out was that you took from the President the power to nominate the Ministers.  Deputy de Roiste raises another point.  He objects to that.  I have not heard that objection before.  I understood the objection was that the Committee elected by the Dail itself was to nominate extern Ministers. But this is the first time I have heard there was any objection to the President nominating the members of the Executive Council.  I think it would be a mistake to interfere with that right of the President, because, after all, he will have to submit the number of Ministers who are to act with him in a responsible capacity.  He is in a position almost to guarantee that they will be a team which will put up certain definite propositions to the Chamber, and will stand or fall by the result.  The general Executive Authority of the country will be centred in 5, 6, or 7, according as you decide the number of the Executive Council. This is the first time I have heard any objection to the President nominating any members of the Executive Council. I do not see any point in it, and I would have no objection to accepting an amendment there to Article 52:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The other Ministers who are members of the Executive Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the President, and he and the Ministers nominated by him shall retire from office should he cease to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber/ Dail, but the President and such Ministers shall continue to carry on their duties until their successors shall have been appointed.  Provided, however, that the Parliament/Oireachtas shall not be dissolved on the advice of an Executive Council which has ceased to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber/Dail.&rdquo; 
     
     If the point be that there is an objection to the President nominating them without submitting their names to the chamber, I agree that some explanatory clause should be put in which would make it mandatory on the President to nominate Ministers to the Dail and get them approved by the Dail, because I would not agree that the President should of his own accord select the members, without their being sanctioned   by the Dail.  If that be the only point it can be made later or you can put in a couple of words on the nomination of the President of the Dail. 
    
      
       I am very much surprised at the first portion of the President's remarks, because a few moments ago, in speaking of ex-President De Valera, he uttered exactly the idea which is in my mind on this matter. According to the first portion of Article 51 the President of the Dail has power to nominate certain Ministers who shall be appointed by the Representative of the Crown.  What I desire is that in future, when he has persons to nominate, that he submits their names to the Dail for approval, before they are appointed by the Representative of the Crown. 
     
    
      
       I wish to move as an amendment to the President's amendment that, &ldquo;The other Ministers who are to hold office as members of the Executive Council shall be members of An Dail and shall be appointed on the nomination of the President with the approval of An Dail,&rdquo; and then the rest as it stands. 
     
    
      
       There is just a verbal difficulty there, because earlier in paragraph 50 ( a ), which has been accepted, it says they shall be appointed by the Representative of the Crown, so it is just a choice of choosing another verb. 
     
    
      
       I agree, Deputy Professor Magennis, with that suggestion of yours. 
     
    
      
       The other point raised by Deputy Magennis is provided in Article 50 ( b ).  I do not see why you want to repeat it again. 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;These members of the Executive Council shall be all members of the Chamber.&rdquo;  Why repeat that? 
     
    
      
       Where is that? 
     
    
      
       That is an amendment moved by yourself. 
     
    
      
       What the President said if he reduces it to writing will be quite satisfactory to everyone, namely, that the President shall have power to nominate those particular Ministers, whatever may happen with regard to   other Ministers, and that he shall submit their names for approval by the Dail, before submitting them to the Representative of the Crown for appointment. 
     
    
      
       The other members who are members of the Executive Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the President and with the assent of the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I was just going to say that we might give credit to Deputy Figgis by using the words of his amendment to add the following:&mdash;&ldquo;with the assent of the Dail in each case.&rdquo;  That would meet the point raised by Deputies. 
     
    
      
       I accept that. 
     
    
      
       The further amendment is agreed to in the form approved. 
     
    
      
       read the amendment to add to Article 51 the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The other members who are members of the Executive Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the President with the assent of the Dail and he and the Ministers nominated by him shall retire from office should he cease to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber/Dail, but the President and such Ministers shall continue to carry on their duties until their successors shall have been appointed; Provided, however, that the Parliament/Oireachtas shall not be dissolved on the advice of an Executive Council which has ceased to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber/Dail.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       It is not to add. It runs: &ldquo;Either who are to be members&rdquo; or &ldquo;who hold office as members.&rdquo; I prefer &ldquo;Ministers who hold office as members.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Does the President accept that? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
       The Amendment was agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask, on a point of information, upon whose advice would Parliament be dissolved in the event of a Ministry failing to   secure a majority?  Who else is there to advise a dissolution? 
     
    
      
       The new Ministry. 
     
    
      
       read the Article as amended:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The President of the Council shall be appointed on the nomination of the Chamber/Dail.  He shall nominate a Vice-President of the Council, who shall act for all purposes in the place of the President if the President shall die, resign, or be permanently incapacitated, until a new President of the Council shall have been elected.  The Vice-President shall also act in the place of the President during his temporary absence. The other Ministers who are to hold office shall be appointed on the nomination of the President, with the assent of the Dail, and he and the Ministers nominated by him shall retire from office should he cease to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber/Dail, but the President and such Ministers shall continue to carry on their duties until their successors shall have been appointed. Provided, however, that the Parliament/Oireachtas shall not be dissolved on the advice of an Executive Council which has ceased to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber/ Dail.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       The question is does the Article stand part of the Bill? 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Article 51 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Carried. 
     
    
      
       Having dealt with the Constitution and the selection of the Executive Council, it seems to me that it would be a proper thing to interpose here a Clause defining their duties, and therefore I would move that the Executive Council are to be collectively responsible for all matters concerning the Departments of State administered by its members. 
     
    
      
       That can be moved as an amendment when the Minister moves the next Article. 
     
    
      
       I am moving to interpose it before the next Clause. 
     
    
      
       We had better get the Article moved formally. 
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - NEW ARTICLE. 
     
    
      
       I move Article 52 as it stands in the draft of the Bill. 
     
    
      
       I move as an amendment, to substitute before Article 52 a new Article defining the duties of the Executive Council, and prescribing that they shall be collectively responsible for their own Departments, and prescribing that they shall prepare estimates of receipts and expenditure for each financial year to be presented to the Chamber before the close of the previous financial year.  That is, in fact, taken from another portion of the Constitution. 
     
    
      
       I would like to move as an amendment to that, that the words &ldquo;the Executive Council shall meet and act as a collective authority, provided, however, that any Minister of the Executive Council who is Head of a separate Department of State shall be individually responsible to An Dail for the administration thereof and shall retire from office on a specific vote of disapproval of his administration being passed by An Dail.&rdquo;  The idea behind this amendment is to differentiate between members of the Executive Council who have portfolios and the members of the Executive Council, like the President and Vice-President, who have not &mdash;I may be wrong in my assumption that the Executive Council might include a number of Ministers, probably not merely three&mdash;perhaps that is a misreading on my part; but, suppose at any time there were the case of a Minister for Finance, who is one such as I describe, he ought to be individually responsible, on certain occasions at least. I referred to this earlier in the other debate. The object of my amendment is to obviate the difficulties that would arise from cross voting.  I want the Ministry to be turned out only on a specific vote directed to that end.  To preclude the possibility of the Ministry being overturned in an irregular way, I wish to make a member of an Executive Council who is in charge of a Department individually responsible for his own work.  I put this forward for consideration now: 
     
     &ldquo;to add to Article 51 ( a ), `provided, however, that any Minister of the   Executive Council who is Head of a separate Department of State shall be individually responsible for the administration thereof, and shall retire from office on a specific vote of condemnation of his administration being passed by the Dail.' &rdquo; 
    
      
       Having given notice of that amendment, we will dispose of the first amendment first and if it becomes a substantive motion, dispose of that. 
     
    
      
       Where does my amendment come in here?:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Executive Council shall be directly responsible to, and removable by the Chamber/Dail, but shall continue to carry on their duties until their successors are appointed.  The Chamber/Dail may, by a vote of lack of confidence, remove the entire Executive Council, or any individual Minister/Aire.  Provided that the Chamber/Dail may not be dissolved on the advice of the President after he shall have lost the confidence of the Chamber/Dail.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Part of it has already been passed. 
     
    
      
       Only the first and second sentences of it. 
     
    
      
       We can take the amendment by Deputy FitzGibbon, which was proposed first.  Having disposed of it, we can take Deputy Magennis's amendment, and then yours. 
     
    
      
       Deputy Magennis's amendment is only an addition to the clause.  Until that clause is adopted, that addition will scarcely come in. 
     
    
      
       That is exactly the point. 
       The amendment by Deputy FitzGibbon was put and carried.  It was then put as a substantive motion and passed. 
       Professor Magennis's amendment was then read. 
     
    
      
       I, for one, am entirely opposed to this amendment.  If we are to have a Party system at all&mdash; and we are retaining it, inasmuch   as we have already provided for it in the earlier part of this clause&mdash;you cannot consistently provide at the same time that your Ministers who are heads of the Party shall not stand or fall together.  So far as the first part of Deputy Magennis's amendment goes, it is already provided for.  Whether or not you say Ministers shall be individually responsible to the Dail, it stands to reason that they will be individually responsible.  Every Minister of the Executive Council will be individually responsible to the Dail, and the object of the Deputy's amendment is to go further and provide that you can get rid of one particular Member of the Council while still retaining the others.  That is objectionable, because the strength of the Inner Cabinet or the Executive Council is the fact that it stands or falls together&mdash;that in all matters of big policy, fiscal, foreign affairs, defence, and so forth, that a small group of men meet together to decide and define the line of policy, and, having so decided, is prepared to stand or fall together. It is a source of confidence to the Dail, and the supporters of any particular Government, to know that there is a body at the head of affairs not consisting of one or two men, but several chosen leaders, who are standing together on general matters of policy, and the fact that we are going to decide that certain other non-political offices shall not be the subject of collective responsibility, is no argument whatever so long as the Party system is retained to remove the collective responsibility in the fullest sense from the men who are inside the Cabinet.  The first part of the Deputy's amendment provides what is the effect in any case and unnecessary, namely, that every man of the Inner Council will be individually responsible and can be called to book by the Dail, and the second part contradicts the essential principles of the Party system, which we are retaining to this extent, that if one of the men of the Inner Cabinet is defeated, then his colleagues must fall with him.  The whole strength of that Executive Council will lie in the fact that they are united. If the principle were advocated we should have to adopt the Swiss system in its entirety, so that every Minister will be individually responsible, and there will be no collective responsibility   whatever.  Abandon the Party principle if you like.  I am dead against the proposal, which is a contradiction in terms, as it seems to me the Deputy's amendment is. 
     
    
      
       I am much indebted for the support Deputy Duffy has given to my amendment, for he has made it clear that the amendment is aimed at the destruction of the Party system.  We have been pressed here frequently since we began our deliberations in favour of the rejection of the Party system.  We were told it is British, and therefore bad.  Now when an effort is made to get rid of so much of the Party system as is involved in the draft proposals, the argument is made against it that it does injuriously affect the Party system. 
     
    
      
       We do not accept or approve of Deputy Magennis's amendment.  We spoke here of reducing the evils of the Party system to a minimum and of confining the collective responsibility of a small group around the President.  We never contemplated that one man of the group could be picked out and assailed and that the others would not go down with him. That would be an utterly impossible position of things.  That group must be a group representing broad lines of policy, and it must stand together.  Outside it there could be Ministers, and we say there should be Ministers, whose sole responsibility to the Dail is responsibility for the efficient running of their own Departments and the soundness of the measures they bring before the Dail for approval.  But to encroach upon that Inner Executive Council and say any one of these individuals can be&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I for one only referred to those who are Heads of Departments. 
     
    
      
       And that a particular political group cannot be broken up in that way and they must stand as one man over their policy and over the measures they bring before the Dail.  To suggest, for instance, that you could pick out the Finance Minister, and pass your vote of censure on him, or your Defence Minister, if he was a member of the Executive Council, without bringing down the President and his Administration,   is simply unsound.  That group will be a group standing for the main policy.  You cannot break it up into individual departments, and in any case it is one political entity.  It is a body standing for the big matters, standing for, say, the external policy of the country, and it would be an impossible position to place the President in, to say that you could pick out one of these men of his, whom he selected for his inner group, pass your vote of censure, or your vote of no confidence in him, and leave the President the poorer by the loss of one strong personality in his inner Cabinet.  Deputy Magennis, I think, rather put in this amendment on the spur of the moment, and his suggestion that Deputy Gavan Duffy's criticism of him was unsound because of anything that passed here or anything that was said from these benches, contains a fallacy.  We never suggested that the Executive Council or any member of the Executive Council should have individual responsibility for his department. 
     
    
      
       I understood from the Minister himself that he had described future Dala as made up, not so much of parties as of groups, and he sketched out the dangers that were incidental to the group system.  He recommended certain things as palliative of the evils attendant on the group system.  And now I say that he changes his position, and he advocates as regards the Executive Council the Party system.  I do not mean the case of the President, the Vice-President and certain Members.  For example, there might be&mdash;and Deputy Gavan Duffy reminds me of it&mdash;a nominal Minister for Foreign Affairs, whose duties would be discharged by a Committee of Ministers. It is quite possible to have that collective discharge of certain administrative duties, but when you come to the Head of a Department, it is surely not contemplated that the entire Cabinet has to work the Department.  If so, I can easily prophesy confusion.  There is no Department of State as a domestic concern based on domestic administration, that could be worked by a joint council in that way.  Imagine the Minister for Finance, for example, having the work of his Department done by several men at once.  I need not repeat what I have said.  It is so obvious that   any Minister in the Executive Council, who is the Head of a Department, is for all purposes of the administration of that Department, exactly on all fours with these Ministers who are to be selected from outside the Dail.  There should be a certain group, a nucleus of the Government, or rather of the Executive, and the members of that should be interdependent, and have a joint responsibility, that is absolutely necessary.  The Executive Government cannot be carried on without it.  These men will represent the group dominant in the House.  It is represented that we shall have the Group System plus the Party System; that is altogether inconceivable, and I think that instead of accusing me of proposing a thing on the spur of the moment, that it would be much better for the Minister to confess that his criticism was made on the spur of the moment. 
     
    
      
       I should like very much to take whatever time is necessary, to know exactly where we are in this matter. 
     
    
      
       If you came to the Dail, you would know. 
     
    
      
       I was long enough in the Dail, if it was only made clear by the Deputy when he introduced the Amendment; that is, if his own mind was quite clear when he was proposing it.  This Amendment is an amendment to Article 53.  It provides that any Minister of the Executive Council, who is Head of a separate Department of State, shall be individually responsible for the administration thereof, and shall retire from office on a specific vote of condemnation of his administration being passed by the Dail.  Well, now, on a reading of that, it seems to mean in effect any member of the Executive Council, that is to say any Minister, good, bad, or indifferent&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Who is head of a Department. 
     
    
      
       Who is head of a Department. Presumably all, or practically all, Ministers would be heads of departments. It seems to mean that any such Minister may be turned down, or his policy, by the Dail, the policy which he has considered collectively at Cabinet Meetings, with the rest of the Cabinet, and that   at the same time the Cabinet shall not resign and that notwithstanding that there shall be collective responsibility. 
     
    
      
       For collectively done work. 
     
    
      
       I am not a metaphysician, but I fail to understand that, and I wish to know how many Members of the Dail understand that, with the exception of Professor Magennis.  I suggest, with great respect to Professor Magennis, that that in word and in effect is a contradiction in terms.  Now, we did attempt to get away from the Party System.  We did attempt to make an experiment here, to give a chance to this country to evolve something new, and we tried to do that with the least possible risks to a new State, but that particular experiment was attacked from every possible point of view, by every possible species of special pleading and by arguments that every sensible man in the Dail knows had absolutely nothing to do with the case, and it was beaten in the Dail.  We were careful in our attempts to formulate something new, to preserve the doctrine of collective responsibility, because we know, and it is the experience of every State, that the doctrine of collective responsibility is absolutely necessary for an efficient Government, and we were careful to preserve it, but we did not see that it was absolutely necessary, while preserving the doctrine of collective responsibility, to break out in other directions and to give a chance to other ideas to grow.  That was the idea that was in our heads when we were preparing our particular Executive.  That was what we were driving at; that was what we were trying to get at.  We were trying to give a chance to whatever Dail would be elected in the future, when they found it expedient.  We were trying to give them an opportunity to break out into new directions; we were not allowed to do so.  We want to have this quite clear.  We were careful to preserve in our scheme this doctrine of collective responsibility, and because the particular experiment which we tried to make has been turned down by the Dail.  I want the Dail to be careful this doctrine of collective responsibility is still preserved.  That is quite a simple position and no amount of special pleading   will alter it.  That amendment is an absolute contradiction in terms when put side by side with Article 52, and I ask the Dail to reject it. 
     
    
      
       I desire, on a personal point that has arisen, to make one observation.  Yesterday evening and this evening I attacked the Minister for Agriculture for his infrequent visits to the Dail. I was in utter ignorance of the fact that his health had broken down, and that that was the reason why he had been unable to attend.  I think it right that I should apologise for making an accusation arising out of my own genuine ignorance of the state of affairs.  Had I known that was so, I certainly should have refrained from making any remark of the kind, and I take this, the earliest opportunity I have had on being informed of his illness, to make that explanation to the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I would like to suggest, in regard to the Amendment, that, while it is perfectly logical as a result of the arguments that have been used in favour of individual responsibility, that the Heads of Departments, apart from those who are outside the Executive, if there are to be such, should be individually responsible to the Dail for the working of these Departments it is only practicable, if we were to conceive of a number of Ministers sufficiently large to direct policy on the larger issues, and none of whom were Heads of Departments.  I submit, and I think the Deputy who moved the Amendment will agree, that it is a practical proposition, that if we are trying to reduce, or keep within moderate limits the number of Ministries you will need to give to certain members of the Executive Council, Departmental Headship. The Finance Department may be one, but it is obvious to everybody that the Finance Minister will have to be a Member of that Executive which is responsible for general policy.  And so with certain other Ministries; and I imagine in practice we shall find that the number of Ministers without portfolio will be reduced to one.  That practical difficulty would prevent me voting for the Amendment.  There is need for having, in virtue of the numerical strength of the Ministry, these separate   Ministers responsible for general policy to be also responsible heads of Departments.  If we take these more important Departments and consider them as outside purely Departmental offices in the narrowest sense, I think it will be recognised there is need for having collective responsibility over those larger offices within the inner executive. Consequently, while I recognise the logic of the plea put forward by the Deputy who moved the Amendment, I think in practice it is inadmissible. 
     
    
      
       I wish to say in regard to the proposal of Deputy Magennis, although I am not quite sure of the exact wording, I think the principle is sound.  Deputy Johnson has stated that if we could consider these Ministers outside themselves as Administrative Heads of Departments, we would have to consider them as being responsible for a certain general policy.  But what I would suggest is, that they are both things at one and the same time; they are both responsible for general policy and for the effective and efficient administration of that policy.  Take the case mentioned by the Minister for Home Affairs.  He referred to the Minister for Defence.  I chose that.  I come across that, and I do not take it with any reference to present-day affairs.  A policy might be adopted in respect of the Department for which the Minister for Defence is responsible.  A policy might be proposed for the Minister for Defence and might be accepted by the Executive Council, and might be confirmed by the Dail, and the Dail might be perfectly convinced that is the right policy for the Executive Council to adopt.  It might also be convinced that the right man is not in charge of the execution of that Department, and that there should be some more efficient man, and that there has been some part of his executive work that has not been capably done.  In the case of a specific issue of that kind, in respect of definite administrative work, it is surely within the right of the Dail, or any legislature, to remove one Minister without the necessity of impugning the whole Executive Council.  That difference is constantly occurring.  I believe that if there were an attempt made by a future Dail to attack a particular Minister because of   his policy, then the right action would be that his colleagues should stand up for him and say: &ldquo;We will all resign if you compel him to resign.&rdquo;  Then the Dail would have its choice if it wished to press this authority, and so remove the whole Ministry.  I suggest that the liberty of the Dail should equally be protected. On the other hand, while not expressing any criticism on the policy of the Ministry, it should be at liberty to get rid of any particular Minister. 
     
    
      
       I appreciate what Professor Magennis said about me, and I may say that I had taken it for granted before he stated it. 
     
    
      
       The remarks of Deputy Figgis answer his own case The very reason why you shall not be able to remove a member of the Executive Council by an adverse vote is that the Executive Council have not been appointed by the Dail, but selected by the President, and his own immediate officers concerned with the policy of which he is the head, and you cannot take one from him and impose another upon him without bringing him down, because you have shown a want of confidence in him and his ability to select a proper man to carry on the duty. Again, the position of the Executive Council is not to be managing the Department of Finance or the Department of Defence, but the Department of Defence and the Department of Finance are so completely interlocked with one another and with the rest of those offices managed by the Executive Council that they must be considered as an Executive Council as a whole.  They must all be worked from the point of view of common policy.  You cannot have the Minister for Defence, who wants money for the Army, and the Minister for Finance, who will not give him the money, working apart.  The Minister for Foreign Affairs who wants to take on the foreign policy, will want both an Army and a Navy.  All those three offices must work together, and the actual work of any one of them must bring down the others if they do not support it, and if the Dail does not support them. 
     
    
      
       Some years ago I read of a Whip of the Conservative Party   in England who was described as &ldquo;having been long since gathered to his Fathers,&rdquo; and during his office as a Whip he used very bad language to members who wished to escape from attendance of the House.  His language was described as vile, blasphemous and sulphurous.  I could imagine that man being elected to the Ministry here, and those Members who like polite language, or who are of a religious turn of mind, objecting to him.  There are some religious members in this Dail who, I believe, would take a strong stand on that point.  Those who would regard such language as being offensive would vote against him, and his real administrative capacity would not be taken into account at all.  It would be a pity to lose that man because &ldquo;his tongue ran away with him.&rdquo;  I do not think it would be well if that occurred. 
       The amendment was put and negatived. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Article 51A be added to the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ARTICLE 52. 
     Article 52 read:&mdash;&ldquo;Ministers who are not members of the Parliament/Oireachtas shall be nominated by a Committee of members of the Chamber/Dail Eireann chosen by a method to be determined by the Chamber/Dail so as   to be impartially representative of the Chamber/Dail.  Such Ministers shall be chosen with due regard to their suitability for office and should as far as possible be generally representative of the Irish Free State/Saorstat Eireann as a whole rather than of groups or of parties. Should a nomination not be acceptable to the Chamber/Dail, the Committee shall continue to propose names until one is found acceptable.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I want to make this objection.  I am going to vote against this.  I am going to try to secure at the next stage the result that we secured to-day when this matter came up on the question of Report.  I want to make my position clear.  The eloquence and the logic and the arguments of the whole Cabinet, from the President down to the humblest member, have not made the slightest impression on me. 
     
    
      
       Has not this very Article been decided against in the Dail? 
     
    
      
       It has been decided both for and against. 
     
    
      
       Cannot this motion be amended? 
     
    
      
       It has been amended for the last forty-five minutes. 
     
     
       
        Article 52 was then put and lost by 31 votes to 29, the voting being:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Ta. 
             Nil. 
           
         
         
           
             Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Donchadh O Guaire. Tomas de Nogla. Riobard O Deaghaidh. Liam de Roiste. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. Seoirse Ghabhain Ui Dhubhthaigh. Deasmhumhain Mac Gearailt Domhnall Mac Cartaigh. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Liam O Briain. Earnan Altun. Sir Seamus Craig. Gearoid Mac Giobuin. Liam Thrift. Padraig O hOgain. Padraic O Maille. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam O Daimhin. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Eamon O Dugain. Sean Buitleir. Domhnall O Broin. Nioclas O Faolain. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Domhnall O Ceallachain. Tomas Mac Eoin. 
             Padraig O Gamhna. Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. Sean O Maolruaidh. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hAonghusa. Domhnall O Mochain. Sean O hAodha. Seamus Breathnach. Peadar Mac a' Bhaird. Darghal Figes. Sean O Ruanaidh. Ailfrid O Broin. Sean Mac Garaidh. Micheal de Staineas. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Seosamh O Faoileachain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Piaras Beaslai. Criostoir O Broin. Seamus Eabhroid. Padraig Mac Artain. Tomas Mac Artuir. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O hAodha. Seamus O Murchadha. Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. Tomas O Domhnaill. Uinseann de Faoite. Seamus de Burca. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Micheal O Ceallachain. 
           
           
             29 
             31 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - NEW ARTICLES. 
    
      
       Shall I be in order in moving the insertion of a new Article between the original Article 52 and Article 53 before we proceed with 53? 
     
    
      
       Is your amendment on the paper?  Is it merely to insert an Article instead of one on the paper? 
     
    
      
       It is to insert an Article which will correspond to Article 55 of the Report.  It is to supplement a lacuna.  I am leaving out Article 54 deliberately as being unnecessary. Someone else can move it if they wish. My new Article is really Article 55 of the Committee's Report slightly modified, and it would read: &ldquo;Ministers who shall not be members of the Executive Council may be nominated by the Chamber/ Dail on the recommendation of a Committee of the Chamber/Dail, chosen by a method to be determined by the Chamber/Dail so as to be impartially representative of the Chamber/Dail. Should a recommendation not be acceptable to the Chamber/Dail the Committee may continue to recommend names until one is found acceptable.&rdquo; 
       If Deputies will look at the printed Article they will see that I am moving that Article with the substitution in the first line of the word &ldquo;shall not be&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;are not,&rdquo; and the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;shall,&rdquo; and near the end of the Article I am substituting the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; for the word &ldquo;shall.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       What is before the Dail, A Chinn Chomhairle?  Are we on the original draft or are we on something else? 
     
    
      
       We are on the original draft, and have been all the time.  I wish to inform Deputy Gavan Duffy that if Article 53 of the Draft was moved he can then move to insert the new Article. 
     
    
      
       Article 53 deals with Ministers not members of the Parliament. Article 54 has been already passed.  Article 55 deals with Ministers who are not members of the Dail. Article 56 was passed, and I submit we should now go on to Article 57. 
     
     
    
      
       Then we leave Articles 53, 54, 55 and 56 of the Draft to be withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       I think the only sensible thing to do in the circumstances pending the reconstruction of this matter by the Ministry is to move on to Article 57. 
     
    
      
       Has Article 54 been passed? 
     
    
      
       I take it that what the Minister means is that the substance of Article 54 is adopted in another Article? 
     
    
      
       Yes, that is what we mean. 
     
    
      
       That is a different thing.  If Article 54 was passed we should have it here again on the Third Reading. 
     
    
      
       Articles 53, 54, 55 and 56 have fallen with Article 52, or have been passed in the substance of other Articles. 
     
    
      
       I suggest that the Minister should ask to be allowed to withdraw Article 53, and then somebody else could move an amendment to that motion. 
     
    
      
       In view of Article 52 having been lost, and in view of the fact that Articles 53 and 55 are provisional with Article 52, does it not follow that Articles 53 and 55 fall with Article 52? 
     
    
      
       That is precisely what the Minister has been saying.  Does the Minister for Home Affairs now move Article 57? 
     
    
      
       When does the Minister again propose to bring those Articles before us?  Personally I feel strongly that they should be brought before us.  This is a matter that every opportunity should be given to consider, and to pass these clauses in an incomplete form, and then to come to the Third Reading would hardly be doing justice to the matter.  I might point out there is no inconsistency between rejecting, as the Dail has rejected, the original Article 52 which provides for certain Ministers not members of the Parliament, and accepting an amendment that I am going to ask leave to move which deals with Ministers not members of the Executive&mdash;members outside the Executive&mdash;Council. 
     
     
    
      
       I revert to the suggestion I made before that Article 53 be moved formally, although it is consequentially lost, and then Deputy Gavan Duffy can move his new Article in substitution, and that can become a substantive motion. 
     
    
      
       I understood the Minister for Home Affairs moved Article 57. 
     
    
      
       I would ask leave to move the new Article which I have read. 
     
    
      
       We accept that. 
     
    
      
       The President has already denounced vigorously the doctrine involved in that, because it leaves it open to the President&mdash;not our present President, but some successor&mdash; to nominate all these Ministers. 
     
    
      
       I think you are altogether wrong. 
     
    
      
       But as to those who are not members of the Executive Council, the proper doctrine is that they should be nominated by the Dail itself.  This resolution says &ldquo;they may be.&rdquo;  I prefer the mandatory position&mdash;namely, that they &ldquo;shall be.&rdquo;  If you make it &ldquo;may be,&rdquo; you leave it open to a usurping President to say, &ldquo;I am going to nominate all those outside Ministers.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I may say this much&mdash;it is not that I feel any way bad about having been beaten in these particular recommendations that we put up&mdash; but I put it that I do not think it was fair to allege against the Ministry all the things that were alleged.  It was mentioned that several Civil Servants were to be engaged, and that a particular Civil Servant who is at present canvassing members of the Dail and using his position as a Civil Servant of having been in the movement for some time to damage the position in regard to the Ministry.  Now, I have got to say this much, that if that particular Civil Servant thinks he is going to get the Ministry into a position that will mean putting him into a certain office, I, as one member of the Ministry&mdash;and I think I can say the same for all the members of the Ministry&mdash;would resign rather than submit to that.  This is a question in which the discipline of the service   comes in.  I have just been told that a particular man who was an excellent Civil Servant, but against whom certain things have been alleged because of something that happened during the last two or three years&mdash;I investigated them, and the Army had them under consideration and investigated them, and there was nothing in them&mdash;I was told that it was stated he was one of the persons we had in our mind.  We had no one in our mind.  The Ministry had no ulterior motive in putting up that proposition. We had no object except the one that was told to the Dail.  In this particular case we have been told all along by one Deputy that if we took out the word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; and put in the word &ldquo;may,&rdquo; he would accept it.  One Member here said that.  Now he is accepting nothing. There are lakes that give out water and do not receive any water, and there are lakes that receive water and give out water, but this particular Deputy in question is a &ldquo;lake&rdquo; who receives and gives nothing.  Now, as far as we are concerned, I do not understand the objection of Deputy Magennis to this.  The word &ldquo;may&rdquo; is put in to make it permissive, and in that sense we are prepared to accept it.  I do not think there is any danger of what he suggests occurring, because the Committee of the Chamber must recommend those names to the Chamber, and I think that the Chamber, either in the future as in the past, will be sufficiently strong to resist any President who seeks to usurp authority to which he is not entitled. 
     
    
      
       May I trespass once more on the Dail to point out that Deputy Magennis quite unconsciously was entirely misrepresenting the situation?  The Dail will observe that in the clauses we have passed up to now, there is no provision for the appointment of any Minister, whomsoever, outside the Executive Council.  We have only dealt with the Executive Council Ministers. Now, this amendment suggests that the Dail&mdash;not the President&mdash;may appoint other Ministers outside the Executive Council.  But, nowhere is there any provision that the President may appoint other Ministers outside the Executive Council.  The Deputy objected to my using the word &ldquo;may&rdquo;&mdash;those outside Ministers may be appointed by the Dail.  He draw from that the inference   that what was meant was if the Dail did not appoint them the President would appoint them.  Nothing could be further from the intention that was in my mind, and nothing could be more impossible, in the actual clauses we have passed.  So far we have dealt solely with people inside the Executive Council. As an addendum to that I say the Dail if it thinks proper, by certain machinery, may appoint other people outside the Executive Council. 
     
    
      
       Anything that would increase the liberty of the future Dail in a matter of this kind should be accepted.  It seems to me only a difference in wording.  I would suggest it is a very small matter; yet it does help to clear a certain ambiguity if the first sentence read:&mdash;&ldquo;Ministers not members of the Executive Council may be nominated.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Deputy Gavan Duffy has, at last, made himself clear. What he wants to have put into the draft Constitution is this:&mdash;We began with a statement descriptive of one type of Minister, those that constitute the Executive Council; now he has to leave room for the addition of other Ministers who are not members of the Executive Council.  I suggest that can be better done by taking it apart from the rest of the words in which he has embedded it&mdash;to allow in the Constitution the appointment of Ministers other than those comprised in the Executive Council.  Then state your regulation as to how the second type Ministers are to be appointed; then there will be no ambiguity.  I will read it again:&mdash;&ldquo;Ministers who are not members of the Executive Council&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;Shall not be.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       What is clear is &ldquo;who are not members.&rdquo;  My reading of the amendment is &ldquo;Ministers other than members of the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       The amendment moved by Deputy Gavan Duffy is:&mdash;&ldquo;Members who shall not be Ministers of the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;Members who shall not be Ministers of the Executive Council may be nominated by the Chamber.&rdquo;  I still submit that that is open to the interpretation.  &ldquo;Ministers who   shall not be Members of the Executive Council may be nominated by the Dail&rdquo; or otherwise.  The implication is some other party can appoint them.  If it is not the Dail it is the other authority. The proper reading of it is&mdash;&ldquo;There shall be Ministers, not Members of the Executive Council,&rdquo; or &ldquo;there may be,&rdquo; if you like&mdash;there may be Ministers not Members of the Executive Council.  Such Ministers shall be nominated by the Chamber on the recommendation of a Committee.  That, I submit, is a very intelligible proposal.  First, it takes power which is an enabling clause, as the lawyers say&mdash;it takes power to appoint Ministers other than Ministers constituting the Executive Council.  Then it goes on to say the manner in which these are to be appointed.  There is no ambiguity about that.  I take it the Deputy himself would agree with that. 
     
    
      
       The ambiguity seems to be simply this&mdash;the same as Ministers may be nominated by the Dail and the Dail may nominate Ministers. One is passive, the other is active.  It is the same thing turned around. 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;Horse chestnut&rdquo; turned around would read &ldquo;chestnut horse.&rdquo;  Is it suggested that that would be an equivalent?  I am quite willing to accept the last phraseology, namely, &ldquo;that the Dail may appoint Ministers.&rdquo;  That is permissive&mdash;Ministers who shall not be so-and-so may be appointed by the Dail, undoubtedly leaves it open to the interpretation in default of someone else's appointment. 
     
    
      
       May I take it that both Deputy Magennis and Deputy Gavan Duffy are accepting wording slightly different, but with the same intention&mdash;it shall be at the option of the Chamber to nominate Ministers not members of the Executive Council. 
     
    
      
       I should like the Dail to pass the Clause in principle, and on the next Reading, which is more designed for that kind of thing, we can improve the wording and make it meet the views of any of the critics like the learned Professor, to whom it is not intelligible in its present form, and of others.  For the present, it is to   get the idea passed, and I think the words are clear enough for that. 
     
    
      
       We will put the amendment as proposed by Deputy Gavan Duffy. 
     
    
      
       Why not my amendment? 
     
    
      
       The amendment before the Dail is to put in before Article 57, a new Article of which he has given the text.  When it becomes a substantive motion that can be done. 
       The amendment was agreed to. 
     
    
      
       Would it be in order to propose a further amendment before we reach Article 57? 
     
    
      
       No.  We will put the amendment just carried as a substantive motion.  This amendment has now become a substantive motion and we can take further amendments to it. 
     
    
      
       I propose as an amendment &ldquo;Ministers may be nominated who shall not be members of the Executive Council.&rdquo;  That is the first sentence.  Then, &ldquo;Such Ministers shall,&rdquo; and the remainder as in the original. 
     
    
      
       I would like to know would the Dail think of adjourning. We have got slightly mixed on these things and they would require some consideration.  Would it be agreeable to the Dail? 
     
    
      
       I think we should go on. 
     
    
      
       then read the amendment:&mdash;&ldquo;Ministers may be nominated who shall not be members of the Executive Council.  Such ministers shall be nominated by the Chamber/Dail on the recommendation of a Committee of the Chamber/Dail, chosen by a method to be determined by the Chamber/Dail, so as to be impartially representative of the Chamber/Dail.  Should a recommendation not be acceptable to the Chamber/Dail the Committee shall continue to recommend names until one is found acceptable.&rdquo; 
       The amendment was negatived. 
     
     
    
      
       Is it understood the wording has to be changed in accordance with Mr. Gavan Duffy's proposal? 
     
    
      
       On the Fourth Reading amendments can be put, and on the Fifth Reading verbal amendments can be put. 
       The Article was agreed to, and added to the Bill. 
     
    
      
       I would like to have permission to insert an Article omitted earlier, which is really missing and requires to be put in:&mdash;&ldquo;If from any cause the place of a Minister becomes vacant, his successor shall be nominated and appointed in the manner herein prescribed for the nomination and appointment to such Ministry.&rdquo;  In the possibility of an office becoming vacant, and it might be one of the type (a) or one of the type (b) we should refer to, having his successor appointed in the manner his predecessor was appointed. 
     
    
      
       May I suggest that a clause of that kind should be drafted by the Law Adviser carefully. 
     
    
      
       The President suggested that the Dail should adjourn.  Article 57 is now before the Dail, and we have to dispose of that yet. 
     
    
      
       I move to insert an Article before Article 57 in the Report of the Committee.  The last resolution enables the Dail to appoint Ministers who would not be members of the Executive Council.  You have not provided any means by which those Ministers might be responsible for their duties, and the Article I venture to submit to you now provides how Ministers who are not members of the Executive Council are to perform their work:&mdash;&ldquo;Every Minister who is not a member of the Executive Council shall be the responsible head of the Department or Departments under his charge, and shall be individually responsible to the Chamber/Dail alone for the administration of the Department or Departments of which he is the head.  Provided that, should arrangements for Functional or Vocational Councils be made by the Parliament/Oireachtas, these Ministers or any of them may, should the Parliament/Oireachtas so decide, be members of and be recommended to the Chamber/Dail by such Councils. The term of office of any Minister not a   member of the Executive Council shall be the term of the Chamber/Dail existing at the time of his appointment, but he shall continue in office until his successor shall have been appointed, and no such Minister shall be removed from office during his term otherwise than by the Chamber/Dail itself, and by them for stated reasons, and after the proposal to remove him has been submitted to a Committee chosen by a method to be determined by the Chamber/Dail, so as to be impartially representative of the Chamber/Dail, and the Committee has reported thereon.&rdquo;  That provides that the Ministers whom you are going to appoint shall be the heads of their own Departments, and shall be individually responsible, which I think every member of the Dail, even the members who opposed the Report of the Committee in toto, said they were anxious to have done. 
     
    
      
       In view of the fact that we have from Article 52/57 practically left out for the time being, and I presume that alternative proposals will be submitted in their place, would it not be rather committing us possibly to some general line of principle and policy that might be upset by these other five or six Articles that have to be submitted? I think, in view of the important provisions that there are in this particular amendment, which covers an immense amount of matters, and after hearing that we are to have new Articles submitted for those withdrawn to-day, that the President's proposal, which is that we should adjourn now until these Articles are prepared, would be a much better course than to take any Article like this at this hour.  We only have half an hour to go on.  I do not know whether the President has still that idea in mind or not. 
     
    
      
       I take it that the position is this, that the idea that was imported into the original motion that persons may be appointed to the Ministry who are outside the Dail has been defeated, and that that was the paragraph and that was the idea that was obnoxious to the majority of the Dail, but I do not think any real opposition has been offered to the idea that is embodied in this proposed amendment, and while we are on this part of the business I think we should go through with it. 
     
     
    
      
       Perhaps Deputy Fitzgibbon would make it easier for us, and meet the wishes of Deputy Cole as well, if he would terminate this Article before the word &ldquo;provided&rdquo;; then we would pass that:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Every Minister who is not a member of the Executive Council shall be the responsible head of the Department or Departments under his charge, and shall be individually responsible to the Chamber/Dail alone for the administration of the Department or Departments of which he is the head.&rdquo; 
       That would meet with universal acceptance. The remainder is highly controversial, and I do not think we could go through with it in the remaining half-hour, so that a compromise may be arrived at in this sense. 
     
    
      
       I am only anxious to get through the work, and I am quite prepared to divide my proposed Article into two to stop at the point mentioned by the Deputy.  We have provided for the existence of Ministers who are not members of the Executive Council; we should give them some duties before we rise to-night, and I will first move that:&mdash;&ldquo;Every Minister who is not a member of the Executive Council shall be the responsible head of the Department or Departments under his charge, and shall be individually responsible to the Chamber/Dail alone for the administration of the Department or Departments of which he is the head,&rdquo; leaving out all about Functional and Vocational Councils. 
     
    
      
       I think we had better take this thing in paragraphs as was suggested, and I daresay it would meet Deputy Cole's objection, in view of the fact that we have already passed in our last amendment the principle of having other Minister besides Executive Council Ministers.  Now we come to a mere matter of machinery.  It is really machinery for giving effect to what is already decided. 
     
    
      
       I think it goes beyond that.  In regard to these proposals in these first four lines, for instance, the idea of it being individual responsibility to the Dail alone rather makes the Head of any Department&mdash;the Minister in   charge of any Department&mdash;possibly independent of the Government.  I would like to think out that point a little and the whole bearing of it, and the general bearing of the rest of the Government's proposals with regard to the Ministers I think we would be acting piecemeal if we went into this question, which may possibly bear on the other proposals to be submitted to us, if we take any definite stand to-night.  I think, just as the original draft of the Constitution was compared one part with another, we ought to have these proposals before us before we commit ourselves to anything. We may come to a decision to-night and find to-morrow that it would throw a different light on the proposals.  I appeal to the President to put the suggestion again for the adjournment until we have all the proposals. 
     
    
      
       I find it impossible to meet the views of all the members of the Chamber.  Deputy Figgis, who represents, I suppose, the minority party, which has been turned into the majority, on the one hand, and the representatives from the minority party on the other hand, came to me, and I do not know what party Deputy Cole represents, so that I am afraid that on members alone it is against Deputy Cole. 
     
    
      
       I would suggest that this Dail has undertaken the decision that Ministers may be appointed who will not be members of the Executive Council and who will be appointed directly by the Dail.  There they are, and we have got to find a job for them, and I think we ought to complete that.  That, I think, ought to be done and I agree that the Article might stop at the words &ldquo;of which he is the head.&rdquo;  And furthermore, that all the rest of that Article need never go into such an Article at all, but could be dealt with according to the Standing Orders of the Dail, or, if you wish, the practice of the future.  That should be all left open to the future. 
       The amendment was agreed to. 
       It was afterwards put as a substantive motion and passed. 
     
    
      
       Is the second part going to be amended? 
     
     
    
      
       The second part is not going to be amended. What is now before us is Article 57 of the Draft as amended by the Minister for Home Affairs. 
     
    
      
       I understood that Deputy FitzGibbon is going to move the second part separately. 
     
    
      
       I understood that too. 
     
    
      
       Yes, but I understood the President meant that the adjournment would come before that in order to give Deputies an opportunity of considering the effect of it, but if it is the wish of the Dail to go on, I am quite prepared to go on with the second part.  I beg to move the second part of Article 57 in the Draft, that &ldquo;provided that such arrangements for Functional or Vocational council be made by the Parliament/Oireachtas, these Ministers, or any of them, may, should the Parliament/Oireachtas so decide, be members of, and be recommended to, the Chamber/Dail by such Councils.  The term of office of any Minister not a member of the Executive Council shall be the term of the Chamber/Dail existing at the time of his appointment, but he shall continue in office until his successor shall have been appointed, and no such Minister shall be removed from office during his term, otherwise than by the Chamber/Dail itself, and by them for stated reasons, and after the proposal to remove him has been submitted to a committee chosen by a method to be determined by the Chamber/Dail, so as to be impartially representative of the Chamber/Dail, and the Committee has reported thereon.&rdquo; The reason for this provision is, that it did appear to the framers of this clause that it would be most unfair that a Minister appointed by this Dail should be dismissed by this Dail without some opportunity of making his own defence, and that it would be fairer to enquire into charges against him in Committee where everybody would be free to state what he thought and to discuss freely what the charges were and what the defence was than to bring up an accusation here in open Dail, to make it perhaps a Party question, and be bandying words across the Dail that people might afterwards be very sorry for.  There is no doubt that investigation into the conduct of the Ministry   could be far better done by a select impartial Committee of the Dail who would report to the Dail than by a general discussion upon it by 124 or 125 members in here at a time. 
     
    
      
       Has Deputy Magennis made any change in the print? 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
    
      
       I am loath to speak again on this, but I understand the Deputy is altering the wording.  It seems to me&mdash;of course this is meta-physics&mdash;that here we are moving in two planes of thought moving at the same time.  First of all we have a Minister who is to be, qua Minister, head of a vocational council, and the vocational council is to recommend him for appointment as Minister.  That intermingling of words could be set right in the draft.  I understand that to be intended, and I can agree with that.  What I think it means is that previous to the appointment of a non-Executive Minister it would be possible to take the views of the vocational council assuming that it existed, in other words vocational councils would be set up and they would act as Advisory Committees on the matters in question. Among other things they would advise as to who would be the selection for a Ministry, and such Minister on being appointed by the Dail would become  ex-officio  Chairman of that particular council.  I think that is what is intended, but I suggest it is not quite what is stated.  As regards the last part, do we avoid this bandying of charges across the Dail by the procedure suggested here?  I am in favour of an open enquiry.  If a Minister is to be invited let him be invited before the Dail that appointed him.  If he cannot stand its investigation his case must be exceedingly bad.  If what is to come before the Dail for decision is the report of the Select Committee I am not so sure always that the Select Committee's report would be able to put the case fully and fairly for the decision of the Dail.  We have seen men here, ten minutes after a speech being delivered in all good faith and perfect sincerity, misrepresented by subsequent speakers. Reports are often condensed, and very often brevity is purchased at the expense of absolute accuracy   and fairness, and it seems to me a bad procedure to introduce.  If Ministers be indicted, they should not be tried by a Star Chamber enquiry.  That is what it is; you may call it what you like.  The procedure here suggested is that when enquiry is held they cry halt at the point of sentencing the prisoner, and they hand the whole case over for final adjudication to a body which has not heard the evidence or seen the witnesses.  Anyone accustomed to legal affairs, especially in criminal courts, is aware that no newspaper report of the evidence, no matter how fair it is intended to be or how fully it is given, will give the effect of the testimony, the attitude of a witness and how he appears, the certain amount of reluctance, and the intonation with which he clothes the force of his evidence.  All these things will weigh with the Committee, which will not be before the Dail. I object to that in principle.  Let the Minister be charged before the Dail which appointed him, and let the Dail dismiss him.  The other plan seems a more businesslike arrangement, inasmuch as it puts into the hands of a few people this awkward business.  On the other hand, there is the question of public policy, and public policy vitally concerned in dealing with the Minister.  The proposal seems to be objectionable. 
     
    
      
       I am not going into the merits or demerits of these two sentences.  Supposing these two sentences do not appear in the Constitution, is there anything in the world to stop a future Dail putting them into effect?  Nothing whatever.  They could do it, whether or not these sentences do or do not appear in the Constitution, and therefore these sentences are unnecessary and I urge they be not pressed. 
     
    
      
       May I say one or two words in reply to what Deputy Magennis said?  He talked about seeing the witnesses and judging by them.  Is it conceivable that in the case of any charge made against a Minister you would produce witnesses, put them on the stand there, and have them cross-examined by every Member in order to see how they may conduct themselves under cross-examination?  If charges of that kind are to be made, they will have to be made and investigated before some Committee appointed by this Dail. 
     
     
        They cannot be investigated by the Dail itself. 
    
      
       It seems to me that the machinery for removing an officer or Minister is not up to date, and that nothing much short of criminal misdemeanour will warrant his removal. Now, there may be occasions when the conduct of a Department will warrant an adverse vote.  I think that adverse vote, provided it is not a snatch vote but is a substantial majority, against the administration of the particular Minister should, especially as he would alone be responsible for the Department, not affect the position of the Government. It seems to me that the definite decision against this administration on the part of the Dail should be quite sufficient to terminate his tenure of office.  Judging from this, an adverse vote might be given in succession against his administration as it seems to be taken out of the power of the Dail in its present form to remove him from his position.  For that reason I am utterly dissatisfied with the general phraseology of the amendment on that particular aspect, and it creates, to my mind, an overwhelming reason for voting against it. 
     
    
      
       May I point out I have not proposed that when one of these Ministers is indicted that he is to be put before the Dail in the form suggested and that witnesses are to be examined before the Dail.  I have suggested nothing of the kind.  I have pointed out the dangerous extent of any mode of trial by Committee which would report to the Dail, and to show the dangers and limitations of such a process I took an example from criminal trials.  That is not to propose that a similar type of trial should be set up here; it is to object to this procedure. Let the Minister whose administration was complained of be attacked in this Dail, and let a vote of the Dail decide that it disapproves of his administration. I endorse every word Deputy Milroy has said, but I object altogether to be represented as asking for a fool's performance, for a trial which, in the very nature of the case, is impossible.  An argument against a thing is not a proposal or advocacy of another thing. 
     
    
      
       I submit that the procedure outlined here is exactly   the procedure which Deputy Magennis would advise in a specific case, but that it does, if embodied in the Constitution, prevent an extraordinary case happening, when a Minister who may, having on some particular matter cut across the majority of the Dail&mdash;a matter of personal unpopularity, perhaps, having hurt the feelings of a popular Member&mdash; be removed by vote of the Dail on that incident alone without any further inquiry. The whole matter is left still with the Chamber.  All that is desired is that there should be a suspension of judgment, and it ensures that action shall not be taken until the result of an inquiry by a Committee appointed by the Chamber is reported to the Chamber.  I am quite certain that on any matter that one can conceive where, for instance, a charge is made against the Minister even for inability to conduct his Department properly, such a course would receive the support of Deputy Magennis, if that inquiry is to be conducted by a Committee of the Dail to report to the Dail. This proposition simply desires to prevent the possibility of some sudden gust of feeling removing a Minister, the head of an administrative Department, who has not had a chance, probably by virtue of the fact that he has not the eloquence to defend his case.  He may be elected as a departmental official, or a Departmental Minister by virtue of his administrative faculties, and not by virtue of his abilities to persuade the Chamber of any case that he wants to put.  If he cannot appeal to the gallery he may quite conceivably be removed from his office without having had a chance to defend himself, and to prevent that is all that is intended by this Clause. 
     
    
      
       I think that we should try to save something from the wreck.  This objection of Deputy Milroy's simply pins us definitely back to this; that a Minister will have to proceed cautiously all the time with an eye to the Dail, and with an eye to his prospects of carrying a particular measure.  If that objection is maintained here you will force him to adopt a conservative and a reactionary kind of policy.  You will put him in that way that he can never bring measures here to have them discussed on their merits, or test the tone of the Dail.  If an adverse   vote is going to mean that he goes out of office, if failure to carry any particular measure means the termination of his office and the headship of his department, then you will force him back into a cautious attitude.  We are trying to get away from the Party system, and we are trying to make this Parliament a deliberate Assembly as far as we can, so far as we can define the collective responsibility of five or seven members. The others should be free to bring forward measures here, and to have them discussed by all sections of the Dail, and discussed only on their merits.  I fear if you do away with this proposal of the Committee which may remove a Minister for three reasons, which are broad enough&mdash;malfeasance in office, incompetence in his headship, or failure to carry out the expressed will of Parliament&mdash;if you throw him back to the position where he will be dependent on votes, possibly snatch votes, and possibly votes gained by canvassing Army Officers, or something like that, then you are doing something that fetters him, and it will affect him in the conduct of his department, and it will force into a conservation and cautious line of policy, instead of coming here and putting his proposals to have them discussed freely on their merits. 
       The amendment was put and carried. It was then put as a substantive motion, and declared carried. 
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ARTICLE 57. 
    
      
       I beg to move that Article 58 in the Report be substituted for Article 57 in the Draft Constitution. It reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The appointment of a member of the Chamber/Dail to be a Minister shall not entail upon him any obligation to resign his seat, or to submit himself for re-election.&rdquo; 
       A new Government comes in, a Ministry is formed, and surely it is desirable to save constituencies the expense of sending back a man who has been appointed to a high office, merely for the sake of being re-elected. 
       The Dail agreed to the acceptance of the amendment. 
     
    
      
       I declare that Article 57, in that form, stands part of the Bill. 
     
     
        Article 57 in the Draft Constitution read:&mdash;&ldquo;The members of the Executive Council shall receive such remuneration as may from time to time be prescribed by law, but the remuneration of any Minister shall not be diminished during his term of office.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I beg to move that the word &ldquo;Ministers&rdquo; shall be substituted for the words &ldquo;the members of the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
       Article as amended agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask leave to proceed after 8.30 to finish Article 58, so that the Bill as amended in Committee can be printed for next week. 
     
    
      
       I think it is unfair to those who are not here.  Article 58 contains an important clause in which members are interested. 
     
    
      
       I have asked leave and leave can be refused. 
     
    
      
       We do not want to meet to-morrow if it can be avoided, so that members can have a good deal of time to read over the Report. 
       The Dail agreed. 
     
   
   
     THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ARTICLE 58. 
    
      
       I beg to move Article 58, that &ldquo;The Representative of the Crown, who shall be styled the Governor-General of the Irish Free State, shall be appointed in like manner as the Governor-General of Canada and in accordance with the practice observed in the making of such appointments. The salary of the Governor-General of the Irish Free State shall be of the like amount as that now payable to the Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, and shall be charged on the public funds of the Irish Free State/ Saorstat Eireann, and suitable provision shall be made out of those funds for the maintenance of his official residence and establishment.&rdquo;  Now, this is an agreed Article as to the amount to be payable to this gentleman, and so on.  Australia was chosen because of its population being nearest to ours, and also because in the provisions in the other Dominions there was a very large allowance made for travelling expenses.  Simply examining the provisions in the different Constitutions, we decided that, both from   the point of view of population and amount, the Australian provisions were the most suitable.  Now, as to the title Governor-General, that was decided on after careful consideration, principally because it has an accepted signification with known functions and known limitations. When you call the man a Governor-General you stamp him and the limits of his powers of interference in a way that is readily understood in Canada and in the other Dominions. The suggestion to call him a Commissioner is objectionable.  You call him a Commissioner, and the name conveys nothing in particular, and no one knows what are the limits of his powers.  There is another objection.  British Commissioners are only sent to Crown Colonies or places not autonomous, and there is one instance of a man, a Governor-General over a Dominion, who is a Commissioner for some Crown Colony that has not autonomous powers.  Looking into that, and weighing the advantages of calling a man by a name that will stamp immediately his functions and the limits of his power, and looking into the fact that the word Commissioner conveys something of a slight that the British only send Commissioners to places that have not autonomy, and that it conveys to the ordinary person in the Dominions that your status is lower than theirs, we decided against the name High Commissioner or Commissioner, and in favour of the name Governor-General. We recommend that strongly, although there is nothing in the Treaty that binds us to that name. 
     
    
      
       Is this being made a matter of confidence, or is the Dail free to vote on it as it likes? 
     
    
      
       It is not a matter of confidence, but we should be given credit for having given careful consideration to this matter before coming to a decision, and we do recommend most strongly to the Dail the adoption of that particular title, on the grounds that it stamps the man's limitations in a way that every person in the Dominions will understand, and in a way that shows that if he outsteps those limits such an action is resented by them almost as much as by us.  They will say if the Governor-General can do that in Ireland the Governor-General will do it here. If you call him a Commissioner or a High   Commissioner you suggest that your status is less than theirs, because the British only send Commissioners to places not autonomous.  There would be something almost in the nature of a revolt in the Dominions if they attempted to send a Commissioner or a High Commissioner there. 
     
    
      
       I protest most emphatically against the remark made by Deputy Gavan Duffy when he asked whether the Dail was free to vote on this question as it liked.  I think that is an insulting remark from any Deputy and the Dail should not take it without protest.  The Dail is free to vote any way it likes and everyone should know that that sort of remark should not be bandied around the Dail. 
     
    
      
       On behalf of Deputy Shannon, who is still ill, I have been asked to move that this Clause be deleted.  The reasons are that there is nothing in the Treaty to warrant its insertion. The Treaty is very definite and says that the Representative of the Crown in Ireland shall be appointed in like manner as the Governor-General in Canada and in accordance with the practice observed in making such appointments. That is obviously a duty for somebody, but is not a duty solely resolving itself upon the Irish Legislature It is a duty which will devolve on the Crown to appoint its Representative, with what advice is a matter for arrangement. It is presumably joint advice and a matter for agreement between the two Executives.  But to put such a Clause as that in the Constitution is quite unnecessary, inasmuch as we are bound by the Treaty.  At least the method of nomination of a Representative of the Crown is set out in the Treaty, and that is not a matter for the Constitution of Saorstat Eireann. Take the respective points raised by the Minister in moving this, and that is another reason why the clause should be deleted. Now, on the question of salary, that, surely, is not a matter that ought to be put into the Constitution.  To say that the salary of the Governor-General, assuming that he is to be called the Governor-General&mdash;which is to say the salary of the representative of the Crown &mdash;shall be of the like amount as that now   payable to the Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia.  That is to be put into the Constitution.  What is that salary?  I understand it is £10,000 a year&mdash;10,000 sovereigns, ten thousand pounds sterling.  Does this mean that we are binding ourselves to pay in British golden sovereigns, or are we binding ourselves to pay the equivalent of the present value in Treasury notes?  There is a possibility, of course, that the whole currency may be changed.  We may, in our wisdom or unwisdom, go to the extent of turning out millions and millions of &ldquo;Cosgraves,&rdquo; a new term which may be applied to the currency of Ireland.  Now, what is the basis of the payment of this salary to the Governor-General or to the Representative of the Crown?  It is obviously not the sort of proposition that should be put into the Constitution, because it is not fixed.  It may vary.  Circumstances may alter its whole import.  The Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia is paid a certain sum to-day. Presumably that is based upon the values of sterling.  One would wonder whether it is intended to vary with the rise and fall of the cost of living.  I am serious about this; because it may vary very much, and it is not fair to that gentleman or lady who may be appointed as representative of the Crown.  You are fixing his or her salary on the basis of present prices.  And that is being put into the Constitution.  The prices may vary, values may vary, but the Constitution is not going to vary with prices or value.  And I submit, consequently, that that Article&mdash;that part of the Article&mdash;ought to be deleted. Now, in the first part a discussion will arise on the different amendments, but inasmuch as the Minister has raised the point, there is apparently a quite gratuitous proposition here, saying that he or she shall be styled the Governor-General. A phrase in the Treaty speaks of the representative of the Crown. And all that is required, in my judgment, to raise this person to the dignity to which he is entitled is to put a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo; to the word Representative of the Crown in the Treaty, and let him be called in the Constitution and in practice what he is called in the Treaty. That is strictly adhering to the Treaty. Some of us on these benches heard the late Chairman of the Provisional Government   emphatically say that he would not be called the Governor-General. 
     
    
      
       I suggest that the Deputy might repeat that. 
     
    
      
       I just want to repeat that some of us on these benches heard the late Chairman of the Provisional Government emphatically say that the Representative of the Crown would not be called the Governor-General, whatever else he would be called.  And we had an assurance that almost any title except that of &ldquo;President&rdquo; would be approved of.  And I submit that by strictly adhering to the Treaty the restriction that applies and that is inserted there applied to him, and would put him in his proper place, or would put her in her proper place&mdash;&ldquo;Representative of the Crown.&rdquo;  Governor-General to my mind connotes very much more than that suggested by the Minister.  It suggests a Crown Colony.  It suggests somebody appointed as Governor with powers.  It suggests powers behind him.  It suggests Government, general Government.  And although the British Dominions have grown out of the Colony stage and have retained the title, still it is not desirable that we should re-import that title with all its meaning into Ireland as a title adhering to the Representative of the Crown.  Therefore, I beg to move the deletion of this Clause 58. 
     
    
      
       I second that proposal.  I take it that it would be free on the next reading to move any amendments on these clauses.  And if that be so, I do not intend to press a division to-night on certain amendments which I would otherwise have moved because it is too late, and the Dail is too empty.  In case the amendment proposed by Deputy Johnson should not be passed I ask the Minister for Home Affairs to take note of one or two matters which would have to be discussed at a later stage, and about which we might come to an agreement.  I say nothing at the moment about the name except that in my view any name would be better than Governor-General, but I draw the attention of the Minister to the phrase. &ldquo;in like manner as the Governor-General of Canada, and in accordance with the practice in the making of such appointments.&rdquo;  I want to get in a specific statement that this gentleman is to be   appointed upon the advice of the Irish Executive Council, and in support of that I refer the Minister to Lloyd George's letter to the late President. The Dail will remember the passage in Keith where he says:&mdash;&ldquo;Logically now there is no answer to the argument that the choice of Governor will rest primarily with the State Government subject to the approval of the Crown.&rdquo; But Lloyd George went further in the letter of the 13th December last to President Griffith.  Dealing with Article 3 of the Treaty, Lloyd George says: &ldquo;This means the Government of the Irish Free State will be consulted so as to ensure a selection acceptable to the Irish Government before any recommendation is made to His Majesty.&rdquo;  Well, using the British formula, that meant that &ldquo;we will appoint a man selected by you.&rdquo; That is the effect of it.  &ldquo;We will appoint a man approved by you, the Irish people.&rdquo;  I want to see something in the draft on the strength of that admission by Lloyd George himself.  I will go further than using the words &ldquo;Dominion practice.&rdquo;  The second point is the amount of remuneration paid to this gentleman; I say nothing to-day about the glorious difference of £10,000 paid to him and the sum of less than £2,000 paid to Ministers.  This gentleman can hold a Court here.  A point further which requires careful consideration is this, that in each of the three Dominion Constitutions you will find an express provision for leaving it to the Parliament of the Dominions to decide how much this gentleman will have.  That is the express provision, and we must get into this Constitution an equally express provision for leaving it to the Dail.  In the Canadian Act you will find a provision, I refer to Section 105.  In the Australian Act you will find it in Section (3) and in the South African Act in the combined effect of Sections 10 and 152.  And I draw the attention of the Dail further to the fact that in this proposed Irish Constitution we should commit ourselves to giving this gentleman an establishment worthy of his office in addition to the £10,000, a thing the Irish people would have done in any case having accepted him.  But to insert it in our Constitution is a distinct departure from the practice in other Constitutions to which I refer.  Not one   single one of these provides for the establishment of the Governor-General. And the reason it is put in here is because those gentlemen in Downing Street were so frightened that Ireland would not observe the Treaty that they insisted that some things which we were not in any way called upon to provide for should be inserted.  I intend to vote for Mr. Johnson's amendment on the understanding that at a later stage it will be open to me to open this matter formally. 
     
    
      
       May we hear from the Minister, in his reply, why it was he told us, when he was dealing with the Articles upon which the Ministry were prepared to stand or fall, that Article 58 was one of these.  It may be my mistake, but I did understand that this was one of the articles that was vital.  I understand, from his attitude now, that this is one of the clauses in which the Ministry expect support or otherwise they would fall.  So it is not one of those described as a free clause. We were told in the opening speech of the Minister that this was not vital, and, if I do not misrepresent him, I think he regards portion of it now as vital. 
     
    
      
       The name is not vital.  There is a difference between the name being vital and the substance of the Article being vital. 
     
    
      
       The general substance of the Article is already in the Treaty, and it is decided to schedule the Treaty, and consequently this is a superfluity of action in having it put into the Constitution here, unless there is a special reason.  The effect seems to me to be to introduce this title in a still more objectionable way as &ldquo;the representative of the Crown, who shall be styled the Governor-General of the Irish Free State,&rdquo; and making his salary chargeable on the public funds of the Irish Free State, and providing &ldquo;that suitable provision should be made out of those funds for the maintenance of his official residence and establishment.&rdquo;  The term &ldquo;Governor-General,&rdquo; no doubt, as indicated by the Minister, clearly conveys to the Dominions, who are the other units in the Commonwealth of Free Nations, what the representative of the Crown is here.  But I learned, from the Minister for Home Affairs, that to think about what any of the distant Dominions will   consider in our regard was to be a &ldquo;fool who had his eyes on the ends of the earth.&rdquo;  That was quoted from Holy Scripture against Deputy Gavan Duffy when he proposed the consideration of the effect of certain words upon the Dominions. 
     
    
      
       Pardon me, it was in connection with the League of Nations. 
     
    
      
       It was repeated by the President in connection with the item to which I have referred.  The term Governor-General may have the advantage that he specifies.  But, as Deputy Johnson rightly puts it, it smacks altogether of Colonial status.  There is a very good historical reason for naming the Crown Representative in Canada the Governor-General, because Canada once was a Colony governed by a Governor-General. We were never a Colony.  Our claim all along is that we were an ancient Nation.  Why impose that on us now as if it were a necessary implication in the Treaty which recognises our Statehood as a thing in International Law? Why impose a title that is retrograde? There is, if you want to go back into history, an ancient title for the Crown Representative, namely, Lord Deputy.  The name Lord Deputy has evil associations, no doubt, but at any rate the title belongs to an early part of our own history. But why should this be introduced at all into the Constitution?  Let the name be the name that is already in the Treaty, &ldquo;The Representative of the Crown.&rdquo; Anyone who is interested in the matter, such as the Premier of the Union of South Africa, will understand very well what is meant by the Representative of the Crown.  It is a virtue of the Treaty that we are made co-equal members of the Commonwealth, and that we come into fraternal relation with the Dominions, and consequently they are just the people who will understand the meaning of the term.  I object as vehemently as I can to the proposal to put in the Constitution that the funds of the Free State are to be chargeable with suitable provision for the maintenance of an official residence and establishment. There are many people outside this Dail who are in a state of unstable equilibrium politically as regards whether they shall vote eventually for the Treaty and this Constitution, as an   actual development in exposition of what the Treaty offers, or whether they shall continue in opposition, and I have not the slightest doubt, if a part of the Constitution be to label the representative of the Crown the Governor-General, that it will have a most injurious effect upon minds such as these.  There are people nearer home whom it is of much more concern for us to influence than to influence a few distant Commonwealth citizens, no matter how distinguished they may be.  It seems to me most necessary that in the development of the Constitution and the settling of the claim of right, and the things consequent on the claim of right, that we should take up an attitude that will appeal to our fellow-countrymen like this, and bring them in on the side of acceptance of the Free State.  We will be told that that is playing to the gallery. I have no hesitation in this matter in saying I am playing to the gallery, but not to the gallery of this Dail, but to the gallery in a better sense&mdash;to the people outside this Dail.  I think that is something the Ministry has frequently forgotten in these discussions&mdash;that there are Irishmen to whom we might continually make appeal for a change of heart and mind in regard to this matter, and everything we may do that would have the effect of driving them into opposition or of hardening their hearts in opposition is unpatriotic.  I see no reason whatsoever for introducing this into the Constitution. 
     
    
      
       I am not going to lose much sleep over the name or label that is going to be attached to this particular office, but what I am very particularly concerned about are the conditions that will apply to this individual. It must be laid down distinctly, if he is coming here, that he must know the Irish language, that he must be a native Irish speaker, so as to properly deal with people here in that language.  That is the first essential qualification, and I think some of our Deputies here, who are so eloquent and make plenty of speeches, should know as much about the language as the subject we are talking about.  I think we should lay it down definitely that that should be an essential qualification. 
     
    
      
       I would like to say, if the Deputy would introduce a   clause to that effect, and if the Ministry would accept it, I am prepared to withdraw my amendment. 
     
    
      
       This clause is an agreed clause, and one of the reasons why it was agreed that the title should be put in the Constitution was, I am sure, the talk which was carried on in the Second Dail.  Deputy Gavan Duffy made a suggestion, in his typical style, that the representative of the Crown should be called An tAmadan Mor.  That sort of humour is very easily produced, but there was the indication there that people who should be responsible&mdash;because the man who made the suggestion was one of the Signatories of the Treaty&mdash;were prepared to fix a title which would be derisive.  The late Commander-in-Chief may have said that we would choose any other title rather than Governor-General, but what he had in his mind was not the particular objection to that, but to indicate that we were not bound to that title.  We are not bound to accept that title, but it is well that we should take a title which has certain advantages, which prevents the carrying on of a peculiar type of humbug, which we have had some instances of in this Dail.  The Treaty and the Constitution which is being made under the Treaty give Ireland, at the present time, a particular status and a particular relationship to Great Britain, and the Crown of Great Britain. Whether we like it or not, that is where we stand, and I for one object to the kind of humbug which pretends that we have got something else.  That is one reason why this title commends itself to me, rather than a title which would come from the sort of mentality that, say, produced &ldquo;Document No. 2.&rdquo; Clause 2 of the Treaty says the relationship of the Representative of the Crown to the Irish Free State shall be similar to that of the relationship of the Dominion of Canada.  It is a clause that is capable of very wide interpretation.  I would suggest to the Dail that it is capable of bearing the meaning, that the salary and provision made for the Governor-General of Canada should be the salary and provision applying in Ireland. If that is so, it is very desirable that the salary should be fixed specifically in the Constitution in agreement   with the British, because it means we are getting off in this matter at the cheaper rate of Australia, rather than the more expensive rate of Canada.  I think Clause 2 might be fairly held to include that particular thing, that this provision should be made for the &ldquo;Representative of the Crown.&rdquo;  I see no other reason for introducing into Clause 2 &ldquo;Representative of the Crown,&rdquo; as apart from the Crown which is merely a small function in regard to legislation, and in regard to Executive Authority; if they alone were concerned, it would be covered by the phrase &ldquo;relationship to the Crown.&rdquo;  There is that advantage in adopting this particular clause here, as it stands.  The name is not a matter of any great consequence, any reasonable name would do, but if we make any change, it should be a change that would be some improvement definitely on the name Governor-General. 
     
    
      
       The Minister for Local Government was right when he said that a tendency in the late Dail to speak with a kind of cheap humour about this functionary and his title, and so on, had the result of making the British Minister insist that his status, and his salary, and his establishment, and so on, should be very definitely laid down in the Constitution. We had a reason for choosing Australia rather than other places, because it worked out cheaper to choose Australia, and because on a comparison of population Australia came nearest to ours. But as to Deputy Johnson's point, whether the amount should vary with the cost of living, I take it none of us would object if the gentleman struck after a few years, because his salary was not in proportion to the cost of living. 
     
    
      
       It is suggested that the terms might be &ldquo;the rate current in the trade.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I have not been used to coming here and saying we do not want so and so done, because the late Chairman, or President, thought it   would be the best thing to do.  We have not quoted him or any other person who is not here to any extent.  If any person should come here and quote something which he is alleged to have said, it should not weigh very much with the Deputies.  The fact is that the late Chairman, together with the late President of the Dail, agreed, after careful consideration, that we could not do better than select the exact name and title by which the Representative of the Crown was known in Canada and Australia, because that stamped his limits and the limit of his power and interference. The Article, as I say, is an agreed Article in so far as it provides a salary, and that salary shall be charged to the public funds, and suitable provision shall be made for the maintenance of this gentleman's residence and establishment.  It is a vital clause on which we stand, and the Article was made necessary and vital largely by the kind of cheap tomfoolery that was indulged in in the late Dail. 
     
    
      
       I think, as we have decided by accepting the Treaty we were to go in for a certain national status or a certain international combination, it is right we should go into it accepting all its commitments with dignity, and with none of that flippancy or frivolity which was indulged in at the last Dail even by the Minister for Education in the present Government, who referred to this gentleman as the Grand Panjandrum, so that these kind of terms were not the monopoly of any one person.  Still, I think it is more consonant with his dignity, and still more consonant with the dignity of this nation, that he should be called the Crown Representative rather than the Governor-General.  There are certain connotations with the word Governor-General that are not happy, and I think the connotations of the words &ldquo;Crown Representative&rdquo; would be much more dignified both for him and for us, and I do urge, therefore, its acceptance between now and the next reading. 
     
     
       
        On a division the amendment was lost by 34 to 12, the voting being:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Ta. 
             Nil. 
           
         
         
           
             Padraig O Gamhna. Tomas de Nogla. Riobard O Deaghaidh. Tomas Mac Eoin. Liam O Briain. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Tomas O Conaill Aodh O Culachain Sean Buitleir Nioclas O Faolain Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Domhnall O Ceallachain. 
             Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Donnchadh O Guaire. Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. Sean O Maolruaidh. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hAonghusa. Domhnall O Mochain. Sean O hAodha. Seamus Breathnach. Padraig Mag Ualghairg. Darghal Figes. Deasmhumhain Mac Gearailt. Sean Mac Garaidh. Micheal de Staineas. Domhnall Mac Cartaigh. Earnan Altun. Gearoid Mac Giobuin. Liam Thrift. Padraig O hOgain. Padraic O Maille. Seosamh O Faoileachain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Criostoir O Broin. Risteard Mac Liam Caoimhghin O hUigin Tomas Mac Artuir. Seamus O Dolain. Eamon O Dugain Peadar O hAodha. Seamus O Murchadha. Tomas O Domhnaill. Earnan de Blaghd. Domhnall O Broin. Micheal O Dubhghail. 
           
           
             12 
             34 
           
         
       
     
    
      
       The amendment is lost.  I wonder if we could save time on the next two amendments? We have already discussed the Governor-General. We now have two amendments, one to delete the name Governor and the other to substitute something else for it. 
     
    
      
       I was not aware you intended to put that motion. There was something I should like to have added to it. 
     
    
      
       To the amendment? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       I would like in that case, even if it is stretching the rule of the Dail that the Minister for Home Affairs should be allowed to state what he wishes to state.  He stated it to me, and it had a very considerable effect on my mind. 
     
    
      
       What I feel is, and, I think, perhaps, that Deputies should know it and weigh it, that interference with this particular title which was agreed between the late Chairman and the late President and the British Ministers cannot be rescinded in any way to the extent that would be called a breach of the Treaty.  It certainly will tend to make British Ministers more difficult to deal with when it comes to question of selection of the individual.  I suggest that it is the individual, his type and mentality, that will really matter, and not the title by which he will be known.  Now, Deputies can weigh that for what it is worth.  It is strongly our point of view that interference with that particular title will render the selection of the individual a very much more difficult matter. 
     
    
      
       In view of that explanation, I would like to ask now if Deputy Johnson intends to press this division. 
     
    
      
       The amendment is that the clause be deleted. 
     
     
    
      
       It may affect the next amendment. 
     
    
      
       I draw your attention to the fact that Deputy Gavan Duffy was withdrawing his amendments. 
     
    
      
       Precisely. That is the case. 
     
    
      
       The motion in my name is that the words &ldquo;who shall be styled the Governor-General of the Irish Free State&rdquo; shall be deleted.  There is no need to go over the arguments again, because they were stated in the main on the last motion.  I would merely repeat that it is quite a voluntary action on the part of the Dail itself.  There is no compulsion. There is not even a suggestion in the Treaty that there should be any name attached to the representative of the Crown.  It seems to me to be quite definitely implied in the terms of the Treaty that the title &ldquo;Governor-General&rdquo; would not apply to the representative of the Crown, and I can only repeat that to me the term &ldquo;Governor-General&rdquo; is about the most objectionable that could be applied to such an official.  I beg to move the amendment. 
       The amendment was put and negatived. 
     
    
      
       I formally move the amendment, &ldquo;To delete `Governor-General of the Irish Free State,' and substitute `Crown Representative.' &rdquo; I do not think it needs any talking about. 
       The amendment was put and negatived. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Article 58 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed 
     
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT OF THE DAIL. 
    
      
       That concludes the Committee stage, and the Dail shall now go out of Committee automatically. 
     
    
      
       I was going to suggest to the Dail that we should not meet again until Wednesday.  It would take a day or two to print this.  I expect it to be in the hands of the members by Saturday or Monday, and in order to give time for the printing of any amendments that would be handed in, and to save this kind of mix-up that we were in to-day by getting amendments   presented in the Dail, and which are not fair to absent members, who possibly would come if they saw some of them, I suggest, then, that the Dail will not meet until Wednesday. 
     
    
      
       The Bill will not be in the hands of members by Saturday. 
     
    
      
       On Monday. 
     
    
      
       I understand that printers do not work overtime; that, according to the rules of the trade, they do not work on Saturday evenings or Sundays.  It will be very difficult to have the Bill in the hands of members on Monday. 
     
    
      
       Will not the Bill come before us in the full Report form? 
     
    
      
       I take it that the Dail orders now that the Bill be printed and circulated when it comes out of Committee. 
     
    
      
       I beg to point out that there must be certain formalities complied with and that the Bill, having been passed, must be reported immediately to the Dail.  I am allowing two days, and that does not appear to be enough, so that the Standing Orders must have suffered from some disorder at the time you passed them. 
     
    
      
       Under the Standing Orders you cannot have a Bill reported to the Dail immediately after it has left the Committee stage. 
     
    
      
       It is clearly on the Standing Orders. 
     
    
      
       The Standing Orders must be interpreted in a different way. 
     
    
      
       I would think, from my knowledge of printing, that it would be quite possible to have this re-drafted and printed in its amended form if it could be handed to the printers in reasonable time. 
     
    
      
       It can be handed to the printers to-morrow evening perhaps.  It has to be very carefully compared, particularly the concluding Articles this evening.  It will certainly   be in the hands of members on Tuesday, but there is a very important point when we meet again.  In the fourth stage the Bill will come before the Dail as a motion, and amendments will come before the Dail, and if, for example, Article 3 is amended, then all the Articles up to 30 and including 30 will be taken as amended, and no amendment can be taken before Article 30.  If that procedure is not adopted we will have to take amendments up and down the Bill the whole time, which would involve consequential changes, so that we will have to get amendments, say, to the end of Article 40 or 45 on the Order Paper for Wednesday, and take no other amendments that we get. 
     
    
      
       Very good. 
     
    
      
       It says that there are two days' notice required in the Standing Orders, but I don't think the President is standing over the Standing Orders now. 
     
    
      
       Could we not definitely settle a time for receiving amendments? 
     
     
    
      
       At 11 o'clock on Monday. 
     
    
      
       When will we get the whole report? 
     
    
      
       As soon as ever it can possibly be got ready. 
     
    
      
       Will it be delivered by post?  If so, there is a difficulty. I get the Orders of the Day the following day, or after my return from this Dail. 
     
    
      
       Until we get the Report it is impossible to know what amendments to make. 
     
    
      
       I think a Constitutional lawyer like Mr. Figgis should know what has happened. 
       Motion, &ldquo;That the Dail do now adjourn,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       Dail adjourned accordingly at 9.25 p.m. 
     
   
 
