 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do cromadh ar obair an lae ar 3.15 p.m.  Bhi an Ceann Comhairle, Micheal O hAodha, sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - MOTOR AND CYCLING TRAFFIC.  PROHIBITION UNDER BRITISH REGIME. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance if he is in a position to give any information as to the claims for compensation made by the Motor and Cycling Trade, owing to the prohibition of Motor and Cycle traffic under the British regime. 
     
    
      
       Claims made by the Motor and Cycling Trade in respect of the pre-truce period may be made to the Compensation Commission in so far as the facts fall within the terms of reference of that body.  As regards cases outside those terms of reference but within the jurisdiction of the War Compensation Court, the Government are endeavouring to have sittings of that Court arranged to be held in this country.  They are still in communication with the British Government on this point. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - IRISH BANKS' GOLD RESERVE. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance whether his attention has been drawn to the Statistics published in the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; of October 27th, 1922, concerning the amount of Irish Bank Notes in circulation and the gold held against those notes, showing that the average amount of gold held for the four weeks ending the 2nd September, was about £10,589,000; whether the notes issued by the Irish Banks, in circulation for the same period, amounted to £17,358,000; whether his attention has also been drawn to the footnote in the same Statistics showing that the amount stated as representing gold held by the Banks against the notes in circulation,   does not, in fact, represent gold held by the Banks, but includes Currency notes deposited at the Bank of England, which notes are treated as coin held by the Irish Banks at their Head Offices; and will the Minister state what is the true amount of gold held by the Irish Banks against their notes in circulation, and, further, if he can state what amount of gold is actually held by the Bank of England against the total amount of Bank of England Notes and currency notes in circulation. 
     
    
      
       I am acquainted with the statistics referred to, the substance of which is stated correctly in the question.  In interpreting the statistics it should be borne in mind that the currency of this country at the present time is the British currency, the unit of which &mdash;namely, a pound sterling&mdash;is like the unit of currency in most countries of the world at present, below its nominal gold value.  I am not in a position to say what is the amount of actual gold held by Irish banks against their notes in circulation.  The Bank of England, according to its latest statement, holds gold coin and bullion amounting to £125,619,160 against its note issue of £144,069,160.  The latest currency notes return shows that gold coin and bullion amounting to £27,000,000 is held in the currency note redemption account, and the same account also holds £21,150,000 in Bank of England notes, which, as indicated by the figures I have just given, are covered to the extent of over 87 per cent. by gold. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - COMPENSATION (SHAW AWARDS). 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance whether he will state the intentions of the Government regarding compensation to persons in Westmeath, Longford, and Roscommon who suffered serious injury to property and person from direct enemy action during the late Anglo-Irish war; whether it is true that those who lodged claims in the enemy courts at the time have received compensation under the Shaw Award, and that those who did not recognise these courts have received no compensation; and, further, will the Minister see that such claimants are compensated. 
     
    
      
       As regards the claims for damage done to property before   the Truce, the position is that where decrees were obtained after a defence had been made by the County Council concerned, steps for payment are at present being taken.  Where no decrees were obtained, or where decrees were obtained but the County Council of the area where the damage occurred did not make a defence, the claims are subject to adjudication by the Compensation Commission. There is no foundation for the suggestion made in the question that there is a discrimination against persons who refused to recognise the courts of the late Government. In the case of injury to the person, the Government of Saorstat Eireann are responsible for the provision of due compensation to supporters of the National side who suffered injury, and proposals to give full effect to this arrangement are being considered. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - ROTUNDA POST OFFICE.  WORKERS' BENEFIT FORMS DESTROYED. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will give an assurance that the unemployment benefit due to workers whose claim forms were destroyed in the recent burning of the Rotunda Post Office will be paid before Christmas. 
     
    
      
       Special efforts have been made to reconstruct promptly the claim forms and other documents relating to applications for unemployment benefit destroyed when the Rotunda Post Office was burnt, and, so far as can be ascertained, only four such applications are still outstanding.  If it is possible to do so, these applications will be disposed of before Christmas, and special instructions to that effect have been issued. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - TIPPERARY HOUSING SCHEME. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government if he is aware that the Tipperary Urban Council started a housing scheme over six months ago, and that the contract for same was given to a local builder, but the operations were held up owing, as alleged, to the difficulty of getting the Local Government Board to send an arbitrator to value the land on which it   is proposed to build the houses; if such is the case, will the Minister undertake to have the matter seen to at once? 
     
    
      
       On the 28th September last, the Ministry approved of house designs and the acceptance of a tender for 11 houses.  The owner of the requisite site granted early entry and the clerk reported so long ago as the 14th of August last that it had been paled in.  It had previously been arranged that the price to be paid for the land should be agreed upon between the parties, or, failing agreement, should be settled by an agreed arbitrator.  The Ministry has not been made aware of any difficulty in the matter, which is clearly one for the Council and the owner. 
       The Ministry has done everything possible to assist the Council in pushing on with their housing scheme.  Application for loan and other information asked for months ago has not yet been received. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - CORK UNION VICE-GUARDIANS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government when he proposes to hold the inquiry into the administration of the Cork Union by the Vice-Guardians; also, if he proposes to give adequate public notice of the date on which the inquiry is to be held; and if he will guarantee that officials and inmates who are prepared to give evidence will not be subject to victimisation for giving such evidence as it may be in their power to give? 
     
    
      
       The inquiry will be held early in January, the date will be announced almost immediately, and adequate public notice will be given. 
       Any official or inmate may give evidence at the inquiry.  A guarantee of the nature indicated is not necessary as victimisation of officials or inmates would not be tolerated in this or in any other case. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - DIVISION OF WESTMEATH RANCH. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Agriculture whether he is aware that the Estates Commissioners bought a ranch from Lieutenant Murphy in the townland of Tyfarnham, Crooked Wood, Westmeath, for division amongst ex-service men and others, and that £700 was added to the purchase money by   the tenants for expenditure in fences and road-making; and further, whether he is aware there is £150 still on hands, and, if so, why was the work of fencing and road-making suspended last December, 1921; and if the balance mentioned is still on hands will he see that it will be disposed of in order to relieve the unemployment in the townland referred to. 
     
    
      
       A sum of £720 was sanctioned by the Estates Commissioners for fencing, road-making and drainage on the lands referred to.  This money was given as a grant, and no addition in respect of it was made to the purchase moneys of the allottees of the lands.  Of this amount the sum of £576 has already been expended. 
       I have been in communication with the Commissioners since the beginning of the month in regard to continuing work on hands with a view to giving the maximum amount of employment.  The Commissioners are acting on this principle in this case as in every other case in which they are dealing.  The balance of the money will accordingly be expended. 
       The Commissioners are now making arrangements for the resumption of the work under more satisfactory conditions. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - ALLOWANCE FOR SOLDIERS' MOTHERS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence what arrangements are made by the Army Authorities in the case of mothers whose sons are serving in the National Army; whether it is the Minister's intention to give an allowance for maintenance of those mothers, and if so, how much, and in the event of the Government having a scheme for the above purpose is the Minister in a position to publish it, and will he see that the mothers, whose chief support were those sons who are now serving in the National Army, will not have to depend for their maintenance on the local rates, or on the generosity of their neighbours. 
     
    
      
       Allowances are payable to mothers who were partially dependent on unmarried sons when those sons enlisted.   In such cases the amount of the allowances are at the rate of 7/-, 14/-, 21/-, and (in the case of officers) 28/- a week.  The rate in any particular case is based on the financial loss sustained by the mother owing to her son's joining the Army and on the assumption that her son contributes at least one-third of his total Army pay to the support of herself and her family.  These particulars will be published in orders for the information of the Army in the near future. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - SOLDIERS' DEPENDANTS' ALLOWANCES. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if he is aware that the wives and dependants of a large number of National soldiers serving in North Tipperary have not received any Separation Allowance since the 28th October, and if in view of the great hardship thereby inflicted on these poor people, he will have the matter seen to at once. 
     
    
      
       I am not aware that the allowances referred to have not been paid, but I am having the matter investigated at once. 
     
    
      
       I would like to point out to the Minister that I am informed that practically none of the dependents of the men serving in the Military Barracks in Nenagh have received Separation Allowances since the 28th October. 
     
    
      
       I consider it very unlikely. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - KILKENNY POSTMAN'S ARREST. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether in the case of Patrick McGlynn, Postman, who was arrested in Kilkenny on 26th July last without any charge being preferred against him, and about whom a question was asked some time ago, and in reply to which it was stated that he had signed the usual form, that no action had been taken towards his release; whether arising out of this the Minister is aware that McGlynn attended at Kilkenny Post Office a week previous to his arrest and was cross-examined by Postmaster Coyne as to &ldquo;the movements   of the Irregular forces in opposition to the State in the Kilmanagh district,&rdquo; and McGlynn having stated that he was unable to give any information, that he was threatened by the Postmaster, who stated he (McGlynn) was trying to shield those people, which statement McGlynn states is absolutely untrue as he (McGlynn) had no connection with any political organisation; whether a week later McGlynn was again instructed to call at the Kilkenny office, and according to the report was evidently detained there until the military arrived to arrest him, and if there is any truth in the report that his arrest was carried out at the instigation of the Postmaster. 
     
    
      
       As far as this Department is concerned it is not considered safe to release Mr. McGlynn at present.  He was not arrested at the instigation of the Postmaster, Kilkenny. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - REPORT. 
    
      
       I beg formally to move: &ldquo;That the Adaptation of British Enactments Bill be now received for consideration on Report.&rdquo;  There are a number of amendments, but, having regard to the fact that I am moving the Bill, it would not be right for me to move them. I will ask other members to do so. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second the motion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       The first amendment which I beg to move is to amend the title as follows: &ldquo;An Act to interpret and to adapt to the circumstances of Saorstat Eireann certain Acts of the British Parliament having force of law in Saorstat Eireann, and certain statutory rules, orders, and regulations, and certain contracts.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second the amendment. 
     
    
      
       Is that really a correct description where you talk of &ldquo;Acts of the British Parliament having   force of law in Saorstat Eireann&rdquo;?  They had until the 6th December, and I take it your intention is that, as a result of a clause in the Constitution, they shall continue to have force of law. 
     
    
      
       Yes, that is so. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - PREAMBLE. 
     Whereas it is provided by Article 73 of the Constitution of Saorstat Eireann that subject to that Constitution and to the extent to which they are not inconsistent therewith the laws in force in Saorstat Eireann at the date of the coming into operation of that Constitution shall continue to be of full force and effect until the same or any of them shall have been repealed or amended by enactment of the Oireachtas. 
     And whereas all Acts passed by the British Parliament which were in force on the 6th day of December, 1922 (being the date of the coming into operation of the Constitution aforesaid) in the area now comprised in Saorstat Eireann will by virtue of the said Article 73 have the force of law in Saorstat Eireann. 
     And whereas it is necessary in order to enable such Acts to have full force and effect in Saorstat Eireann that certain interpretations and adaptations of such Acts should be made. 
    
      
       I beg to move as an amendment, after the word &ldquo;Acts,&rdquo; in line 23 of the Preamble to insert the words &ldquo;and of all orders, rules, and regulations made thereunder.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move, after line 23 in the Preamble to insert the words &ldquo;And whereas it is desirable to make provision for the continuance of pending Government contracts.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move, in line 31, after the word &ldquo;may,&rdquo; and before the word &ldquo;be,&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;for brevity.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - CENTRAL FUND OF SAORSTAT EIREANN SUBSTITUTED FOR CONSOLIDATED FUND. 
     
        1. &mdash;(1)  The Fund mentioned in Article 61 of the Constitution of Sarostat Eireann as the one Fund to be formed subject as therein of all the revenues of Saorstat Eireann shall be called and known as &ldquo;The Central Fund of Saorstat Eireann,&rdquo; and may be referred to in any Act of the Oireachtas, Statutory Rule or Order or other state or official document as &ldquo;The Central Fund.&rdquo; 
     (2)  Every mention of and reference to the Consolidated Fund contained in any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall, where the context so requires or admits, be construed and take effect as respects the doing or not doing after the 6th day of December, 1922, of any act, matter or thing in Saorstat Eireann under or in pursuance of such Act as a mention of or reference to The Central Fund. 
    
      
       In Section 1, Sub-section 2, line 35, I beg to move to leave out the words &ldquo;Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; and to substitute the words &ldquo;British Statute.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move, in Sub-section 2, line 39, to delete the word &ldquo;the Act&rdquo; and to substitute the word &ldquo;Statute.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - INTERPRETATION OF &ldquo;EXCHEQUER&rdquo; AND &ldquo;COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR-GENERAL.&rdquo; 
     1. &mdash;Every mention of or reference to the Exchequer or the Comptroller and Auditor-General contained in any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall, as respects the doing or not doing of any act, matter or thing after the 6th day of December, 1922, in Saorstat Eireann, under or in pursuance of such Act be respectively construed and take effect where the   context so admits or requires as a mention of or reference to the Exchequer of Saorstat Eireann or to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Saorstat Eireann. 
    
      
       I move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       In Section 2, lines 4, 5 and 6, delete the words &ldquo;Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall as respects,&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;British Statute shall in respect of.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In line 8 delete the word `Act' and substitute the word `Statute.' &rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In line 11, add at the end of the clause, immediately after the word `Eireann' the words `as the case may require.' &rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Clause 2 as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - THE NAME &ldquo;IRELAND&rdquo; TO MEAN SAORSTAT EIREANN. 
     3. &mdash;For the purpose of the construction of any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann the name &ldquo;Ireland,&rdquo; whether used alone or in conjunction with the expression &ldquo;Great Britain,&rdquo; or by implication as being included in the expression &ldquo;United Kingdom,&rdquo; shall remain Saorstat Eireann. 
    
      
       It just occurs to me, though there may be nothing in it whatever, but in view of the discussion that is going on now as to whether the Six-County Area is included in the United Kingdom for the purpose of certain Statutes, it is just possible that a Statute coming under the category of &ldquo;British Statute,&rdquo; may be passed using the words &ldquo;United Kingdom,&rdquo; and referable to the Six Counties, would also be brought into operation in Saorstat Eireann by this. 
     
     
    
      
       An Act which has been passed before the 6th December? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       In any case I think that would arise on Clause 18, where a definition of &ldquo;British Statute&rdquo; is made. 
     
    
      
       Yes, that is right. 
     
    
      
       I move the following amendment:&mdash;&ldquo;In Section 3, lines 13 and 14, delete the words `Act of the British Parliament having force of law in Saorstat Eireann,' and substitute the words `British Statute.' &rdquo; 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Clause 3 as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - INTERPRETATION OF   DUBLIN GAZETTE. 
     4. &mdash;Every mention of or reference to the  Dublin Gazette  contained in any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall, as respects the doing or not doing of any act, matter or thing in Saorstat Eireann after the 6th day of December, 1922, be construed and take effect as a mention of or reference to  Iris Oifigiuil.  
    
      
       I move the following amendments:&mdash; 
       In Section 4, lines 21 and 22, delete the words &ldquo;Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;British Statute.&rdquo; 
       In line 25, immediately after the word &ldquo;to&rdquo; and before the word &ldquo;Iris&rdquo; insert the words &ldquo;Official Gazette called.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       What is the particular necessity for the words &ldquo;Official Gazette&rdquo; at all? 
     
    
      
       The necessity for these words is that they have a remarkable significance.  Every announcement or appointment made of a certain standing has to be gazetted here. Every notice in it is accepted as evidence of the fact that that notice is admitted or to be admitted in courts of   law.  That is why it should be called Official Gazette.  There must be some distinction and it is accepted generally as the Government organ for official announcements. 
     
    
      
       I think the President has rather missed the point of my question.  What I asked was, what was the necessity of having the words &ldquo;Official Gazette&rdquo; at all? 
     
    
      
       Identification. 
     
    
      
       What is the necessity for these words?  Would not the use of the two words &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; be sufficient just as in the first line of that paragraph the words &ldquo;Dublin Gazette&rdquo; are a sufficient definition? 
     
    
      
       That may be, but it may not be generally known, and people may be looking for the &ldquo;Dublin Gazette&rdquo; as formerly, and it is in order to mark the difference and to show the change that has taken place. 
     
    
      
       I think the insertion of these words is objectionable. You are playing up to the people who do not take the trouble to know that the words &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; indicate the Official Gazette.  I do not think these words should be inserted there any more than we should say the &ldquo;Official Gazette called The Dublin Gazette&rdquo; if it was in English. 
     
    
      
       As a matter of fact &ldquo;Irish Oifigiuil&rdquo; was never by Statute defined as the Official Gazette.  This in effect does make it the Official Gazette. 
       Amendments put and agreed to. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Section 4, as amended, stand part of the Bill. 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - OIREACHTAS SUBSTITUTED FOR PARLIAMENT. 
     (1)  Every mention of or reference to Parliament or to both or each or either of the Houses of Parliament contained in any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall in regard to the doing or not doing of any act, matter or thing   after the 6th day of December, 1922, in Saorstat Eireann be construed as a mention of or reference to both or each or either of the Houses or the corresponding House (as the case may be) of the Oireachtas and the expression &ldquo;Parliamentary&rdquo; in every such Act as aforesaid shall be construed accordingly. 
     (2)  Every mention of or reference to the presentation of an address to His (or Her) Majesty by both or each or either of the Houses of Parliament contained in any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall as from the 6th day of December, 1922, be construed and take effect as a mention of or reference to the passing of a resolution by both or each or either of the Houses or by the corresponding House (as the case may be) of the Oireachtas. 
     (3).  For the purposes of this section Seanad Eireann shall be deemed to be the House of the Oireachtas corresponding to the Peers' House of the British Parliament and Dail Eireann shall be deemed to be the House of the Oireachtas corresponding to the Commons' House of the British Parliament. 
     (4).  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section the expression &ldquo;Act of Parliament&rdquo; contained in any Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann shall mean and include both Act of the British Parliament and Act of the Oireachtas. 
    
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; In line 30, to delete the words, &ldquo;in regard to,&rdquo; and substitute the words, &ldquo;as respects.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Would it not be better if it read, instead of &ldquo;the case may be,&rdquo; as &ldquo;the case may require,&rdquo; as we have got in a similar context? 
     
    
      
       Is that amendment accepted? 
     
    
      
       If the Dail wishes. 
     
    
      
       We have no objection. 
     
    
      
       Will Deputy Magennis move the amendment now, definitely? 
     
     
    
      
       Yes.  I beg to move the amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I move, in line 35, to delete the words, &ldquo;Act as aforesaid,&rdquo; and substitute the word, &ldquo;statute.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move, in lines 39 and 40, to delete the words &ldquo;Act of the British Parliament having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;British Statute.&rdquo;  This is really prior to the last one. 
     
    
      
       It occurs again in line 40.  This is an amendment in lines 39 and 40. 
     
    
      
       It is also in 29 and 30. 
     
    
      
       But that has been amended and passed. 
       Amendment agreed. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move, in line 44, for &ldquo;the case may be,&rdquo;&ldquo;the case may require.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       We will take that as consequential throughout, then? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       The next amendment is: Section 5, Sub-section 4, lines 53 and 54.  To delete the words &ldquo;Act of the British Parliament having the force of law,&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;British Statute.&rdquo;  In the same Sub-section and the lines 54 and 55, to delete from &ldquo;both&rdquo; to the end of the clause, and to insert &ldquo;Act of the British Parliament or Act of the Oireachtas,&rdquo; as the case may require. 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;Both&rdquo; is inclusive in that case. 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       Does the Clause read now: Clause 5, Sub-section 4: &ldquo;Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section the expression Act of Parliament contained in any British Statute shall mean and include either an Act of the British Parliament or an Act of the Oireachtas as the case may require&rdquo;? 
     
     
    
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Clause 5 as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       In the next amendment there is a misprint. 
     
    
      
       That is an amendment to Clause 6? 
     
    
      
       Yes, in Clause 6 there is a date 28th December and that should be the 28th day of October. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - POWERS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND RESIDENT MAGISTRATES TO BE EXERCISED BY STIPENDIARY MAGISTRATES. 
     6. &mdash;(1)  Every power, authority, and duty conferred or imposed by any British Statute on a Justice or on two or more Justices acting together shall as from the passing of this Act cease to be exercisable or to be performed by such Justice or Justices, and in lieu thereof, as respects any act, matter or thing to be done or not done after the passing of this Act every such power or authority may be exercised and every such duty shall be performed by one District Justice. 
     (2)  Every power, authority, and duty conferred or imposed by any British Statute on a Resident Magistrate or on two or more Resident Magistrates acting together shall as from the passing of this Act cease to be exercisable or to be performed by such Magistrate or Magistrates, and in lieu thereof as respects any act, matter, or thing to be done or not done after the passing of this Act, every such power or authority may be exercised and every such duty shall be performed by one District Justice. 
     (3)  In this section  (a)  the expression &ldquo;Justice&rdquo; includes the expression &ldquo;Justice of the Peace,&rdquo; and does not mean or include a Divisional Magistrate of the City of Dublin, and nothing in this section shall affect the powers, authority, and duties of such Divisional Magistrates;  (b)  the expression &ldquo;District Justice&rdquo; means a Magistrate appointed since the 6th day of December, 1922, under the British Statute 6 and 7 William IV., Chapter 13. 
    
      
       The amendment I propose is: &ldquo;Any judgment or decision given or made, sentence or penalty imposed, or other act, matter, or thing done   before the passing of this Act, but after the 28th day of October, 1922, by any of the following persons&mdash;namely, Joseph Mary Flood, Edward J. Little, Barrister-at-Law; Thomas A. Finlay, Barrister-at-Law; William George Price, Barrister-at-Law; Charles Alphonsus Flattery, solicitor; Cyril Beatty, Barrister-at-Law; Bartholomew John Goff, solicitor; John H. Molloy, solicitor; Matthew Joseph Hannon, barrister; William David Coyle, solicitor; Richd. Daniel Fitzgibbon Johnson, solicitor; John H. Gallagher, barrister; Patrick Philip O'Donoghue, barrister; James F. Crotty, solicitor; Louis J. Walsh, solicitor; John S. Troy, solicitor; John O'Hanraghan, solicitor; Kenneth S. Reddin, solicitor; John M. Flood, solicitor; George Patrick Cussen, solicitor; Dermit Florence Gleeson&mdash;in purported exercise of any jurisdiction, power, or authority appertaining to a Magistrate lawfully appointed to be such Magistrate under or by virtue of the British Statute, 6 and 7 William IV., Chapter 13, and the British Statutes amending the same, shall be deemed to be lawful and valid to the extent to which the same would have been lawful and valid if such persons had been lawfully appointed under the said British Statutes.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I am loath to raise difficulties unnecessarily, but I would like to have my mind satisfied as to whether or not the proposed new Clause comes within the scope of the amended title, because this, I submit, is not a Clause whose function is to interpret or to adapt to the circumstances of the Saorstat certain Acts of the British Parliament.  It certainly is not an interpretation or an adaptation of statutory rules, orders and regulations, and though it might be some legal quibble perhaps be brought under the heading of contract, yet it does not seem to belong to any of the contracts that are specifically mentioned in the body of the Bill.  It seems to me that it could be more properly described as a clause to legalise, and give legal authority to, acts of certain Magistrates appointed by the Provisional Government.  Surely we might pass a short Act for that purpose by itself.  It is really coming to the rescue, if I may use an unhappily chosen term, of the Provisional Government, lest any question might be raised as to the legitimacy or the legality of what they have done   as regards the appointments of these Magistrates, or what the Magistrates themselves in turn may have done purporting to act under this authority.  I would suggest that we do not include it in the scope of the present measure, and that we leave it over to be a Bill in itself. 
     
    
      
       I support Deputy Professor Magennis's suggestion, because I think this proposal ought not to come in in this particular Bill.  If this thing is necessary it ought to be done by a short Act by itself.  Now, yesterday, what I think is considered a fairly reprehensible practice in most legislatures was, I think, done, that is to say, a certain thing was done by tacking it on to the Appropriation Bill.  It seems to me you are trying to do the same thing by this adaptation&mdash;tacking on another thing and giving this other matter statutory force by putting it in where I do not think it ought to be. I think these things ought to be kept separate and distinct and done in proper order.  I think everybody in the Dail is anxious to facilitate the Government in getting this Adaptation Act through, but I do think there would be a good deal of discussion perhaps if this other thing were brought in as a separate Act.  At this stage I think it is altogether out of place.  There was no mention of it in the previous stages, not even in Committee. To bring it in now in the fourth stage is not, I think, fair at all to the Dail, and I would protest against the practice, as it is now becoming a practice, since yesterday, to tack on to one Bill what should properly be a separate Bill. 
     
    
      
       May I join in the appeal of Deputy Magennis and Deputy Cathal O'Shannon in asking the Government not to press this particular amendment?  I think the Government will acquit me of any desire to raise factious opposition to any of their proposals, and I do think it is most desirable that Stipendiary Magistrates or Magistrates of any kind should function throughout the country at the earliest possible moment. I do not think there is any member of this Dail who would throw any obstacles in their way, but I do submit that an Adaptation of Enactments Act is not the proper place to put in what really amounts to an Act of Indemnity against   these ten or fifteen gentlemen for the jurisdiction that they have been exercising for the period since they have been appointed.  Look at the very terms of the amendment: &ldquo;Any judgment or decision given or made, sentence or penalty imposed, or other act, matter or thing done before the passing of this Act since the 28th October&rdquo;&mdash;nearly two months ago&mdash;&ldquo;in purported exercise of any jurisdiction shall be deemed to be lawful and valid to the extent to which the same would have been lawful and valid if such persons had been lawfully appointed under the British Statutes.&rdquo;  I do submit with profound respect to the wishes of the Government, and also with a sincere desire to see that legislation here is conducted in all proper form, that they ought not to sandwich this provision into a general statute for enactment.  If they like to bring this Indemnity in as a Single Clause Bill or anything like that I could almost undertake to guarantee for the people whose party I do not belong to, but whose action in this Dail I have watched almost every hour since we first sat&mdash;I can almost undertake for almost everybody here that that Bill would go through practically without opposition. But it ought not to go through in the place the Government have inserted it&mdash;in the report stage of a Bill that was presented in print to us yesterday afternoon and that went through all its stages, except its final stage, in the space of about one hour.  I do appeal to the Government to withdraw this Clause in the form in which it is.  As it stood originally, subject to some small alterations, it was not objectionable because the original draft provided that the powers of Justices of the Peace and Resident Magistrates should be exercised in future by Stipendiary Magistrates.  All we want is a definition of Stipendiary Magistrates.  District Justices have all the powers Resident Magistrates and Justices of the Peace had before.  This is an entire innovation, because it is a specific indemnity to name people for acts they have done. 
     
    
      
       I can confirm, I think, the promise ventured to be given by the Deputy who has just sat down that a separate Bill would not be opposed with anything like virulence, but would probably pass through without any   opposition at all.  But to relieve the situation I would submit that this amendment is not in order.  It is enlarging the scope of the Bill, and therefore it is not in order to bring it forward on the Fourth Stage, and I ask your ruling. 
     
    
      
       We are advised this is an emergency provision necessitated by the circumstances of the time. We have at present many prisoners awaiting trial. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I expect that if a case is presented to the Chairman, at least one side ought not be excluded from being heard, even on a point of order, if there be a point of order. 
     
    
      
       The President is arguing for the Bill, not for the point of order. 
     
    
      
       Has the President anything to say on the point of order? 
     
    
      
       Yes; this is an emergency provision necessitated by the circumstances of the time.  It is as important as any of the adaptations in the Bill.  It affects not only those who have been tried, but those at present in jail. They are entitled to claim to be either released or tried, but they cannot be tried without the machinery for trial, and we are asking for that machinery now. 
     
    
      
       What about the point of order as to bringing this particular Clause in here? 
     
    
      
       It is a point of public order. 
     
    
      
       I am not called upon to decide a point of public order.  I did not receive these amendments until 3 o'clock, and I had no opportunity of seeing them until they came before the Dail.  It does seem to me that at this particular stage this particular amendment is an enlargement of the Bill.  Of that there can be no doubt whatever. 
     
    
      
       Even as it stands, and in the form in which it stands, if the President will bring it forward as a separate Bill, I am prepared to support the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable it to be brought forward. 
     
     
    
      
       If the suspension of the Standing Orders is carried, I hope a better spirit will be entertained than was shown here yesterday on another Bill. 
     
    
      
       We will fight that too. 
     
    
      
       You can fight away as long as you like. 
     
    
      
       We cannot be expected to pass legislation without some explanation. 
     
    
      
       One cannot explain to those who do not want to hear the explanation. 
       Amendment withdrawn. 
       The following amendment which was on the Order Paper was also withdrawn:&mdash;&ldquo;Amendment to Section 6&mdash;Insert: (5) The remuneration and allowances and the terms and conditions of appointment of each of the persons named in the last preceding sub-section (being persons nominated by the Minister for Home Affairs of the late Provisional Government to discharge the functions of such Magistrates as aforesaid for a temporary emergency) shall be deemed to be such as were prescribed by the said Minister for Home Affairs at the time of making such appointment in lieu of the remuneration, allowances, terms and conditions of appointment prescribed by or under any British Statute, and none of the said persons shall be entitled to any pension, gratuity, superannuation, allowance, or compensation upon the determination of his engagement for any reason whatever.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - CLAUSE 7. 
     Clause 7, Sub-section (1): &ldquo;Wherever any statutory Board of Commissioners or other statutory body was in existence on the 6th day of December, 1921, and had jurisdictions, powers, or duties extending to the whole of the late United Kingdom, or to any part thereof, which included the area now comprised in Saorstat Eireann, the Executive Council may, by order, establish a Board of Commissioners to exercise in Saorstat Eireann the functions which were on the 6th day of December, 1921, exercisable by such statutory Commissioners or statutory body as aforesaid in the area now comprised in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash;&ldquo;Immediately   after the word `body' and before the word `was,' insert the words `to which this section applies.' &rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I beg to second that. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move the following amendment to Clause 7:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Immediately after Sub-section 3 insert, `This section applies to any statutory Board of Commissioners or other statutory Board or Body exercising any function of Government or discharging any public duties in relation to public administration.' &rdquo; 
     
    
      
       This amendment appears to have been introduced to meet an objection raised by me yesterday afternoon.  Through the courtesy of the Legal Adviser of the Government I have seen the amendment, and so far as I can form an opinion it meets the objections that have been raised to the section in its original form.  I fancy if passed now it will not be open to the Party opposite, whenever they should happen to sit in the seats of the mighty, to send down a body of Commissioners or a single Commissioner to occupy the positions of the Boards of Directors of the Railway Companies, Gas Companies, and Electric Lighting Companies in the country, and to nationalise all these institutions. I think the Government have very fully met the objections that we raised.  My University colleagues here and Deputy Professor Magennis will agree with me in this.  I rather fancy the National University and the University College, Cork, would fall within the definition of statutory Bodies that are exercising powers in Saorstat Eireann. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - NEW CLAUSE. 
    
      
       I beg to move the following new Section.&mdash;Insert after Section 12 and before Section 13 the following new Section:&mdash; 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - ADAPTATION OF CUSTOMS ACTS TO A LAND FRONTIER. 
     (1)  The Minister for Finance may make regulations to apply to the importation and exportation of any goods into and from the Irish Free State by land, and of the provisions of the Customs Act subject to such modifications   as may be necessary and in particular, may&mdash; 
     
       (a)   Prohibit the importation and exportation of all goods or any classes of goods except by such routes within the Irish Free State and during such hours as may be prescribed. 
     
       (b)   Prescribe the places where and the form and manner in which entry of goods imported or exported shall be made and duty on goods imported shall be paid. 
     (2)  If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any such regulations, he shall be guilty of an offence under the Customs Acts and shall for every such offence, in addition to any other penalty to which he may be liable, incur a fine not exceeding £100, and the goods in respect of which the offence is committed shall be forfeited. 
    
      
       I beg to second that. 
     
    
      
       I rise to a point of order respecting all the words after &ldquo;necessary,&rdquo; and I desire to ask whether these are an adaptation strictly within the meaning of the Bill, and whether it is in order to bring this forward at the fourth stage.  It is a very important matter, indeed. 
     
    
      
       I notice in paragraph  (b)  of this appended &ldquo;in particular,&rdquo; it is assumed we shall have duties imposed on imported goods, and if we adopt that assumption we may afterwards find reason to change our mind, so I would suggest putting in words to read &ldquo;duty if any.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       The question of order was raised first.  I have had no opportunity of finding out what is in the Customs Act. 
     
    
      
       I may say that the points raised seemed to me so silly and childish that I did not think it was worth while answering them.  Here is the position. We have a new boundary, and if ever there was a case for adaptation it is here in this particular clause. 
     
    
      
       Surely it comes under the heading &ldquo;Adaptation and Interpretation of existing Acts.&rdquo; That is why I have to apologise to you, sir, for not noticing the point of order and proceeding to the amendment. 
     
     
    
      
       It certainly should have occurred on the Committee stage. 
     
    
      
       I submit all after the word &ldquo;necessary&rdquo; cannot be claimed to be in accordance with the Bill as originally presented.  I accept the view that &ldquo;the Minister for Finance may make regulations to apply to the Importation and Exportation of any goods into and from the Irish Free State by land, and of the provisions of the Customs Act, subject to such modifications as may be necessary.&rdquo;  That, I admit, is covered within the terms of the Bill as originally presented, and that is a reasonable amendment so far as it goes, to come on at the Fourth Stage, but then to emphasise particulars, and in those particulars practically to make a case for the regulating of the routes, and to give powers to regulate the routes and the methods of entry, and the fixing of penalties and so on is an enlargement of the powers of the Department, and is not an adaptation of the present Act. 
     
    
      
       Under what Customs Act are routes regulated in this fashion?  I think that the point Deputy Johnson has raised is a very important point, indeed.  It is not a sufficient and adequate answer when a point is put forward by a Deputy, and I suggest it is a very disorderly form of answer, to say that the point is silly and childish, especially as the argument has been put forward in a reasonable way.  It is not a very impressive form of debate, and, besides, it is a very discourteous form. 
     
    
      
       It is a very true one.  The fact that the very same thing is done in another place shows that we have to take some precaution, and really some of the criticisms made and some of the suggestions made here, having regard to the circumstances of the times, would try the patience of a gentleman named Job, who had a very exemplary form of temper.  We are to make regulations to prescribe routes.  What is the suggestion?  Are we to open all roads and take no precaution, and make no regulations, and so on?  There is a time when one can point out the demerits of effective Government, and point out the mistakes, but this is not the time.  We want to get on with the business, and the business is the same here as in every   other place, and the regulations are the same as made in every other country. 
     
    
      
       The President misses the point entirely&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       This is the Report stage, and a Deputy is not entitled to speak more than once. 
     
    
      
       The President has spoken three times. 
     
    
      
       Here we find that with less than five minutes' notice an amendment of this kind is presented to the Dail on the Fourth Stage, and we are told that the same thing is being done in another place.  I am perfectly certain, and I am prepared to eat my head if I am wrong, that such a thing is not done, and that legislation is not dealt with in this trifling manner.  There they conform to all the forms, and they present a Bill as it is intended to be passed before it reaches a stage corresponding to the fourth stage here.  I do not believe there is a legislature in the world which would attempt to pass Acts like this in this manner.  We have what practically amounts to a fiscal reform measure put before us in this casual manner after two minutes' preparation, and because we attempt to criticise it, the President resents our action.  I certainly resent that. 
     
    
      
       The point whether this is adaptation or interpretation is very difficult for a layman, but I think it should have been put into the original draft of the Bill, and discussed in Committee.  This is not the stage at which it should have been introduced. 
     
    
      
       I cannot see that any new powers are given here.  Are there not Customs barriers set up between different countries and regulations made?  Otherwise we could send all the goods we liked into the North, and they could send out all the goods they liked to us without paying any duty.  I think it is quite reasonable that exciseable duty should be paid on goods exported and imported, and I think it is right that that should be continued now, unless it is suggested that we should wait for twelve months and then go over the whole thing again. 
     
    
      
       With regard to the statement which has been made as to   fiscal changes, there are no fiscal changes made here.  There is no imposition of any duty on any goods that has not been imposed so far.  This simply regulates the manner and the area of the duty, and how it should be done. 
     
    
      
       I suggest the objection applies more to the penalty clause and that we might omit that. 
     
    
      
       The whole question involved here, it seems to me, is whether this is a legislature or not. The President on the Fourth Stage is asking us to take his word for certain things, and that is the whole matter. Quite obviously many of the things Deputy Hughes has said are true, but it is still more obvious that these things should come along in their proper place, and that they should be put into the Bill as originally drafted, or if not, that they should have been put in on the Committee Stage.  This is not the Stage for it at all, and this Assembly is not being treated as a Legislative Body at all.  There is no reason that I can see why this amendment could not have come up last evening, when with five or ten or fifteen minutes' discussion we might have disposed of the whole thing. It is now brought forward and no explanation given except what is dragged out of the Ministry. 
     
    
      
       Will we refer this new clause back to Committee and get a discussion upon it? 
     
    
      
       I do not think it serves any useful purpose.  If Deputies would only read the Clauses and the Bill they would see how simple the matter is.  I agree that perhaps we should have put them in at the previous Stage. I accept that criticism, but I do object to a misinterpretation being put upon our action in this matter. 
     
    
      
       Is the Bill re-committed? 
     
    
      
       No.  The proposal is not to re-commit the Bill. The proposal is to go into Committee on these new Clauses of the Bill. 
     
    
      
       Personally, I do not see any great reason for going into committee. There is no objection to the substance of the Clause, and I think it is   really a loss of time.  If there is no argument against the substance of the amendment I propose we should adopt it. 
     
    
      
       I second that. 
     
    
      
       I must press my point of order. 
     
    
      
       The adoption of the amendment has been moved already, so there is no need to move it again. 
     
    
      
       Well, then I support the adoption of the amendment. 
     
    
      
       We are willing to go into Committee upon this Clause. 
     
    
      
       Very well, then, the Dail will now go into Committee. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - THE DAIL IN COMMITTEE. 
    
      
       I beg to move, to insert after Section 12, and before Section 13, the following new section:&mdash; 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - ADAPTATION OF CUSTOMS ACTS TO A LAND FRONTIER. 
     (1)  The Minister of Finance may make regulations to apply to the importation and exportation of any goods into and from the Irish Free State by land, and of the provisions of the Customs Act, subject to such modifications as may be necessary and in particular, may&mdash; (a)  Prohibit the importation and exportation of all goods or any classes of goods except by such routes within the Irish Free State, and during such hours as may be prescribed.   (b)  Prescribe the places where and the form and manner in which entry of goods imported or exported shall be made and duty on goods imported shall be paid.  That does not impose any new duties that are not at present in force.  It simply prescribes the channels in which it will be possible for the Government to see that the duty on the goods imported are paid, or to regulate the export in the same way. 
    
      
       Would it not get away from the difficulty which seems to be in the minds of some of the Deputies if the Government could see its way to insert between &ldquo;of&rdquo; and `goods' the word &ldquo;dutiable,&rdquo; because   the clause to &ldquo;prohibit the importation and exportation of all goods or any classes of goods&rdquo; might be construed to prohibit the importation of goods which are not now contrary to law?  I rather gather what the Government are seeking is to prohibit dutiable goods being smuggled across the frontier between North East Ulster and the Free State, or to prohibit the importation of dutiable goods brought in at some port which are not now exciseable, and the Clause was not intended to extend the present powers beyond such goods as are now dutiable by law or may be made dutiable by Act of this Parliament tomorrow or any future date and to my mind it would improve this Clause if the words &ldquo;dutiable&rdquo; or &ldquo;exciseable&rdquo; were inserted in the Clause so that it would read &ldquo;Prohibit the importation and exportation of all dutiable goods or any classes of dutiable goods except by such routes, etc.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       That was not precisely the point which I had in mind when I raised this question of fiscal law, because I quite recognise as regards the Clause in its present unamended form that it has a very definite purpose and a useful purpose, but let me add that unless either the Minister for Trade and Commerce or the Minister for Finance is authorised to decide through what particular points traffic of a certain kind shall pass, it would be necessary to have the very extensive and practically unworkable arrangement of a series of Custom Houses all along the line of the Northern Boundary, because if only dutiable goods were within the scope of this Clause it would then be open to traffickers to bring in non-dutiable goods by certain routes and the opening for smuggling be at once provided. It would be altogether unworkable if we were to put in &ldquo;dutiable&rdquo; at this stage of the Clause.  Now, it seems to me, perhaps wrongly, that there is an introduction of fiscal law when it is assumed tacitly or taken for granted that there  are  to be duties.  Sub-section &ldquo;B&rdquo; prescribes the cases and the form and the manner in which entry of goods imported or exported shall be made and duty on goods imported shall be paid.  If the restrictive words, &ldquo; if any ,&rdquo; were added after &ldquo;goods&rdquo; it would leave the question of fiscal policy an open question altogether, and I suggest also   the omission of what I describe as the Penalty Clause. 
     
    
      
       That is Clause 2, and it has not been moved. 
     
    
      
       I think Deputy Magennis is quite right that Deputy FitzGibbon's amendment would destroy all the value of the Clause. 
     
    
      
       That raises the question of the very extended powers that were to go to the Minister for Finance.  There are 240 miles of frontier and innumerable by-roads and main roads as well as railway lines, and we are asked to give the Minister for Finance power to say whether all or any of these roads or by-roads or paths over fields shall be held up by a Customs officer, a sentry or a soldier.  Goods may be grass-seed or cattle, may be whiskey or tobacco, or linen, or any other article of merchandise.  This proposal is to give the Minister for Finance power to say whether any of these roads or paths shall be blocked by a soldier or Customs officer.  I submit that is too much power to give to the Minister for Finance. It is not an adaptation of an existing Act and the Minister for Finance has not power to-day to prohibit or direct which port or creek in Ireland non-dutiable goods shall enter into the Saorstat, and we are asked to extend the powers of the Minister for Finance to prohibit in so far as there is a land frontier importation or exportation of goods where he has not that power in regard to the seafront. Consequently I would press the proposal I suggested at the earlier stage that, in so far as the first part of this Clause 1 is concerned, up to the word &ldquo;necessary&rdquo; we should pass it, but the extension of those powers should not be granted to the Minister without a very considerable discussion on the principles and details of a separate Bill.  In so far as may be necessary to adapt existing Acts to the new conditions that power would be granted by passing this first Clause without any reference to any particular &ldquo;so and so&rdquo; which is increasing the power of the Ministry for Finance over and above that which he has under existing Acts, and I would move the deletion of all after the word &ldquo;necessary.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I do   not think the point that Deputy Magennis made against my suggestion is really valuable, nor do I quite follow the Minister for Local Government.  If so you would have to have a Customs officer at every point along the frontier to keep out dutiable goods.  If you are going to put a duty on a cartload of cabbages and potatoes going across the frontier of course you can do so, but if anybody want to send it across, across it will go unless there is an officer there to stop it.  If you are going to keep out goods you must have your barrier, whether a policeman, a preventative officer, or a soldier, to do so. 
     
    
      
       Deputy FitzGibbon therefore presses the amendment? 
     
    
      
       I see the difficulty the Government are placed in by this amendment, but it seems to me that Deputy Johnson's amendment covers my point, because my point comes into a Sub-section in which he desires to leave out all the words after &ldquo;necessary.&rdquo; My amendment would therefore only arise if his fails.  My amendment is to a portion of the Section that would not be there at all if Deputy Johnson succeeds. 
     
    
      
       As to Deputy Johnson's amendment before us, would he explain what he means by omitting these words:&mdash;&ldquo;The Minister for Finance may make regulations to apply to the importation and exportation of any goods into and from the Irish Free State by land, and of the provisions of the Customs Act subject to such modifications as may be necessary?&rdquo; It is left to the discretion of the Minister and the clauses which Deputy Johnson's amendment proposes to eliminate were really only clarifying words to make it clear as to what any particular power was directed towards. I do not think that the purpose which he has in view is served by the amendment. For, as I understood his speech, his contention was that this amendment conferred a new and extraordinary power upon the Minister.  What he moves confers a new and extraordinary power upon the Minister.  Consequently, the position is not consistent.  Further, I would suggest in reply to my question he should consider that the conditions which these are   meant to meet are new and extraordinary. Ireland never had a land frontier before.  Consequently, the Customs Acts, whatever application they had, to importation and exportation by sea-ports, will have to be adapted to the new situation of the land frontier.  Consequently, I held from the beginning, and I think on reflection I was right in saying that all of these come under the category of adaptation and implication.  I shall have more to say in regard to implication when Clause 3 comes up. 
     
    
      
       May I ask if the amendment is in order? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       The existing Customs Act only contemplates a sea frontier.  The first part of the amendment says that the Minister for Finance may make regulations to apply to the importation and exportation of any goods into the Irish Free State by land.  Therefore, I do not see how it possibly can be in order. 
     
    
      
       Subject to such modifications as are necessary. 
     
    
      
       There can be no modifications, as there are none in existence. You have modifications with regard to the sea frontier.  This refers to Acts which have been passed, and which refer to a sea frontier.  I submit the amendment is out of order. 
     
    
      
       The fact that modifications of the existing Acts are suggested to make them applicable to a land frontier shows that modifications can be made.  How they can be made is a matter of detail. 
     
    
      
       I submit they cannot because there is none; they have only reference to goods by sea, and this deals with goods by land, and I submit it is not in order.  Now, we are proceeding to make regulations in regard to regulations on goods brought into the Irish Free State by land.  There is none such, therefore, we cannot modify them. 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;The Minister of Finance may make regulations to apply.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Yes, but the Act does not deal with any importation or   exportation by land, that is why I am at a loss to know how it is to be done. 
     
    
      
       Is it not described here in detail how it can be done? 
     
    
      
       Precisely, but that is the very thing that is moved to be left out.  If I understand Deputy Johnson's amendment correctly the very passing of it would make the first Clause of it ridiculous. 
     
    
      
       Could the President tell us whether the Customs Act applied to any except dutiable goods?  I do not know that the Customs Act prohibited the importation of turnips, potatoes or timber.  I understand it is going to be brought in only by some Finance or Taxing Act later, which says they shall not be brought in.  Then they come under the Customs Act.  I am not aware of any provision in the Customs Act by which the importation of any non-dutiable goods was prohibited, and therefore an extension of the Customs Act would not appeal to me, without a new enactment being passed to prevent a person bringing non-dutiable goods into the country by any route he please. 
     
    
      
       We are trying to bring an old Act to conform with the new conditions.  The old Act or any Act never intended to tax potatoes, turnips, or timber, but it is not proposed to do it now.  You must get some new regulations to give the Government so that they can collect customs and have authority to do so. 
     
    
      
       That is a different matter altogether. 
     
    
      
       If that was left out, we might as well drop the whole Act. It would be perfectly ridiculous.  The Act is there and let us adopt it. 
     
    
      
       This position we are in now for the first time creates a land frontier.  The Customs Act, I understand, prescribes certain ports into which dutiable goods could be imported or exported out of.  I seek now to prescribe regulations concerning routes or roads by which goods can be exported or imported on a land frontier, and we are told that that gives too much power to the Minister of Finance.  Very well,   give him only a little power, but give him some power if he is going to deal with it.  What is the power proposed? The only power, if this amendment was passed, would be to adopt Acts which deal only with the sea frontier, and unless a channel is to be cut to separate that portion of Ireland that has cut itself off from the Saorstat I do not know how it can be done. As regards the goods, there are two objections.  There are people a long time at this business&mdash;the British Government&mdash;and this is, I understand, practically the same regulation as they have made, or the same statute or law. With regard to the other side of the frontier, if it satisfies them I think it ought to satisfy us.  The other point is, if you have goods on which there are no duties you make them come by the right, and goods on which there are duties make them come by the left, you will have the hard-headed business men sending goods that should go by the left, by the right.  Therefore I do not see the necessity for prescribing the goods which should go by particular routes as dutiable goods.  As regards the other points, if you want to make the thing useless you can pass this amendment.  I think it is necessary to pass this clause as it is.  To talk about regulations that give too much power is a thing that can be said on a platform, but it is not of much use here.  Someone must do it, and if the Minister for Finance is not a fit person, appoint some other person who will see that goods will not come through channels on which there will be no collection of duties. 
     
    
      
       The proposal is, in fact, to abolish the Dail, and having set up a Ministry, leave them to do the regulation instead of having the trouble and expense of running a Parliament and wasting Ministers' time.  That is the proposition in plain terms.  The Minister has told us that inasmuch as the Customs Acts were drafted in relation to a sea frontier only they cannot be adapted to a land frontier.  That is exactly the case we are making.  You have introduced this new measure into an Adaptations Bill. 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       However, we passed from that, and allowed the matter to go   into Committee and we have broken every reasonable rule that should guide a legislature.  I understand the case now from the Minister's last statement, which has only been drawn out after all this discussion, and which, if he had any sense of his position and responsibility to this Dail he would have explained when introducing the measure, so that we would have had some enlightenment and assistance in passing legislation.  That is the duty of the Minister who introduces a Bill&mdash;to explain to the Dail what is intended, what is implied in the Bill&mdash;but, instead of that, it is thrown at us and we are supposed to take it on his word, and only after this discussion are we able to extract any explanation.  Now, I understand the meaning of it to be that the Minister for Finance is to have power to decide that cattle, sheep, beer, pigs, porter, or any other commodity must pass through one or other roadway, railway line or field, and that any merchandise going across the border by any other route means punishment for somebody, if that somebody can be found.  It is asking us to give power to the Minister to make regulations which it is quite impossible to enforce and it will be just as impossible for the Northern Minister as it is for himself.  If he contends that it is only possible to carry on the business by these regulations, that he must prohibit the carriage of a sack of potatoes from Clogher to Ballybay by a particular route, because it may contain tobacco, well, I am prepared to allow him to do it.  It is as well, however, that we should have some explanation of the merits of the proposal that is brought before the Dail for sanction, and that is the object of this protest. 
     
    
      
       The last Deputy has made a statement for which he has given no proof.  He stated that it would be impossible to maintain a barrier if it was set up; and there he finished with that assertion.  That remains to be seen, but I certainly am very, very glad indeed to see the Minister demanding these powers.  I believe, if we are going to deal effectively with the situation in the North, these powers are essential to the Government of the Irish Free State. The Government, I think, should have power to prohibit the importation or exportation, not only of dutiable goods, but of all commodities to and from the   Free State.  There is more in that than reaches the eye at the first glance, and the value of that power, I think, only time will disclose.  But, if we are to be in a position as a Government&mdash;a State&mdash; to maintain our rights, and to create an atmosphere that may be conducive to the eventual unity of the whole country, I believe that power in the hands of the Government is an absolute essential, and I strongly support the Government in their demands. 
     
    
      
       I should have said, after the President's statement, that I am prepared to withdraw the amendment, and I will submit this suggestion for the consideration of the Minister and Deputy Milroy; that one way to help to test the value of this frontier is to reduce the tax upon some easily movable commodity, such as tobacco, by just enough to encourage the Northern people to invite tobacco to be smuggled over the border, and we will test the value of that frontier. 
     
    
      
       I suppose I ought to be glad that the amendment is withdrawn. In regard to these amendments, if information was asked for we would give any information we have got.  But what I do object to is being attacked on a wrong front.  Now, as regards the second suggestion&mdash;to reduce taxation on certain items&mdash;I do not think that would be wise; I mean it would appear like a political move rather than the move of a State.  I am perfectly satisfied that these ultimate cordial relations will exist between the people of this country only on sound business lines. I do not think that would be sound and I do not think it would appeal to them. They are very good business people up there and they would see through a thing like that, and I prefer to let them see that if they will not join us, at least we are not prepared to declare war upon them because they will not. 
     
    
      
       Deputy Johnson's amendment is withdrawn.  Is there any other amendment? 
     
    
      
       There is one.  I do not know whether it is marked in the other copies or not.  It is this: 
     
     &ldquo;The Minister of Finance may make regulations to apply to the importation and exportation of any goods into and from the Irish Free State by land, and of the provisions of the Customs Act   subject to such modifications as may be necessary, and in particular may&mdash; 
     
       (a)   Prohibit the importation and exportation of all goods or any classes of goods except by such routes within the Irish Free State and during such hours as may be prescribed. 
     
       (b)   Prescribe the places where and the form and manner in which entry of goods imported or exported shall be made and duty on goods imported shall be paid.&rdquo; 
    
      
       Perhaps the Minister will accept a slight amendment. I suggest to put in the words &ldquo;if any&rdquo; after &ldquo;duty&rdquo; and before &ldquo;on goods imported.&rdquo; It is merely to prevent objection being raised that, by implication, we are declaring a certain fiscal policy, and I suggest we insert the words, in brackets, &ldquo;if any.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       That is, before the list of the goods. 
     
    
      
       I do not approve of that.  It is not in the other one, and I do not think we ought to put anything in that is not in the other. 
     
    
      
       Do I understand from the President that this amendment that he is proposing here is intended by him to be an exact counterpart of the English Act, the Irish Free State Consequential Provision Act? 
     
    
      
       I have not seen that Act, but I have been told they are practically the same. 
     
    
      
       Is that the reason why you do not want it? 
     
    
      
       That is one of the reasons. 
     
    
      
       Might I say, in reply, that in the case of Great Britain there is an existing fiscal policy. We have not yet discussed the matter and decided upon any policy, and so far the only articles dutiable are those upon which duties have already been imposed by the legislation which we are taking over.  There is no great point in my amendment, I admit.  It was proposed to obviate objections. 
     
    
      
       It is withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       Referring to the next Sub-section, I object to this on the ground&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
    
      
       It is not moved.  You will have to get this passed first. 
     
    
      
       Before that is passed there is a matter in which I notice that there is a discrepancy, and I did not at first see that the discrepancy was a matter of importance.  I think it is, and I urge now that it should be considered, because the wording in the other Act&mdash;the Act of our co-equal neighbours across the water&mdash;says, &ldquo;and any particular regulations made which would assume that whatever Act was undertaken by the Commissioners of Customs and Excise in England,&rdquo; or the Northern Parliament would have to issue first in published regulations, and that is not quite so clearly implied in ours.  Would he be willing, in order to simplify matters, to have particular regulations made instead of its being conveyed merely by letter of instruction? 
     
    
      
       Yes.  I will agree to that. 
     
    
      
       Is that amendment agreed: that is before  (a) , &ldquo;subject to such modifications as may be necessary?&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Is it understood that that is made by Order?  Will that be an Order that would be laid on the table? 
     
    
      
       The Minister for Finance may make regulations. 
     
    
      
       That was by the assumption that regulations of that kind are generally laid on the table of any legislative assembly for them to know exactly what was happening. 
     
    
      
       That is in accordance with Article 17.  &ldquo;Every order made by the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       It would be easy then to adapt 17, and we could have it to read &ldquo;every order made by the Executive Council or any Minister thereof.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       That amendment can be moved later on. 
     
    
      
       Where does that come in? 
     
    
      
       It should come in before the present 13.  A Clause was   struck out yesterday which alters the enumeration. 
     
    
      
       It comes after the present 12. 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
    
      
       The next is &ldquo;23 (2)&rdquo;:&mdash;&ldquo;If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any such regulations, he shall be guilty of an offence under the Customs Acts and shall for every such offence, in addition to any other penalty to which he may be liable, incur a fine not exceeding £100, and the goods in respect of which the offence is committed shall be forfeited.&rdquo;  I move that. 
     
    
      
       It struck me that this is a penal law and should not properly appear in an adaptation of an Act.  I submit that with all respect to the Minister, even though it may be contained in a corresponding document, it is not rightfully included in ours.  It is a question as to the propriety of the inclusion of it in this instrument.  It is not at all a statement of view regarding the propriety of exacting a penalty there. There are two quite different questions. 
     
    
      
       I expect it is known that there are pretty elaborate penalties for infringement of this by the sea frontiers.  As I said before we had no land frontier here until now, and it will be necessary to affix some penalties to stop any smuggling that may go on, and if the other side put on a penalty of £100, and if it is known that we put on a smaller penalty it would be against us. 
     
    
      
       May I with all respect point out that there have been adaptations earlier here in respect of Statutes, and consequent upon these adaptations, it will be necessary to make a number of other adaptations in the code.  We do not proceed to discuss or to make these.  The point I made is that the provision of a penalty and the amount thereof should more properly come in later when Excise Duties and the rest are being discussed.  As it is not accepted I do not press it. 
       Amendment agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - THE DAIL RESUMES. 
    
      
       We will report back now.  I move &ldquo;That the New Clause 12 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
    
      
       I second that. 
       Motion made and question put: 
       &ldquo;That the New Clause 12 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - APPLICATION OF STATUTORY RULES, ORDERS, AND REGULATIONS. 
     14. &mdash;(1)  Every interpretation adaptation or modification made by this Act in the construction or application of any British Statute shall apply to every order, rule and regulation made under such statute and having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann, and every such order, rule and regulation shall be construed and interpreted in conformity with the British Statute (as applied, adapted or modified by or under this Act) under which the same is made. 
     (2)  Whenever any power is given by this Act of applying, interpreting, adapting or modifying any British Statute, such power shall extend and apply to every order, rule or regulation made under such Statute and having the force of law in Saorstat Eireann. 
    
      
       There is another amendment (22) to Section 14.  It is:&mdash;&ldquo;Immediately after Sub-section (2), and before the next section, insert:&mdash;If any question shall arise as to which Minister, Department, Authority or official exercises in Saorstat Eireann functions the same as, or corresponding to, the functions exercised at the date of such deed, contract or agreement as is mentioned in this section, by any Minister, Department, Authority or official of the late British Government in Ireland, or of the late Provisional Government of Ireland, as the case may be, such question shall be determined by the President of the Executive Council whose decision shall be final and binding on all parties.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I second. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That Section as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - FIFTH STAGE. 
    
      
       Now, we will take the Motion originally proposed&mdash;  that the Bill be received for final consideration. When will the final consideration take place? 
     
    
      
       The Seanad is having a special meeting at 2.30 on Monday. If it were agreeable to the Dail we could suspend Standing Orders so that it could come before them. 
     
    
      
       There is no need.  You can take it straight away. 
     
    
      
       I move formally that the Bill be now passed. 
     
    
      
       I second. 
     
    
      
       As there have been so many amendments made to-day as a general rule I would like to ask information as to whether this Bill, as passed, will go before the Seanad, and will we get copies of it in its final form without waiting for its return from the Seanad. 
     
    
      
       Yes, copies will be circulated to the Deputies here the same as to the members of the Seanad at the earliest moment. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Bill, as amended, be now passed.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - APPROPRIATION BILL&mdash;FIFTH STAGE. 
    
      
       I move that this Bill be received for final consideration. 
     
    
      
       I second that. 
     
    
      
       May I ask to have one change made:&mdash;&ldquo;A Bill to Grant and Appropriate Certain Sums&rdquo; to read &ldquo;An Act to Grant and Appropriate Certain Sums.&rdquo; 
       Mr. Gerald Fitzgibbon at this stage took the Chair. 
     
    
      
       It has been moved and seconded that the Appropriation Bill, 1922, with an amendment&mdash;&ldquo;An Act to Grant and Appropriate Certain Sums for the service of the Financial Year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923,&rdquo;&mdash;be received for final consideration. 
     
    
      
       May I ask the Minister if he will give us a little more explanation than was given to us yesterday about Clause 2, respecting the necessity for this phrase &ldquo;and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister of Finance&rdquo;?  I would move, for the purpose   of enabling him to give us that further explanation which was not available yesterday, to insert after the words &ldquo;Bank of Ireland&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or such other Bank or Banks as may be selected by the Minister of Finance.&rdquo;  I feel certain that there is some purpose in putting this phrase in the Bill.  It has not yet been made clear, and I think it ought to be made clear why the Bank of Ireland should be selected out of all the other Banks, as the one which is authorised by this Bill to advance to the Minister of Finance a certain sum.  I submit that, without a clear explanation of the reasons, we ought not to select from all the other Banks the Bank of Ireland for inclusion in this Bill, and for that reason I beg to move that we should amend this clause by adding the words &mdash;&ldquo;or such other Bank or Banks as may be selected by the Minister of Finance.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I am new to the business, as you all know, but I am afraid I must rule the proposed amendment of Deputy Johnson out of order, because we have now brought forward a Bill for final consideration, and no amendments can be permitted.  Standing Order 76 says &ldquo;no amendments of the Bill shall be permitted, save such as are of a purely verbal character, and of which due notice shall be given.&rdquo;  I do not think we are relying very much on the question of notice, but this amendment, I must certainly rule, as not of a purely verbal character. 
     
    
      
       I submit we are now in the Fourth Stage, not in the Final Stage. 
     
    
      
       I thought it was the Final Stage.  My reason for the mistake is I was not here when the Bill was being dealt with yesterday evening. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second the amendment. 
     
    
      
       My information is that the Bank of Ireland was started in 1782, and they were prohibited by Statute, as far as my information goes, from lending any money to the State except by Parliamentary sanction.  Many years ago I heard that Parliament itself had something to do with the setting up of the Bank.  I take it that the reason   for that action at the time was that Parliament received money in the name of the King.  The King it was in whose name the moneys were advanced.  This express prohibition of the Bank lending money was evidently intended to be some restriction or some control over the issue of money to the sovereign at the time. However, the prohibition, I understand, is there, and it is because of that that Parliamentary sanction must be given in this form.  It is not necessary, in the case of the other banks, because no such prohibition exists with regard to them. 
     
    
      
       May we have the amendment read? 
     
    
      
       The amendment moved by Deputy Johnson, and seconded by Deputy Cathal O'Shannon, is to insert after &ldquo;Bank of Ireland&rdquo; the words, &ldquo;or such other Bank or Banks as may be selected by the Minister of Finance,&rdquo; so that Clause 2 would then read:&mdash;&ldquo;The Minister of Finance may borrow from any person or Banking Corporation in Saorstat Eireann, and the Bank of Ireland, or such other bank or banks as may be selected by the Minister of Finance may advance&rdquo; and so on. 
     
    
      
       I believe the position to be that the addition of those words does not really affect the primary intention of the sentence under discussion inasmuch as those other banks and corporations may already do what the Bank of Ireland by this Charter is not enabled to do, and linking two different sorts of bodies together weakens the authorisation given here to the Bank of Ireland.  For that reason I think the amendment should not be pressed.  There is another matter that is, I believe, at the bottom of Deputy Johnson's mind, and that is if this is the removal of a disability this is not the best form or the best way to do it.  There I am inclined to agree with him, but the fact being as it is I think we as an assembly have no alternative but to adhere to the form of words here adopted. If the removal of the disability were modified it would have to take precedence over the Appropriation Bill, or Act, as it will become, in order that the amplification of this sentence in the sense moved by Deputy Johnson, would become possible.  The thing having got into the present position I do urge therefore   that this sentence removing the disability and merely putting the Bank of Ireland into the same position as other banks and corporations should, for this reason, be not further pressed. 
     
    
      
       I think the sound objection to any amendment such as this is that it adds words without adding substance.  It is really an absurdity to insert words which are not necessary and which have no effect.  I would suggest that perhaps the Bank of Ireland has had by this discussion as much advertisement as the Dail can give it. 
     
    
      
       Yesterday evening Deputy Figgis was not present when I anticipated his argument.  The Minister for Local Government points out a very forcible objection to it, and that is, that to add words which do not add substance is a futility.  I might point out to the Dail that it adds this, though it does not add substance, namely, the possibility that a Court when called upon to interpret these words may declare that a proper interpretation of the words &ldquo;may advance&rdquo; is to be gathered from the linking of the words &ldquo;may advance&rdquo; with the further words &ldquo;such other Banks as the Minister of Finance may advise.&rdquo;  So that instead of authorising the Bank of Ireland to do that which without the authorisation it could not do, we should use words the possible effect of which would be the decision of a Court allowing this privilege exclusively to other banks and omitting the Bank of Ireland.  The English language is full of ambiguities, as we are all aware, and the phrase &ldquo;the Bank may advance&rdquo; is susceptible of two interpretations.  One &ldquo;is hereby authorised to,&rdquo; which means that there is a permissive value in the words, and the other, an indication of a bare possibility, a potentiality.  I suggested yesterday, and I repeat it, that to put into the third Act that we pass, deliberately, and of malice aforethought, phraseology that is capable of bearing two different meanings, is not a good precedent to establish.  The solid fact remains that the Bank of Ireland will not be in the same position as regards this privilege of lending to the Government unless it is enabled so to do by the removal of a disability. Whether or not that removal should be   effected by separate legislation is a question of propriety.  That question will not be settled, nor will the original problem in regard to it be in any way affected by introducing the words now proposed.  If we read that &ldquo;the Bank of Ireland, or such other banks as the Minister for Finance may decide, may advance,&rdquo; we have not put out of court the opportunity and possibility of someone saying, &ldquo;that was rather a strange procedure on the part of An Dail; they have done under cover of an Appropriation Bill, what more appropriately should have been done under an Act removing the disability.&rdquo;  There is no purpose served by the amendment, and there is a risk of its effect being to preclude the doing of what is necessary to be done. 
     
    
      
       The purpose of the amendment has been achieved.  It has drawn forth from the Minister for Finance an explanation of the meaning for the insertion of this phrase.  I withdraw it with the intention of introducing another amendment as soon as we dispose of this. 
       Amendment withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       We have to deal with the Bill as it stands, and the Clause runs: &mdash;&ldquo;The Minister of Finance may borrow from any person or Banking Corporation in Saorstat Eireann, and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister of Finance.&rdquo;  We are told that the adoption of that will mean the amendment of an Act of Parliament or Charter under which the Bank of Ireland has been acting. 
     
    
      
       May I submit that that is incorrect.  The point is that the Bank of Ireland is prohibited from advancing us money without Parliamentary sanction, which is a different point altogether. 
     
    
      
       I do not know whether it would be recognised that that is Parliamentary sanction.  If it is, then my amendment will not disadvantage the object of the mover of the Bill.  The amendment is to add to Clause 2, a further sub-section to read as sub-section 4:&mdash;&ldquo;Nothing in this clause shall be construed as conferring any power, authority or privilege on the Bank of Ireland not derived from existing Statutes or Charters.&rdquo;  It may be that a judge would say that this power granted in an Appropriation Bill is sufficient to   authorise the Bank of Ireland to lend money to the Government.  I am not an authority on these things.  I am trying to look upon the questions that come forward with a friendly, critical eye, and to learn as I go along just as Ministers are learning as they go along.  But as I understand it, an Appropriation Bill is practically intended to be an authority under which the Controller and Auditor-General will be empowered to pass certain expenditure.  To my ignorant mind it seems odd that in such a Bill we should have to insert a Clause empowering a particular Bank to do certain things under that Bank's own Act of Parliament.  However that may be, for fear we might be doing more than appears on the surface, and the President is not very definite in his assurances, I think it might be accepted if we add to this clause this further Sub-section&mdash;&ldquo;Nothing in this Clause shall be construed as conferring any power, authority or privilege on the Bank of Ireland not derived from existing Statutes or Charters.&rdquo;  I beg to move that. 
     
    
      
       I second it. 
     
    
      
       I am a little puzzled at this new amendment.  We have already passed, in the third line of the second paragraph, a sentence which removes a disability, and I put it to you now that the new paragraph suggested offsets what we have already done by cancelling it. 
     
    
      
       Sure. 
     
    
      
       Having removed the disability we go on in the new paragraph to say that we have not removed the disability.  I venture even further to say, with the best good-will in the world, that it is not in order. 
     
    
      
       I think the amendment is in order because the first Clause is only permissive so far as may be effective, and the amendment would tend to prevent an enlargement, through inadvertence of Clause No. 1, of all existing powers. 
     
    
      
       May I put it to you that having regard to the fact that there is a particular sum mentioned, it is not a contradiction in terms?  I put it further to you, on looking up the Standing Orders, whether at this stage   a person who has moved an amendment and who has spoken to it is entitled to move another amendment and speak again. 
     
    
      
       There is no doubt that a person who has moved one amendment is entitled to move another. 
     
    
      
       I am putting a point of order to you still and I claim, under the courtesy extended through that formality, it would be unfair to ask you for your construction in a matter of this kind.  If this new paragraph were to be included, would I be fair in asking you whether you thought the third line of the second paragraph was to hold, or the new paragraph was to hold?  I suggest they are clearly contradictory of one another. 
     
    
      
       I suggest, with all respect to Deputy Figgis, that they only contradict on a certain interpretation of the words &ldquo;power&rdquo; and &ldquo;authority.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       It was with that in view that I thought the amendment was in order.  I may have expressed myself obscurely, but it was upon the construction of the words &ldquo;power&rdquo; and &ldquo;authority&rdquo; that I thought the amendment might be moved. 
     
    
      
       The amendment would be effective up to a certain point in securing that we should not by inadvertence enlarge the privileges of this Bank beyond what otherwise it should not be entitled to.  The ambiguity, or the equivocation of the words, is being utilised because unless you interpret &ldquo;authority&rdquo; in the proposed sub-section (4) as giving permission, will the words &ldquo;the Bank of Ireland may advance&rdquo; in the earlier section have any value whatsoever.  They are utterly ineffective unless you take the dual meaning of &ldquo;authority&rdquo; in sub-section (4).  Again I make the objection that I made to the words &ldquo;may advance.&rdquo;  There is an attempt here to utilise the possibility of a double interpretation of words to effect some purpose. 
     
    
      
       One or two things occurred to me.  First, this particular amendment was not circulated to the Deputies, a charge which was made against me earlier to-day; and second,   this particular clause refers to a matter which is not really referred to in the Appropriation Bill. 
     
    
      
       We got the Bill only ten minutes ago. 
     
    
      
       I thought these Bills were being dealt with by the general consent of the Dail, without regard to the question of time and notice of amendment?  The Ministry pressed upon the Dail the great urgency of these Bills and the Dail accepted them because they were to be dealt with as urgent, and therefore the objection arising out of want of notice, which was not pressed against any of the Ministerial amendments, can hardly hold. 
     
    
      
       I am not pressing it.  I only point out that while the Ministry suffer from infirmities, if they allege infirmities against other people they are told they are really extravagant, and so on. 
     
    
      
       This amendment does not appear to be out of order, and, if the Ministry are not prepared to accept it, they, or any other Deputy who desires to oppose it, can now be heard. 
     
    
      
       This question of the disability of the Bank of Ireland should be dealt with, having some regard to the circumstances in which it arises. I take it the disability was first imposed as a safeguard at a time when the business of the Government was done with the Bank of Ireland.  It was done to prevent improper borrowing by the Government without Parliamentary sanction. In the present circumstance that disability may have become obsolete, and if that is so it may be a good thing to abolish it.  But as it does exist, it should be met in the usual way in the present case.  The Bank of England, as I understand the matter, is under a similar disability, and in every Appropriation Bill that goes through the British House of Commons, that disability is removed to a limited extent&mdash;to the extent of the amount of the Estimates&mdash;in the same way as is proposed here.  They find it desirable that that disability should be continued in the case of the Bank of England, and that it should be removed in each Appropriation Bill temporarily for the period of one year, to the limited extent of the amount of the Estimates.   There is probably some case for continuing the disability here in the case of the Bank of Ireland so long as it is the Government Bank; but in any event the matter should be dealt with in that way. It seems to me to be really in the nature of creating a bogey to suggest that we tack on something to an Appropriation Bill that nobody ever heard of in connection with an Appropriation Bill before. This particular phrase is almost a conventional phrase&mdash;a stock phrase&mdash; in connection with Appropriation Bills. It might be that later on the whole system would be altered, and that such a disability on the part of the Bank of Ireland is unnecessary, and that it serves no public purpose and it might be removed. That could be dealt with by a Bill, and if removed the disability would not again appear in this Bill.  If there is some definite public purpose served by having this disability rest with the Bank with which the Government does its business, naturally, it follows that some such clause as this will have to come up in the Appropriation Act year after year. We are up against a situation that is met in the conventional and usual way, and as the whole matter is one that must be dealt with in haste, the right and proper way to deal with it is certainly to my mind along the usual lines and not to take some new departure without some proper enquiry and without understanding the whole situation. 
     
    
      
       If that speech was made yesterday after I had invited the Ministry on Second Reading to explain the meaning of the second Clause, a great deal of misunderstanding and perhaps unpleasantness would have been obviated.  But our experience unfortunately has been that Ministers bring forward measures, proposals and estimates, dealing with far-reaching matters, and they do not take the trouble to explain them.  They will not take the Dail into their confidence and they will not assist the Dail in legislation.  Consequently we have to criticise and denounce, and then at the end of it all we get an explanation which is perfectly satisfactory. I hope that there will be some improvement in the future and I hope that Ministers will realise that their position is to assist the legislature in legislation as well as to administer their executive offices, and that when they come here with Bills and Resolutions and proposals   of any kind they ought not simply to throw them to the Dail without explaining their import and their purpose.  I ask leave to withdraw my amendment. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       The question is &ldquo;that the Appropriation Bill 1922, do pass its Fourth Stage.&rdquo; 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       Is there anything that would now prevent the possibility, in order to save time, and as we have the matter fresh in our mind, of taking the Fifth and Final Stage? 
     
    
      
       I was just going to ask the Dail to be good enough to allow us to get this Bill with the Bill which we have already got through to-day. These two Bills will have to go up to the Seanad next week. Then there are many other Bills that we require to introduce. I do not know whether it will be possible to bring on these next week. We have an amount of legislation which we require to place before the Dail, and Bills of great importance at the earliest possible moment.  I do not know whether it would suit the convenience of the Dail in view of all the circumstances to give us the Fifth Stage of this Bill now, so that the two Bills we have just dealt with could be sent up to the Seanad next week.  They are meeting at 2.30 on Monday.  I move that this Bill do now pass its Final Stage. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Appropriation Bill, 1922, do now pass its final stage,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - BUSINESS FOR RESUMED SITTING. 
    
      
       I would like to know is there any objection to the Dail meeting on Monday next?  We intend to bring forward the Electoral Law and Postponement of Elections Bill, and also if possible to bring forward the Amendment of the Malicious Injuries Act.  There is another Act that must be passed before the 31st December&mdash;The Expiring Laws Continuance Act.  I suggest now that when we adjourn for Christmas we should reassemble on the 2nd January. 
     
    
      
       With regard to one of the matters the President   has mentioned,  i.e. , the Electoral Bill, it is a very capacious and compendious document, and I certainly think that the Bill before it enters on its Second Reading should be in the hands of Deputies at least one fortnight. 
     
    
      
       My intention in regard to the Electoral Bill if we meet on Monday would be to move its First Reading.  By then I hope to have the final draft ready and circulated at once. The other Bill I am interested in is the Postponement of Elections Act.  There is nothing very contentious in that and it follows the lines of previous British Bills postponing elections, and I think probably we might take the Second Reading as well as the first on Monday, if it were printed and available.  If we had the Bill through very soon after we met in the New Year, the Seanad could have it passed before the 15th January.  I hope we can take the Second Reading as well as the First on Monday. 
     
    
      
       You can keep it with all the other indigestible matter until after Christmas. 
     
    
      
       While we are on these asides, might I ask the Minister for Finance if anything is to be done in the immediate future regarding the appointment of a Comptroller and Auditor-General? I take it that that appointment will be made by the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I think it would be better to deal with one thing at a time.  The present suggestion is that we should alter the Standing Order by directing a sitting of the Dail for Monday next, and that cannot be done unless the Dail shall agree. 
     
    
      
       If the Dail is willing, I shall propose that we adjourn now until Monday.  We have a good deal of work to do on these Bills, and there is also a good deal of administrative work to be done.  Now, as regards the   question mentioned by Deputy Johnson, I did intend to bring forward next week a Resolution on that matter with the name of the person who was to be appointed. 
     
    
      
       I am not a bit particular as to what course may be followed in regard to the discussion on the Address of the Governor-General, proposed by Deputy Nicholls. 
     
    
      
       That can hold over.  It is not very pressing. 
     
    
      
       You can keep it over and wedge it into odd spaces. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. - DEPUTY SEAN McGARRY'S BEREAVEMENT. 
    
      
       If there is general agreement I move to adjourn now until Monday at 3 o'clock.  In doing so I would like to express the full sympathy of the Dail with Deputy Sean McGarry in view of the very sad loss he has sustained. The circumstances of his bereavement are very sad and painful to every Irishman and woman, and upon them I make no comment otherwise than to say that he has the deepest sympathy of every single Member of this Dail. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
     
    
      
       May I ask the President if it is conformable with his wishes&mdash;I think it would be appreciated&mdash;if there were some formal expression of sympathy with Deputy Sean McGarry. 
     
    
      
       I think that can be best done by Deputies rising in their places as a mark of sympathy. 
       The Deputies rose in their places. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Dail do now adjourn until Monday at 3 o'clock&rdquo; 
       Put and agreed to. 
       The Dail adjourned at 6 p.m. 
     
   
 