 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gCeannas ar a 3.45 p.m. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 
    
      
       An ceud gno ata annso romhainn ise tuaraisc o Choisde na Siochana. 
     
    
      
       I understand, A Chinn Comhairle, that the Committee appointed by this House has not had an opportunity of meeting fully.  There are some members of it on both sides engaged in other matters regarding the Truce and I understand that the Committee is not in a position to report to us at the present time.  I would, therefore, suggest that the House should this evening adjourn until Wednesday next.  The Committee could then meet in the meantime and could report on Wednesday.  The Committee is meeting this afternoon and will probably meet again to-morrow.  If that suggestion be adopted, I would also suggest that the discussion on the Defence Report be left over and that we should proceed with the other business on the paper.  Of course, during the time between this and Wednesday the Truce will, I suggest, continue.  I suggest that to the House as a means of meeting the situation.  The Committee has not been able to meet fully until to-day; and is not, therefore, in a position to report at the present time. 
     
    
      
       Would the President agree to postpone the whole matter until Wednesday.  There are several reports down for discussion here and, arising out of these reports, there will be discussions which may not tend to harmony by any means.  Though I was most anxious, personally&mdash;as you will remember from the last day&mdash;that we should go on with the work, still looking over the reports and hearing remarks from members on our side here, I do not think the discussions would make for harmony.  It will not tend to harmony if the discussion on these reports proceed. It is a question whether it may not be better to postpone the whole business until Wednesday. 
     
    
      
       I have no objection to that course being followed. I agree with Mr. de Valera that something might be said or done during the debate that might injure the prospects of peace and I think it is a wise course to adjourn all the business, provided the Truce continues until next Wednesday. I quite agree with Mr. de Valera's proposal. Of course, there is one question here on the Orders of the Day that could be answered.  The discussion on the reports might be passed over. 
     
    
      
       Ba mhaith liom cabhru leis a meid a dubhartha; agus a radh gur ceart go mbeadh connradh na socru idir an da thaobh anso na mbeadh aon chruinniu as so go dta Dia Ceadaoin so chugainn.  Ta muinin againn go leir go dtiocfaidh siochcain as an obair so.  Acht da bheadh chruinnighthe ar fuid an duthaigh ni dheanfadh se sin puinn cabhrughadh leis an siochain. 
     
     
    
      
       The proposal from the leaders on both sides of the House now, I understand, is a general adjournment of the business and the Orders of the Day until Wednesday next. 
     
    
      
       There is some business that would be held up, and it is rather important.  Perhaps something could be done in regard to it.  I have put in an estimate for £1,000 for the Ganal Commission and that would require to be passed.  It is not very much, but it is only right that it should be taken after the reading of the report and any discussion that follows.  There is hardly anything in my report of a controversial nature.  There is no use in holding up the Canal Commission which is most important.  The matter is really urgent and I am anxious that something would be done. 
     
    
      
       There are also some little matters in connection with my department requiring attention. There ought to be some little discussions about these reports, I think. They would not affect the main issue, as far as I can see.  It would not interfere with harmony to have these reports discussed.  For instance, arising out of my Department there is an item of £1,600 on foot of some relief due in the West of Ireland.  Are we going to pay that? 
     
    
      
       The Ministers are asking questions, but the President has made a proposal.  I must take the President's proposal as the principal one before us. 
     
    
      
       It is surely not intended that the business of the country should be held up? 
     
    
      
       With regard to comparatively small sums of this kind, I am sure there will not be much difficulty. 
     
    
      
       The only question is under what auspices exactly is the work being done? 
     
    
      
       Under the auspices of the Dail. 
     
    
      
       As long as it would be directly under the auspices of the Dail and not under any intermediate machinery, I do not think there would be any difficulty about the passing of the ordinary estimate.  The main objection is that in most of these questions there are matters of detail which bring up the whole fundamental principle. 
     
    
      
       I would not ask for the £1,000 unless it was absolutely Dail work, and urgent work. 
     
    
      
       I may say I have read through the report, and certainly I would like to second the suggestion that the money be made available. The Canal Commission is very important and the work is in danger of being held up. 
     
    
      
       You may take it that our side will agree to that. 
     
    
      
       Would I be in order in bringing forward the report mentioned in my name on the Orders of the Day.  Let us get on with the work. It is a very important report.  It affects my Department.  It is functioning under the Dail, and according to the ex-President is one of the best Departments of the Dail.  It has improved since the ex-President expressed that opinion. 
     
    
      
       That is not so urgent as the other, and I suggest that we should pass on. 
     
    
      
       Do I understand that Item 4 (b) on the Orders of the Day is agreed to? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       Before going any further, with regard to the question of the adjournment, I have received the following on behalf of the Committee appointed at the last meeting:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To the Chinn Chomhairle of Dail Ereann&mdash;That we desire to report that owing to the fact that three members of the Committee were engaged in Army Conferences the full Committee has not had a sufficient opportunity of concluding its deliberations.  We might be in a position to report at 11 a.m. to-morrow (Saturday).  Signed, Kathleen Clarke, Seumas O'Dwyer.&rdquo; 
     
     
    
      
       The matter is now entirely in the hands of the House.  The Committee say they may be in a position to report to-morrow. It is for the House to say whether it will allow the business to remain over until to-morrow, or until Wednesday.  Personally, I believe it would be much better if the Committee reported on Wednesday; that would give them ample time.  But it is in the hands of the House to decide one way or the other.  My personal view is that we should wait until Wednesday.  That will give the Committee a better opportunity of getting through their business. 
     
    
      
       The Committee is not certain of having a report to-morrow.  The House, I take it, is agreeable to adjourn until Wednesday. The matter was mentioned by the President as to whether it was the will of the House that the cessation of hostilities agreed to should be continued.  Is that agreed to? 
     
    
      
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       Yes, agreed. 
     
    
      
       Continued indefinitely. 
     
    
      
       A Chinn Comhairle, dubhairt rud o ciannibh in Gaedhilg agus ni chuiris aon t-suim ann.  Ni doigh liom gur ceart e chur i leath-taoibh ar a shon gur i nGaedhilg a labhras.  Dubhairt aon rud amhain agus ba cheart duit a chur chun an Tighe&mdash;se sin iarraidh ar na Teachtai gan aon chruinniu a bheith acu tre an duthaigh as so go dti Dia Ceadaoin so chughainn. 
     
    
      
       Ta an ceart agat; aontuigheam le cad dubhairis. Acht mar a ceile ni ceart duinn bheith ag seasamh an iomad ar ordu.  Se deir an Teachta o Corcaigh gan aon chruinniu a bheith againn ar fud na tire an fhaid a bheidh an obair seo fa lamh againn. 
     
    
      
       Aontuighim le sin. 
     
    
      
       The Lord Mayor of Cork has suggested that there should be no public meetings during the time of this endeavour to arrange a settlement. 
     
    
      
       I may speak for our side and we will be very glad of a rest. 
     
    
      
       If I could venture to speak for both sides and the public also, I think they too would agree. 
     
    
      
       I believe it would be a good thing to hold meetings on Sunday in order that the speakers might feel they were under some restraint. 
     
    
      
       As far as our side is concerned, I will agree.  We are having two meetings to-morrow and we can call them off.  I do not think the Dail can pass a motion on a matter like that; it is a political question.  However, we have no objection. 
     
    
      
       There is no motion before us; it is merely an expression of opinion. 
     
    
      
       I take it there will be an agreement to have no meetings. Speaking for our side, I may say that so far as we can we will declare all meetings off. 
     
    
      
       I take it that matter is agreed to.  The House now adjourns until next Wednesday at 3 o'clock. 
       The Dail adjourned. 
     
   
 