 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do cromadh ar obair an lae ar 3.15 p.m.  Bhi an Ceann Comhairle Micheal O hAodha sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - VICTIMISED CIVIL SERVANTS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance, arising out of his recent reply on the subject of a proposed tribunal to investigate the claims brought to the notice of the Government by the Victimised Civil Servants' Association, whether this tribunal has now been set up, and, if so, what are its terms of reference and its personnel, what representation has been accorded thereon to the Victimised Civil Servants' Association, and when it will commence its deliberations; if this tribunal has not yet been set up, will the Minister undertake to establish it in the immediate future, so that the claims which are now of long standing may be dealt with as expeditiously as possible. 
     
    
      
       I have this matter under consideration, but I am not yet in a position to make any announcement. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ESTIMATES. - SUPERANNUATION AND RETIRED ALLOWANCES. 
    
      
       The Estimate in connection with Superannuation and Retired Allowances amounts to £1,803,305. I beg to move its adoption. 
     
    
      
       I would like the Minister to give an explanation of the items under  (cc),  which deals with additional allowances under Article 10 of the Treaty.  I would also like an explanation in regard to compensation allowances.  Do these deal with transfers or displacements? 
     
     
    
      
       This Vote does not cover payment of pensions, etc., to officers of the Post Office, Customs and Excise, Inland Revenue, or to members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police.  Pensions of officers of Departments other than the above who retired before the 1st April of this year were awarded by the British Government, and are continuing to be paid by that Government.  The charge for these pensions will be allocated between the Provisional Government, the British Government, and the Government of Northern Ireland, and the share appropriate to the Provisional Government will be repaid to the British Government.  Provision is made under Sub-head 1 for this repayment, the amount inserted being purely provisional. Pensions of officers of Departments other than those first mentioned, who retired after the 1st April, are borne on this Vote, and Sub-heads  (a), (b), (c),  and  (d)  make provision for the awards payable under the Superannuation Acts.  A number of compensation allowances under Article 10 of the Treaty will be payable to officers who are discharged by the Provisional Government or who retire in consequence of the change of Government.  Provision is made for these allowances in Sub-heads  (bb)  and  (cc).   A Committee, with Mr. Justice Wylie as Chairman, has been set up to advise the Government as to the amount of compensation payable in such cases.  The only other item calling for comment is Sub-head  (j).   The R.I.C. were disbanded in the earlier part of this year, and the pensions then awarded and the pensions which were payable at the time of disbandment to members of the R.I.C. who had retired before disbandment will be paid by the British Government.  Pensions excepted in Article 10 of the Treaty&mdash;viz., pensions (if any) to members of the Auxiliaries, and to men recruited in England during the two years preceding the date of the Treaty&mdash;will remain a British charge, but the remainder of the charge will be allocated between Ireland and England.  No discussions on the allocation of the charge have yet taken place, and the amount inserted in this Estimate is purely provisional. 
     
     Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee, having considered the Estimates for Superannuation and Retired Allowances in 1922-23, and having passed a Vote on account of £50,000   for the period to the 6th December, 1922, recommend that the full Estimate of £1,803,305 for the financial year 1922-23 be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
     Agreed. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ESTIMATES. - DAIL EIREANN. 
    
      
       The amount of this Estimate is £47,100.  I move the adoption of the Estimate. 
     
    
      
       There are some points in this Estimate to which I would like some answers.  Under the head of the staff of the Dail I find under (d) &ldquo;Travelling and Incidental Expenses.&rdquo;  I would like to know what exactly is the nature of the travelling and incidental expenses under that head&mdash; i.e.,  for the staff of the Dail, not for the Teachtai.  There is another item on p. 2 (a) the &ldquo;Salaries and Allowances.&rdquo;  I find &ldquo;payment of expenses at the rate of £30 a month to Teachtai not in receipt of salaries as Ministers or officers of the Dail.&rdquo;  What officers are referred to? Further down I notice under heading (c) &ldquo;two translators.&rdquo;  Are these translators for the translation of English into Irish or Irish into English?  Or are they translators of other languages.  Then, there is also further down provision for &ldquo;special allowances to staff; additional clerical assistance, typing, etc.&rdquo; amounting to about £3,000.  What are these for? One would have thought if the Dail is properly staffed that these duties could be done by the staff without getting extra clerical or other assistance.  I need not say that I am not opposed to the employment of anybody who is required, or, indeed, for that matter to the proper remuneration of those clerks and others who are connected with the Dail.  Then under (d) on p. 2 I notice &ldquo;Travelling and Incidental Expenses&mdash;Travelling Expenses of officers and messengers of the Dail.&rdquo;  It is not much, but I am curious just to know what it is about.  Before I sit down I think I ought to say something with reference to some of the matters that have arisen during the year. Like everybody else the whole reporting and clerical staff of the Dail have been working under great difficulties.  But I think that after three or four months that the mechanical difficulty should have very largely disappeared.  However, I do not want in any way to make anything like a personal objection or an attack on   any of the officials of the Dail, but I think it is a grievous thing, perhaps to those of us who talk the Gaodhluinn&mdash;I think it is rather a grievous thing that the Irish reporting in the Dail is not up to the standard which it ought to be.  I think there is so little Irish spoken in the Dail that the little that is spoken, even though it is very bad, and not at all classic Irish, ought to get a fair chance.  I think these things should be attended to, and I hope the Minister will answer on the points that I have raised. 
     
    
      
       I did not hear all the Deputy has been saying about the whole of the Estimate.  This is a provisional estimate.  It is the first time an estimate of this sort has been put before the Dail, and it is provisional, and purely, or, at least, to some extent an arbitrary figure.  Some items put down may not be required.  This Vote, although it is down under the Ministry of Finance, does not, properly speaking, come under the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance does not exercise the same control over this Vote as it would over other Votes. In the ordinary way appointments made here would be subject to review and examination and decision by the Ministry of Finance, but Deputies can quite understand that anything in the way of interference with the rights of this Dail would be resented, and probably the Minister for Finance would be deposed if the Ministry were to exercise any such supervision.  I do not think it would be reasonable to expect that a regular Estimate should be presented for the Dail until after the end of the coming financial year&mdash;that is to say, the Estimate for the year 1924-25.  If some of these amounts had not been included the position would be this, that if the Dail desired to send any one of its officials to any part of the country, or even to any part of the city, there would be no fund out of which the expenses could be provided, and this Estimate is to provide for any such contingency.  It is for this purpose that this provisional Estimate has been struck.  As regards the Ministers or officers of the Dail referred to in the Estimate, the only officers that I know are the Chairman and the Deputy-Chairman.  I will make inquiries into that matter. 
     
     
    
      
       I would like to know under what head the Minister has made provision for the housing of the Dail.  I notice there is no provision made for the housing of the Parliament, and if he is coming to any arrangements about this matter, perhaps he would inform the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I do not quite understand the point.  Is it for some institution other than this? 
     
    
      
       I want to know is provision made for any institution?  I do not understand the position we occupy here. 
     
    
      
       We are here by the courtesy of the Royal Dublin Society, and whatever expenses have been incurred have been discharged by the Board of Works.  They have not been very considerable.  If the Deputy meant was there any other institution under consideration, I would say that there is another institution under consideration, but the information in connection with it is not sufficiently complete to admit of its being presented to the Dail. 
     
    
      
       One matter the Minister might like to take an opportunity of mentioning is that the Estimate is purely for Dail Eireann, which is really only one House of the Oireachtas. I presume expenses will be required between now and the end of March for the other House.  How exactly is it proposed to meet the expenses of both Houses? 
     
    
      
       I have explained that up to this, that this Dail, until the 6th December, is only concerned with expenditure up to that date.  Any expenditure that will be required after that will be put before the Dail in the form of a Supplementary Estimate. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee, having considered the Estimates for Dail Eireann in 1922-23, and having passed a Vote on Account of £27,000 for the period to the 6th December, 1922, recommend that the full Estimate of £47,100 for the financial year 1922-23 be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ESTIMATES. - LAND COMMISSION. 
    
      
       I move this Estimate £200,000 required for the year ending 31st March, 1923, to defray the salaries and expenses of the Land Commission.    It is simply the same as the Inland Revenue, for the discharge of the Service that is presently being administered as an Irish service, until the Land Commission is taken over. Until then we would not be able to put up an estimate in the form in which it is being put up for the other services.  That is why we have only got Estimate No. 1, and Head No. 2. 
     
    
      
       Before the Estimates are passed, might I remind the Minister for Agriculture of the promise he gave in an answer with regard to the Irish Land (Provision for Sailors and Soldiers) Act. 
     
    
      
       As the Deputy is aware, we have not yet taken over the Land Commission.  It is not transferred, because it would not be advisable to transfer it until we settle the question as to the liability for the Land Stock issued up to date.  The Deputy refers to the Sailors and Soldiers Act, under which certain lands were purchased to be divided among ex-Service men.  That Act, of course, is law here at present, and will be law until it is amended.  There is a temporary arrangement made regarding lands purchased under the Act.  They are being set by the Land Commission in small parcels for the relief of poor people and small holders in the localities where the lands are.  That arrangement must continue until some definite arrangement is made in regard to this Act, and I think there can be no definite arrangement until perhaps the new Land Bill is introduced in the Dail.  The Land Commission must come over before the 1st March. 
     
    
      
       As a matter of information I would like to ask the Minister where is the difficulty in connection with the liability for the Land Stock?  Do not the annuities that we pay as rent cover our liabilities for the Land Stock, or are there any other liabilities? 
     
    
      
       No; the annuities which are paid do not cover the liabilities.  In addition to the Stock advanced, for which the tenant pays the annuity, there is bonus and excess Stock, the interest of which is found from taxation.  We are not admitting liability for either bonus or excess Stock, and we have got to settle the liabilities.  They are not yet settled. 
     
    
      
       Is it a large amount? 
     
     
    
      
       About thirty-three millions. 
       Motion made and question put:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail in Committee having considered the Estimate for Land Commission in 1922-23, and having passed a Vote on Account of £150,000 for the period to the 6th December, 1922, recommend that the full Estimate of £200,000 for the financial year, 1922-23, be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ESTIMATES. - FORESTRY FUND. 
    
      
       I move this Estimate amounting to £31,665 as a Grant-in-aid of the Forestry Fund. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture if he would give us some information as to the position of this Fund; what the prospects are, how much is likely to be spent during this winter, and whether there is any possibility of increasing the expenditure, or at least assuring us that all this sum will be expended during this winter?  I note that the Grant-in-aid, £31,665 is the net amount, but there is a note attached saying that any balance of the sum issued which may remain unexpended on the 31st March, would not be liable to surrender.  That is quite satisfactory, and I would like an assurance that there will be no balance unexpended, and that as much as possible of the money available will be spent in afforestation, planting, and in preparation for planting during this winter.  I would like to have heard from the Minister that he was preparing to increase very greatly the area for afforestation, and that he will use so much of the labour that is available in the country&mdash;skilled labour as a matter of fact&mdash;for this class of work during this winter to relieve the unemployment, and to relieve it by a method which is undoubtedly a good investment.  I suppose it would not be in order to enlarge on that phase of the subject, but I would invite the Minister to give us some information of the fullest possible kind in regard to the policy of the Ministry touching forestry, and especially the administration of this particular Fund? 
     
    
      
       This particular service was administered by an English Commission.  We have taken it over, of course, this year, and I can assure the   Deputy that within the money, £31,000 odd, we will do all the work possible this year.  The amount of money which we propose to spend is more than we spent last year, considerably more.  We are hampered to a certain extent by the fact that it has been found impossible to continue the work in certain areas, but the policy of the Department in this matter is to do all the work possible during the current year, and, if possible, to expend the full amount of the money. The note to which he refers is, of course, a mere explanation, just to show that it is a Grant-in-aid, and if it is, of course, that it will remain in the Vote.  It has nothing to do with the policy of the Department, and I have impressed on the Department itself the absolute necessity for spending all the money available, and employing all the labour available at this particular work.  We had some difficulty in finding sufficient trees this year, but we have succeeded just recently in getting fresh offers which will enable us to extend the operations to some extent. The operations would be much more extensive but for the fact that we had to withdraw from the Suir Valley, where we intended to replant to a very large extent.  The scheme itself contemplates about 1,000 acres of planting this year. I think that is all I have to say on that point.  I do not think this is the time for stating the Forestry Scheme for next year; it is a little bit early yet, and will require further consideration. 
     
    
      
       I am more than pleased to hear the Minister for Agriculture state that it is the intention of the Ministry to go on with the planting scheme for the re-forestation of Ireland. There is an industry in every small town in Ireland called the saw milling industry, and it was through the timber supply they were able to buy and cut that that industry was kept going.  I would like to point out here that most of the timber, fit to use, is already cut in the country&mdash;that is, elm, ash, oak and beech.  These were the principal timbers utilised for the industry and for the welfare of the Nation, and at present they are very scarce. There is, of course, a big supply of larch, birch and deal in the country. We have been told, more or less, that the timber grown in Ireland is not fit for use for housing purposes or for furniture making.  Experts, who came over from   England, Holland, Germany, France and elsewhere, said there was too much sap in the timber, and that it was not fit for use, and that it would shrink and warp, causing decay in any building or furniture that it was utilised for.  Well, I am of opinion, as a man who has been working at timber all my life, speaking not from theory, but from practical experience, that the timber of Ireland should be controlled by the Government. It makes no matter whether it is private property or not, the Government should make an order that timber should only be cut and felled at the end of the season, when there is no sap in it, and that the trees should be thrown across one another and remain to dry.  Then, that timber can be utilised and it will be as good as any foreign timber that we can get.  Now, we use a great deal of timber known as elm in the country districts. This timber is used for the manufacture of traps, and chairs, and, above all things it is used for the manufacture of coffins, which have the principal run at the present time.  Beech is mainly used for the manufacture of furniture, and for bobbins and bats.  That class of timber is at present almost run out.  Oak is made into wheels, and is used for several other industries in this country, and I think if we are really in earnest in our wish to develop Irish industries, that it is as big a tragedy for the Irish Nation that we are neglecting the timber and the forestry at the present time, as if we refused to give the workers of Ireland a living as by neglecting the timber you are also neglecting the workers.  When the timber runs out you will have no more home timber to manufacture, and consequently workers will be thrown out of employment.  I know several saw mills in Ireland which are at present working only three days a week.  I sincerely hope that when replanting starts, it will be with timber that is utilised.  I would like to remind the Ministry that we have four principal timbers&mdash; ash, elm, oak and beech.  Of course, there is also the chestnut and the lime tree.  I find that saw mill owners in Ireland when they buy a portion of a wood and fell the timber do not plant one single tree.  The land where these trees grow is then waste.  It is fit for nothing but for re-afforestation, and I think it is the duty of the Government to see that for every tree cut down, even if it   is only thrown across the road they should see that another one should be planted. The &ldquo;feller&rdquo; of timber should be made plant at least two or three trees for every one cut down, in order to prevent a wasting in the industry, and to provide more timber for the coming generation who will, I hope, utilise it to better advantage than it is now being used. 
     
    
      
       The Minister for Agriculture has said his programme embraced the planting of a thousand acres, and that this programme is considerably impaired by the fact that he cannot plant in the Suir Valley this year.  Well, I can tell him there is nothing to prevent him planting a good deal in the County Wicklow.  There is any amount of land there suitable for the planting of trees, and, as the Department cannot plant in the Suir Valley this year, I hope he will direct his energies to doing more in the County Wicklow.  At present they are only utilising 400 acres in Wicklow.  There are great numbers of men out of employment in Wicklow and I hope, therefore, that the Minister will turn his attention in the direction I have indicated. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if he can give us any information with regard to Forestry education and schools.  Are there any researches being carried on in the subject of Forestry, and, if so, is there any similar work going on in the College of Science, and is there any co-ordination between the Department of Forestry and the Department of Science?  I see they have a Professor of Forestry on the education staff, and I hope that there is no overlapping. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if he intends to divide this money equally among the several counties, and if he has made out a scheme of that kind because we in Longford would certainly expect portion of the money.  We have large tracts of land suitable for afforestation, and we expect that we should be considered in the making of any scheme. 
     
    
      
       I endorse everything said by the various Deputies, but there is one point I would like to suggest, and that is in regard to the question of afforestation and coast erosion.  I understand that the French Government   where they found damage from coast erosion, considerably overcame the difficulty by planting suitable trees, and in that manner preserved a good amount of land to the country.  In various parts of Ireland there is a fair amount of coast erosion, so I would ask the Minister to take that matter into account and to see that in places where coast erosion is in evidence that suitable trees may be planted to check it. 
     
    
      
       With regard to Deputy Wilson's point, the programme of the thousand acres is apart altogether from the intended work in the Suir Valley. We will immediately introduce regulations in regard to the cutting and replanting of trees in forests.  With regard to education&mdash;this item did not appear in the College of Science Estimate.  I do not think there is any overlapping, and I do not think that the item for the Professor of Forestry appears in any other Estimate.  It would not be possible to divide the work or money equally among the counties.  A lot depends on what has been done in the past and the suitability of land, and there are circumstances of that kind that puts it out of the question that the money could be divided equally in each county.  I have not considered the question of coast erosion, and hence I do not propose to say anything about it for that reason. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee having considered the Estimates for the Forestry Fund in 1922-23, and having passed a Vote on Account of £20,000 for the period to the 6th December, 1922, recommend that the full Estimate of £31,665 for the Financial Year, 1922-23, be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ESTIMATES. - ADDITIONAL AND UNFORESEEN SERVICES. 
    
      
       I beg to move that the Estimate of £100,000 which will be required in the year ending 31st March, 1923, to defray the salaries and expenses of additional and unforeseen services, be granted. 
     
     This Vote is exactly as it is described. There are certain matters in which any Ministry might be committed at a given moment, and on which it might be unable to discharge its functions if some such   Vote as this were not put on.  One particular case had already arisen, and in this case a Supplementary Estimate will be placed before the Dail.  I take it that in future it will not be necessary to have an Estimate like this, but owing to the circumstances of the times it was necessary in this case. 
    
      
       I am not objecting to this, because it is clear as the Minister has said that some provision of this sort might be desirable in peculiar circumstances of a change of Government of this kind.  But I would like to know if the Minister can say exactly what will be the relations between this sum and the sums included in the Supplementary Estimate, such as he indicated. In view of the possibility of providing a Supplementary Estimate is such an amount as this necessary? 
     
    
      
       Yes; because one could not discharge money unless it is voted, and it is in order to provide for some means of allowing the service to be administered, whatever service it may be, that this course is taken.  In one particular case it is a question of the expenditure of about £10,000, and that expenditure enabled a certain industrial activity to be continued which, if we had not got that Vote we could not have entered into, We would have lost that industry&mdash;something like three or four hundred families have been affected, and an opportunity of getting five times the amount would have gone.  Now, in that particular service it was not a subsidy to a particular firm, but one of those incidents which only occur once in a generation, that enabled us to use public money to an advantage, and we could not do it if we had not a provision of this kind. 
     
    
      
       I am glad the Minister mentioned the matter fully, because in doing so he has traversed the particular question that was in my mind. I presume that I have been dotting his i's and crossing his t's with regard to what he referred. 
     
    
      
       With the greatest perspicacity. 
     
    
      
       Well, I am aware that certain sharp criticisms have been made about that inasmuch as it involved a very grave decision that did not come before the Dail.  That is a possibility   arising out of Estimates, and although I agree with that in these circumstances I think a recurrence might not be exactly desirable. 
       Motion made and question put:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail in Committee having considered the Estimate for Provision for Additional and Unforeseen Services in 1922-23, and having passed a Vote on Account of £100,000 for the period to the 6th December, 1922, recommend that the full Estimate of £100,000 for the Financial Year, 1922-23, be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       The Dail sitting in Committee having considered the Estimates for:&mdash; 
       Public Education, 
       Intermediate Education, 
       Ministry of Local Government, 
       Transport Department, 
       Superannuation and Retired Allowance, 
       Dail Eireann, 
       Land Commission, 
       Forestry Fund, and 
     
     
        Provision for Additional and Unforeseen Services in 1922-23, 
     recommend that the full estimate of £7,079,522 for the Financial Year, 1922-23, be voted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
     I move that the Dail agree with the Committee in the said Resolution. 
    
      
       I beg to second that. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I issued to Deputies a list of nominations for the Senate as far as I received them on Saturday.  I received a few names, three or four, a little after three o'clock to-day, and gave instructions immediately that they should be prepared for the Deputies so that they may get them in less than a quarter of an hour. 
     
    
      
       I would like to make a short announcement with regard to the position at present as far as my nominations to the Dail for the Senate are concerned.  I will give all the information at my disposal. 
       Pairlimint Shealadach concluded its proceedings at 4 p.m. 
     
   
 