 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Thainig An Dail le cheile ar a 11.35 a.m., De Ceadaoine, Marta 1, 1922. 
   
   
     NOMINATION OF ACTING SPEAKER. 
    
      
       I move that Mr. Liam de Roiste take the Chair. 
     
    
      
       I second that. Mr. de Roiste has some experience of the Chair already. 
       Mr. Liam de Roiste then took the Chair as Speaker of the House. 
     
   
   
     RULES OF DEBATE. 
    
      
       Ni maith liom aon chur isteach a dheanamh ar aon Teachta den Dail seo le linn cainnte dho. Ach ba mhaith liom an rud so a chur os bhur gcomhair aris, se sin rialacha na diospoireachta ata beartuithe agaibh.  It is not that I like, as I said before, that as presiding Chairman I should prevent anybody from speaking in the Dail.  But I would specially call the attention of this assembly to the Rules of Debate, particularly the following: &ldquo;Every Deputy shall confine himself strictly to the matter under discussion.  No Deputy shall speak for the purpose of obstructing the business of the meeting, and no Deputy shall make a personal charge against another or use offensive remarks about another.  No Deputy shall speak twice upon the same question unless by way of explanation to clear up a misunderstanding, but a Deputy is not precluded from speaking on any amendment by having spoken upon the original motion or upon any other amendment.&rdquo; 
       I would also respectfully ask the delegates here to try and assist in the maintenance of order in the course of the debate. 
     
   
   
     QUESTIONS. 
    
      
       Now, according to the Orders of the Day, there is a question here to the Ceann Comhairle.  It is the first question on the Orders of the Day&mdash;it is from Deputy Cathal Brugha.  It is: &ldquo;Cad e an miniu ata agat le tabhairt ar an gcuireadh chun an tionoil seo den Dail a cuireadh annso fe dho i mBearla?&rdquo; As the Ceann Comhairle is not here my only ruling can be that it is out of order.  I had nothing to do with calling the meeting. The Ceann Comhairle is supposed to call the meeting or the members together for the Session.  As I have nothing to do with it, I shall rule it out of order.  I now call on President Griffith to answer the next question on the Orders of the Day.  The question is by Deputy Constance Markievicz: 
       &ldquo;What is the working agreement, if any, between the Cabinet of Dail Eireann and the Provisional Government with reference to the attitude and activities of Ministers who are acting in a dual capacity,  i.e. , as Ministers of Dail Eireann, the elected Government of the Irish Republic pledged to maintain the Republic, and as Ministers of the Provisional Government appointed to the work of disestablishing that Republic?&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Before answering this question, I would like to make something very plain.  There are a number of questions down here obviously for the purpose of propaganda against the Treaty, and for the purpose of supplying ammunition to the English opponents of the Treaty. 
     
    
      
       Shame. 
     
    
      
       Now, our   position is clear, and must be clear, to the Irish people.  We were elected as a Government to see this Treaty carried out.  We have an obligation to keep the Dail in being until we go to an election. We answer for that responsibility here as members of the Dail.  But the members of the Provisional Government do not answer and need not answer for every detail that they carry out, and the attempt being made by the opponents of that Provisional Government to use this body as a means of harnessing it will not be tolerated by us.  We are here to keep the Dail in being until the elections, and for that responsibility we answer.  This is for the purpose of propaganda&mdash;that is, propaganda for Lord Carson and his friends at the other side&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Deny it if you can. 
     
    
      
       The answer I give is that the Cabinet of Dail Eireann and the Provisional Government are working in concert.  Here is the next question by Deputy Art O'Connor: 
       &ldquo;(1)  Whether there have been any dismissals or resignations from any of the Government Departments since January 7th, and if so, for what reason? 
       &ldquo;(2)  Whether there has been any attempt in any Department to hamper the Republican activities of any employees who pledged themselves to the work of the Republic?&rdquo; 
       My answer to the first is&mdash;there have been no dismissals from my Department, nor resignations.  If there has been in any other Departments the Minister can be asked about them.  But the subsidiary question, perhaps, explains the meaning of this.  My answer to number 2 is&mdash; there has been in no Department any interference with any employee on account of his views, but no paid official is entitled to use his position against the Government that appointed him.  The next question is by Deputy Joseph MacDonagh: 
       &ldquo;Was it as a result of the agreement arrived at between the Minister for Finance and Sir James Craig that the Dail Cabinet terminated the Belfast Boycott, or was it the policy of the Dail Cabinet to terminate it prior to the Collins-Craig agreement?&rdquo; 
       The answer to that is&mdash;the policy of the present Government of Dail Eireann is to aim at a unified Ireland.  This was the policy before what was described as the Collins-Craig agreement was arrived at. The removal of the Boycott was a part of that policy.  The Cabinet had discussed the general position regarding the removal before the Boycott was removed.  That is my reply. 
     
    
      
       I wish to ask when is it proposed to regularise the removal of the Boycott?  It was proposed by a decree of this assembly in January, 1921. 
     
    
      
       There is no decree.  The Cabinet was given power to impose the Boycott if it wished.  And it has the same power to withdraw it. 
     
    
      
       I wish to ask if&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I ask your ruling on this&mdash;that a supplementary question can only be asked by those who asked the question. 
     
    
      
       I have always understood that anything that the Cabinet does in the interval between the meetings of the Dail comes up for ratification by the meetings of the Dail. Therefore I take it that the proper course would be to have this abandonment of the Belfast Boycott ratified by the Dail. I ask now why this ordinary course was not taken? 
     
    
      
       It was the Cabinet put the Boycott on; therefore the Cabinet could take it off.  There was no decree of the Dail. 
     
    
      
       The next questions are addressed to me.  There are five or six of them.  The first question is by Mr. Art O'Connor: 
       &ldquo;Aire um Gnothai Coigcriche (Minister for Foreign Affairs).  To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it was by arrangement with him that the Minister for Education, Dail Eireann, and the Speaker of Dail Eireann called upon Monsieur Poincaire, Prime Minister of the French Government, during their recent visit to Paris?&rdquo; 
     
     Without accepting the statement of facts   as accurate, the answer is no.  But I think it will be generally agreed that it is deplorable to make a contentious matter of the signal courtesy shown by the Premier of France to the representative Irishmen who called upon him&mdash;a courtesy we all appreciate.  The next question is by Deputy A. O'Connor: 
     &ldquo;To ask Minister for Foreign Affairs if he can tell the House whether it was in his capacity as Speaker of Dail Eireann or any other capacity that Mr. Eoin MacNeill recently paid a formal visit to Monsieur Poincaire, Prime Minister of French Government, during Mr. MacNeill's recent visit to Paris?&rdquo; 
     The answer is&mdash;I understand Mr. Eoin MacNeill paid no visit to the French Premier in his capacity as Ceann Comhairle of Dail Eireann.  I will leave Miss MacSwiney's question to the end and answer the others first.  Madame Markievicz: 
     &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if it was by his instructions that Mr. MacWhite, Propaganda Agent of the Republic in Geneva, recently called, with the Minister for Education and the Speaker of Dail Eireann, upon Monsieur Poincaire, Prime Minister of French Government in Paris?&rdquo; 
     The answer to that is, without accepting the statement of facts as accurate, no. The next is by Art O'Connor: 
     &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he approves of the action of Mr. MacWhite, Agent for the Republic in Geneva, in calling, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Speaker of Dail Eireann, upon Monsieur Poincaire, Prime Minister of the French Government in Paris, and, if not, what action he has taken or proposes to take in the matter?&rdquo; 
     The answer is that Mr. MacWhite did not call upon Monsieur Poincaire, the Prime Minister of France, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Speaker of Dail Eireann.  Art O'Connor: 
     &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he has received reports from the Minister for Education or the Speaker of Dail Eireann with regard to the recent visit to Monsieur Poincaire, Prime Minister for French Government, and, if so, will he communicate to Dail Eireann the nature of the reports?&rdquo; 
     I have not received any reports; and now I turn to another subject.  There are two questions about another matter, one from Miss MacSwiney, and one from Madame Markievicz.  The first is from Maire nic Shuibhne.  It is: 
     &lsquo;To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he can give an undertaking to An Dail that he will not dismiss from his Department any servants of the Republic for political reasons, nor in any way hamper their activities on behalf of the Republic to the service of which they pledged themselves?&rdquo; 
     The other question is from Madame Markievicz: 
     &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what instructions, if any, were issued by him calculated to restrain the Republican activities of representatives?&rdquo; 
     Now, I want to answer these two questions fully so that the House may be in a position to understand.  No such instructions as suggested were issued by me. But, on the contrary, I issued instructions designed to direct the activity of our representatives towards taking every advantage of the great improvement in our foreign relations since the signing of the Treaty with England, dissipating the qualms of those abroad who were formally afraid to meet our representatives &mdash;and to this end I issued a memorandum of instructions to all our representatives abroad.  I think it is right that the House should know of the terms of these instructions since the matter has been raised.  The memorandum is dated the 25th January, 1922, and reads as follows&mdash;it goes as an official memorandum from the Foreign Office to our representatives abroad: 
     &ldquo;While the policy of the new Government of the Republic is friendly to the Provisional Government set up under the Treaty with England, this Government has undertaken the duty of maintaining the existing Republic, and the efficiency of its machinery until the Irish people shall have determined whether or not to accept the proposed Irish Free State.  Moreover, if, in the meantime, the British Government should fail to carry out its   engagements, Ireland must be in a position to resume the struggle without delay.  The Irish representatives abroad will continue to represent the Government of the Irish Republic, and that Government alone, but their position will be modified in three respects: ( a ) Propaganda in regard to an England which has abandoned savagery in Ireland and has signed, and is now being put to the test of working out, a Treaty of peace, approved by Dail Eireann, must be consistent with the situation thus created, so long as the British Government faithfully observes its compact.  ( b )  As national unity is now broken by the emergence of two political parties in the Republican State, members of the diplomatic service will be under the obligation of reflecting faithfully the policy of the Government, whatever their personal opinions on party politics. It will be their duty to refrain from propaganda either for or against the Treaty.  ( c ) The signing of the Treaty and its approval by Dail Eireann, have had the effect of opening everywhere many portals formerly closed to us through fear of England.  It should, therefore, be possible immediately to widen the circle of Irish influence on the continent, and develop relations, political, diplomatic, intellectual, economic and social to a very much greater extent than anything that has hitherto been attempted.  Our representatives abroad will do everything possible to take advantage of present conditions to this end.  The publication of the  Bulletin  issued abroad should be continued.  It is realised that the editor of the  Bulletin  will have more difficulty under present circumstances in making his material interesting, and the  Bulletin  may, where necessary, be issued at less frequent intervals. But the Publicity Department has been instructed to supplement the information contained in the newspapers by special &lsquo;copy&rsquo; in order that the reputation which the  Bulletins  generally have acquired may be the more easily maintained.&rdquo; 
     I take it that everybody will recognise that that is a fair set of instructions to give to foreign representatives under the present circumstances, and particularly as the rule as to Civil Servants or Diplomatic Servants of the Government taking any part in Party politics is a universal rule that must be enforced now in Ireland as in everywhere else. 
    
      
       I would like to ask a supplementary question&mdash; that is, if the Minister does not realise the fundamental difference between Party politics as practised in England, and Party politics when it means the subversion of the established Republic which, according to him, means that the servants of the Republic who have devoted their lives to the establishment and maintenance of that Republic are pledged, according to these instructions, to treat as Party politics, and to refrain from expressing their views and opinions on, what is to them a matter of life and death to the nationhood of their country? 
     
    
      
       In reply to that somewhat long question&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I understand I can only put one. 
     
    
      
       I do not complain of its length.  I only mentioned it. This is not a question of the nature of the differences that divide us.  The people who are our representatives abroad must represent Government policy.  Now, it was upon that point on the 28th April last that President de Valera issued instructions to a similar effect.  I will read for you an extract from the letter of President de Valera to an envoy abroad, dated 28th April, 1921: 
     
     &ldquo;Our representatives abroad, whether they be members of the Dail or not, must regard themselves unequivocally the direct agents of the Department of Foreign Affairs, and must carry out the instructions of the Department, whether they personally agree with the policy or not.  Objections or considerations having special reference to conditions in the country in which they are stationed are, of course, legitimate, and may be urged in the correspondence with the Department, but where the Department insists it is only by resignation that the representatives can find a way out.  The Ministry is responsible to   the Dail, and therefore its policy is, ultimately, Dail policy.  When those of our representatives who are members of the Dail wish to communicate with the Dail they must do so in an independent and separate communication either to me or to the Secretary of the Dail, not through the Foreign Affairs Department. I will see that it is duly brought forward and considered at our Sessions.  This alone will prevent misunderstanding and very probable frictions.  Of course, were our circumstances not what they are, there would be no thought of having a member of the Dail appointed as an ambassador abroad.  Your letter also demonstrates what a danger we run when our representatives are too long from home, particularly when through infrequency of communication they derive their information either from the general outpourings of the Press, or from communications from centres other than from headquarters.  This leads to a further danger which is developing, that of communicating by letter to private and unofficial persons matters which will not be treated as confidential, and which, in any case, should not be discussed except in official communications with the heads of the State Departments or other authorised persons.  The abuses in that direction would not be tolerated for an instant by any of the universally recognised Governments. It must be put a stop to in our case, else we shall one of these days have a sharp reminder that it is not without purpose the older Governments take care to rigidly enforce this rule.&rdquo; 
    
      
       Is not that exactly emphasising my point that this is a question, not of Party politics, but of fundamental differences.  The servants of An Dail must maintain the policy of the Government and the Government of An Dail is the Government of the Republic, and therefore they must maintain the Republic.  The fact that President de Valera, when he held office, had to write such a letter to one of his officials, only shows that such letters can be used in the interest of, and inside, the Republic; but they are not to be done for the subversion of the Republic. 
     
    
      
       About the  Bulletins &mdash;I would like to know how those can be procured by a Teachta of Dail Eireann so that we might see them? 
     
    
      
       If any members want copies of the  Bulletin , issued abroad, there is no difficulty in supplying them. 
     
    
      
       Have they been issued long?  Has this new issue been issued for long, and can we get copies of back numbers? 
     
    
      
       There is a misunderstanding.  For a considerable time the  Bulletins  have been issued abroad.  The file is open to the inspection of anybody.  They are printed abroad. 
     
    
      
       They can be inspected in your office? 
     
    
      
       Certainly. 
     
    
      
       There has been a number of questions addressed to me&mdash;(a) Mr. Austin Stack: 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether there is any truth in the rumour that a police force other than the Republican Police is being set up; and, if so, by what authority?&rdquo; 
       The reply is: Yes; by the authority of the Provisional Government. 
       &ldquo;(b)  To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether it is a fact that members of the R.I.C. who served against Ireland during the war, and who are at present serving, are engaged in forming a new police force?&rdquo; 
     
     The reply is that certain officers of the R.I.C. have been invited by the Provisional Government to act on a Committee engaged on drawing up a scheme for the organisation of the new police forces. The record of each one of them during the recent war was satisfactory.  A specific case was raised here yesterday, and in connection with that I have received reports as regards this man which I will communicate privately to anyone.  I would like to say that this man did not arrest Roger Casement; that he did not prosecute him.  He happened to be serving in the Barracks to which   Roger Casement was brought on his arrival.  He came into contact with Roger Casement from the time he was there, and Casement gave him his watch as a souvenir. 
     &ldquo;(c)  To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether the British Courts of King's Bench and other English Courts in Ireland are being held with the sanction of the Minister for Home Affairs?&rdquo; 
     The reply is&mdash;there are no English or British Courts in Ireland.  The Courts, as well as all other Departments of Government in Ireland, have been taken over by the Provisional Government.  They are allowed to carry on during the transition period pending the establishment of the Free State. 
     &ldquo;(d)  To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether Writs in the British Courts are still issued in the name of the English Sovereign?  Whether, in the oath administered to jurors (Grand and Petty), the words &lsquo;Our Sovereign Lord the King&rsquo; are still being used?&rdquo; 
     The reply is there are no British Courts in Ireland so far as I am aware.  No change has been made, or will be made, in the form of procedure of these Courts during the transition period.  The Provisional Government is merely taking over the Government. 
     &ldquo;(e)  To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether the Department of Home Affairs have issued instructions that the Irish people are at liberty to recognise Courts other than the Courts of the Republic?&rdquo; 
     The answer is no.  In a couple of cases permits have been issued to persons to proceed in the other Courts where there was no machinery; and that was done by the precedent set by my predecessor in office. 
     &ldquo;(f)  To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether it is the opinion of the Minister for Home Affairs that Republicans should or could submit to the jurisdiction of the English Courts of King's Bench, and other tribunals held in the name of the King of England?&rdquo; 
     The reply is there are no English Courts in Ireland.  The Courts referred to have been taken over.  I see no objection to any Irish citizen submitting to their jurisdiction if they so desire.  Owing to the Treaty, the Republican Courts are now functioning freely.  The Circuit Judges will hold Courts in nearly fifty centres all over Ireland. 
     &ldquo;(g)  To ask the Minister for Home Affairs what steps, if any, are being taken to give the control of law and order in the country into the charge of the Republican Police Force?&rdquo;&mdash; 
     The answer is that the Republican Police have been returned to their army units, and the army officers are charged with doing the police work which they did. This is a temporary arrangement.  The change is that the whole Army is now responsible for police work, whereas formerly it was confined to certain men to whom the work was specially delegated. 
    
      
       There are a number of questions and I expect I shall not be confined to one supplementary question. 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
    
      
       I want to ask why it was that this man, Kearney, who had failed in his examinations, received promotion for his work in connection with the prosecution of Casement? 
     
    
      
       I do not know. 
     
    
      
       In the second place I wish to know whether the Minister for Home Affairs intends to keep in his service, or in the service of the Provisional Government, the judges of the King's Bench who were as much responsible for the execution of the soldiers of the I.R.A.&mdash;by virtue of the fact that they did not administer the law which they had in their hands&mdash;and of the men executed in Cork as the Military Courts themselves? 
     
    
      
       That is not a supplementary question; I require notice of that. 
     
    
      
       I wish to ask the Minister how he intends to deal with the cases brought to what I still call the British Courts which Republicans refuse to recognise?  For instance, if an order is made in a British Court in a case where a Republican refuses to recognise that Court, does he intend that that order shall be enforced? 
     
     
    
      
       That is not a question that arises out of any question that has been put before by the Deputy. 
     
    
      
       I beg your pardon. I will read my first question again.  It is: 
       &ldquo;Whether there is any truth in the rumour that a police force other than the Republican Police is being set up, and if so, by what authority?&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I have answered that question. 
     
    
      
       I want to know if an order is made against a Republican who refuses to submit to a writ issued in the name of the King of England, whether you intend to enforce that writ? 
     
    
      
       I have answered that question definitely.  I have said that the Courts referred to have been taken over by the Provisional Government on the part of the Irish people.  I see no objection to any Irish citizen submitting to their jurisdiction if he so desires. 
     
    
      
       But if he does not desire to do so, what happens? 
     
    
      
       You can hardly count that a supplementary question. That is a suppositious question. 
     
    
      
       We here repudiate the authority of the King of England and writs are being issued, and orders are being made under the writs of the King of England.  The Minister himself may possibly find that he can have something to do with such writs.  But there are those of us and our supporters who cannot.  Now, the Republican Courts are open, and should it not be easy for such cases to be transferred to the Republican Courts? 
     
    
      
       I have nothing to add to the answer I have given. 
     
    
      
       I would like if you would, for the information of the members, read the Standing Order whereby supplementary questions are to be put by the member putting the original question, and whereby the number is limited to one. 
     
    
      
       There is no such Standing Order, but it is quite evident if we have to transact business there will have to be some rule adopted. And if I allow a whole series of rambling questions we will never get on with the Orders of the Day. 
     
    
      
       I say you are within your right to prevent rambling questions but if questions are pertinent to the matter being discussed, and are not answered, or if an opinion is required and is not given, I submit it is only an attempt, aided by you, to withhold from this House information it is entitled to. 
     
    
      
       Is there any Standing Order authorising the putting of supplementary questions by any Deputy? 
     
    
      
       There is not. 
     
    
      
       There is something in this Agenda about this. 
     
    
      
       The explanation is that a number of questions were not put in in time yesterday for this morning's Session, and the arrangement I made was that the Clerk of the House was to put these on the Orders of the Day.  The staff of the House were up to one o'clock this morning working at these Orders of the Day and at the supplementary questions.  The reason it was put in was just what I said&mdash;because we did not have them in time.  If these supplementary questions were here in time they would appear in the ordinary course. 
     
    
      
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh's question is:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(a)  To ask the Minister for Finance whether, in view of the fact that one hundred and twenty Catholics were chased from their employment at the Midland Railway terminus, Belfast, by the pogromists who were not shipyard workers, and their places filled by non-Catholics who still hold them, he will see that these Catholics be immediately reinstated?&rdquo; 
     
     I will read out this twice.  It is difficult to see why that question was put to the Minister for Finance, and it is news to the Minister for Finance to hear that the   writ of Dail Eireann runs in Belfast, and that Dail Eireann is responsible for the pogroms and the sacking of Belfast. 
    
      
       You took off the Boycott. 
     
    
      
       If the Boycott was worked it would have done it.  Madame Markievicz: 
       &ldquo;(b)  To ask the Minister for Finance how much was spent in salaries during the last week, in all Dail Departments, and how many of the Dail employees are now working in the City Hall?  How many of the Dail Eireann employees have been dismissed?&rdquo; 
       The answer to the first part of the question is £475 17s. 7d.; that is for the sixteen Departments of Dail Eireann.  The answer to the second part is: there are three Dail Eireann employees working in the City Hall, two in the Labour Departments and one in the Local Government Department.  As head of one Department I have no means of telling how many Dail employees have been dismissed.  So far as my knowledge goes the dismissals occurred through the cessation of the Belfast Boycott. If there were any others it was through incompetence, and there should have been a good many such. 
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(c)  To ask the Minister for Finance what provision is being made by the Dail Cabinet for the officials whose services, in connection with the Belfast Boycott, are no longer required?&rdquo; 
       The answer is: it was decided at a meeting of the Ministry held on the 27th January that the staff should receive three months' salary in lieu of notice. Mr. Joseph MacDonagh: 
       &ldquo;(d)  To ask the Minister for Finance did he consider he was justified in coming to an agreement with Sir James Craig to terminate the Belfast Boycott in view of the barbarities practised by the pogromists, and the complete absence of compensation or reinstatement of Catholics up to the date of the agreement, and does he now consider that Sir James Craig has not fulfilled his part of the agreement?&rdquo; 
       The Minister for Finance of Dail Eireann came to no agreement with Sir James Craig.  And if a question is to be addressed regarding that agreement it is to be addressed to the Chairman of the Provisional Government. 
     
    
      
       In order to maintain unity. 
     
    
      
       When I see a question like this it reminds me of a picture of a House with &ldquo;The Provisional Government&rdquo; written upon it, the front door being open, and a man in the picture who does not go in by the front door but sneaks around to the back door, which is a little door marked &ldquo;Dail Eireann.&rdquo;  Mr. Joseph MacDonagh: 
       &ldquo;(e)  To ask the Minister for Finance by what authority did he terminate the Belfast Boycott?&rdquo; 
       The Dail Cabinet, as explained by President Griffith yesterday, decided to terminate the Belfast Boycott. 
     
    
      
       As a supplementary question I would like to ask the President of the Ministry, in view of the fact that, doubtless, the Dail Cabinet was guided in removing the Boycott by the promise that was given that Sir James Craig would immediately provide for the maintenance of those who suffered, what steps are the Government to take to see that the forty thousand Catholics destitute now in Belfast shall be maintained or shall have provision made for them? 
     
    
      
       Is it not possible to have a little order? 
     
    
      
       You have already ruled on this.  What is the ruling? 
     
    
      
       The ruling is that the Deputy who has the question on the paper is entitled to ask a supplementary question, and nobody else. 
     
    
      
       That is a most unjust ruling, and a ruling that is going to upset the order in this assembly. 
     
    
      
       In view of the answer given by the Minister of Finance to question (d) as to the agreement with Sir James Craig, does Mr. Collins now state that he did not come to any agreement with Sir James Craig? 
     
     
    
      
       I have answered that. 
     
    
      
       That you did not come to any agreement? 
     
    
      
       I have answered the question.  Mr. MacDonagh is not going to put me in the wrong as easily as he thinks.  I know his little tricks. 
     
    
      
       And we know your little tricks, too. 
     
    
      
       Too well. 
     
    
      
       I must ask the Deputies, including Ministers, not to make personal remarks. 
     
    
      
       We all know him. 
     
    
      
       And we all know you better. 
     
    
      
       You took some finding out. 
     
    
      
       He cannot deny that he signed the Treaty that sold Ireland. 
     
    
      
       Cathal Brugha: 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Defence whether there is any other military force in Ireland under Irish authority except the Irish Republican Army?  Is the Provisional Government exercising any authority, direct or indirect, over any part of the Irish Republican Army?  Is there any connection, direct or indirect, between the Provisional Government and the I.R.A.?&rdquo; 
       To part one and two of this question the answer is in the negative.  As regards part three&mdash;there is this connection between the Republican Army and the Provisional Government: We have arranged with the Provisional Government to occupy for them all evacuated military and police posts for the purpose of their maintenance and safeguarding.  Expense entailed by such occupation is charged to the Provisional Government.  The Provisional Government is given an assurance that troops occupying such posts shall not use their power to interfere with the expression of the people's will at the pending General Election, and will not turn their arms against any Government elected by the people at that election. On the earlier portion of the reply, that is, with regard to the military forces in Ireland under Irish authority, lest from that portion of the reply it might be thought that there was any authority for such grave interference with the public as has recently taken place in South Tipperary in the shape of the imposition of forced levies and the seizing of private property, I think it well to say that there has been in this area indiscipline on the part of certain senior officers, resulting in the fact that portion of our forces there have not been effectively under control of the G.H.Q.  To a smaller extent there has been similar indiscipline in Limerick City.  Steps have been taken to right matters in both areas. 
     
    
      
       Ta cupla ceist eile agam le cur.  Beidir nar mhiste dhom iad do chur anois.  Chuireas isteach areir iad ach nilid ar an bpaipear so. Beidir nar mhiste dhom iad do chur chun an Aire Cosanta anois. 
     
    
      
       Tiocfaidh na ceisteanna so os ar geoir nios deanai, agus socrocaidh me iad ansan cho maith agus is feidir liom. 
     
    
      
       Beidir nar mhisde dhom na ceisteanna so a chur anois.  I mBearla iseadh a sgriobhas iad mar is chun na adaoine na raibh aon Ghaedhilg acu a chuireas iad.  Rud eile dhe ni chuirim puinn suime in aon rud a deirtear thall i dTigh na Feise i Sasana. Ach foraoir gear, tugann muintir na hEireann iomad tora ar a ndeirtear i Sasana.  As I have said, I do not pay very much attention to what is said by British politicians in the British House of Parliament but, unfortunately, the people of Ireland do and are too often deceived by what is said there.  Now, as a supplementary question I put this to the Minister of Defence&mdash;whether he is aware the following statement appeared in the Dublin newspapers yesterday, and I ask him what amount of truth, if any, is contained in certain underlined parts of this.  This is the thing that was in the papers: 
       &ldquo;Sir W. Davison: What means have the Provisional Government for protecting these stores? 
     
     
       &ldquo;Mr. Churchill: That is unworthy. The so-called I.R.A. is under the orders and obeys the orders of the Provisional Government. 
     &ldquo;Sir J. Butcher: Some of it. 
     &ldquo;Mr. Churchill: In almost every County in Ireland they are strictly obeying the orders of that Government. The Minister of Defence of Dail Eireann is also Minister of Defence in the Provisional Government, and it is through him that authority is exercised upon this Army.&rdquo; 
     Now, I would like to know what amount of truth, if any, is contained in the statement of Mr. Churchill? 
    
      
       I have not seen what Mr. Churchill has said.  I must refer the Deputy to my answer to his own question, that is: 
       &ldquo;Is the Provisional Government exercising any authority, direct or indirect, over any part of the Irish Republican Army?&rdquo; 
       The answer is in the negative.  Personally, I have not seen what Mr. Churchill says about us, and a lot of us are too busy at the present moment to pay very much attention to it; and I certainly have not the slightest sympathy with anybody in Ireland who pays more attention to what Mr. Churchill says about me and knows of me than to the knowledge they have of me from my association with them. 
     
    
      
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh: 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Local Government whether he has taken into his service a Mr. McCarron, and made him Private Secretary and Liaison Officer between the Department of Local Government and the British Local Government Board?&rdquo; 
       I have not taken him into my service, as Minister of the Local Government Board.  Mr. McCarron is still on the pay roll of the Local Government Board. There is only one Local Government Board or Department.  If the people had time to look at the note-paper sent out by Dail Eireann they would have learned that, up to this, Mr. McCarron is still on the pay roll of the Government Board.  His services are being availed of by me in my capacity as member of the Provisional Government in the office of the Local Government Minister in the City Hall.  He is acting under my direction and with my authority in all matters affecting all functions of the Local Government Board in such activities as were not dealt with by the Local Government Department in the pre-Truce period. 
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Local Government whether he is aware that Mr. McCarron was one of a number of officials in the British Local Government Board who, during the European war attested under the Derby Scheme and was subsequently declared indispensable to the office by Sir Henry Robinson, the object of the combined move being to inveigle less favoured members of the staff into the British Army?&rdquo; 
       Well, I was never in the British Army and I do not know what the arrangements are.  I am not aware of any officials who attested, and I have no information concerning Mr. McCarron attesting.  I have not the advantage of being in Sir Henry Robinson's confidence and, consequently, I am unable to say what he might have done in 1914, 1915 or 1916.  I met Sir Henry Robinson on the day that we took over the Local Government Board and the other Boards.  I have not met him since. 
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh (North Tipperary): 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Local Government whether it is a fact that Mr. McCarron offered his services to the British military in Drogbeda during Easter Week?&rdquo; 
       I cannot say whether it is a fact.  I was not in Drogheda during Easter Week. 
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh (North Tipperary): 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Local Government whether he is aware that this Mr. McCarron is the auditor who surcharged the Bal rothery Board of Guardians for paying salaries to Dr. Richard Hayes, T.D., after the return of the later from prison in England, which surcharge led to the seizure by the R.I.C., and sale of property of certain Guardians, including the Chairman, Miss Adrien?&rdquo; 
     
     
        I am aware that Mr. McCarron is the officer who surcharged the payment of Doctor Hayes' salary.  In this case my recollection is that Miss Adrien was not the Chairman.  I am aware that the Chairman paid eight pounds, nine pounds or ten pounds&mdash;his quota; that Miss Adrien's sewing machines were seized, not by the R.I.C. but by the military; and that a valuable piano, the property of Mr. Frank Lawless, was seized and taken away and sold in England, and that he did not get back the difference between the amount surcharged and the cost of the piano.  I note the fact that Mr. Lawless' loss, which was considerably the greatest, is not mentioned in the question.  I suppose it is because he voted for the Treaty.  I consulted Doctor Hayes about making this appointment.  I also consulted the Lord Mayor.  Doctor Hayes said he had no objection. 
    
      
       Did you consult Miss Adrien? 
     
    
      
       As a matter of fact I did not.  It was only while I was ill I consulted Doctor Hayes. I did not think it would be quite proper to ask Miss Adrien to come into my bedroom. 
     
    
      
       Would it not be more worthy of Ministers to answer questions and not to play the buffoon?  And to remember what is at stake? 
     
    
      
       The majority of this House is in a position to express its opinions, and if you are dissatisfied with it it is your business. 
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh (North Tipperary): 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Local Government whether he is aware that in this matter of surcharges the Auditor has full discretionary power, and that the Local Government Board cannot give him any orders or directions on the subject?&rdquo; 
       I am satisfied that Mr. McCarron would have failed in his duty as an officer if he had not surcharged Doctor Hayes' salary. He had no alternative, and I am satisfied that any officer who would fail to surcharge a payment of this kind would render himself liable to instant dismissal. 
     
    
      
       And Doctor Hayes in jail for Ireland. 
     
    
      
       The question is one of accountancy.  If you had behaved yourself a moment ago, Miss MacSwiney would not have got excited and he would be saved that. 
       Mr. Joseph MacDonagh (North Tipperary): 
       &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Local Government whether he is of opinion that Mr. McCarron is a suitable person to place in a position where he will be likely to get confidential information about the proceedings of Dail Eireann?&rdquo; 
       Mr. McCarron is not in a position to get any confidential information about the proceedings of Dail Eireann.  But if he were I am satisfied that he is an honourable man.  I am satisfied that Mr. MacDonagh is an honourable man. 
     
    
      
       As a supplementary question: does the Minister for Local Government consider that Mr. McCarron was justified in surcharging the Balrothery Guardians in the case of Doctor Hayes, in view of the reason of Doctor Hayes' absence? 
     
    
      
       I answered that question.  I told you the reason of it.  Under accountancy as you understand it and know it, he had no other alternative.  And I have also stated that an official of my Department, acting in the same way, would be bound by the same regulations.  As a matter of fact, for the information of the House, my auditor was on the point of surcharging the South Dublin Union some time ago owing to Doctor Hayes's salary, because a little formality had not been gone through. 
     
    
      
       Does the Minister consider that this surcharge was justifiable in this case? 
     
    
      
       If I cannot put it in with the bayonet to penetrate the skull of the Deputy I cannot help it. I think it is a question that was put in very bad taste by Mr. MacDonagh&mdash;the whole lot of it. 
     
    
      
       Madame Markievicz: 
     
     &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Labour what attitude does the Minister for   Labour adopt in connection with the threatened strike of postal officials on account of the reduction of their war bonuses?&rdquo; 
     My answer is that the attitude is exactly the same as in all similar cases. 
     Madame Markievicz: 
     &ldquo;Does he endorse the action of Mr. J.J. Walsh, one of the Deputies for Cork City, who in his capacity as Postmaster-General of the Provisional Government, has asked the British Postmaster-General for the names of postal officials resident in Great Britain who would be willing to fill the places of the strikers and thereby break the strike?&rdquo; 
     I am only responsible for myself and for my subordinates and should not be asked to express an opinion on, or endorse, the action of a colleague. 
   
   
     OPENING OF ACCOUNT IN TRUSTEES' NAMES. 
    
      
       The next matter on the Orders of the Day is: 
       &ldquo;Abhar Ruin do reir molta Urraidhe na Dala.  (Motion in accordance with the wishes of the Trustees of Dail Eireann): 
       &ldquo;That in view of the changed circumstances in Ireland and of the practicability of having an account in the name of the Trustees of Dail Eireann, that such an account be opened in the names of the three Trustees.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I formally move that, a Chinn Chomhairle. This is an agreed matter between the Trustees and merely needs the formality of moving it. 
     
    
      
       I would like to second that.  As Trustees we wish to have our work done more regularly than it was possible in the past.  There are, of course, obvious dangers attaching to it.  As a matter of fact, in accordance with the terms of our Trusteeship we might have made that arrangement ourselves. The only reason for bringing it before the Dail is&mdash;there is a certain amount of danger attached to the course &mdash;under the present circumstances it is advisable to prevent misunderstandings and things of that kind.  It is also recommended in the auditor's report. 
     
    
      
       Lest there should be a misunderstanding about one remark of the Deputy for Clare, may I be permitted to say that things were done regularly in the past.  They may not have been done as formally as they are now owing to change of circumstances. I support this motion. 
     
    
      
       Yes; I meant formally. 
     
    
      
       I would like to give my chief reason for supporting it. It is that as long as the accounts are in various names they will really be at the command rather of individuals who are responsible for these monies than at the command of the Dail.  In the past, when how to safeguard our monies was a very serious matter, this device had to be resorted to.  We had to get names of stable and unstable people.  Sometimes the more unstable they were the better. It will be seen there might be great danger that a person, simply because the money was in his or her name, would consider whether that money could be realised.  That is the principal safeguard in this matter.  Of course, we understand that from every point of view it is perfectly safe now in any Bank in the names of the Trustees owing to the circumstances&mdash;to put it briefly, owing to the signing of the Treaty&mdash; that there is no longer the danger of Banks having their offices raided and seized and closed up because they are doing business with an illegal body.  The other reason that makes me in favour of the motion is, it may be said that the Trustees have a majority on the other side, but I for one do not anticipate any difficulty owing to that majority. 
     
    
      
       What I meant a while ago was formally, not regularly&mdash; such as would be done under normal conditions.  I am not so undisturbed about the funds as the Minister for Finance.  It is not impossible that the electorate may still vote to maintain the Republic, in which event these funds must not be in a position to be seized by the enemy forces. 
     
    
      
       What information I have is at your disposal. 
     
     
        The motion was then put by the Acting Speaker and carried unanimously. 
   
   
     DIVISION OF LANDS. 
    
      
       Abhar Ruin o Dhaithi Ceannt, T.D. (Motion by David Ceannt, T.D.): 
       &ldquo;That it be decreed that all lands which were in the occupation of enemy forces in Ireland and which have now been evacuated, except those which may be retained as necessary training grounds for the I.R.A., be divided up into economic holdings and distributed among landless men; and that preference be given to those men, or dependents of those men, who have been active members of the I.R.A. prior to the Truce, July, 1921.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       There is one slight technical omission I would like to have inserted.  The reason is because we hear so much about the different Governments or supposed Governments in this country.  I want it made clear that it be decreed by Dail Eireann.  I want that put in the original.  Now, a Chinn Chomhairle, there is, at the present time, a considerable amount of land evacuated by enemy forces which was formerly the property of the people of Ireland.  During the next few weeks there will be a considerable addition to that.  And now that the enemy forces are after evacuating it it is our duty to see that such land will, if not wanted for the training of the I.R.A., be divided up into economic holdings and parcelled out to landless men.  We have at the present time, throughout the whole country, a tremendous amount of unemployment. We have, in the agricultural industry, a lot of land going out of tillage on account of the exceedingly bad year through which the farmers have gone. Agriculture is down to a very low level with the result that thousands of men are out of employment, and we have now at our disposal one means.  It may be a small beginning, but a small beginning that may lead to big results later on. Now that we have a chance, it is our first duty to the people of Ireland and to the unemployed and landless men to fulfil any promise which we made them in the past that we would, at the first opportunity that would be offered us, do what lay in our power to put as many back on the land as we possibly could.  Now, if we commence when we have this opportunity, even in a small way, later on we hope to see all the big places&mdash;the grazing ranches, the big estates, perhaps&mdash;purchased to be parcelled out into economic holdings for the people, so that the people of Ireland will have the right to live and thrive in the land which is their right.  I know of places where there is a considerable quantity of land that has been evacuated.  I know of one place where there is a thousand acres of valuable grazing and tillage land.  Fifty acres of that have been under tillage for the past year by the military forces of England. There is a considerable amount of machinery there.  I am sure what is the case in my part of the country is the case all over Ireland.  And if we take the opportunity now of dividing up this land we should, at least, parcel it out into economic holdings of fifty or sixty acres in each place, and I am sure in that way we could make provision for several families throughout Ireland.  I want to make myself perfectly clear that in giving the land to landless men, preference should be given to active members of the I.R.A. who, during the trying times of the last two or three years, have given their services to the country, and have brought us into the position that we now hold of being here in this House as Ministers of the Government which they helped to do by their exertions and sacrifices and by their lives. These men and their dependents are entitled to anything that we can do for them.  These men came out, not for any pecuniary gain, but for love of country. And the first duty of a nation should be to the soldiers who fought for them. These men were out night and day, left their homes and families without fee or reward.  Some of them and their dependents are in a very necessitous way. Some of them have not the necessaries of life.  They are depending on their neighbours, and it would be a crying shame if we did not do what we possibly could to recompense them, and to show that we appreciate the services and the sacrifices they made.  This is a small beginning which might lead to great things.  Let us show that we mean what we have always been preaching about, that we will now give expression to those opinions, that we will do what we possibly can to relieve unemployment to as great an extent as we possibly can, and that we commence it now.  And   therefore I move that it be decreed by Dail Eireann that all lands which were in the occupation of enemy forces in Ireland and which have now been evacuated, except those which may be retained as necessary training grounds for the I.R.A. be divided up into economic holdings and distributed among landless men, and that preference be given to those men or dependents of those men who have been active members of the I.R.A. prior to the Truce, July, 1921. 
     
    
      
       I second that.  I think it very important that something should be done for those landless men; if Mr. Ceannt will accept one little principle or proviso that I will put in, that is, that the men, in addition, to being members of the I.R.A., have a knowledge of farming, because without that it would mean ruin. 
     
    
      
       Of course I do not mean to turn over one acre of land to a person who is not capable of tilling it. I accept that. 
     
    
      
       There are many labourers and farmers' younger sons who would be glad to settle on land like this.  I think it is one of those things that the Government in Ireland should cake particular trouble about.  I would also suggest that some land be given to women, who are just as capable of running farms as men as I have seen demonstrated myself.  And I am thoroughly in sympathy in giving this land acquired from the English to the people who fought for Ireland. 
     
    
      
       As far as I understand this question, I take it that it fits in more with agricultural policy than anything else; and I think it would be only a very small fraction of what would be the general policy of getting the land into the hands of the people, or the general policy of saying that those people who fought as soldiers during the war would get proper consideration in the division of such land.  I would like to have it understood first and foremost that at the present moment we have no knowledge of the amount of land that will be transferred to us in this particular way.  We have no definite knowledge as to the ownership of those lands&mdash;whether they belong to the Government or whether they belong to private individuals, that is whether the British forces in Ireland who occupied these lands rented them or had them on lease from any person; and I feel that the motion is premature and that even the passing of this motion here could not be very effective in getting what Deputy Ceannt really wants, that is, to get land for men who fought in the war.  I think we ought to hear what the Minister for Agriculture has to say on the matter.  I feel that it is premature at the moment to pass that. 
     
    
      
       I am in a difficulty because I do not know exactly to what land the Deputy refers.  There are certain lands, such as Freemount Farm, evacuated by the British troops and handed over to the Provisional Government, and which, I presume to be in the occupation of the I.R.A. under the conditions which the Minister of Defence has explained to the House in answer to the previous question.  And I should say that the first thing we should have to consider is this: Whether the tents and the lands attached to them would be wanted by the Army.  That is the first thing we have to consider.  And we can't consider that until we know what lands are in question.  Secondly, if there is a balance of lands over after the needs of the Army are supplied, that is a matter for the Provisional Government. These lands were handed over to them and I can assure Deputy Ceannt and the other Deputies who have spoken that we are absolutely alive to the need for the completion of Land Purchase.  We realise that that has got to be done immediately.  But to me immediately is conditioned by the fact of which you are all aware&mdash;that to complete Land Purchase you have got to have legislation, and carefully thought out legislation, much more careful legislation than in the motion.  Besides legislation you want finance, and consistent with having these matters thought out, I quite agree with Deputy Ceannt and the other Deputies who have spoken that Land Purchase must be completed.  I want to make it clear that these lands, or the portions that will be available after the Army has been supplied, are handed over to the Provisional Government and must be dealt with by the Provisional Government; and it is only the Irish Free State, if and when it comes into existence, or some Government that has control of the finances of the country, that can properly and adequately complete Land Purchase. In the meantime we are doing what we   can to divide the lands that are in the Dail Departments.  And I may say in this connection there are about six thousand acres of land in the hands of the Dail Departments and one way or another, in the Land Bank or directly under the Dail Departments; and those six thousand acres are now about two years lying practically undivided, with some of it paid for and some of it paid for in part.  On practically the whole of that six thousand acres the poor men are now practically broken for the very simple reason that to finance those schemes the poorer tenants and the poorer landless men had to go to the Banks and borrow money at six per cent.  In the County Mayo I am dealing at the present moment with a very big area of land which was purchased under the Land Bank scheme.  The poorer men had tried to get the money for a fourth of the deposit in the local Bank; and they got a certain amount and they were unable to get the rest.  The result was that the men who should not get land under the State Bank or Land Bank scheme had to get land because they were the only people who had the money.  And we were faced with a dilemma, that for the last two years the people who had paid the money were not entitled to the land, and that those who were entitled to the land hadn't the money to pay for it.  That was the dilemma we were up against. And I sent down Inspectors to survey the whole situation and to try and find a way out; and I would ask every Deputy here who is interested to find some way for me.  The only way that would please the poor tenants is to set the lands largely for grazing.  We were in the position that the poorer men could not find the money.  The Land Bank could not afford to let them off.  And they could not find the deposits.  We have either to divide the lands and leave out the poorer men, the poorer tenants, or put off the whole scheme for a year until we would have a Government of our own to clear up the mess and finance it.  There is no use tinkering with this question.  The settlement of the land question is an absolute necessity, and the settlement or completion of Land Purchase is the way to increased tillage.  The right way to increase tillage would be by men on the land whose interest it would be to till. It is the economic way also.  I am surprised to find any men here talking about tillage at this hour of the day.  The breaking up of new lea land after January is absurd.  It is merely producing a minimum of food at an absolutely maximum amount of cost.  The labourer who gets &ldquo;conacre&rdquo; in the middle of January to produce food is producing food at a cost of fifty per cent. more than he can buy it.  Breaking up new land in the middle of January is bad farming.  Now, that is as far as tillage is concerned.  But to come back to Land Purchase.  I have shown you the dilemma in which we found ourselves trying to put Land Purchase through without finance, and that is the fact of it.  And that case is only typical.  Just face the problem squarely: How can landless men go on land and make it a paying proposition and live on it after borrowing the money at six or seven per cent.?  There is no use pretending; it can only be done by the Government who has control of the finances of the country, and who has the credit to borrow the large sums that we are not in a position to borrow at present.  In so far as lands can be divided, there were about six thousand acres of land came under my jurisdiction. Some of it can't be divided&mdash;that is the long and the short of it.  We must put it off until some Government clears up the mess and produces the finance. With regard to the lands that can be divided, I have already borrowed Inspectors from the Irish Land Commission whom we control now, and they are dividing the balance of the lands that are lying there for the last two or three years, and set for grazing.  I have a list here in my pocket which I got from the Land Commission of at least ten cases of large areas of land in the hands of local landless men for the last three years on which there has not been one perch of tillage done.  Any farmer will know and understand that; there are Deputies here who don't realise it.  You can't do tillage&mdash;I am not now speaking of tillage in the way a Scotchman or a large English farmer does it, but in the way it is done by the small farmer here&mdash;you can't do tillage properly unless you have your cows and your horses and farmyard on the land.  The question of transit comes into it.  It won't pay.  You will have to cart the manure; you can't have the requisite amount of manure.  Tillage never pays much, and never pays at all except when worked by small men on the holdings.  I am speaking of tillage under Irish conditions, not American conditions,   where they can do things on a large scale.  But that is the fact about Irish conditions.  Now, that is what I have to say about Land Purchase. The first question is what the Army wants; after that it is a question for the Agricultural Department of whatever Government is in being to deal with the rest of it; and I can assure Mr. Ceannt that we are absolutely alive to the fact that Land Purchase must be completed by two means&mdash;finance and legislation. 
     
    
      
       I am supporting the motion introduced by the Deputy from Cork, Mr. Ceannt, for the reason that it is an attempt&mdash;not upon a very ambitious scale&mdash;to deal with one of the most urgent problems in the country at the time.  It is: what is going to be done with landless men? We have heard a lot in this House about establishing law and order.  The most productive agent of disorder is starvation, and the labourers in the country are practically upon the verge of starvation. It is all very well to say that if you break up land now the man who goes in to work at it will have fifty per cent. added to the maximum of labour needed for land broken up in the early winter.  He can't produce anything in the way of food until he has the land, and he can't buy until he has the money.  I would like that the Government would go much further into this matter.  It is only tinkering with the matter to introduce a motion of this kind, because it only touches the fringe.  I think it would be a great practical benefit if the Dail now established a commission to enquire into the position of these labourers in agricultural districts; and to see if they cannot devise some practical way of affording them relief; and they ought to provide them with a practical means of making a livelihood for themselves.  I think if the Minister for Agriculture, instead of relating all the mistakes that were made in the agricultural policy of the Dail, made entirely under the direction of the present Minister for Finance and the present President, he ought to tell us what he intends to do in the future, and I suggest that one of the most practical things he could do in the future would be to set up a commission such as I have outlined. 
     
    
      
       The economic condition in the country, as Deputy MacEntee said, is very grave.  At the last Session of An Dail we received a Labour deputation the spokesman of which stated there were one hundred and thirty thousand people out of employment up and down the country.  That is a fact that cannot be waived.  And the economic condition of the country, was, I venture to say, a big factor, if not a deciding factor, in many minds in the big decision come to at the last Session of Dail Eireann.  I have letters daily from people in the West speaking of starvation&mdash;some of them unfortunately, native speaking people.  As to how that should be tackled is another matter. Tackling it by tillage in the late spring cannot be done.  Tackling it by schemes of road repairing, by drainage schemes, by Housing schemes is, perhaps, a possibility, if a Parliament with financial and with legislative powers is set up in Ireland. But to ask the people to plough up now at this time of the year lea ground, and produce a crop from it, is not a business proposition, and is not a proposition that would commend itself to a man who knows anything about agriculture. 
     
    
      
       I have as much experience of it as any man here, and I know it could be done. 
     
    
      
       I have fifteen to seventeen years' practical experience of agriculture, and I know that to till land at this time of the year would be to get a minimum of food at a maximum of price.  I submit that the economic condition of the country must be tackled in a big way by big road schemes and big housing and drainage schemes, and if not tackled in that way, it cannot be tackled at all.  The country needs settled Government, and a Parliament that can legislate.  And if the country is drifting into anarchy now owing to the concurring lack of jurisdiction of Dail Eireann, the British Government and the Provisional Government, those who shirked asking the country for a straight vote are responsible. 
     
    
      
       Dail Eireann is supreme. 
     
    
      
       The people are supreme. 
     
    
      
       Ta a frios agam go bhfuil daoine ag caint anso i dtaobh ceist na talmhan agus i dtaobh   cuireadoireachta agus na tuigid an sceal. Ta eolas agam ar an dtalamh san go leir ar ar thracht Padraig O hOgain.  Do ceannuiodh e sin cupla bliain o shoin do sna daoine a bhi ar bheagan talmhan; ni feidir leo san einni do dheanamh as anois. Is beag an chabhair e paisti talmhan do cheannach anso is ansud.  Caithfear liomataisti mora do thogaint agus do roint ar fhearaibh oga ata gan talamh. Dubhairt Teachta o chianaibh go bhfeadfa maireachtaint da mbeadh talamh agat.  D'fheadfa, ach da mbeadh talamh agat ar maidin conus fheadfa tighte do thogaint agus siol agus uirlisi feirme agus eile do cheannach gan airgead?  Ni haon chabhair cios trom do chur ortha.  Caithfidh na fir seo an talamh d'fhail o'n Rialtas agus cabhair chun e d'oibriu mar an gceadna.  I entirely agree with the views expressed here by the Minister of Agriculture.  This question of Land Purchase is a very big question, and it would be the first duty of the new Government to deal with it.  It would want the whole finances of the country to deal with the question properly.  There is no use in taking up patch-work schemes.  The whole question must be tackled.  But it is worse than useless to appoint a commission. These commissions, in the old times, were meant to shelve questions.  Whenever the English wanted to shelve a question they appointed a commission.  The T.D. for Monaghan, Deputy MacEntee, enunciated a strange theory.  He said if you had land you could raise crops, but if you had not the money you could not buy food.  How, I ask, can a man build houses on his land and buy seeds if he has no money to help him to carry on his farming?  This question must be dealt with by the State.  The State must have the whole finances of the country at its disposal to deal with this question properly, and when the new Government is established in a few months, it must be taken up as a national question.  There is plenty of room for every man in Ireland, and it is only just that the question should be dealt with properly.  There is no use in this patch-work business at all. 
     
    
      
       I support this motion as proposed by the Deputy from Cork.  This thing is not as big as the question mentioned by the Deputy for Connemara.  It is a small matter acquiring patches of land here and there adjacent to the towns.  There is a lot of talk about questions of Spring tillage It is a question of soil.  I know lands in my area should be ploughed in the Autumn if they were to be of any use or any way prepared for tillage in the Spring.  But there are light lands; and some good could be done even if acquired now for potato sowing or for oats.  It is a different question.  But the trend of the argument, as I find it, on the Ministerial bench is to prove that Dail Eireann is helpless.  The work done by Dail Eireann in the past I call great work under the circumstances; and a lot of you would agree that it was great work to acquire land under the Land Act system.  And now the Minister of Agriculture throws a bucket of cold water on it.  I am sorry that the ex-Minister is not present.  I have a question addressed to the Minister which will be on the paper to-morrow.  It will re-open this question, and I hope the Minister will be present.  But there is a small matter that I am interested in now.  There is a sale to-day at three o'clock of twenty-three acres of land adjacent to the town of Gorey, and some two months ago, when this sale was announced, we took action to acquire the land, and the District Council will grant its credit to acquire the land.  I went to the offices of the Local Government Board of Dail Eireann and saw the Assistant Minister. The local Bank is giving us the loan at five per cent. for thirty-five years, and all they want is the sanction of Dail Eireann.  The Bank asks the sanction of Dail Eireann to this loan; and I want an answer now from the Minister for Local Government.  I have got two telegrams now to the Minister for Local Government and I want the sanction sent down so that we will have it in time at three o'clock.  That is the way we go about acquiring land, and this land is a paying proposition. 
     
    
      
       Like the fisheries. 
     
    
      
       The fisheries would be a paying proposition, too.  You want to throw cold water on Mr. Barton's Bank scheme that the Minister for Finance said was the greatest thing in Ireland, and that no matter what we could do in the future, it would live.  You may say it is necessary to have a Free State established&mdash;this is not a question of the Free State.  The land is wanted now and there is no reason why it cannot be obtained.  If there is no   finance it could be obtained through the local Councils as we find in Gorey and all we need from you is the sanction of Dail Eireann; I think that could be obtained.  You will not be asked to pay.  The ratepayers will be willing to pay it; and they are not looking to any other body in the future. 
     
    
      
       The lands mentioned specially in the notice of motion were the lands taken over from enemy forces. But now the speakers are introducing Land Purchase.  As to these evacuated lands: first of all the Army has to get what it wants&mdash;and that has to be decided by the Army.  When they get that, we will immediately proceed to divide the balance, and we have to know first what lands the Army wants. 
     
    
      
       What Army do you mean? 
     
    
      
       The I.R.A. under conditions which Mr. Mulcahy mentioned in his reply to Deputy Brugha.  It will be decided first what lands are wanted. Then there will be a balance of lands left over.  For instance, there is a farm near Dublin that might be suitable. 
     
    
      
       If you confine the discussion to the motion you will find that I am not dealing with the general lands of the country. 
     
    
      
       An explanation has been made by the Minister. The motion deals with certain lands. 
     
    
      
       The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Agriculture say it would require an amount of money to take over these lands.  These lands that are to be vacated are the lands of the people of Ireland no matter what Government is in power.  On these lands there are a certain amount of buildings. On some of them there is a considerable amount of tillage; and they are ploughed and fit for cultivation.  It would be a very easy matter for the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Agriculture to decide this.  Even within the next few weeks the Minister for Defence could find out what amount of land he will require for training purposes for the I.R.A., and then he could see what amount is available for distribution. The buildings are on the place already. The people of Ireland will eventually have to find the money, and it is only shelving the thing to put it back. 
     
    
      
       I want to move an amendment to this.  First of all let me characterise this motion as being a dishonest motion.  I hear Deputies here supporting this motion and they are against the Treaty.  They are against evacuation and they want us to divide evacuated lands.  Can they not be honest about it?  Can they not support the Treaty under the terms of which evacuation is possible?  I am going to move this amendment.  This is the kind of motion which is, presumably, going to hold us up for several months, and which is breaking the spirit of the agreement. 
     
    
      
       I deny that. 
     
    
      
       We may still have to appeal to the people if that agreement is not kept in the spirit. 
     
    
      
       What agreement? 
     
    
      
       The agreement made in the Mansion House. 
     
    
      
       What is in this contrary to it? 
     
    
      
       This Bill is going to hold us up when we should be going on with the work of the nation. 
     
    
      
       This is important work of the nation. 
     
    
      
       Five times you have spoken now.  The most important question for the nation is evacuation. If these lands are not evacuated who will divide them?  I want to put these things on a perfectly logical basis as far as I can.  But I am not going to allow people to get away with a motion like this who, on principle, are against evacuation, and then want to pose to the workers here as the people who want to divide up these lands.  Now, the amendment I am going to move is this: 
     
     &ldquo;That the matter of utilising the lands evacuated by the British forces in Ireland under the terms of the Treaty be considered at the earliest possible moment, and that special consideration be given to the question as to whether they may not be distributed amongst landless men,   preference being given to those men, or the dependents of those men, who have been in active military service of the I.R.A. prior to the Truce of 1921.&rdquo; 
     I can promise on behalf of the Provisional Government that, as soon as the land that is required for Army and Police purposes is definitely allotted, that the remaining portion of the land could be divided immediately; for under that division no question of finance would arise.  These lands will be taken over from the English as part of the general settlement.  The moment allocation is made for national purposes the residue of the land could be divided at once.  But I say here now that the minority of the Dail, who are against the basis on which this resolution rests, must not be allowed to put themselves before the country as people who are interested in putting men back on the land.  We are all interested in Land Purchase, and it is a matter in which the Provisional Government has the greatest concern. 
    
      
       Why are you against the motion? 
     
    
      
       Half of you do not like to hear the truth.  We are all interested in Land Purchase, and it is one of the matters that has been giving the Provisional Government the greatest concern; and it is not a simple question. At present Dail Eireann has lands at its disposal.  Why is there not a motion that these lands should be divided?  Is it not more practicable to divide lands which we own ourselves than lands which we do not own?  Now, these lands will revert to Ireland, but only under the terms of the Treaty, which you and your friends are trying to smash.  It is only on these terms these lands will revert to Ireland.  Why not divide the lands which we already have, and which have been purchased by the National Land Bank?  Deputy Etchingham referred to people who are trying to cast discredit upon the working of the Land Bank.  I do not know of any such people.  The work of the Land Bank has been as good as it could be in the circumstances, and everybody, and nobody sooner than the originator of the Land Bank, Mr. Barton himself, will agree that it only just reddened the surface, and that it only dealt with the thing in the smallest possible way.  It will need ever so many millions to deal with the Land Schemes in Ireland.  And all these schemes&mdash;drainage and reclamation will cost many millions.  That is not the point of this motion.  The point of it must be put clearly.  If the mover had put in after the word &ldquo;evacuated&rdquo; the words &ldquo;Occupation of enemy forces which have now been evacuated in accordance with the terms of the Treaty,&rdquo; nobody could find very much fault with it.  But these words are left out, and left out for the purpose of discrediting the people who are upholding the Treaty. 
     
    
      
       They discredited it themselves. 
     
    
      
       All right; you have given a display of manners now equal to the display you have already given. 
     
    
      
       Talking of manners comes very badly from you. 
     
    
      
       If they support the Treaty they have some right to talk about evacuation.  If they oppose the Treaty they have no right to talk about the evacuation of this land, and they have no right to pose as the people who are putting landless men back on the land. 
     
    
      
       It is necessary for the Minister to get the adjournment of this House to go to his office&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       What is the point? 
     
    
      
       I say every man in Gorey will be an enemy of the Government if they stop us in this. 
     
    
      
       We are not frightened by that. 
     
    
      
       I suggest that you consult with the Minister on this matter. 
     
    
      
       He is bringing forward a motion while you are discussing another. 
     
    
      
       Here is a telegram I have received now: 
     
     &ldquo;Dail sanction to loan of £1,000 required; 35 years five per cent.   Bank agree loan if Dail sanction. Necessary to have answer before 3 o'clock.&rdquo; 
     Now the Minister of Local Government wants to go to his office to send this wire, and I move the adjournment of the House to have this done.  It is to acquire twenty-three acres of land at no cost to you.  It is at the rate-payers' expense. 
    
      
       If the Minister wants to go he should ask for leave himself.  The House is not keeping any Minister from doing his work.  If he wants to leave he can go himself. 
     
    
      
       I am speaking within his hearing and he asked me to put forward the motion. 
     
    
      
       I second that motion for the adjournment of the House. 
     
    
      
       I second the amendment of the Minister of Finance. 
     
    
      
       I support that amendment. 
     
    
      
       I will ask the Minister of Finance to write out that amendment.  There is a motion for the adjournment.  If the House wishes that the discussion should be continued I am in your hands. 
     
    
      
       I propose that we adjourn until four o'clock. 
     
    
      
       Is it in order to talk of a motion for adjournment when you have a resolution before the House? 
     
    
      
       It is for the House. 
     
    
      
       On the question of adjournment: I understand there have been many complaints, particularly from the Press, about the Dail meeting in this particular hall; and if it is received with favour by the general body that the next Session, to-morrow morning, be held in some other building, I would propose it. 
     
    
      
       We are supposed to start at eleven o'clock and we started about twelve; and now, after little over an hour, it is proposed to adjourn.  If we are starting at twelve, let us start at twelve.  But I fail to see why we should adjourn for two-and-a-half hours when we all seem to be in such a hurry. 
     
    
      
       We adjourned for two-and-a-half hours yesterday, and I spent two hours of them in my office. We will either have to leave off this altogether or be given a chance to go on with our Executive work.  If we are not given a chance&mdash;there are only two possible courses open to us.  We have to work in the morning from nine to eleven, and from two to four, and from six-thirty o'clock to goodness knows when. The opposition have nothing to do but to talk.  We must be given a chance one way or another. 
     
    
      
       Speak for yourself. 
     
    
      
       This Dail has a Ceann Comhairle, and when he is not present we have to wait until we see. 
     
    
      
       If there is no message from the Ceann Comhairle the censure of this House should be passed on him. 
     
    
      
       He sent a telegram yesterday. 
     
    
      
       That is nonsense. 
       The House adjourned at 1.45 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
       The House resumed at 4.20 p.m. 
     
    
      
       We now resume the discussion on the motion from Deputy Daithi Ceannt.  The Minister for Finance was in order in speaking, I think. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second the amendment by the Minister for Finance. 
     
    
      
       It is seconded. 
     
    
      
       Well, I would like to say a few words.  We found the Land Bank was of very little assistance in a matter of this kind.  The Land Bank   with a capital of two hundred thousand pounds or two hundred and fifty thousand pounds, was altogether too small to tackle a problem like the Irish land question. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order.  Is this relevant? 
     
    
      
       Yes; it has been mentioned already. 
     
    
      
       I would like every Deputy to confine himself to the motion. 
     
    
      
       Well, I am speaking on the amendment.  The resources of the Land Bank are too small.  We have two thousand or three thousand acres down in our part of the country. The men who were getting the land were men who could only turn up with a quarter of the price of the land.  We had, on the one hand, people who had money and were not entitled to the land. We got them to hold the land until such time as we had a Government with sufficient resources to come to the assistance of the poor men.  In our present circumstances, without a recognised Government, and with very limited credit, we are not going to have the resources to take over this responsibility. We can only have it with a recognised Government that could furnish fifty or sixty millions for the scheme.  There is one suggestion that should be acted on at once, and that is&mdash;as in Denmark, we should insist that people who put in claims for land should have an agricultural education. 
     
    
      
       The motion and the amendment we are dealing with are not concerned with the general land question of the country. The motion is only concerned with certain parcels of land which were in the occupation of the British Government in this country. 
     
    
      
       I am only following the lead of those who have discussed it before me. 
     
    
      
       Do not follow a bad lead. 
     
    
      
       I wish to support this amendment, and I do so because our resources at present are not sufficient to take over much land, or, indeed, any land.  And it is better to wait until we have an organised Government, such as that provided for in the Treaty, to take over the land question.  At present it is hopeless to try to do anything with the land question. 
     
    
      
       As Director of the National Land Bank I should like to make a short reference to the remarks of the speaker who has just sat down.  I do not think it fair to make a rather vague, general&mdash;I do not say charge&mdash;but a statement implying something of having wrongly selected tenants in occupation of land.  I do not think there is any ground whatever for that statement.  Our own organisers and servants have taken the utmost care in every case to have the societies which have been formed formed carefully, and to have proper people coming under the scheme; I do not think it right that the remarks made by the previous speaker should pass unchallenged, especially as they have not been supported by any evidence whatever. 
     
    
      
       As the question of the Land Bank has been raised, I think it would be advisable for me to say what has been done.  First of all, I would like to say that I sympathise with the Minister for Agriculture in asking for further time and thorough investigation before any fresh schemes for Land Purchase are taken up by the Dail.  I sympathise with him in the magnitude of the task he is taking on his shoulders.  I also agree with him that the land question has only been scratched on the surface.  But the scratching has been very effective, as I think I will show you.  Now, the Land Bank has loaned three hundred and seventy thousand pounds for the purchase of land.  That is the approximate figure for the purchase of sixteen thousand five hundred acres of land, or an average of about twenty-three pounds per statute acre.  I don't think that any Deputy could consider that that price was an excessively high price.  It has farmed some thirty-nine estates and purchased fifty-three estates; and the Societies have an approximate membership of eight hundred and fifty-three. Of the Societies that have been formed sixteen have actually divided the land, amounting to, approximately, three thousand one hundred acres; in the case   of eight Societies the land is in process of division, amounting to three thousand seven hundred and fifty acres; and in the case of six societies preliminary steps towards the sub-division have been taken, amounting to two thousand two hundred and twenty acres; and there are nine Societies remaining in which the land has not been vet sub-divided.  I may say that the experience which the Land Bank has gained during these operations is at the disposal of the Minister of Agriculture and of the nation; and the staff at the Bank, at any time and every time, will assist the nation with that experience which it has gained in the past.  Before I sit down I would remind the House that the Land Bank was instrumental in purchasing practically the whole of this land, and the occupiers of about one hundred houses in one town have become the actual owners. 
     
    
      
       I think that the scheme of the National Land Bank worked admirably in the counties where the people were able to put down the money.  But in the West of Ireland they were not able to do that.  And in several cases where the Land Bank scheme was put into operation it has led to great difficulties and trouble.  The Minister of Agriculture referred to a case in Mayo.  The National Land Bank sent down Inspectors, and invited the people to take shares.  There were a large number of people around the village who were badly in need of land. And they took shares and promised to find the money, but were unable to find the money.  But there also came into the scheme a number of people with plenty of money.  And where the poor people were unable to finance, the rich people absorbed all those plots.  So that what was taking place was a perpetuation, on a large scale, of the old system. And the poor people were left outside, and the people who had land already were made richer than before.  The statement made by the Minister of Agriculture about the scheme of Land Purchase will be the best piece of reading furnished by this Dail to the people of the West of Ireland.  The position in which they are situated is a very tragic and a very sad one. 
     
    
      
       Are we discussing the motion before the House, or are we discussing the land? 
     
    
      
       I have already asked the speakers to keep to the motion on the paper. 
     
    
      
       I say, therefore, that if this resolution is carried you will be tinkering with a very serious and tragic question.  This is not a case of finding tenants for a few park fields.  It is finding land for thousands of people who are in a desperate condition. Another year or half-year of the Terror would have brought ruin and bank ruptcy to nearly every farmer to the West of the Shannon.  They had the rates up last year as large as the rents; and not only would the farmers be in the Bankruptcy Courts, but every town in the West of Ireland.  I always thought it a terrible disgrace to Ireland that an army of eight or nine thousand men, all harvesters skilled in farming, had to go across to England to help to reap the English harvest.  These may have eight or nine acres of land; I often heard of people, able-bodied men with large families, hungry for land; I often heard them say they could stretch from one hand to the other across their whole little farm.  The statement of the Minister of Agriculture that something should be done with the land question, will certainly bring home the matter to the Congested Districts Board.  The Congested Districts Board have districts in hands for the last twenty years, and, strange to say, they have in their possession for eleven, twelve and fifteen years, large tracts of land; and on the verge of those farms are people almost on the verge of starvation.  And yet nothing has been done to divide up those ranches.  They were very glad, therefore, to see that, under the Treaty, our people have got possesion of the Congested Districts Board.  And I hope they will make use of it to divide up those lands.  Now, take the case of a man out of employment.  I know bogs in Mayo, regular storehouses of fuel; and the Congested Districts Board were written to and asked why were not those bogs made accessible to the people, who were famished for fuel.  Their reply was those bogs were not drained or roads made through them.  Here you have people hungry for employment, and work to do; and you have people looking for land who had tracts of land&mdash; not a few park fields&mdash;and the people huddled into little farms, little houses and little villages.  I think nothing   should be done until people get the finances to finance the scheme that would settle the Congested Districts Board, and complete Land Purchase. 
     
    
      
       I must again ask the Deputies to keep as closely as they can to the motion and amendment on the paper. 
     
    
      
       I think we are straying from the question on the paper&mdash;from the motion and the amendment.  We all know the momentous problem that is thundering at our doors here.  And it is the question generally all over Ireland. This is but the fringe of the subject, and in dealing with this fringe it behoves us who are responsible to take effective steps, and to make sure that we proceed upon the right road.  We don't know&mdash;any of us&mdash;how much land is involved in the motion the Deputy from Cork put down here.  It may be much and it may be little.  We know that it is not a case of making the occupiers of land, owners.  There is no necessity to introduce the question of funds.  We want to examine the question as to how this land comes to us&mdash;whether as judicial tenants, or whether as land purchased out, or land already vested.  We want to know under which of these conditions it arrives under our control? And when we have this ascertained we should decide carefully how we are to proceed with regard to the allotment or partition of this land which will be at our disposal.  Now, I think this is too hasty&mdash;we should not rush at once to do this.  Because it involves serious issues. And it involves very careful thinking out on the part of the people who feel any responsibility to Ireland.  In this matter I would, therefore, suggest that the House should agree to the amendment of the Minister of Finance that the matter stand adjourned until they have ascertained on a proper foundation what are the equities in the matter, and what are the best methods of proceeding.  If you adopt any other course you are only going to create a precedent that will be ruinous, and disastrous to the whole land question when it comes up for settle-hereafter. 
     
    
      
       Apparently nobody else wishes to speak on this matter now.  You have before you the motion and the amendment.  The amendment of the Minister of Finance is as follows: 
       &ldquo;That in the opinion of the Dail the Provisional Government should, in dealing with lands which were in the occupation of enemy forces in Ireland, and which have now been, or are being, evacuated under the terms of the Treaty, excepting those that may be retained as necessary training grounds by the Army and Police, give special consideration to the question whether those lands may not be distributed among landless men, preference being given to those who were active members of the I.R.A. previous to the Truce before July, 1921.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Before you put that&mdash;if I might for a moment intervene&mdash;it seems to me that the amendment adds very little to the motion as it was.  Obviously if this be the order from Dail Eireann that this thing should be done, it is obvious that the Cabinet and Executive will take the steps necessary to find out how much we could do.  I see very little in the amendment that is not, by implication, contained in the resolution itself. 
     
    
      
       Why not accept it? 
     
    
      
       Why not accept ours? 
     
    
      
       I am not going to discuss the land question; I know very little about it.  But I would suggest that the Deputy who proposed the original motion should, now that he has achieved his object, withdraw the resolution. 
     
    
      
       Nothing of the kind. 
     
    
      
       Excuse me; I want to point out this.  I want to refer to the subject of the motion.  That refers to certain definite areas which are coming into the possession of the Provisional Government.  Obviously, you have got to deal with the people into whose possession they will fall.  The Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Defence have given very fair and definite assurances that, when the requirements of the Army have been complied with, that what is the residue will be dealt with.   How much further you can get by passing this I cannot see.  It will involve division, and a general obstruction of business without any gain. 
     
    
      
       Why not agree to it? 
     
    
      
       This original motion has a certain aspect which it is well should be emphasised, and it is this: it comes from the side of the House that is opposing the Treaty&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Ha! ha! 
     
    
      
       Yes; and I ask you to remember that you are asking for the benefit of one portion of the Treaty. 
     
    
      
       Why not? 
     
    
      
       Then why not allow that particular provision of the Treaty to come into effect without obstructing it?  If your policy were to succeed there would be no evacuation. 
     
    
      
       Why not? 
     
    
      
       Well it would not be evacuation to-day; it would not be evacuation to-morrow.  It might at some future generation.  There might be evacuation in a&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Are we discussing the merits or demerits of the Treaty, or whether the motion should be passed or not? 
     
    
      
       I have already ruled. 
     
    
      
       I am adhering most rigidly to the terms of this motion, and I think I have a perfect right to refer to the implications of this motion so that we will know whether it is a motion that is intended to facilitate the business of the nation, or a motion intended to obstruct the carryng out of the Treaty. Now, I say if it is a motion intended to facilitate the business of the nation, the proposer of it has got all the guarantee that it is possible to get that what he desires will be carried into effect.  Therefore I say if it is a genuine bona-fide motion his point has been served and it could, with advantage to the business of the House, and the good temper of the House, be withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       I want to make it clear to the House and to the public at large that I did not consult any member of this House.  I did this on my own responsibility, knowing that I was doing the right thing for the people who were trying to get work and land. 
     
    
      
       I have a suggestion to put forward&mdash;that is: that the proposer of the motion and the proposer of the amendment come together and agree to a motion that will be unanimous. 
     
    
      
       I think the amendment to my motion is substantially the motion itself.  There are several parts of the land ploughed up; they are ploughed already and it will easily be known in two or three weeks' time what land will be available, and they can then make a beginning.  And let it be decreed by this Dail that the land will be handed over.  I want to get an assurance. 
     
    
      
       Like Deputy Milroy I wish to say that I do not know much about the details of agriculture, but this is a bill that appeals to us all.  He first spoke about implications in this motion; and he suggested that the motion is dishonest; and that it is aimed at stopping evacuation and making an end of the agreement made at the Ard-Fheis.  With regard to that agreement a rather interesting point has been put to me.  While it was a defeat for the Irish Republican Party, who had a majority at the Ard-Fheis, it was a victory for Ireland.  If that is so, that is exactly what we aim at&mdash;that Ireland should be the victor no matter what party suffers.  That is why I get up to speak to that motion.  It seems to me that those who are opposing it are making a very big mistake for their own party.  If they are out to defeat us and pass the Treaty how do they think that they can get it better&mdash;get more support &mdash;than by taking over that land handed over to them by England and using it for the good of Ireland?  The land is in their control.  The Minister for Agriculture who is responsible to Dail Eireann, has a dual capacity.  As Minister of the Provisional Government he is one of the Ministers who have control   of that land.  Why cannot he and those acting with him&mdash;the Ministry of Dail Eireann&mdash;get together.  The Minister of Defence will tell them inside a week how much land he will want for the soldiers, and he can rent the rest of it to the people of Ireland who badly want it. It can be done, and it is perfectly absurd to say it cannot be done.  It can be done if they will only look on this as Irishmen first and Treatyists after&mdash;if they will look upon themselves as bound to take every inch that the enemy has evacuated, and not wait to see whether the enemy is going to get final victory or not. 
     
    
      
       I spoke on the motion, and I would like to speak on the amendment by Mr. Collins.  It has been pointed out that the amendment differs very little in substance from the resolution.  In its effect, so far as the Irish people and the landless men are concerned, it leads to pretty much the same point.  But there is, beneath the surface an important principle, and it is this: that this land is being handed over to the Provisional Government consequent and by virtue of the Treaty.  And as one member of the Provisional Government, as I have said, I have the strongest possible objection to doing things that are consequential on and to answering for my conduct in things which are consequential on, and by virtue of, the Treaty, to people whose declared policy, from their weekly platforms and by their Press, is to put that Treaty in the fire. 
     
    
      
       You should not be here then. 
     
    
      
       You are in your position by virtue of the majority you secured here. 
     
    
      
       In my capacity as Minister of Economics I will answer to Dail Eireann, and in my capacity as member of the Provisional Government I will give the fullest account at any time to the body that appointed the Provisional Government.  But what is being attempted here to-day in various ways and by various resolutions is to establish the principle that the people whose policy is to put the Treaty in the fire, are going to dictate to the Provisional Government as to their attitude consequential on the Treaty.  That is a position which I cannot accept; it is a position which I definitely, as one member of the Provisional Government, will not accept. 
     
    
      
       There is democracy. 
     
    
      
       I will answer to that body that appointed me. 
     
    
      
       I want to say that I adopt every word that Deputy O'Higgins has said with regard to the resolution and amendment before you. I want to know is the resolution a decree or a resolution?  Is this a decree? Because, if it is, it raises a very difficult question.  You are passing a decree here in regard to lands.  You do not know what lands you are talking about. Nobody has given us any idea here of the specific lands, and you prepare to pass a decree in regard to them.  Secondly, you have not got some of the lands yet. Now, that is not so important a point, because the Provisional Government will get those lands.  Thirdly, you are arienating land without enquiring into the equities.  For instance, we will be taking over land from the British&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Which we? 
     
    
      
       The Provisional Government. 
     
    
      
       You are not entitled to address the Dail in that capacity. 
     
    
      
       We are the Dail to-day. 
     
    
      
       The Dail is the Government of the Irish Republic.  The Provisional Government can clear out, then. 
     
    
      
       It is the Provisional Government that is getting the land; and but for the Treaty and but for the fact of the Provisional Government the land would not be here to be talked about now. 
     
    
      
       But for the majority of Dail Eireann you would not be talking as a member of the Provisional Government, because you would be swept out of the country by the Army. You are talking to the Dail from which you get your authority&mdash;none other. 
     
     
    
      
       Can we not keep to the point? 
     
    
      
       (holding up a paper): We are in  London Opinion  now; we will be in  London Opinion  again next week. 
     
    
      
       I am stating a matter of fact which nobody can close his eyes to&mdash;that this land will be handed over to the Provisional Government.  I am making no point out of that. 
     
    
      
       You have been making a point out of it all the time about the Provisional Government which would have no existence but for Dail Eireann. 
     
    
      
       It is working under Dail Eireann. 
     
    
      
       Might I appeal that the Provisional Government have this meeting somewhere else besides in this Hall? 
     
    
      
       Apart from anything else, you are trying to pass a decree here about land that you know nothing about, and which none of us knows anything about. 
     
    
      
       We will guarantee to enforce our decree. 
     
    
      
       I must ask Deputy Hogan to keep as strictly as he can to the resolution and the amendment. 
     
    
      
       I think I am keeping strictly to the point.  Some of this land belongs to small tenants.  I know that to my own knowledge.  Where the land was taken over during the last three or four years, we should get that back.  That decree alienates the whole of it.  I think it would be a scandal to pass this decree.  I hear a lot of talk about a sovereign assembly.  Do you really believe it is? 
     
    
      
       Only that it is a sovereign assembly I would be the very first to ask the Army to sweep you and the like of you out. 
     
    
      
       The point I am making is this&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       You are not long in it to know what it is. 
     
    
      
       If this is a sovereign assembly you are making very little of it; you are attempting to pass a decree which would disgrace a Board of Guardians; you are alienating land without enquiring into the title of it.  I can hardly believe there are about one hundred business men here when I come in and hear that this Assembly would begin to alienate lands and pass a decree in an hour without even enquiring into the title of that land. 
     
    
      
       What did you do with the Estimates yesterday&mdash;two hundred thousand pounds in an hour or two? 
     
    
      
       You do not want to go back to the Estimates again? 
     
    
      
       I do. 
     
    
      
       When I got up to speak I wanted to point out to you when you passed a decree alienating land without enquiring into the title you write yourself down as absolutely futile; you are doing a thing that no other Parliament in the world would do.  Now, I think that that point ought to be perfectly clear.  I know, to my own personal knowledge, that some of that land belongs to small tenants, and if you pass that decree you are alienating that land. Surely it should be obvious to any man that if you want to pass a decree in regard to land it wants a lot of thinking out. 
     
    
      
       That is for the Cabinet, obviously. 
     
    
      
       Mr. Ceannt puts it forward as a decree. 
     
    
      
       Let it be a decree. I would like to know what we are here for.  We are here to pass laws for the benefit of the nation. 
     
    
      
       I shall not go over it again. 
     
    
      
       Do it at the Privy Council. 
     
    
      
       I was never at that meeting. 
     
     
    
      
       You were very near it then. 
     
    
      
       You may know more about it than I do; and that remark is uncalled for.  I want to say this&mdash;anyone who respects the Dail should not allow a decree of that kind to pass; it is unworthy of a business assembly which goes about its business in a businesslike way.  Now, the amendment gets over all that difficulty.  Miss MacSwiney says that the land should be divided and can be divided, and I absolutely agree.  And, as we seem to be at one in the object in view, I wish to point out that you cannot do that by a decree and that, if you do, you are doing something that is really particularly futile. 
     
    
      
       As it is an advertisement that is required, the only words that I suggest are: &ldquo;That are being evacuated under the terms of the Treaty.&rdquo;  We hear a lot about party methods&mdash;party is gone mad here. 
     
    
      
       Hear, hear. 
     
    
      
       And it is not on our side.  The agreement mentioned to-day is that Dail Eireann continue to function, and that the Cabinet need not be afraid of being thrown out by an adverse vote here; and one reason I had in my mind was that matters should be discussed here on their merits and not on Party lines.  The Deputy, evidently, coming from an area where certain lands had been evacuated, felt that there was need that these lands should be divided, and brought forward the motion which has been dealt with for the sake of advertisement. Speeches have been made that were fit for the hustings and not for the Dail here.  If the other side want to have the credit of having this motion I do not see why anybody on this side should want to stop them.  So long as it is done I don't care who has the credit of having it done.  The question has been raised here.  We are a minority in the Dail and, as I have said time after time, we want to see that Ireland is not tricked again.  As I often quoted here before, there is an Irish proverb which says: &ldquo;Pitiable are those who do wrong and are poor after doing it.&rdquo;  We, at least, try to take no advantages which are not for the good of the people of Ireland.  This is a matter that would not have raised any difficulty about Executive action in the old Dail here. It is a simple principle.  That is to legalise the transfer of these lands from their present position through the Agricultural Department, so that they might be divided there.  That is all I take it in essence; and that a direction be given that they be divided up amongst landless men who have been active members of the I.R.A.; and if there is anybody who is objecting to it on principle I have not heard of it.  The Cabinet would take the ordinary course as to what were the steps necessary.  It is for the members here to decree that certain action be taken.  And it is for the Cabinet to carry it out.  Putting it into the terms of the amendment seems to me ridiculous and unnecessary. 
     
    
      
       Looseness of thought and looseness of expression is at the bottom of all this business. I spoke on the motion at first, and now I want to say a word on the amendment. I do not question that this motion is put forward in the very simple intention that Mr. de Valera speaks of, but it is unfortunate that a motion put forward in that simple intention would not be carefully and properly worded, considering it is put before this meeting here as a decree of Dail Eireann.  And if there are lands in the neighbourhood of Fermoy and around there, some of which have been prepared for tillage by the military, and if there are lands there that want to be attended to why should they not be attended to by reference to the Ministry here instead of bringing in a regular decree affecting such lands in the country&mdash;and affecting them and proposing to assign ownership to them without finding out or having an idea as to who the owners are at the present time, and what is the amount of land involved, and as to whether any of these lands would not be more suitable for industrial than agricultural purposes.  I disagree with the introduction of the reference to the Provisional Government in the amendment which goes forward, because I think, also, that that is unnecessary. The resolution or amendment which would get rid of that very objectionable thing that is in the amendment, is one that ought to be passed from this meeting here, and I am perfectly sure it would satisfy Deputy Ceannt as well as his own.  But except we can deal with   things systematically and clearly, and except we can get rid of useless talk about the Provisional Government, I do not see how we are to get any work done here at all.  I think, Mr. Chairman, you should tackle that word &ldquo;Provisional Government&rdquo; from the point of the Standing Orders, and see if some kind of phraseology will not be introduced and made incumbent on the House that would avoid mentioning it. 
     
    
      
       Beidir nar mhisde cupla focal as Gaodluinn a ra anois.  Na daoine sin go mhaith linn glaca leis an run so ba mhaith linn talamh&mdash;nu pe cuid de ata le fail&mdash;a thabairt do Lucht Airm na Poblachta, nu dos na daoine ata na gcuram ortha. Dheineamar socru seachtain o shoin, agus be bri an tsocruithe sin na go gcuirfimis le cheile ar feadh na dtri mi seo chughainn.  Ma bhionn a thuille de'n tsaghas san oibre a thuit amach anso indiu agus inde againn is baolach na oibreomid a laimh a cheile ar feadh tri la gan tri mhi a bhac.  Chim Teachtai ar an dtaobh eile den tigh ag mionghairidhe&mdash;daoine na tuigeann focal ata agam a ra, daoine na beidis anso in aon chor mara mbeadh ar dhein na fir troda. Is chun rud eigin a dheanamh do sna laochra san ata an run so os bhur gcoir. Nil puinn deifriochta idir an run agus an leasu a deineadh air, agus ni fheicim cad na thaobh na glacfai leis an run. 
     
    
      
       What seems to me to be wrong with this proposal is that it is not in form.  If it had been a resolution of instruction to the Cabinet to take this matter into consideration it would be all right.  But I certainly say that a law of this kind should not be passed.  And I say in the Dail now that in the old time that a resolution of that kind was not passed, and the person who brought it forward was instructed to put it into regular form.  Apart from the amendment, what would seem to me to be the proper thing would be to postpone it and have it put into form so that it could be passed as law.  Either that or convert it into an instruction to the Cabinet to go into the matter.  I certainly think in the old Dail there was a general consent that, in the form in which that is at the present time, it would be regarded as not in a proper form to be passed. 
     
    
      
       I think that the attitude of the Government in regard to this motion is very much similar to that of those people who used to say, centuries ago, that nothing good could come out of Nazareth.  They have admitted that the object of the motion is praiseworthy.  They have got up here and some of them said so.  I think it was the gentleman who said on one occasion that he would have to look for principle with a microscope who now opposes this motion on the ground of principle.  There is a principle in the motion, and that principle is that the land of Ireland belongs to the people of Ireland, and that those who fought for that land should have it now after it is evacuated by the enemy forces of Ireland. I am sure that there is no person on the side of the Government who would refuse to assent to the motion because the land may not come into their hands, or because they are not certain how the land is going to come into their hands. We do not want them to do anything dishonest, and certainly we all pre-suppose that the land has come honestly into their possession&mdash;it doesn't matter by what machinery&mdash;and the thing we ask them to do is, having the land, that they should proceed to divide it up amongst the people who are in sore need of it.  It has been said that the object of the motion is good; obviously, it is for that reason we ought to accept the motion. 
     
    
      
       I should like to draw attention to one fact that has been overlooked.  I appeal to all serious people on both sides to reflect that we must maintain the dignity of this sovereign assembly; and I ask them to realise that they do not maintain the dignity of this sovereign assembly if they present to the assembly one night, a proposed law, and pass it next day.  In no country in the world that I know of, except in a time of war or emergency of that kind, is a law presented one evening and passed the next day without adequate consideration.  That is not the way to deal with a serious subject, and we are making ourselves ridiculous in the eyes of thinking people if we deal with a subject in that way.  I do not think there is anybody who objects to the principle of the motion.  But I say it is a principle that a law of that kind is not passed except in a war emergency.  This matter of emergency decrees is a relic of the time when we were fighting England in the   field, and when we had to face things on the spur of the moment.  But that is not a worthy way to deal with the principal subject matter that will come before this assembly.  A great deal of unnecessary heat has been introduced into this matter.  The Minister of Agriculture was assailed when he said if you accept the words of this motion and act upon them as they stand, as you must act upon them, that a person who had the possession of land and was deprived of it by enemy forces would not get back his land, because you would be compelling the Government to give the land to landless people&mdash;the people whom you wish to benefit.  The whole thing is ill-considered, but the principle is a thing everybody will agree to.  But let us do it in a reasonable way.  We must realise that there is one vital distinction between the proposal and the amendment; that one is to do the thing here and now without giving proper consideration to the serious subject matter, whereas the amendment recommends that the thing be taken into serious consideration by the Government and acted upon.  In other words, that this Government, or the Provisional Government. have an opportunity of considering the matter before acting on it.  If you give them the opportunity, no doubt it can be done; but if you pass this without consideration you are bringing this assembly into contempt.  It is not right, except in a war emergency, to rush a thing like that. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move that the question be now put. 
     
    
      
       Before I put the question, as there seems to be general agreement on the principle involved in the motion, may I be permitted to suggest the following: That in the opinion of the Dail the lands which were in occupation of the enemy forces in Ireland, and which are now being evacuated, except such as are required for military purposes, be divided amongst landless men; that consideration be given by the proper authorities, that preference be given to those men or the dependents of those men who had been in active military service of the I.R.A. prior to the Truce of 1921, and that the Aireacht Talman be requested to give effect to this. 
     
    
      
       I would like to say that this House can do something more than give an opinion for the Provisional Government.  This assembly here is still&mdash;I insist on it&mdash;supreme in Ireland, and any Provisional Government or any other Government is subordinate to it. 
     
    
      
       A motion has been made that the question be now put.  I object to any member getting up and making three or four speeches. 
     
    
      
       The proposal was made by the Deputy Speaker himself. 
     
    
      
       My proposal was made to try to have general agreement on it.  The whole trouble is that we have no definite constitutional procedure for the passing of decrees and laws except in the sense of a resolution being brought forward.  This motion of Daithi Ceannt is in the sense of a resolution being brought forward here.  If we had a constitutional procedure, that motion would be the subject of two or three readings.  My idea was, that if there was general agreement on this it might be passed unanimously without making it a party question.  If there is not general agreement here I am compelled to put the resolution and amendment in the ordinary form. 
     
    
      
       If I might make the suggestion that it be an instruction to the Cabinet to consider at once whether all the lands that have been evacuated&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       Are the proposals, the resolution or the amendment&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I won't allow any alteration of my amendment. 
     
    
      
       That shows what they want. 
     
    
      
       There are deserving people anxious and willing to get land, and we are fiddling more or less like Nero while Rome is burning.  The poor people who want land are caught between two fires.  The basic principle is that landless men and uneconomic holders of farms should get some of this land&mdash;that is, landless men who gave   good service to this country during the past two years. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order.  The Deputy has moved that the question be now put. 
     
    
      
       He had the votes counted before he moved it. 
     
    
      
       I second that the motion be put. 
     
    
      
       The difficulty is this&mdash;the Provisional Government will have to find the finance for this against the hindrance of the opposition. 
     
    
      
       This is an instruction to the Cabinet. 
     
    
      
       Will the Minister of Finance of Dail Eireann try to make some endeavour to find the money otherwise?  Is his whole time to be given to the Provisional Government? 
     
    
      
       I will now put the question. 
     
    
      
       We are quite satisfied to accept the suggestion of the Minister for Defence. 
     
    
      
       I think there should be no division of forces where a division is not necessary. 
     
    
      
       I have no interest in this except that I knew that the Deputy who proposed it came from near Fermoy, where he saw a local need and he is interested in seeing it done.  I am disgusted with this party system. 
     
    
      
       Owing to the spirit which the opposition are displaying towards us I must insist on a division. 
     
    
      
       What concerns me in the matter is money.  Where is the money going to come from?  The Provisional Government can lend it to the people all right. 
     
    
      
       The Deputy Whip on the other side said I knew the number of votes I had.  That's my duty. 
     
    
      
       I move that it be an instruction to the Cabinet to consider at once whether all lands which were in occupation of enemy forces in Ireland and which have now been evacuated, except those which may be retained as necessary training grounds of the I.R.A., can be divided up in economic holdings and distributed amongst the landless men, preference being given to those men or dependants of those men who have been active members of the I.R.A. prior to the Truce of July, 1921, and that immediate action be taken in all possible cases. 
     
    
      
       I will accept it all right, but the position is an impossible one for me.  Nothing can be done on it. 
     
    
      
       Will the Minister of Defence put that in his proposal? 
     
    
      
       I do it by the leave of the House. 
     
    
      
       Will the proposer of the motion accept that proposal of the Minister of Defence? 
     
    
      
       Yes, I do. 
     
    
      
       I second the motion. 
       The amendment was then put as a substantive motion and passed unanimously. 
     
   
   
     REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS, DEATHS AND MARRIAGES. 
    
      
       Anois ta Abhair Ruin on Doctor O Cruadhlaoich, T.D., os ar gcoir.  (Motion by Doctor O Cruadhlaoich, T.D.). 
       &ldquo;Orduigheann Dail Eireann go ndeunfar gach paisde a thagann ar an saoghal, gach bas agus gach posadh do chlara i nGaedhilg amhain, agus go mbeidh se seo 'na dhlighe on gceud la de mhi Iuil, 1922.&rdquo;  (&ldquo;That Dail Eireann decrees that all births, deaths and marriages be registered in the Irish language only, and that this decree be put in force from July 1st, next&rdquo;). 
     
    
      
       Before he moves that, would it not be well if we come to an agreement about it, and   not be holding us up for three or four hours? 
     
    
      
       I beg to move the motion standing in my name. As to the feasibility of putting the motion into force, each dispensary district in the town and the rural district is the registration area, and the medical officer for each dispensary is the Registrar for the district.  He is chosen, of course, as registrar, as a matter of expediency; because the M.O. of a dispensary district holds dispensaries twice a week, and it is convenient for the people to attend there and have those records made.  There is no technical knowledge of any kind required for doing this registration work.  With regard to registration, all that is required is this&mdash; fill in the different columns in the book; and the entry in the first column is merely the date and place of birth, and the Christian name in the second; the class is indicated in the third, the name and surname of the father in the fourth, and then the signature of the informant, the date of the registration, and the signature of the registrar.  The registration of a death differs only in as much that the disease from which the deceased person suffered is entered in one column, and the medical nomenclature could be adhered to in that.  With regard to a marriage it is simply the names and the dates of the contracting parties, and the signatures, so that there is really no difficulty whatever in having it done.  It does not require any intimate knowledge of the language; one does not want to be even a student of the language in order to be a registrar of births, marriages and deaths in Irish.  The necessity for such an order is obvious to everybody, and it would be practical and feasible and would be no expense.  When this decree is issued no expense will be incurred. With regard to the necessity, it is perfectly obvious to each and everybody that everything should be done to stimulate the interest of the people in the Irish language.  By doing this you will be restoring to the people the use of their own Christian names, surnames and their place names, and in that way it would have a very far-reaching effect in bringing the language before the people.  I am confident that the House will pass it. 
     
    
      
       I second that. 
     
    
      
       Ni fheadar an ceart e seo do tharrac anuas anois. Ceist do sna daoine iseadh e.  Pe taobh ar a bhfuilimid taimid go leir i bhfabhar an Ghaedhilg do chur chun cinn.  Is doigh liom go bhfuil an-gha go ndeanfai rud eigin den tsaghas ata molta ag Doctuir O Cruadhlaoich, ach ceist iseadh i seo nach mor moran machtnaimh do dheanamh uirthi.  Tairgim go ceaptar Coiste den Tigh chun an cheist do breithniu agus go dtabharfa siad tuairisc duinn um thrathnona no ar maidin amaireach. 
     
    
      
       I do not think it is such an easy thing as Doctor O'Crowley says.  You have to put Irish on every name and an Irish rendering on every town and townland.  So it is not at all such a simple thing for every person.  It is a bigger thing than Doctor O'Crowley suggests.  But it is not necessary for the registrar to be a doctor. Any Gaelic League scholar in the district can be the registrar&mdash;he would take it for the same fees as the Doctor gets.  The fee is one shilling an entry.  You can give the appointment to anybody.  The Registrar-General could supply every person in Ireland with a book of the names and place names, because that will be necessary, and also a list of the names of people with names that are not pure Irish names; and the ones that are not purely Irish can be twisted to get an Irish rendering.  If I took the names in the district in which I was it would be hard to get an Irish rendering. 
     
    
      
       Would it be impertinent to ask if Doctor O'Crowley registered in Irish while he was registrar? 
     
    
      
       Undoubtedly, yes, I did.  There is a clergyman in my district, and for a number of years he did not send me a certificate that was not written in Irish. 
     
    
      
       Mayo is an Irish-speaking district; but I am thinking of places like Dublin where it is an hour's work in the morning for the various registration offices to fill in these names; and I think there would be very considerable difficulty doing this before the first July.  I think everybody wants it to be a success.  I do not know whom Doctor O'Crowley consulted.  There are many people for whom there might be   some objection, and I would suggest, in a certain case, anyway, such as Dublin City, where the knowledge of Irish is inconsiderable, that, for some time at any rate, there ought to be a bilingual registration or, at least, some machinery set up so that there would not be a danger of the non-success of this movement.  I think everybody will agree that if it will help the language an effort should be made to make it successful. 
     
    
      
       Ba mhaith liom cuidiu leis an run san, agus is doigh liom gur mithid duinn ainmneacha Gallda do chaitheamh uainn. Ta deachracht sa sceal, ach is beag rud na fuil deacracht ann.  Is ar na ndaoine ata an deacracht san do leigheas.  Da mba mhian le lucht na Dala e d'fheadfai Coiste do cheapa chun dul isteach sa sceal, no d'fheadfadh an Dail fein san do dheanamh, ach ba cheart e dheanamh. 
     
    
      
       I object to this, and I quite recognise in so doing I lay myself open to the misrepresentation of being against the language. Both my children were educated in the Irish language alone.  Their births were registered in Irish, one of them nine years ago and the other seven years ago; and in this matter I have done as much as one man could do.  But I object to this thing on the ground that it is unfair in the present state of our Irish development. If the proposal were that both languages should be used&mdash;that would be another thing; but it is unfair, in the present state of Ireland, to compel numbers of people who have not our view to accept our Gaelic ideals; and it is doubly unfair when you realise that this Dail had declared officially that it was to be bilingual.  Now, that was reasonable, that was fair, but this proposal would be an oppressive one, and would be unfair to the majority of our countrymen. 
     
    
      
       I would like to have names in Irish, but I do not agree that every doctor should be made do this&mdash;most of them do not know Irish at all&mdash;and certainly there is work for more than one man here in Dublin, trying to straighten out these names to Irish names.  I am not a very great Irish scholar, but I heard and have seen some extraordinary translations of some names in Irish in this country.  There is the name &ldquo;Nessan&rdquo; turned into &ldquo;Mac Niece.&rdquo;  There are a number of doctors who know nothing at all about Irish.  I spent, myself, an hour trying to convince a doctor to register a child in Irish. I spelled it for him, and then he called the next child he had by that name.  I suggest to Doctor O'Crowley he would change this resolution and have it to read &ldquo;Irish and English&rdquo;.  Then, when it came to the Registrar-General, he could straighten them out. 
     
    
      
       It can easily be amended by eliminating the word &ldquo;only&rdquo;. 
     
    
      
       In order to get through this quickly, may I put the question&mdash;if, up to this, in this country it has been legal to register in English only? 
     
    
      
       My marriage was registered in Irish, and in my son's case his birth was registered in Irish. 
     
    
      
       The idea behind this motion is that it should be legal for births, deaths and marriages to be in the Irish language.  The difficulty of carrying out the formality is another thing. 
     
    
      
       Caithfimid tosnu uair eigin.  Cuidighim leis seo agus is fearr duinn tosnu anois.  Ni haon leathsceal a ra na tuigeann na dochtuiri an Ghaedhilg. 
     
    
      
       I think if you were to hear the views of a few of the Deputies against it, that you would be doing the proper thing.  I remember it was very difficult to find names for old age pensioners.  If we do not consider it properly now it may present very serious difficulties in the carrying out of it.  If the thing could be properly done now it would be the right thing, but with the present state of education in Irish amongst the doctors and in the country generally, I do not believe it could be done properly.  With what Deputy Milroy says I agree. 
     
    
      
       We seem to be travelling fast if the Irish language is to become a party question. 
     
    
      
       Labhar Gaedhilg. 
     
    
      
       Well, as regards   the difficulties, if we want to create a Gaelic State I beg to point out that the English did not consider the question of placing us in a difficulty when they tried to place us in the position of having the English language.  As to the matter of registration, it is the case now that in every country district there is somebody or other qualified to take up the position of registrar who is able to do this work in Irish.  And if the existing registrars are not able or willing to do the work, I do not think that it should be an obstacle when there are other people available to step into their shoes.  As to having it bilingual, you could not possibly ask the registrars to double their work; the fees are small.  I beg to support the resolution. 
     
    
      
       I would like to say one word&mdash; that after another year it should not be permissible for any one to use any other language but Irish in registering births, et cetera.  I beg to move that Dail Eireann decrees that all births, deaths and marriages be registered in the Irish language; that this decree be put into force from July the first, next, and that registration be in Irish only from the following year, July, 1923.  Do not make it compulsory for the first year; it is not difficult to get books of Irish names and place names&mdash;not very difficult at all. 
     
    
      
       Does the proposer of the motion accept that? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       It is not possible to revive Irish in Ireland by law.  Compulsion will not do any good. If you advise the people to use Irish, very good; but if you are going to compel all and sundry to write down the names in Irish next July, the result will be that no one will know what to write down.  In the present state of the knowledge of Irish, where we have not got enough Irish teachers to go round, compulsion is no good.  It is very difficult to get every person to write his name in Irish; you would have a most extraordinary result.  To fill up the correct name of every townland is a matter of most alarming difficulty.  It is not correct for the Deputy to say that you do not require even a student's knowledge of Irish to do this.  The whole question of names is the most difficult of all, and so difficult that there are very few&mdash;I suppose there are not three&mdash; authorities on the question in Ireland. We have only one book on surnames, and the numbers on place names are very little; so the suggestion made by Deputy Mr. de Valera&mdash;that we should make it an advisory matter for the moment&mdash;is better.  It will be, obviously, the duty of any Government to get all the official forms printed in Irish. 
     
    
      
       I do not want to oppose this; but I do want to put a point of view that has not been put strongly enough.  What we want is a State in which Irish will be taught as a living language.  Now, the proposal that births, marriages and deaths, if any, after the first July, 1923, be registered in Irish, reminds me of the old G.A.A. rule that Irish be spoken as much as possible, and that after 1912 nothing but Irish be used in the playing field&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       The reason for that was that the language used on the playing field was so bad that it was decided to put it in Irish. 
     
    
      
       I only want to put the point of view that it is not by that resolution, but by getting the Irish back to its place as the national language that headway can be made.  I know something about the difficulties of place names.  Irish speakers argue at the present day as to the correct Irish to give a certain townland or town or parish. We do not want to oppose the motion; but I believe it is rather an unwise thing to put a definite date to a matter like this, that we all in our minds are certain cannot be adhered to. 
     
    
      
       If we get more agreement by saying we shall have Irish and English the first year&mdash;the English being used to prevent mistakes the first year, I would move: 
       &ldquo;That Dail Eireann decrees that all births, deaths and marriages be registered in the Irish and English languages till July 1923; to be put in force on the 1st July next; and that they be registered in Irish only after July 1st, 1923.&rdquo; 
       With regard to the Minister of Finance, it is the old argument of the egg and the hen.  There will be no need for decrees if the other thing comes along.  Let us: try this, so as to get Irish names as much as possible. 
     
     
    
      
       There is one name here and it occurs to me that it is pure Gaelic at the present moment; but it is translated into Irish from one portion of Gaelic into another portion of Gaelic&mdash;MacCosgair.  It is a Cavan name, and it is in all the books of reference as McCosgair. 
     
    
      
       The proposer of the original motion having accepted this form of it, I wish to put this before the assembly: 
       &ldquo;That Dail Eireann decrees that all births, deaths and marriages be registered in the Irish language only after 1st July, 1923; and in Irish and English from the 1st July, 1922, to the 30th June, 1923.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Taim-se 'na choinnibh sin.  Ni chuirfeadh se fhiachaibh ar na ndaoine nach maith leo an Ghaedhilg i usaid.  Is feidir le heinne gur mian leis e gan ach Gaedhilg d'usaid. Ni bheidh ar einne i d'usaid go ceann bliana. 
     
    
      
       Substitute for the words &ldquo;may be&rdquo; the words &ldquo;shall be&rdquo;. 
     
    
      
       I now put the motion: 
       &ldquo;That Dail Eireann decrees that all births, deaths and marriages may be registered in the Irish or English language; and that this decree be put in force on July 1st, 1922; and that births, marriages and deaths shall be registered in Irish only, after the 1st July, 1923.&rdquo; 
       The motion passed unanimously. 
     
   
   
     AONACH TAILTEANN. 
    
      
       submitted the programme for Aonach Tailteann, as follows.  It was taken as read. 
       
         An Eight-day Programme for Dublin. 
       
       August 6th to 13th inclusive. 
       The revival of the Aonach Tailteann, or ancient games of Tara, has been mooted frequently in recent years, but no concrete step in this direction materialised until the late Cabinet, under President de Valera, conceived the idea of an Irish Race Olympic in conjunction with the Irish Race Convention. In consequence of the shortness of time and the heavy details involved, the Gaelic Athletic Association could not accede to the Paris proposal, and it was then definitely decided early in November, with the concurrence of the Cabinet, to bring off this big Athletic Carnival in Dublin on or about Horse Show Week of the present year.  The date has therefore been fixed for the second week in August, running in many different venues simultaneously from the 6th to the 13th inclusive. 
       The original conception of Aonach Tailteann has undergone many changes.  At first it was thought that items strictly common to the Greek Olympiad, embracing the Gaelic race at home and abroad, should alone be attempted.  Subsequently, modifications to suit special Irish phases were introduced; but, finally, the following programme, which goes far beyond anything attempted at the Greek Olympiads, was agreed to: 
       INTERNATIONAL SECTION. 
       ATHLETICS. 
       100 Metres Flat. 
       200 Metres Flat. 
       400 Metres Flat. 
       800 Metres Flat. 
       1,500 Metres Flat. 
       4 Mile Run. 
       26 Mile Marathon. 
       100 Metres Hurdle. 
       400 Metres Hurdle. 
       3,200 Metre Steeplechase. 
       Standing Broad Jump. 
       Standing High Jump. 
       Running Broad Jump. 
       Running High Jump. 
       Hop, Step and Jump. 
       Three Jumps. 
       Pole Jump. 
       
         Throwing the Hammcr. 
       
       56 lb. without fellow. 
       56 lb. over bar. 
       Discus, Free Style. 
       Javelin, Free Style. 
       1,600 Metres Relay Race. 
       
         Cycling. 
       
       One Lap, 600 Metres. 
       1,000 Metres. 
       5,000 Metres. 
       20 Kilometres. 
       100 Kilometres. 
     
     
        Boxing, Football, Hurling, Rounders, Handball.  Rising and Striking the Hurling Ball.  Long Distance Place Football Kick.  Swimming. 
     
       For Ladies. 
     
     Camogie and Rounders. 
     NATIONAL SECTION. 
     The following events will be confined to Irish men and women resident in Ireland: 
     Fencing. 
     Gymnastics. 
     Tug-of-war. 
     Rowing. 
     Motor Boats. 
     Piper Band Competition. 
     Brass and Reed Competition. 
     Inter-College Athletics. 
     3,500 Metres Walk. 
     Team Revolver and Pistol Shooting. 
     Rifle Range, Revolver and Clay-bird Shooting. 
     Yacht Racing. 
     Motor Cycle Racing. 
     Step Dancing. 
     4 Hand Reel. 
     8 Hand Reel. 
     16 Hand Reel. 
     Lofting the Bowl. 
     Inter-School Athletics for Boys. 
     
       For Ladies. 
     
     Swimming. 
     It will be seen at once that the foregoing is at least twice as comprehensive as anything hitherto attempted in foreign countries.  Such items as rowing, motor boats and motor cycle racing, yacht racing, step dancing and band competitions, are each a part of the social life of the nation, and their introduction will help to vary the attractions of the Carnival and give national colour as well as stimulus to these widely divergent forms of public amusement. Needless to say, the advancement of the essentially Irish past-times of football, hurling, rounders (the parent of baseball), handball and camogie is the primary object of this Aonach; but it has secondary, yet very important objects also.  We see in our games, through their triennial cycle, the surest means of permanently cementing the scattered units of the Gael, as well as the assertion through this medium&mdash;the Greek Olympics&mdash; of our national athletic powers; and, finally, it is intended that Ireland should be drawn closer to Europe through occasional internationals in the capitals of the Continent.  Nor do I wish to omit a reference to the national value of fencing and gymnastic development, or rifle or revolver competitions. By the inclusion of band competitions we hope to help the cultured life of the country, and through other items the mechanical and industrial phases. 
     It is anticipated that, to a greater or less extent, the States, Canada, Newfoundland, Argentine, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, England, Scotland and Wales will show up in the International Athletic event, and I have now appointed Mr. Dobbyn of Belfast, Chairman of the Ulster Council of the G.A.A., to proceed to America with a view to organisation.  This will involve a heavy expenditure but there is no alternative.  Within the next few days an organiser will also be sent to Great Britain, whilst the remoter countries will have to see to themselves. I have to say here that I have had the utmost difficulty in securing suitable men for the home work as well as for the mission abroad, and I should welcome the co-operation of members of An Dail on the General Committee of the Aonach whose work is of an exceedingly heavy and responsible nature. 
     As a consequence of the present political difference it is, I suppose, only natural that suspicions should permeate many non-political activities. I should like it to be understood, however, that the G.A.A. does not meddle in sectional politics. It has always been sufficiently sensible to mind its own business, and An Dail can rest assured that this will also be my guiding principle in conduct of Aonach Tailteann. 
     Overleaf will be found an application for extra financial assistance to meet the requirements of office work and organisation, and though this amount was included in my estimates   submitted in November, this is the first opportunity I have got of seeking the approval of An Dail. 
     Mise, 
     Seamus Breathnach, 
     Director. 
     28th February, 1922. 
     AONACH TAILTEANN ESTIMATES. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Voted by the Cabinet, November 1st 
             £2,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Expended to date (including £300 set aside for American Organisation) 
             £500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Unexpended Balance 
             £1,500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             
             
           
         
       
     
     
       Estimated expenditure to cover the period up to August: 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Premises 
             £200 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Office Fittings 
             £200 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Stationary Fittings 
             £750 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Advertising 
             £500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Staff 
             £1,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Organising England, Scotland and Wales 
             £100 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Miscellaneous Expenditure 
             £750 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             
             
             £3,500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Already Expended 
             £500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Total Requirements 
             £4,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Voted in November 
             £2,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Balance now required 
             £2,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             
             
           
         
       
     
     Seamus Breathnach. 
     28th February, 1922. 
    
      
        I move that the sum of two thousand pounds necessary for the continuance of the organising programme up to the first of August be granted. 
     
    
      
        Hoping that it will prevent it being a party question I second that. 
     
    
      
        I beg to support it, and in doing so I would like to ask the Minister of Education to look after the Seoinin Colleges of Belvidere, Castleknock and Blackrock. I hope the Minister will see to that. 
     
     Motion put and agreed to. 
   
   
     ELECTION DEPOSITS. 
    
      
       I move: 
       &ldquo;That this assembly is of opinion that the tax of one hundred and fifty pounds to be paid by each Deputy in nomination for any constituency is an unfair and unnecessary tax, and should be abolished.&rdquo; 
     
     I hope the motion may be received in the spirit in which the last motion has been received.  The charge of one hundred and fifty pounds has been a serious trouble in Ireland in connection with the elections.  From a purely technical point of view and from a material point of view not only of the candidates but their constituents, in Ireland the grievance has been felt so acutely that it is only the fact that Westminster was looked upon as so remote a place to fight it, and that we were entirely dependent on our own resources, that prevented us, years ago, raising this question.  In some constituencies a few men are able to produce the sum without inconvenience to themselves.  The elections, after all, are not organised for the convenience of the wealthy, and all the poor are affected by the tax, and Labour must feel the stress very acutely.  The injury to the public service is so serious&mdash;in limiting the range of choice&mdash;that I sincerely hope that this Dail will take this matter up and, by a resolution of the House, declare that it recognises the seriousness of the matter, and that this impediment to the full exercise of the franchise&mdash;because that is what it comes to&mdash;will be swept away.  I know that there are two difficulties in the way. One is legislative&mdash;that, I presume, can be got rid of.  The other is financial, but I believe that the financial difficulty can be got rid of equally easily.  The Dail could express its opinion; and if there is a power behind the Dail that can settle this question it would be hardly our business to dispute it in a matter of the kind which affects the liberty of the people.  We are not only a democratic body but we are moving to be more democratic than the constitution has allowed us to be up to this. And if we pass this resolution it would be to the convenience of the people of Ireland, and the people outside Ireland, that the democratic feeling of the people of Ireland would be emancipated. This would enlarge the field of choice, and relieve Ireland of a burden which has   been felt by individual candidates and also by the people who had to supply the money out of their own pockets. 
    
      
       Cuidighim leis sin trath is nar dhin einne ar an dtaobh eile e.  Bhi suil agam go ndeanfadh an taobh eile e ach nior dhineadar. 
     
    
      
       My recollection of that was that it was something for the purpose merely of establishing the bona-fides of the candidates, and that it was refunded in the event of the candidate getting one-eighth of the total vote.  I do not know exactly what can be said for the resolution, but it seems to me that, if there is any large body of opinion in a constituency in favour of a candidate going forward, that he won't have much difficulty in finding one hundred and fifty pounds to establish his bona-fides.  The mention of Labour candidates seemed to me the strongest argument in favour of the resolution. But even the Labour candidate, I understand, would have an organisation capable of backing him to that extent.  I don't know as to the possibility of making any change in the existing machinery of the election law in time for the coming election. 
     
    
      
       If the candidate gets one-eighth of the total poll he gets his money back.  It will be given back to him then.  It was given back in the case of Pierce McCann.  You want to do away with the bogus candidate. We know in Dublin, at Municipal Elections, a certain man was well-known to the Dublin people.  He had to be sent out of the country because he became a nuisance.  He got nominated for every vacancy in Dublin, and people had to go round giving him five pound notes and ten pound notes to withdraw. You will have the same thing again. Anybody who can secure one-eighth of the votes is entitled to his money back. 
     
    
      
       Have you got some information under proportional representation about this one-eighth? 
     
    
      
       One-eighth of the quota. 
     
    
      
       I support the idea behind this motion.  I support it because I heard so many complaints from Labour organisers or Labour Unions that could not possibly find the money.  Deputy MacCarthy feels strongly on the subject as, apparently, the money that was lodged by our party in 1918 has not yet been paid back.  I think that shows what the Corporation thinks of it. I quite agree with those who said that one hundred and fifty pounds is a small sum that any organisation can get together; that applies to city, but it does not apply to country districts at all. 
     
    
      
       I do not agree that Labour bodies in this country object to this one hundred and fifty pounds.  I know what I am talking about&mdash;the Labour bodies in Ireland don't object to it.  I believe the reason it was introduced was that certain people here in Dublin resorted to the method whereby seven candidates of the one name were deliberately nominated with a view of confusing the issue.  A party on one side or the other might be guilty of the same thing.  Labour might be guilty of the same.  Mind, politics are very dirty.  It was with a view to doing away with any possibility of such tactics that such a thing was brought in; and I think it was very necessary.  None of us can be accused of doing it if there is such a provision there. 
     
    
      
       I quite agree as to the necessity of guarding. I remember there were thirteen of my own name nominated against me.  Some of them had been in Glasnevin for thirteen years.  They couldn't withdraw, but we had to resurrect others to with draw for them.  Others were at the trade in the way that Deputy MacCarthy says&mdash;we had to buy them.  But I do think we ought agree that the sum should be reduced.  It might be hard on even a large organisation.  If we left the fee at fifty pounds it probably would meet all sides.  If there is any organisation that can't produce fifty pounds their candidate would not have much chance of being elected, and if a man has not much chance there is no use of putting forward his candidature.  I think a fee of some kind is necessary so that one can be assured that the candidates are bonafide. One hundred and fifty pounds is a hardship.  No doubt it was put in the spirit that Mr. MacGrath mentions, but the figure is too high, and if it was put on at fifty pounds it would meet all sides.  I would move that it be a   recommendation to this Dail that the figure be reduced to fifty pounds. 
     
    
      
       I would like to know exactly what this means.  Has it reference to the forthcoming election, with which we have no power whatever to deal, or to the whole of the conditions under which that election is to be fought.  If it is merely an expression of opinion I have no fault to find with Mr. O'Kelly's suggestion. 
     
    
      
       It is only an expression of opinion. 
     
    
      
       The proposer says quite the contrary. 
     
    
      
       It is not in the sense of going into the whole question of the franchise laws. 
     
    
      
       If it is an expression of opinion, if it has nothing to do with the next election which we all have to fight, I quite agree with Mr. O'Kelly. 
     
    
      
       The amount to be expended by this body would run to thirty thousand or forty thousand pounds, and I think that is a terrible imposition on the country, and that the State should recognise a system of imposition which taxes the people for doing service to their country. 
     
    
      
       I do not think that is a tax; that is not a correct way to describe it.  The tax is upon a person who cannot secure one-eighth of the total number of votes polled.  If there are forty thousand cast and there are four candidates to be elected, you must divide forty thousand by four. 
     
    
      
       By four? 
     
    
      
       Permit me to tell you what the case is.  You divide a quota of ten thousand by eight, and that would mean that the candidate who presents himself for election who, out of forty thousand, gets one thousand two hundred and fifty votes, gets his money back; if he cannot get one thousand two hundred and fifty, I think he ought to be taxed.  It is a good job to tax him; and everybody who has ever fought a strongly contested election knows that a candidate opposed to him who only gets one-eigth of the number the winner gets ought to be taxed; one-eighth of the total number of votes polled divided by the total number of members to be elected. 
     
    
      
       I rise to refer to what is really the most important thing of all.  The unsuccessful candidate if he polls one-eighth of the quota gets back his money; the successful candidate, if he polls nine-tenths of the votes of his constituents, will not get back his money if he refuses to take what is an objectionable oath&mdash;as has been the case with all of us here.  We refused to go to Westminster, and our one hundred and fifty pounds is still lodged with the British Government.  That was the case at the last election.  In a future election in Ireland the same thing may apply, and you may have a body of Irishmen who may not be able to take such an oath and be elected, while if they had been defeated it would be returned to them.  This provision about the oath was not in the original Bill as introduced into the British House of Commons, at all.  But it was pointed out that the Sinn Feiners had a certain policy, and if they followed that policy, that they might not attend&mdash;so it was decided to try and induce them to attend, to offer them a bribe; and if they did not, to penalise them.  So that is how it has come about that our money was retained altogether although we were successful in all the elections.  If it were possible, I believe that the opposition would, if they could, drop this business&mdash;anyway, with regard to the form of the oath.  I am sure that they will give it every consideration, and not try to tax their opponents in the manner the British Government did. 
     
    
      
       I think we should have no one hundred and fifty pounds; I think it is a relic of the old time.  There is no reason why any man should have to pay up one hundred and fifty pounds, but there is a danger, as Deputy MacCarthy has said, of bogus candidates.  But to avoid that, why not get men in preference to money?  Why not get the candidates nominated by one hundred and fifty voters? 
     
    
      
       There is an amendment which I have not got in writing. 
     
     
    
      
       If it produces unanimity at this meeting, I don't want to take a vote.  I would be quite happy to agree to Mr. Sean T. O'Kelly's suggestion and have fifty pounds instead of one hundred and fifty pounds. 
     
    
      
       I ask the Deputy for Offaly to put in his suggestion as an amendment because it is, I think, a better proposition than either of them. 
     
    
      
       That is, that each candidate for a constituency is to get his papers signed by one hundred and fifty voters. 
     
    
      
       I will certainly accept that. 
     
    
      
       I am against that amendment.  The man who signed that nomination paper does not bind himself to vote for the candidate for whom he signed the papers.  That won't get out of the difficulty of the bogus candidate.  I don't care if you reduce it from one hundred and fifty pounds to one hundred pounds or seventy-five pounds, but there must be some fee lodged if you are going to have a properly conducted election.  Deputy Stack's point is covered all right, even under the original Act.  When you sit and take the oath you can get your money back.  Men of straight principle who didn't get their money back all along, can, when Parliament is dissolved; the Free State can afford to pay it back. 
     
    
      
       Quite a number of us in 1918 were elected, and we had to pay one hundred and fifty pounds; we were elected a second time, but the money paid in the first instance has not come back. 
     
    
      
       Parliament is still sitting. 
     
    
      
       I think that Mr. MacCarthy's point about the likelihood of bogus nominations might very well obtain under the old system, but on a straight vote under the Proportional Representation it is not likely to happen. 
     
    
      
       More than ever. 
     
    
      
       Yes, more than ever. 
     
    
      
       I think we will all agree if you agree on a figure.  There ought to be some money lodged. 
     
    
      
       This is rather too big a thing to decide now.  Could it not be put back to the next Session? Meantime, something could be done. Something should be drawn up on the lines suggested by the Deputy for Offaly, some guarantee.  The one hundred and fifty signatures appears to me to be very good.  But then, these signatures could be obtained without their being genuine. We might get some way of checking we don't see at the present moment. 
     
    
      
       Timnal blian o shoin bhi run os coir na Dala agus chuirimear deich agus fiche mile puint i leataoibh i gcoir no dtoghchan. Do bhi se sin ceart an uair sin.  Ta se eagcoireach anois.  The Dail, this day twelve months, passed thirty thousand pounds for the elections on the following May.  That principle of one hundred and fifty pounds was right then.  Why is it wrong now?  No member then objected to it, although this country was in the throes of war.  They knew very well that we could do nothing, because we were using the British machine, and we were squaring our consciences in using that machine.  Yes, we were; and we have high principles now; and the national apostates now are different men to the men we had then.  I say this is a red herring driving at something else, and if we do not see that hundred and fifty pounds there you will have all sorts of candidates at the next June election&mdash;you will have seven Mooneys and one hundred and twenty-one Bolands.  You will have all those bogus candidates, and that is your only safeguard&mdash;by keeping that fee of one hundred and fifty pounds there.  You can form other machinery in the new Dail or Free State Government, and any candidate that you think is bogus&mdash;have him put into jail or hang him. 
     
    
      
       I wonder would the last Deputy agree to the suggestion that we should do what we did last year because we regarded it as the way of upholding the Republic?  We decided, acting in accordance with the purpose for which the funds of the Dail were collected, that thirty thousand pounds should be made available for the election. Perhaps if Dail Eireann put the sum   of thirty thousand pounds now as the figure for the purpose of maintaining the Republic it would meet the case. Our attitude with regard to this whole question is this: we have used British guns against themselves; there is no reason why we should not use British machinery against this.  The present Cabinet has a policy which brings them in contact with Britain, and it gives them a certain power for arranging procedure. As their policy is the policy of the majority here in this Dail, there is no reason why they should not be able to get any views which they strongly hold &mdash;get these views impressed on those who are devising this machinery.  If, as far as we are concerned, they improve the British gun and we can get it, I have no objection whatever in using it.  This is admitted by President Griffith and others to be an unfair and heavy tax. 
     
    
      
       I did not say so. 
     
    
      
       Well, perhaps I am wrong.  But if there is an oath, for example, which a large number of candidates may not be able to take conscientiously, undoubtedly it would be a heavy tax.  About this decree, then, I would say this about these elections. I do not know if we will have an opportunuity of discussing it again; I have a question to raise as to our registers; I think if you want to get the will of the Irish people you will have to get that machinery changed. 
     
    
      
       We have to fight this election on the existing franchise. 
     
    
      
       Why? 
     
    
      
       Because we do not want the people to be held back any further.  We will not have this red herring, and this motion that has been put down is, in my judgment, an attempt to obstruct the election.  We will not have that election obstructed. We have agreed for three months, and after that we are going ahead with the election.  We have to use the existing register and the existing franchise and the existing forms.  In so far as this is an expression of opinion I would not object to it, but as a device to obstruct the election I do object. 
     
    
      
       I could prove that you have no legal register at the present time, and I brought it up purposely that you might take advantage of the three or four months.  There is no legal register at present&mdash;and I can prove it. 
     
    
      
       I move now the rejection of this motion. 
     
    
      
       One of the most frequent statements from the other side is to try to get the free will of the Irish people.  Now, this one hundred and fifty pounds was an imposition upon any candidate representing the popular view.  Everyone knows the origin of that.  It was imposed in order to prevent Sinn Fein candidates from standing at the 1921 election; it did not appear in the original draft of the Bill.  It was then put in as an inducement to us to go back upon our repeated election declarations that we would not take the oath in the British House of Commons.  It was imposed there, either to induce us to do that, or to prevent us putting forward candidates at all.  It is important that, in the coming elections, no section of the Irish people should be hindered from putting forward candidates.  There are a number of minor political parties in the country; some of whom hold opinions in favour of the Treaty, and some against it.  It is easy for those who are certain that they have behind them numerous resources to say that one hundred and fifty pounds is not a grave restriction upon the popular voice.  But those who know that this tax must be met in addition to the large expenses of running a candidate for a large constituency, know very well that it will be the last straw, as it will prevent candidates who represent certain vital opinions in Irish life from going forward.  It is simply an attempt to impose upon the Republican Party a handicap in the race. It is a repetition of what was done by England upon Republican Parties in the past.  If they were genuine when they said they were taking the Treaty as a stepping-stone towards the Republic, their very first aim would have been to secure that the coming elections should have been held in the very fairest possible way.  It is not true to say that they cannot, at this stage, alter the conditions under which the election is being held. The election is being held directly at their wish.  It is not being held, as the   Ard-Fheis conclusively proved, by the wish of the Irish people.  One thing which the President of the Republic was afraid to take a division upon at the Ard-Fheis was upon the motion which stood in the name of the Minister of Finance&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       We were not afraid of it. 
     
    
      
       When he got up and said he was not going to stand for the trammelling of the expression of the will of the people he was met by the unanimous cry from that Ard-Fheis that there should be no election.  Now, I say to the President of the Republic, who always pretends to pay such deference to the will of the Irish people, that instead of refusing to accept this motion, it is up to him to go to the English people who are ordering this election and who are, apparently, regulating the manner in which it shall be held, and say that it must be the freest possible election that can be held in Ireland, and every political party who wants to put forward a candidate must have an opportunity of doing so, and this tax must be removed.  It only shows what we have, all along, seen in Irish history&mdash;the demoralisation of all parties in Ireland who have anything to do with the English.  The refusal of the President of the Republic to accept the motion only shows that he is not concerned with the free expression of the peoples' will. 
     
    
      
       After the shamelessly characteristic speech that has been made by the late member for Monaghan I wish to say this&mdash;there is nobody here, or few at least, who believe in their hearts that I would play any trick of that nature.  We have got to have this election.  If this question of one hundred and fifty pounds were genuinely raised I would not object but I do not believe it is a tax at all.  Surely the members here who are opposing us will get, at least, one-eighth of the votes. 
     
    
      
       We believe we will get in. 
     
    
      
       I am prepared to agree that every member of this Dail should get his one hundred and fifty pounds. 
     
    
      
       If he is a candidate supporting the Republic&mdash;not otherwise. 
     
    
      
       That is quite right.  We are going as parties, but I am prepared to agree with President de Valera on that point. 
     
    
      
       We will not take that. 
     
    
      
       The motion as it stands in the name of Count Plunkett is before us. 
     
    
      
       I am sure we could all agree on the amendment of Doctor MacCartan. 
     
    
      
       The motion as altered now reads that the fee be reduced from one hundred and fifty pounds to fifty pounds.  Doctor MacCartan's amendment is that each candidate should secure one hundred and fifty nominators. 
     
    
      
       I withdraw my amendment. 
     
    
      
       Now there is only the motion before the assembly. 
     
    
      
       I accept the alteration; that is, that instead of the word &ldquo;abolished&rdquo; the words &ldquo;reduced to fifty pounds&rdquo; be substituted. 
     
    
      
       I move a direct negative.  I suggest that Count Plunkett did not put in that motion purely in the interests of the electors. We have got to have a fair do on each side of the House. 
     
    
      
       I will speak a few words on this motion.  The motive for this became revealed when the Deputy for East Clare said that the men on the other side who were in contact with the British could get the machinery changed. And if they did that another Deputy from the other side would get up and say: &ldquo;You used your influence with Lloyd George.&rdquo;  We are not going to have any more of this sort of thing. Everyone on the other side knows that this one hundred and fifty pounds is not a real impediment.  I would support anyone who moved honestly that it be reduced to fifty pounds, or I would support Doctor MacCartan's amendment.   From the speeches that were made by the Deputy from Monaghan who, of course, is not prepared to face his constituents, I would say this is not an honest motion, and that it is done for the purpose of denying the Irish people their right to their free will.  We have heard to-day that Dail Eireann is supreme.  This Dail Eireann is not supreme&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       It is. 
     
    
      
       This Dail Eireann is not supreme.  The people of this country are supreme, and no amount of autocracy is going to deny the people of this country, or take that supremacy from them.  We have been anxious to support everything.  We did come to an agreement at the Ard-Fheis.  The reasons for that agreement are trotted out by the Deputy from Monaghan, who has no claim to speak for Monaghan. But those that entered into an agreement with us knew that we were not more anxious than they were.  We were not prepared to face an amendment vote or a vote in our favour; we were trying to preserve unity; we did it as best we could and for two days now we have been kept here, hearing nothing but obstruction. There has not been a single obstruction idea put forward here by the majority, and they are keeping back our work by motions of this kind.  Now, we are going to have a line up on this thing. 
     
    
      
       The Deputy for Monaghan would say this&mdash;that he is as ready to face his constituents in Monaghan as the Minister of Finance is prepared to face his constituents in Cork or Armagh. 
     
    
      
       I protest against the speech of the Minister of Finance.  And it is only dishonest minds who read dishonesty into other peoples' actions.  I have supported this because, in my experience, I have come across the hardest of all difficulties in the way of small bodies with, perhaps, new thought to give to the world being given an opportunity of getting their idea expressed. I support it because it is a democratic measure, and I absolutely resent being misrepresented by the Minister of Finance in his desire to get headlines in the paper.  Why has he been nick-named the member for Fleet Street? 
     
    
      
       In bringing forward this motion, I brought it forward without party consideration, and solely in the interests of Ireland. 
     
    
      
       We have wasted time enough at it seeing that this Dail can't change the law with regard to the forthcoming elections.  If that is so we are talking here for an hour to no purpose. What's the use of doing all this? Can't we leave it until after the elections, when the people who will come in then will have the power to make laws?  We have been discussing this now, and I don't know whether the vote is one way or another, whether it will effect a change of machinery.  Therefore, I would suggest that, the matter having been discussed, that the question be dropped, and that we proceed to the next business.  If we are going to show by passing this motion that it can be put into effect I can agree with it; but if it has no effect I do not see why we should waste our time in discussing motions which are absolutely futile. 
     
    
      
       We were all unanimous in coming to the conclusion that one hundred and fifty pounds should not be paid, and we protested against it.  Now, we are told that the elections will be held.  Why not start now on a democratic basis?  To expect the people to keep on for some time&mdash; are we going to keep it?  I think it more suitable for the sixteenth or seventeenth century, and those who speak about democratic ways, and about helping to build up a new Ireland are going the wrong way about it.  It is their boast that they want the free will of the people. 
     
    
      
       I move that the question be now put. 
     
    
      
       Have you accepted the withdrawal of Doctor MacCartan's amendment? 
     
    
      
       I have. 
     
    
      
       The Speaker has ruled unfairly.  That amendment could not be withdrawn without the unanimous consent of the House. 
     
    
      
       I cannot allow a statement to be made about my   ruling.  I am not here as Speaker or Deputy Speaker.  I am trying to do my best in the matter, and I will not allow anybody to say that I have shown bias in the matter, because I am doing my best. 
     
    
      
       Take me as dissenting from your statement. 
     
    
      
       I must get cut of the Chair if there is any further question about it.  You are not going to see me in the Chair in the morning. 
     
    
      
       I want to explain if your statement was intended for me, that I think it is customary to seek leave of the House to withdraw an amendment.  It is customary to get the unanimous assent of the House. 
     
    
      
       It was got. 
     
    
      
       Therefore I wish you to record that I object to permitting Doctor MacCartan to withdraw his amendment. 
     
    
      
       It was put to the House. 
     
    
      
       Doctor MacCartan moved an amendment which was seconded by Mr. Collins, and we were prepared to accept that amendment without a division; and you did not get the unanimous consent of the House to withdraw it. 
     
    
      
       I do not think they are aware of the fact that the Deputy Speaker asked the House if the amendment could be withdrawn, and there was no dissent. 
     
    
      
       He certainly asked permission. 
     
    
      
       There was no discussion whether the amendment was withdrawn or not.  The only question before the House now is that the question be now put. 
     
    
      
       I leave it to the Ceann Comhairle himself&mdash;did he ask the leave of the House to withdraw it? 
     
    
      
       Yes, I did. The fact of the matter is that there was much talking all the time. 
     
    
      
       For the information of the ex-Ceann Comhairle I would say that it is not necessary to get the unanimous consent of the House. 
       Motion put and declared lost, the voting being 40 for and 50 against. 
     
   
   
     THE ADJOURNMENT. 
    
      
       I move that the House do now adjourn till ten-fifty-five a.m., to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       And I move that we meet in the Mansion House if it is to be got. 
     
    
      
       I see no reason for changing our present quarters. 
     
    
      
       I can readily understand that the other side do not desire publicity. 
     
    
      
       The Clerk informs me that it would be impossible to get the place without a day's notice. 
     
    
      
       We would find that out in five minutes. 
     
    
      
       It can be got to-morrow.  As a matter of fact there is no notice necessary at all. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask the President of the Republic, through you, if the record of all previous proceedings of the Dail&mdash;of the first and second Dail&mdash;will be made available for inspection by the members? 
     
    
      
       Put down the question and it will be answered. 
     
    
      
       I think there is a question like that on the supplemental list of questions.  Now, it has been proposed by Deputy Kevin O'Higgins that the House adjourn till ten-fifty-five a.m. to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       And that we meet at that time in the Mansion House, if it be available. 
     
    
      
       I would like to add an amendment that we begin at eleven o'clock sharp, no matter who is here. 
     
     
    
      
       You can if the Ceann Comhairle is here.  If I were in the position of the Ceann Comhairle, if I were here at the time I would sit in the Chair.  But I refuse to sit in the Chair when I come in, as the Dail has a Speaker and Deputy Speaker. 
     
    
      
       Suppose we agree now that you take the Chair at eleven o'clock, and if the Ceann Comhairle comes in later you can continue to take his place. 
     
    
      
       Something to avoid this waste of time. 
     
    
      
       Would it be in order?  In reference to this matter, we have no vice-chairman, and I would like to have a motion to that effect&mdash;that we have a vice-chairman definitely appointed so that the Chair would be taken automatically. 
     
    
      
       I will take the motion first that we adjourn. 
       This was unanimously agreed to. 
     
    
      
       Now, about the place of meeting to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       We have adjourned, sir. 
     
    
      
       Absolutely dishonest, sharp practice. 
     
    
      
       The Clerk of the House informs me that it would be utterly impossible for himself and his staff to make the arrangements necessary. That is what he says in the matter&mdash;that the arrangements regarding the police and whatever other formalities he would have to arrange could not be done now at this short notice.  He has work that will occupy him till eleven o'clock to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       I might mention that the Clerk of the House had plenty of time because this matter was mentioned before luncheon to-day by the Deputy for Roscommon. 
     
    
      
       I can only mention what he says, and if it is impossible, it is impossible. 
     
    
      
       It is not impossible. 
     
    
      
       He says it is impossible for him now to arrange to have a change to the Mansion House to-morrow morning. 
       The House adjourned at 7 p.m. till 10.55 a.m. on the following morning. 
     
   
 