 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Cromadh ar obair an lae ar 3.10 p.m.  Bhi an Ceann Comhairle, Micheal O hAodha, sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - DESTROYED PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 
    
      
       To ask the President if his attention has been drawn to a Resolution recently passed by the Institute of Architects of Ireland, putting on record its conviction that the partially destroyed public buildings of Dublin, such as the Custom House and the Four Courts, should be most carefully preserved and, as far as possible, restored to their former condition, and that, in the meantime, all necessary steps should be taken to protect the walls and structure generally from injury by weather or otherwise, until restoration is possible?  And to ask, further, what measures are being taken to attend to these matters? 
     
    
      
       The Resolution in question has been brought to my notice. The necessity of the preservation from weather of the remains of the Custom House, the Four Courts, and the Post Office, has not been lost sight of by the Government.  Inspections have been made by the Board of Works from time to time, and it has been definitely ascertained that no appreciable injury has so far occurred from the effects of the weather to those parts of the ruined structures which there is a reasonable possibility of preserving.  The question of reconstructing the buildings in whole or in part is a very large question which is receiving the careful consideration of the Government. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - LATE MR. HICKEY, OF THURLES.  COMPENSATION CLAIM. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance whether he is   aware that Mr. Hickey, Thurles, was murdered by Black and Tans on March 10th, 1921, as a result of which his young widow was obliged to close down and leave their business establishment at considerable financial loss; whether he has received any claim for compensation for the loss of her husband and the destruction of their business, and if he will endeavour to expedite the settlement of this and other such claims. 
     
    
      
       The claim referred to has been received.  The arrangements under which the Government will accept liability for compensation in respect of personal injury are being considered in relation to a Bill to amend the Criminal Injuries Acts which it is proposed shortly to introduce.  The Government are most anxious to expedite settlement of these matters. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - SOUTH TIPPERARY COUNTY COUNCIL.  (GRANTS WITHHELD.) 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance to state the amount of withheld grants which has been paid to the South Tipperary County Council, and the amount, if any, which is still due to said Council.  If he will also state the amount received by this Council for the relief of unemployment out of the unemployment grant. 
     
    
      
       Payments amounting to £60,594 3s. 3d. have been made by the Ministry of Finance to the Tipperary S.R. Co. Council in respect of Local Taxation Grants for financial years 1920-21 and 1921-22 which were withheld by the British Government.  The Estate Duty Grant and one moiety of the Agricultural Grant in respect of 1921-22 have so far been retained in the Guarantee Fund in connection with a charge under the Land Purchase Acts.  As regards the Grant in respect of Approved Scheme for Relief of Unemployment payments amounting to £11,000, the sum allocated to the Co. Council, has been made through the Ministry of Local Government. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - DUNDALK AND GREENORE RAILWAY SERVICE. 
     
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware of the serious inconvenience and loss caused by the continued stoppage of the Railway service between Dundalk and Greenore, owing to a damaged bridge.  If he will take the matter up with the Railway Company with the view of opening the line for traffic.  If he can state whether it is a fact that passengers and goods are carried from Bellurgan to Newry at the same rate as from Greenore to Newry to the detriment of Dundalk, the natural market for the district, and if it is intended to continue this preferential treatment, and if he can say if that was the reason for interfering with the bridge. 
     
    
      
       The Ballymascanlon Viaduct on the Dundalk, Newry and Greenore Railway between Dundalk and Greenore was blown up some time ago.  It was repaired by the Company and again blown up within ten days of its being repaired.  Up to the present the Company did not consider it prudent to further repair the Viaduct, but they are now investigating the possibility of doing so.  The Dundalk Chamber of Commerce is approaching the local Military Authorities with the object of securing protection for the Viaduct. 
       The Company deny that passengers and goods are conveyed from Bellurgan to Newry at the same fares and rates as from Greenore to Newry, and consequently this could not have been the reason for the damage to the Viaduct. I have learned since I came to the Dail that the Engineer has been instructed to proceed with temporary repairs immediately.  I have just got that information from the Company. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - CORK VICE-GUARDIANS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government whether he is aware that the Vice-Guardians of Cork Union have effected great savings in the management of that Institution; whether the Cork Board of Guardians have not asked for the continuation in office of these gentlemen; whether the   management of the Vice-Guardians has not been approved by the Cork Chamber of Commerce and the Cork Farmers' Union, representing the views of the majority of the ratepayers; whether it is proposed by the Local Government Ministry to refuse to sanction their reappointment, and, if so, on what grounds. 
     
    
      
       In response to various representations made to me I have decided to order the holding of an inquiry into the administration of the Cork Union by the Vice-Guardians and in the meantime to allow them to continue in office for another two months. The inquiry will, if possible, take place in Cork towards the end of next week. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - SHAW COMMISSION AWARDS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government to explain why the Government have reduced the compensation allowed by the Shaw Award for houses maliciously burned by the British in Coosan, Athlone, the sums reduced by the Government being £50 0s. 0d. in the case of Peter Connor, and £65 0s. 0d. in the case of Thomas Wansboro, and £30 in the case of Michael Hughes; and, if so, will he state whether it is his intention to request the repayment of the loan given to the above by the White Cross in order that they may be in a position to re-build their houses; and if he is aware that the sum awarded to Michael Hughes is not sufficient to enable him to complete the building of his home; and if he will see that the Government give an increase to the persons above mentioned and not decrease the Shaw Award. 
     
    
      
       That question should be addressed to the Minister for Finance. 
     
    
      
       The sums awarded by the original decrees in these cases have been reduced not by the Government but by the Compensation Commission, which is an international body appointed for the express purpose of, amongst other things, reviewing awards already made in the cases of criminal injury applications not defended by the County Council concerned.  The Government are not in a position to increase   any awards made by the Compensation Commission.  It is not for the Government to say what steps the White Cross Association may take in regard to repayment of any loan advanced by that body. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - CLAIMS OF DISMISSED POLICEMEN. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Home Affairs if the Commission at present sitting to deal with the claims of dismissed or resigned R.I.C. and D.M.P. since 1920 will be further instructed to deal with all cases of such men who lost their positions from 1914 to date. 
     
    
      
       It is not proposed to give the Committee instructions to enable it to deal with cases, previous to the date set out in the terms of reference. If particulars of any strong case are sent to me, I will consider asking the Government to send a special instruction to the Commission to consider such case, after it has completed the work for which it was set up.  I must be convinced of the genuineness of the case, before I will even consider asking the Government to give such an instruction to the Committee. 
     
    
      
       I will submit two cases myself&mdash;one from the Clontarf Police Station since Gun-running Sunday, and another case from Tipperary. 
     
    
      
       I have heard of such cases. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - BALLINA MOTOR CAR OWNER'S CLAIM. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that a motor car belonging to Mr. Liam J. Ducke, Secretary of the Ballina Trades Council, left in Killala, Co. Mayo, for safety, was commandeered by the National Troops; that Mr. Ducke was arrested, but was found innocent and released, his car in the meantime being used by the National Troops and then returned to the owner, tyres, tubes, plugs, tools, and other parts missing, to the value of £50; and whether the Minister can state if it is his intention to compensate Mr. Ducke for the loss of   his car, which enabled him to earn his living. 
     
    
      
       Enquiries are being made into the matter, but they have not yet been completed. 
     
    
      
       Can you state when it is likely they will be completed? This man has been a long time out of his money.  He was arrested and found innocent and released.  His motor car was commandeered by the troops and seriously damaged.  The man is a poor working man and he cannot afford it. 
     
    
      
       Enquiries are made in the quickest possible way as far as we can control our communications. The Deputy may be assured that an answer will be given at the earliest possible moment. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - BALLYNACARGY GARAGE PROPRIETOR.  (QUESTION OF COMPENSATION.) 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether William Reynell, of Ballsallagh, Ballynacargy, will be compensated for the loss of a motor car, burned at Collinstown, Westmeath, on February 14th, 1922, by an Irish Army Officer; also whether William Reynell will receive compensation for the loss of a motor car, seized by Divisional Comdt. Farrelly, of No. 6 Brigade, 1st Midland Division, on May 8th, 1922, no charge having been made against claimant; also whether William Reynell will receive compensation for a motor cycle seized by Divisional Comdt. Farrelly, on May 8th, 1922; also whether William Reynell will receive compensation for loss of trade and business owing to the loss of above cars. 
     
    
      
       Enquiries are being made into the cases, but they have not yet been completed.  I would be glad if particulars of the allegation regarding the burning of Mr. Reynell's car on the 14th February were supplied to me. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - PRESS AND MILITARY COURTS. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if, on reconsideration of the question, he will permit members of the Press to be present at Military Courts. 
     
     
    
      
       The answer is in the negative. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - EAST COAST TRAWLING. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Agriculture if, having regard to the serious loss sustained by local fishermen owing to trawling between Wicklow Head and Bray Head, he will consider the fixing of a line between these Heads, and the taking of such steps as may be necessary to prohibit trawling within that line. 
     
    
      
       The only trawling ground between Wicklow Head and Bray Head is a patch near Wicklow where a small boat might work a trawl occasionally. A line drawn between these Heads would, therefore, be of little value. 
       I may say that I have already promised that Public Inquiries will be held in connection with a proposal to prohibit trawling within three miles of a line extending from Howth Head to Wicklow Head.  The line fishermen in Wicklow who, as far as I know, have made no complaint of trawling, will have an opportunity of presenting their case before these Public Inquiries. 
     
   
   
     TEACHTAI DO CHUR FE MHOID NO FE DHEARBHU. 
    
      
       Ma ta aon teachtai i lathair nar cuireadh fe mhoid fos tagaidis annso anois. 
       The following Deputies took and subscribed the Oath:&mdash; 
       Tomas Mac Artuir. 
       Seosamh Mac Suibhne. 
       Padraig Mac Artain. 
     
   
   
     ASSASSINATION OF DEPUTY SEAN HALES, AND WOUNDING OF LEAS CHEANN COMHAIRLE. 
    
      
       I have just been informed that Deputy Sean Hales has been shot dead and that Deputy Padraig O Maille has been wounded.  I just got information a few moments ago and I give it to the Dail now officially.  I need hardly say, on my own behalf, on behalf of the Executive Council, and, I believe, on behalf of the Dail, that this is an appalling tragedy.  We tender to the relatives of the late Deputy Sean Hales our very sincere sympathy, and our regret that such a crime as that should have been committed in this country. 
     
    
      
       There was neither Press present, nor were the Deputies asked if they would like to see their relatives, nor were they asked would they like to see a clergyman, nor were they asked had they any private business of their own that they would like to transact. 
       The motion of sympathy was passed, the Deputies and all others present standing. 
     
   
   
     ELECTIONS TO SEANAD. 
    
      
       The next item on the Order Paper is the election to the Seanad, by the Dail, of thirty members.  The last moment for receiving nominations was noon to-day, and we received a number of nominations at   the last moment.  I have been asked to announce that Mr. Barry Egan, whose name appears on the Voting Papers, desires that his name should be withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       Might I ask whether all the persons whose names appear on this List have consented to submit themselves for election?  I notice there are a number selected by Public Boards, who were not afterwards selected by the Government.  Is it necessary to get these people to consent to go to election?  There are some of them, I believe, who will not get a vote at all, and I think it is very unfair to have a name on the list for election and having that man defeated if he never intended that his name should be submitted to the Dail for election. 
     
    
      
       The matter, as far as the Returning Officer is concerned, is merely that the Deputy who nominates a candidate certifies that the candidate has consented to stand. 
     
    
      
       For election? 
     
    
      
       And that certificate has been handed to me in the case of all those whose names appear on the Voting List. 
     
    
      
       In the cases I have nominated from Public Bodies who   have sent them in to me, I have taken it that they are willing to stand; if not, I should have been so informed. 
       The roll was then called and Voting Papers distributed to the Deputies. 
     
    
      
       Before the Deputies depart to mark their papers, as I do not want any votes to go to waste I should like to mention that Mr. William Field, Blackrock, whom I nominated, has sent me a message that he wishes to withdraw. 
     
    
      
       Will you inform us of the number of Ballot Papers issued? 
     
    
      
       Yes, 73 Ballot Papers have been issued. 
       The Dail adjourned and reassembled at 8.15 p.m. 
     
    
      
       Ni bheidh tora an toghadh againn go dti a deich a chlog.  The election results will not be available until 10 o'clock The Dail can adjourn until 10 o'clock to hear the results or take the results to-morrow at 3 o'clock, as it pleases.  The official return will be available at 10 o'clock and it will be supplied to the Press. 
       Motion: &ldquo;That the Dail do now adjourn,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.30 p.m. till 3 o'clock on Friday, December 8. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWER. - ARREST OF NEWS VENDOR. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence if it is a fact that Edward Hayes, of Cook Street, was arrested on Friday, November 17th, at the offices of the  Evening Mail,  for vending the  Republic  as well as other journals such as  The Free State,  to newsboys in the ordinary course of his trade as a street shopper?  If any intimation had been conveyed to such vendors and newsboys that the sale of the  Republic  is regarded as an offence worthy of arrest without previous warning?  If such arbitrary action, without notice or warning, while the sale of the  Republic  is permitted to be sold in the streets daily without interference, is, in his judgment, calculated to earn confidence or respect? And if in view of the fact that the said Edward Hayes is willing to enter into an undertaking not to vend the  Republic  in future, and of the further fact that his family has been brought to want through his arrest, he will order his immediate release. 
     
     
    
      
       It is a fact that Mr. Hayes was arrested.  He was believed to be the chief distributing agent for the paper &ldquo;Poblacht na hEireann.&rdquo; He has now been released. 
     
   
 