 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Cromadh ar obair an lae ar 3.15 p.m.  Bhi an Ceann Comhairle Micheal O h-Aodha sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - KILLEAGH AIRSHIP STATION. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Finance when it is possible for the proper Government Department to pay the half-year's rent due on the 30th June last to Mr. William Collins, of Garranjames, for land taken over from him for the Killeagh Airship Station; whether this man is in bad health, has a wife and young family, and, for private reasons as well, requires that this money would be paid immediately; and whether this property was transferred by the British Government to the Irish Government in March last? 
     
    
      
       The British Authorities have accepted liability for the payment of the rent for the Killeagh Airship Station, and the half-year's rent due 30th June last will accordingly be paid by the British Air Ministry.  I have reason to think that payment will be made very shortly. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - IRISH PIG TRAFFIC. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that the London and North Western Railway Company have recently refused to handle pig traffic for Liverpool and Birkenhead, booked from Dublin Port  via  Holyhead; and, if so, is their action as public carriers legal; also, if he will state the rates (head rate) for live stock from Dublin to Birkenhead as agreed between representatives of the Irish and English live stock traffic Conference, and how the rates at present being charged for pig traffic carried by the British and Irish Shipping Company   from the Port of Dublin to Birkenhead ( via  Holyhead) compare with these rates? 
     
    
      
       I am informed that the London and North Western Railway Company have refused to accept pig traffic from Dublin for Birkenhead  via  Holyhead for the reason that there is a direct steamer service to that port.  As I am not at present satisfied that the company have a legal right to refuse such traffic, I am communicating with them and will inform the Deputy of the result. 
       The rates for pig traffic from Dublin to Birkenhead by the two routes mentioned are:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Bacon Pigs 
             Pork Pigs 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             Owners' Risk 
             Ord'nry 
             Owners' Risk 
             Ord'nry 
           
           
             
             
             s. 
             d. 
             s. 
             d. 
             s. 
             d. 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             London North Western Company 
             7 
             2 
             7 
             10 
             4 
             6 
             5 
             0 
           
           
             British and Irish 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Steam Packet 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Company 
             7 
             0 
             None 
             5 
             0 
             None 
           
         
       
     
     The London North Western Company's rates are local and not through rates, so they are not dealt with by the Live Stock Traffic Conference. 
     The British and Irish Steam Packet Company carries direct from Dublin to Birkenhead, and not  via  Holyhead. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - PERSONAL INJURIES.  CLAIM FOR DAMAGES. 
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Defence whether his attention has been called to the claim made by Herbert Norman Walsh, 17 Leinster Road, Rathmines, for personal injuries and damage sustained by him on the 14th August last, through collision of military Crossley Touring Car and a bicycle which the applicant was riding on the Rathmines Road, and how soon a settlement of the claim in question may be expected. 
     
    
      
       The claim will be decided in the very near future. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - EX-OFFICIALS, LISTOWEL UNION.  QUESTION OF PENSIONS. 
     
    
      
       To ask the Minister for Local Government whether twelve officials of the Listowel Union were deprived of their positions twelve months ago, whether their pensions were duly sanctioned by the Ministry, and why it is that for ten months past they have not received any pensions, and whether the Minister will be so good as to direct immediate payment of arrears, as many of them are too old for work and practically destitute; further, to ask the Minister whether the reason for non-payment of the pensions advanced by the Clerk of the Kerry County Home Committee was that the rates in North Kerry were not collected; if it is true that official returns show that 98 per cent. of the rate in North Kerry for the year ended March, 1921, was collected and lodged; if it is true that for official reasons the collection of the rates for the last financial year was suspended; if all the County Home Officials and Contractors have been paid up to 1st October last. 
     
    
      
       The officers referred to were retired owing to their offices having been abolished. Pensions were fixed by the local authorities and approved by the Ministry.  The Ministry are not aware that these officers have not been paid, but if such is the fact a direction will be issued for immediate payment.  As far as the Ministry is aware such reason was not assigned.  Up to 18th July, 1922, 16 months after expiry of period, when communications were interrupted 98 per cent. of 1921 rate had not been collected in North Kerry.  It is not the fact that for official reasons the collection of the March, 1922, rate was suspended; the suspension was due solely to the recalcitrance of the ratepayers in the area.  All County Home Officials and Contractors have not been paid to 1st October last, as owing to non-collection of rates funds were not available. Some of the most pressing cases were paid from an instalment of withheld Grants. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. - RESIGNATION OF TWO DEPUTIES. 
    
      
       Tha dha litir annso, ceann o Theachta Eoin O   Dubhthaigh agus ceann o P. O Braonain Conndae an Chlair.  I have to inform the Dail that I have received two letters, one from Deputy Eoin O'Duffy and the other from Deputy P. Brennan, resigning their positions.  Deputy Brennan writes:&mdash;&ldquo;I beg to resign membership of Dail Eireann as from this date, 11th December, 1922.&rdquo; 
       Deputy Eoin O'Duffy writes:&mdash;&ldquo;I beg to tender my resignation of my seat in the Dail as from this date, 11th December, 1922.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       Arising out of these letters I wish to ask you if it were with your knowledge and consent that a Deputy of this Dail was appointed as an official of the Oireachtas.  I am not referring to the case with any reference to the personality of anyone, or to the persons concerned, but merely to know whether the appointment of Patrick Brennan as Usher of the Oireachtas was with your knowledge and consent? 
     
    
      
       Before replying, A Chinn Chomhairle, may I ask is it within the province of anybody but the Seanad to appoint its officers? 
     
    
      
       The question of appointments to the Seanad should not be referred to me.  The appointment of the Usher of the Oireachtas was not made by me, and I presume did not require my consent. 
     
    
      
       I desire to give notice I will refer to this matter upon the adjournment. 
     
   
   
     ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. 
    
      
       We have already dealt in Committee of the Dail; which was the Provisional Dail, with 59 different Public Services.  There are five other estimates which are now coming before us, making a complete list of 64 in all, and it will be necessary to go into Committee upon these Estimates, and to formally pass a motion on the 59 already discussed, and on that understanding to take up the discussion of the last five singly. 
     
    
      
       I think before we discuss the motion for the 59 we should   have had notice because I imagine there will be some discussion upon the general question. 
     
    
      
       It will be necessary to report from the Committee to the Dail, and a resolution embodying the full amount voted in Supply will be proposed, and then I presume matters could be raised on that. 
     
    
      
       Cannot we deal with these matters as we dealt with them before.  I think we dealt with these Estimates before we passed any recommendation to this Dail.  May we not follow this procedure now? 
     
    
      
       Yes, but before we leave the matter we will have a formal vote passed again in Committee of Supply in this Dail of the 59 Estimates already discussed. 
     
    
      
       The whole lot can be taken together when these are dealt with separately. 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       I suppose we can take these already dealt with as the subject of a bloc vote of the Dail and deal with the remainder in the same way as we dealt with the other Estimates, that is, one by one.  I did not know it would be necessary to raise any question upon the Estimates already passed.  I did not think it was necessary after discussing each one of the Estimates, each of which was taken by itself. 
     
    
      
       We intended to raise certain questions of public policy on this motion on matters that have arisen since the Estimates were presented. 
     
    
      
       When the motion to adopt the report of the Committee comes on the whole Estimates will be before us and cannot those matters be then raised? 
     
    
      
       I am not sure if I understand your suggestion.  Do I understand it is proposed to take the motion now, without notice, approving of the work of the last Dail's Estimates and then to proceed with those new ones? 
     
     
    
      
       Yes, separately in Committee and then we report on the 64 Estimates and pass a general resolution of the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I see, and any discussion may arise after these Estimates are dealt with? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       The Estimates now in the hands of Deputies embrace 64 complete items amounting on the aggregate to £38,051,086.  Of these the five last coming up for discussion are new.  The other 59 have already been under notice and have been the subject of a Resolution by the recent Dail and recommended for adoption by Saorstat Eireann.  The first Resolution I proposed covers these 59 votes already passed.  They represent £37,709,586, being full provision for the whole of the current financial year in the case of the services concerned.  They embrace from 1 to 59, and I move accordingly their adoption. 
     
    
      
       The motion was not read out. 
     
    
      
       I move &ldquo;That the several sums set out in the third column of the Summary of Estimates, 1922-23, as laid before the Dail, excepting amounts relative to Votes 60 to 64 inclusive, be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, for expenditure in respect of the services therein mentioned respectively, such sums amounting in the aggregate to £37,709,586, and including amounts already authorised to be issued in respect of the said services out of the Consolidated Fund of the Provisional Government.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I hope, Sir, it will not be accepted as a practice that resolutions will be put before us with copies of them not available for the members. 
     
    
      
       I presume the whole question of financial procedure will be gone into by the Committee on Procedure, and recommendations will be made to the Dail.  The   general procedure in this transition period will not be taken as a precedent. 
     
    
      
       I think it necessary to protest formally against the discourtesy to the Dail in the manner of presenting these Estimates and Resolution. We are treated as if we had no other duty than to confirm the decision of a Minister or the Ministry, and I protest. 
     
    
      
       I myself say I have some difficulty in understanding the statements of Deputy Johnson. You have already had these Estimates before the House for a considerable period; they have been discussed at considerable length.  They have been put in the ordinary way, and I have yet to learn what further information it is possible to give the Dail on those votes.  I have yet to learn that you will have a precedent such as the experience we have had for the last six, or seven or eight months, and I do not know for what purpose any statements in respect of them are mentioned here. It may be that I have an understanding which requires penetration, and I would like an explanation. 
     
    
      
       I will explain.  It is that the form of the Resolution that we are asked to pass should be in our hands.  I am not dealing with Estimates, but the form of Resolution we are asked to pass should have been circulated before the meeting at 3 o'clock to-day. 
     
    
      
       The form of the Resolution does not interfere with the actual business.  You are dealing here with the passing of £37,000,000, and these flourishes about forms appear to me to be really peculiar, having regard to the importance of the actual items concerned.  We are here now on the 13th of December, one week after we have any authority to spend money. We bring it on at the first moment we can, and we give the Dail every information we have, and all we are criticised about now is form. 
     
    
      
       I have made no complaint about the gravamen of the matter.  We have passed the money, but the form we pass it in is of grave importance.  Seeing that this has been foreseen for the last three weeks I think it would have been easy to circulate   copies of the Resolution so that it should be in our hands to-day. 
     
    
      
       I take it that the motion is agreed. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DISTRICT JUSTICES. 
    
      
       I beg now to move Estimate 60 for District Justices, £15,500.  It embraces salaries, allowances and incidental expenses, and I move accordingly. 
     
    
      
       Are we not to have any details of how many people are provided for, and what the salaries are? 
     
    
      
       This Vote provides for the payment of twenty-seven District Justices, and their necessary clerical staffs and necessary travelling expenses through the areas of their jurisdiction.  The Justices have been out for some time now.  The reports received from them have been extremely satisfactory.  As in the case of the Civic Guard, a great mass of the people welcomed them and gave unmistakable signs of their satisfaction at their advent. That is one of the promising symptoms in the situation to-day, one of the most healthy indications in the life of the country.  It may be necessary later to appoint, perhaps, two or three more Justices of this kind.  Some of the areas are rather large for one Justice to cover with satisfaction to the public in the administration of matters that should not be held up over-long.  This system, as tried so far, has given satisfaction and worked smoothly, and is gradually restoring order and an orderly outlook throughout the country.  Of the Registrars' Schemes&mdash;the Schemes for Clerks have not been finally sanctioned as yet.  Certain temporary and provisional recommendations have been put up.  Any Registrars appointed so far are appointed on a probationary period of, I think, two months, and it is hoped that in that time they will have acquainted themselves thoroughly with the nature of their duties, and that the Justices will be able to judge whether or not they are likely to develop into eminently capable clerks.  We must have in this case, in the personnel of these   Courts, the maximum of efficiency in order that the business and necessary litigation of the public will be transacted smoothly and with the greatest possible expedition and general efficiency.  I have very little to add, except that I am prepared to answer any points raised.  The Courts are not able to deal at the moment with absolutely all the problems of social disorders, and all the breaches of law that confront us in the country.  It may be necessary, for instance, that wholesale seizures of land will have to be dealt with by military rather than by the police and courts.  This is simply part and parcel of the irregularism which is being done under cover of armed resistance to the Government, and which prevails in certain areas.  Proper division of the functions in a well-ordered State is gradually being arrived at and will, of course, grow as the Army nears the completion of its particular task. 
     
    
      
       There has been some criticism through the country, partly on account of the personnel of these Justices, and partly on account of the money spent on them.  I am not going to deal with the matter or personnel, because we know in Ireland the matter of personnel enters into everything, and criticism could be continued indefinitely on that.  But it does seem to be rather peculiar that the Justices who are, to a great extent, taking the place of the older Justices, should be paid a good deal more than the older Justices. The Minister says that probably some other Justices will have to be added to the present list.  I should like to know whether these Justices are engaged practically every day in the week on the actual work connected with their Courts? It seems to me, perhaps, that in some cases the military will be dealing with some of the work that the Justices would ordinarily be doing.  I think it was understood that these appointments were more or less temporary, and that the salaries and soforth were more or less temporary.  Now, I am not unwilling that any office that requires an exceptional class of man or an exceptional kind of allowance, that that allowance should be generously made, but I should like the Minister, if he could, to give us a specimen of the work of one of these Justices and show the country that it is getting value for the money spent on them.  It   may be a mistaken impression, but there is an impression in the minds of a great many people that these Justices ought to be able to get on fairly well with the salaries they have without extra allowances for travelling.  It may be that their areas are so big they have to have these allowances, but further information would be welcomed by the people. 
     
    
      
       A certain amount of dissatisfaction with the personnel of the Justices was inevitable. There were for these 27 positions probably 150 applicants, and I do not think I or any other man could fill these positions and give universal satisfaction. 
     
    
      
       I agree. 
     
    
      
       I simply did my best and selected from the applicants people whom I believed best capable of filling the position and giving satisfaction to the people.  Now, on the question of payment, the payment seems high, and would of course be high if there was any security of tenure.  There is none whatsoever.  The positions are temporary and the people are removable at will, and in any case a Judicial Committee will, of course, report to the Government on the entire administration of law in the country.  These men had to give up their positions, where they were barristers had to give up their practice, and if solicitors they had to give up that particular line of business and accept these positions, facing the fact that in 6, 8 or 10 months' time, they might have to fight their way back to their practices.  Now, to get the proper type of men, you had to get people who were doing reasonably well in their professions, and then to induce these men to give up their professions, and take a position in which they had no security of tenure, it was necessary to pay a rather high salary.  Naturally men would not be placed in positions of that kind, and given security of tenure, and be paid as high a salary as they now have.  As to the work, it is hard; the areas are very large, and no Justice has less than 20 days' work in the month.  Some of them have more.  I should say the average would be about 260 days in the year.  They tell me it is not a full day, but a man who travels a long distance and holds his courts, which last probably three or four hours,   has done a pretty full day's work, and they have more than 20 days in a month.  To give an idea of the districts, I have one in my mind, and if the Deputy or any other Deputy who is interested would come to my office I can show him a map setting out the 27 districts, and giving some idea of the size of the area to be covered.  But one Justice that I refer to, his area reaches from Bray to Stradbally in Leix, taking in Athy and the area of Athy Union, which embraces Stradbally and Leix.  I may say on this matter of the District Justices, that it will probably be necessary to appoint people as honorary Justices, not to exercise judicial functions, but to administer what I call ministerial functions, a certain number of the small duties of the Petty Sessions Justices in the past, such as the signing of warrants or the committal of lunatics.  That is a matter that is in an unsatisfactory position at the moment, the law being that a lunatic must be committed on the certificate of a doctor and two Justices of the Peace.  Now, it is impossible to adhere to that at the moment, and I have suggested as a temporary arrangement to Asylum Committees, that the certificate of the doctor and two public representatives, men who have been elected members of a local authority, would probably be sufficient public safeguard at the moment, so as to prevent a man being wrongly committed.  I do not think that there is any other point raised by the Deputy that I have not touched on. 
     
    
      
       There is just one point.  I take it that these 20, whatever they are doing, mean 20 separate courts in 20 different places? 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       I should like to draw the Minister's attention to the committal of lunatics.  It is a very serious matter, and I think there has been a lot of licence lately in committing people to District Lunatic Asylums.  It is a very important matter from the ratepayer's point of view, because I find that some people are admitted who should not have been sent there at all, and the moment they get inside a lunatic asylum they are there for their lives, as a rule. It is nearly impossible to get them out. There seems to be nothing done to bring these people back to sanity, and   have them restored to their people, and their people do not want them, as a rule. Mostly all the upkeep of those people is put on to the contributing Councils, and this is becoming a very serious matter. People are committed for very trivial things at times, and I think you ought to revert to something like the old system of holding some sort of a court and taking evidence, because I am satisfied that a doctor's certificate and a certificate of two local representatives is certainly not sufficient to commit a man for his whole life to a local lunatic asylum, and there ought to be something more than a certificate of a doctor and the signature of two other persons.  A Petty Sessions should be held, or some inquiry, and evidence taken. 
     
    
      
       I am sorry to find that Deputy McGuinness thinks that two members of local authorities would not be as effective a check in that matter as two Justices of the Peace, say two of the old Justices of the Peace in the past. I think that Deputy McGuinness, perhaps as much, or more than anyone else, would realise that members of local authorities have only one great interest in life and that is to keep down the rates, and that they are even more likely to exert themselves in that direction than Justices of the Peace.  However, it is a matter that I will consider very carefully and if he wishes to make representations, or to send in a memorandum on the matter I will read it very carefully. 
     
    
      
       The real point I make is that there should be an inquiry, and evidence taken on oath before a person is committed to an asylum. From experience I find that it is necessary for the safeguarding of these people. 
     
    
      
       As a member of one of the Committees of Management of a mental hospital since 1920, I may say that the scheme already suggested by the Minister for Home Affairs has been in operation and personally I think that the scheme was entirely satisfactory. Of course it was impossible to find Justices of the Peace in 1920, and the different Committees decided to admit patients on a doctor's certificate and the signature of two members of that Committee.  I am well aware that no public representatives of the ratepayers would be willing to put their signatures   to a certificate in order to put a person into an institution where that person would be an encumbrance on the rates, and so far as I am concerned, as a member of a Committee of Management, I quite agree with the suggestion put forward by the Minister for Home Affairs, but I think it would be better if he confined the signatures to two members of the Committee of the Mental Hospital where the patient is to be put.  I think that would meet the matter.  Then, of course, Deputy McGuinness would have an opportunity of interviewing the patients.  I have done so and it was not a pleasure.  I can assure you it was more or less a misfortune to have to travel three or four miles to see a patient before signing a certificate, and I can assure you I would not like to see any more of them.  If Deputy McGuinness agreed that the signature of two members of the Committee of Management, with a doctor's certificate, shall enable them to admit a patient I think the ratepayers will not suffer by it. 
     
    
      
       I think whatever simplifies the method of sending people into asylums at the present moment would be the better thing.  I think there are a good many people at large at the present moment who would be better in. 
     
    
      
       Deputy McGuinness raised a very important point on the Estimates about the seriousness of committing people for life to the asylums, but I do not think that his remedy was a good one, that is, seeking the assistance of laymen.  I think it would be a better protection if, instead of one Medical Officer, we had two. 
     
    
      
       And two fees. 
     
    
      
       It might save a lot of money, a second fee might save the cost of maintaining a man for life, but the system the Home Minister proposes is only a temporary affair.  It is a mistake for anybody to question it at present.  I can understand Deputy McGuinness's point in bringing in laymen.  If he brought them in to ascertain whether this poor man, whose sanity was in question, should contribute towards his maintenance, that would be a pertinent question for the laymen, but I think the point of sanity would be more a question for the doctors.  I have grave doubt myself   as to the benefit of asylum treatment; but, of course, that is a matter for medical men. 
     
    
      
       I think this Vote of £15,500 for District Justices is agreed to. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee having considered the Estimate of the amount required in the year ending 31st March, 1923, of £15,500 for the salaries and expenses of District Justices, recommend that the sum of £15,500 be adopted by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - PERSONAL INJURIES COMPENSATION. 
    
      
       The next item is No. 61, Personal Injuries Compensation. It will be observed that there is no subhead 3 in this, and it is open to all the objections that have been urged against the other Estimates, because as far as I know, no money has been expended out of this yet.  The provision made here is first&mdash;a contribution towards the discharge of personal injuries.  By agreement as already explained with the British Government, each side has to compensate its own supporters, in the case of damages sustained before the Truce.  In the case of injured persons who were regarded as neutrals, each Government will pay half on a 50-50 basis.  Where awards are available steps will be taken for the discharge of our liability.  As soon as the funds now asked for are available, as regards cases of personal injuries not covered by arrangements already made, the position is that a Bill to amend the Malicious Injuries Act is in preparation.  We hope to introduce it shortly.  I move this amount&mdash; £250,000. 
       Motion made and question put:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail in Committee having considered the Estimate of the amount required for certain payments of compensation in respect of personal injuries or death to the year ending 31st March, 1923, recommend that the sum of £250,000 be adopted by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S ESTABLISHMENT. 
    
      
       The next is No. 62&mdash;the Governor-General's Establishment and the sum is £10,000.  This Estimate   suffers from the same infirmity. The Vote is intended to carry out the obligation to make provisions for the establishment of the Governor-General.  It does not cover, as explained in the note, the Governor-General's salary, which is fixed by the Constitution, and will not be the subject of Parliamentary discussion. A considerable part of the sum now asked for is required to pay for motor cars, etc., and the balance is estimated to be required for salaries and other expenses necessitated by the official position of the Governor-General. I move this accordingly.  It is only an estimate, the same as the others. 
     
    
      
       I rise to move the reduction of this Estimate by £9,000.  It is provided all right in the Constitution that the Oireachtas shall make provision for the establishment of the Governor-General but I think that the suitability of the provision is a matter for the Dail and the Oireachtas, according to the Constitution.  The Constitution says the salaries shall be of the like amount of that now payable to the Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, and that it shall be chargeable to the public funds; otherwise, suitable provision shall be made for the maintenance of his official residence and establishment.  I move the reduction, because I think the amount specified in this Estimate is not in my opinion a suitable provision for the Governor-General.  I think it is an extravagant provision.  The Constitution has laid down that the salary of the Governor-General shall be £10,000. The Minister comes along now, and asks us to pass a Vote of £10,000&mdash;for four months, as a matter of fact&mdash;for the up-keep of the residence and establishment of the Governor-General.  Now, that, as I say, is altogether extravagant, and I think it will be taken by the people of Ireland as altogether extravagant.  Indeed I think that there are a good many Governors inside the British Dominions whose establishments do not run to anything like this amount, and in the other Dominions an effort is made to make the establishments as simple and as suitable to the conditions and to the feelings of the people of the country as possible. The same should be done here in Ireland.  Personally I think if we must have a Governor-General, and that the salary must be £10,000, that that salary   should cover the establishment and all. As the Constitution says we have to make a provision, but that we have to make a provision of £10,000 for this period is altogether out of bounds. If we have to have a Governor-General and his establishment, let us not elevate the establishment into something which nobody in Ireland and which supporters of the Government normally no more than others desire, or than any of us do.  I would say pretty much the same if it were for the President of a Republic.  It is pretty much the same to me.  The office has certain functions and these functions are well understood.  They are to a large extent simple, ordinary, and, perhaps in some degree, but not always mechanical functions. Now, I regret very much to see in the papers, within the last day or two, that the late Viceregal Lodge has been made the Headquarters of the Governor-General. Let it be clearly understood that I am not making any personal reference to the present Governor-General or to any future Governor-General.  I am trying to deal with the office apart altogether from the person who happens to occupy it, but I wonder if it has never struck some of those responsible for actions like that that the further they get away from old practices the better. There will be a tendency throughout the country when people know that the Viceregal Lodge is occupied by the Governor-General to consider the Governor-General in the same light as the late Lord Lieutenant was regarded.  I do not think there is any whole-hearted supporter of the Treaty position who wants that impression to go abroad in Ireland. I think the Governor-General has been a forced imposition upon most people, and that most people would be inclined to want that everything connected with the Governor-Generalship should be as simple, and, if possible, as democratic as ever it could be made.  The President has spoken about the staff that will be required.  To me it seems that a big staff will not be required, and a big staff is not required in connection with some of the Governor-Generalships.  I think some of the Governor-Generals provide, out of lesser salaries than this Governor-General will be getting, Secretaries, and so forth.  In other cases the Parliament makes provision or hands over a certain number of Officials from   the Civil Service of the Dominion to the establishment of the Governor-General, and while the Governor-General has control of those officials during his term of office or during their term of office the financing of these men comes through, I think, the ordinary estimates for that part of the Civil Service from which they have been transferred.  It seems to me what is intended with this big Vote is to set up, if not a Court, a big Governor-Generalship establishment, with a big number of Secretaries, and with every Secretary having his motor car or may be more than one motor car, a big establishment such as you would have if it were a little king that were in the country and not a mere Governor-General. It is altogether out of reason that such money as this should be expended on the establishment of a Governor-General. I want Ministers to say exactly, and I think the Dail should demand before passing the Estimate, how many of one kind or another of people are going to be in the Governor-General's establishment, what control, if any, the Oireachtas is going to exercise over these people, and whether the cost of the Governor-General's private secretary or other secretaries is going to come out of this Estimate, or whether it is not.  I am not objecting to the Governor-General having an establishment; he must have an establishment of some kind, but I do say it ought to be of the very simplest kind, so that there will be no elevation of the position into something nobody in Ireland wants, so that there should be no gang, because I cannot describe it in any other way, of flunkeys of one kind or another circulating like parasites around the Governor-General.  It was some little consolation to hear the present Governor-General say that he was not going to have a Court or anything like that, but it seems to me in putting down this Estimate and intending to spend all this money you are going to have a Court in another form.  You are going to have a big number of practically idle people.  I challenge the Ministry to show that all this money is necessary.  The Governor-General in so far as he has connection with the Executive Council in Ireland does not require a great deal of a staff.  I am talking now of the office, not of the person   occupying the office.  So far, for instance, as legal questions are concerned it is his duty and his right to have the free consultation and the free advice of the Attorney-General or whatever may be the title of the law officer concerned. Then so far as his relations with the Imperial Cabinet or the Colonial Office are concerned, he does not require a great deal either.  There is even more reason for economising in this thing in Ireland than there is in Australia, South Africa or Canada, because in those countries the Governor-Generals are removed a long distance from London, and those people out there have a desire to imitate as closely as they can the Imperial regal establishments of England with their Courts, flunkeys and the tomfoolery that is associated with Courts.  We in Ireland want to cut all these things out, and the very fact that we are only seven or eight hours' distance from London should make it all the more reason that we should cut down this establishment and make it as simple and democratic as possible.  The effect of all this is going to be bad in the country, because the good effect in so far as it went of the present appointment and everything connected with it will be neutralised by the effect that will be created by giving an establishment of this kind.  I, therefore, move the reduction of the estimate by £9,000. 
     
    
      
       I rise, A Chinn Chomhairle, to second the amendment of Deputy O'Shannon.  I think he has put the case fairly clear, but I would like to add that it has been the aim of this Dail &mdash;both of the Ministers and of the Deputies&mdash;to cut down extravagance in the way of rates.  Only a few moments ago we heard from one Deputy in a case where we are bound to expend rates&mdash; that of the lunatic asylums&mdash;that there was a danger that we might overdo the thing.  Here we have a case where you will not suffer by reducing this Estimate. For that reason I think that the salary already cut out for the Governor-General should be quite sufficient for the up-keep of his establishment.  Like my colleague Deputy O'Shannon, I am not objecting to the person who holds the position, but I am objecting to the fact that we are establishing in Ireland something that there is not in any other democratic country.  As a matter of fact, the whole cry in Ireland a few years ago was the   terrible salary paid to the Lord Lieutenant, on the grounds that it was such waste, and now it is proposed to expend the same sum on our own Governor-General. For that reason, and that reason only, I would ask that the Government would accept the amendment and reduce this item to £1,000.  I think they will have the general approval of the country for it. 
     
    
      
       Deputy O'Shannon made one remark from which I have to differ and that is the suggestion that Mr. Healy should not be put into the Viceregal Lodge.  I on the other hand think it is the best possible place to put him.  Imagine if Earl Spencer or Buckshot Foster who were in this place twenty or thirty years could come back to the Phoenix Park and were told that Tim Healy was living there; fancy their consternation. 
     
    
      
       The Governor-General should not be referred to as Tim Healy. 
     
    
      
       I am only quoting what these gentlemen would have said of him. 
     
    
      
       These are hardly words to ascribe to an Earl. 
     
    
      
       I did not agree with them when they were living and I do not think I would agree with them now. Since I became a member of the Dail I travel first class and as I was travelling the other day I met some gentlemen who evidently always travelled first class and one of these remarked that when they put Tim Healy into the Viceregal Lodge they might as well have given Ireland a Republic, so they would agree with Mr. Cathal O'Shannon.  Mr. Healy is the nominal Head of the State, call him by what name you will.  I think on account of the terrible damage inflicted upon Ireland in the last four or five years the ratepayers and the taxpayers are entitled to expect that we should economise in all directions, and I am in favour of economy, although I cannot go to the extent of supporting this amendment. I understand that the cost of fumigating the Viceregal Lodge would amount to nearly the whole £10,000 in this Vote. 
     
    
      
       After the explanation I am afraid I must still challenge this Vote.  At first I was an advocate   of giving the Governor-General £10,000 a year, but I am certainly now very much surprised to see £10,000 put down for four months.  I hope that does not mean that we are to have a permanent Estimate for £40,000. If so, I am afraid we are not putting before the people the doctrine of efficiency and economy, and I cannot support it. 
     
    
      
       I must say that some of the statements made here reminded me of a picture I saw once of a man having his tooth drawn somewhere about the 14th or 15th century.  The doctor had a huge tongs and other people held the patient and the doctor's heel was upon the man's chest.  He had the tongs in the man's mouth and the man's face was the picture of agony, and underneath was written: &ldquo;The more he shrieketh and the more he groaneth the greater strength had he.&rdquo; And I assume that people in order to prove their nationality must make strong statements.  Now I am prepared to accept the reduction of £9,000 if gentlemen opposite will provide the establishment reasonably required for the Governor-General with the remainder. 
     
    
      
       &ldquo;Agreed. We will do it.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       But I want information at once as to how it is to be done. I do not want people to say take a man from this or that establishment so that we will not see the amount that you are spending upon the Governor-General's establishment though they know that they will have to pay.  I regard that as what I would call financial hypocrisy.  Do not let us think that we are not paying the charge simply because we are putting the amount on somebody else.  If you take a person from one branch of the Civil Service you charge him to the service he is going to, but you do not save by taking him away from a particular service because you have to replace him by somebody else.  If there is a sum down here for £10,000 it does not mean that that sum is for a quarter or for a third of the year, or what the cost of the establishment will be.  Everyone knows you have to provide a certain equipment for this establishment.  Certain officers have to be provided for this establishment   who formerly would not be needed to be provided, and I agreed to that, and those who signed the Treaty agreed to carry it out in every possible way in order that if any accident occurred they would not be responsible. I am prepared to guard a man in the Viceregal Lodge at any time just as carefully as I would guard myself or any of my colleagues.  It is a question of honour, and I am not going to say&mdash;not having taken sufficient precautions&mdash;that it is not my fault.  The Estimate is a provisional Estimate.  I do not know that much can be saved, if anything can be saved out of it.  I am not in a position to say that this will be sufficient; it is an Estimate pure and simple to enable us to carry out our obligations, and our obligations to the Constitution, and I am prepared to stand by it notwithstanding the groaning and shrieking that takes place from Deputies opposite. 
     
    
      
       There is no need for the President to get indignant about the shrieking and the groaning. There is no shrieking or groaning about this particular thing at all.  We have said repeatedly that having accepted the imposed Treaty we shall work the imposed Treaty and all its implications to the best of our ability, but that is not going to compel us to swallow things that neither the Treaty nor anything else compels us to swallow.  The President might reasonably have spent the few minutes he was on his feet in explaining the nature of the establishment he intends to provide, but he has not made that explanation, and instead he has challenged us to provide a suitable establishment for the Governor-General on the amendment moved.  We agree to take up the challenge and to provide a suitable establishment and he has no need to come along and to tell us that the new Governor-General has to be safeguarded and protected when we know that the money for that safeguarding and protection will not come out of this particular Estimate, but will come out of the Army Estimates, because if that job is necessary, and if it is necessary that it should be done by anyone it is the Army forces that are going to do it and its cost should come out of their Estimates. 
     
    
      
       That is in the Establishment charges. 
     
     
    
      
       The President has spoken then as if I wanted to take Civil Servants from one Department and put them into the Governor-General's Department.  What I suggested has been done in some of the Dominions where the ordinary Civil Servants with £300 or £400 a year are lent to the Governor-General's establishment for the official duties of the Governor-General. Whether any such course is desirable here or not is beside the question. I want to impress upon the Dail that the Parliaments of other Dominions are extremely careful of the money they spend on the establishment of their Governor-General.  I want this Dail to be the same.  I have heard of Secretaries and Private Secretaries in other Dominions&mdash;Dominions much longer established than this one and of greater population where the Governor-General and his Staff have a great deal more work to do than here and they are compelled to get on with a couple or three secretaries at reasonable salaries.  But it is intended in this country that there shall be jobs for people in the Governor-General's establishment and a good deal of this money will be spent on nothing else but keeping people who are not doing an honest day's work at all, in the upkeep of the Governor-General's establishment. For the same reason I object to the Vice-regal Lodge.  It is a great big barrack of a place with certain architectural qualities.  It might be turned into a much more useful thing than the residence of the Governor-General. As a matter of fact there was a Governor-General in one Dominion, but when he was presented with a big establishment he found that he had no need for that establishment at all and he turned part of it over to useful purposes not of a materialistic kind, but made it into a musical conservatory.  It was of some use to the people of the Dominion. I think the Estimate here is extravagant and very far from reasonable, and I think that the sum we are willing to vote to the Governor-General leaves him plenty for all his purposes. 
     
    
      
       If you come to my office I will show you what it is we want. 
     
    
      
       I want to support this motion.  The Estimate represents £10,000 for the establishment for four   months.  The President has some experience of local government, and he knows that there are sometimes appointments made at a settled salary, with a house and an official as Secretary, but I challenge him to produce anywhere any such appointment which would mean a stated salary and other charges which are equivalent to three times the amount of his salary.  We are assured that this by no means necessarily entails that the annual expenditure for the establishment will be £30,000, but we are also warned that this may not be enough for the four months.  We see the possibility from the President's statements that the sum required for the establishment may be very much greater than this £30,000 annually. We have no assurance.  We have this assurance though, that if we pass this Estimate that the Ministry, in association with the Governor-General, will be empowered to spend £10,000 between now and the end of March, and I think the President will agree that it is usual, though not universal, that when public bodies have money granted to them, especially where there is a large number of people waiting for a chance to eat up that money, that the money will surely be expended.  We have had all kinds of assurances during this last year.  If the object is not to set up a Court, we accept that, but it seems that the object is to go as near to setting up a Court as possible. I think the example that is being set is a very bad one, and I object to this Vote on the ground that, as I foresee the future in Ireland, we have to tend towards simplicity rather than extravagance. I think we have to get out of the orbit of London, and out of an attempt to copy the life in London by the establishment of a simpler life, consonant with the country's possibilities and the agricultural basis of its internal life.  We shall not be able to call upon the world to supply luxuries, and I maintain we have to face the prospect of simplifying life in general in Ireland.  It would be very much better for us all, but it would be a very bad thing if on the one hand we are going to set up establishments based on an expenditure of £10,000 for four months, and on the other scale, force people to live under the hunger line.  I doubt whether any Deputy would have the hardihood to go to his constituents, unless they were selected, and justify the addition to the   salary of the Governor-General of £10,000 a year or four months for the upkeep of his house and office.  I do not believe any Deputy outside the area of Rathmines would face his constituents and persuade them that this was a justifiable expenditure.  I hope Deputies will have the hardihood to vote for the amendment and turn down this proposed expenditure of £10,000 for the establishment charges. 
     
    
      
       I think I made it quite clear&mdash;of course one cannot make it sufficiently clear for some people&mdash; that this did not mean £10,000 for every four months.  Certain charges, it is well known, such as motor cars, which are essential, are in that, and members know that these are expensive items, and I challenge Deputy Johnson to go to any constituency in Ireland and tell them that this can be done for less. 
     
    
      
       I do not know. 
     
    
      
       You know what those things cost as well as I do. 
     
    
      
       Chair. 
     
    
      
       And the Ceann Comhairle knows the cost of the particular articles required for these things. There is not a single clerk up there at the present time.  The establishment of the Governor-General consists only of those who were seen with him, namely, three officers of the Army.  This is at present under consideration, but we are not given to such extravagance as to put up an extravagant establishment there, and nobody knows that better than the Deputy who has spoken. 
     
    
      
       Am I right in understanding that this £10,000 includes a vast amount of non-recurrent expenditure which is necessary in the setting up of the Governor-General in his new position in whatever residence we in the Treaty have provided for him, and that it is not going to be £30,000 for years to come, but merely for the setting up now of the Governor-General as such? 
     
    
      
       Yes, that is quite correct. 
     
    
      
       I am very glad to hear that assurance, because these big establishments and big staffs have nothing to do.  The country will not stand it.   There is an idea in the country at present that a good deal of jobs&mdash; I do not believe it, because I happen to have some knowledge&mdash;but the people generally believe that there are a good deal of jobs being made to put men into them, so that the more you take the public into your confidence the better for the future. In presenting these Estimates for the future the whole strength of the establishment should be put down in black and white, and if you take the Dail and the public into your confidence there will be no caviling.  Half telling a story is the worst form of telling it.  I will vote for the Estimates on the President's explanation. 
     
    
      
       The entire establishment, as I said, consists of three Army officers, who have eight hours' duty each day, and who have to inform me when they go on duty and when they go off duty.  That is the entire establishment at this moment. 
     
    
      
       In that connection, is it to be accepted for the future that the Governor-General will be in residence at what has hitherto been known as the Viceregal Lodge?  Surely that is in itself acceptance of a question of policy that is a matter of debate&mdash;whether the person occupying the position here as the Head of the State should be there in an establishment obviously too large for the needs of the office, when he would be much better occupied, it seems to me, in this city.  I do believe that a large establishment of that kind, or a large house of that kind, in this the twentieth century, is becoming more and more supererogatory, and it could be much better and more profitably turned into a public hospital. 
     
     
    
      
       Well, it was at my request that the Governor-General went into that establishment.  It is a very large establishment&mdash;much too large, I think, for the Governor-General's own comfort, if it were to be consulted; and the Governor-General is rather anxious that it should be utilised, if it can be utilised; but I do not know whether it can or not.  This Estimate for a residence for the Governor-General and everything in connection with it came upon us this week.  The Estimate was not under consideration by us previous to that.  This was a shot at the Estimate &mdash;an arrangement for housing the Governor-General in that place.  So, after due consideration, the Viceregal Lodge was decided upon for many reasons.  It will be open to review if and when circumstances permit. 
     
    
      
       If you can assure Deputy Gorey that he would be the second Governor-General he would vote for it. 
     
    
      
       What? 
     
    
      
       It would not reassure the Deputy if he heard it. 
     
    
      
       It is very fortunate I did not. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee, having considered the Estimate required in the year ending 31st March, 1923 to pay the salaries and expenses of the Governor-General's establishment, recommend that the full Estimate of £10,000 be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       The amendment is that the Estimates be reduced by £9,000. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided:&mdash;Ta, 13; Nil, 33. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Ta. 
             Nil. 
           
         
         
           
             Tomas de Nogla. Riobard O Deaghaidh. Tomas Mac Eoin. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Padraig Mac Artain. Sean O Laidhin. Cathal O Seanain. Sean Buitleir. Nioclas O Faolain. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Domhnall O Ceallachain.                     
             Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Donchadh O Guaire. Uaitear Mac Cumhaill. Sean O Lideadha. Sean O Duinnin. Micheal O hAonghusa. Domhnall O Mochain. Seamus Breathnach. Deasmhumhain Mac Gearailt Sean O Ruanaidh. Micheal de Duram. Domhnall Mac Cartaigh. Earnan Altun. Gearoid Mac Giobuin. Liam Thrift. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Padraig O hOgain. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Criostoir O Broin. Proinsias Bulfin. Seamus O Dolain. Proinsias Mag Aonghusa. Eamon O Dugain. Peadar O hAodha Seamus O Murchadha. Seosamh Mac Giolla Bhrighde. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Tomas O Domhnaill. Earnan de Blaghd. Uinseann de Faoite. Domhnall O Broin. Seamus de Buroa. Micheal O Dubhghaill. 
           
         
       
     
     Motion put and carried. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DEVELOPMENT FUND. 
    
      
       I now move Estimate Number 63, the Development Fund, £41,000.  This is a statutory fund which may be used for certain projects of development within carefully defined limits.  Capital is required to enable the fund to meet commitments, some of which have been inherited from the old Government, and the present Vote is to supply that capital.  Most of the assistance given from the fund at present is given through the Department of Agriculture.  There is about £12,000 payable for the current financial year for the improvement of Dairy Cattle; £11,000 for technical and advisory work; £5,000 for Veterinary research and laboratory; £3,000 for Tobacco Growing Experiments; £3,000 for Fisheries work.  That, I think, absorbs the greater part of the Vote and amounts to between £34,000 and £35,000.  I move accordingly. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee, having considered the Estimate of the amount required in the year ending 31st March, 1923, as a grant in aid of the Development Fund recommend that £41,000 be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS. 
    
      
       I move the last Vote, No. 64, the Ministry of External Affairs.  £25,000.  This was not formerly a charge on the Exchequer Fund.  It was a Dail service, and as such came before the old Dail at all times for a Vote.  As the Dail funds have practically ceased since July last except for small sums, it is necessary to bring up the Votes for these Services. 
     
    
      
       From what date does this service begin which is being provided for by this Vote? 
     
    
      
       We are only taking this on from now, so you will probably have to consider what has been spent since July in a separate Estimate. It can be bulked in connection   with charges on Dail funds.  It was only at the last moment that I came to the conclusion that this should be put forward.  Since the 6th December, it is a regular and proper charge for which this Oireachtas should be responsible. 
     
    
      
       On this Vote there are two or three things I would like to say of some importance perhaps apart from the criticism of the Vote itself.  The amount is divided into two&mdash;Salaries, Wages and Allowances, £10,000, and Travelling and Incidental Expenses and Telegrams, £15,000.  That lump sum of £15,000 strikes one as exorbitant, and without some explanation of what is intended or likely to be swallowed up in such a large sum one would feel doubtful as to the wisdom of supporting the Vote. But it is not particularly on that matter that I rose.  I want to say that the absence of the Labour group here from the meeting yesterday has been commented upon.  It is well, I think, to explain that our absence meant no personal disrespect to Mr. T.M. Healy.  God made him, and he, therefore, deserves our respect; but if we had been present we would have felt bound to protest, in perhaps an unpleasant way, against the bringing into this Assembly of anyone from outside without the formal consent of the Assembly.  We do not think that it was a right thing to do&mdash;to invite the Governor-General to come here in person. We accept him as an official, the representative of the Crown, one partner to the Oireachtas. 
     
    
      
       Could not this matter be better raised on the motion with regard to the Speech itself? 
     
    
      
       No; I think not. 
     
    
      
       It has no relevance to this Vote, certainly. 
     
    
      
       I submit, with all respect, that it is a matter that comes within the purview of the Ministry for External Affairs. 
     
    
      
       It is not a matter with which this particular Vote is connected.  What we are concerned with is expenditure under this particular heading.  There is no expenditure under this particular heading in connection with the Governor-General or the bringing of him here. 
     
     
    
      
       I take it that there will be expenditure in connection with the communications that will take place between Ireland and England; and it is in his position as representative of the British Crown in Ireland&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I think it is not relevant on this motion.  I would ask the Deputy to reserve what he has to say for another occasion. 
     
    
      
       I happen to have said all that I wanted to say on that.  I think it is germane, however, to inquire into the relations between Ireland and Great Britain, between the Free State and the self-governing Dominions and England, on this Vote, and, consequently I want to draw the attention of the Dail and to ask the Dail to express itself in regard to the status in the Commonwealth of Nations of Saorstat Eireann. We read in the morning papers, and in this document that has been circulated, that the following message was conveyed to the Governor-General from the King.  It begins: &ldquo;With the final enactment of the Constitution the self-governing Dominion of the Irish Free State comes into being.&rdquo;  And we have the record of the Governor-General's reply, &ldquo;acknowledging the gracious message by which your Majesty has inaugurated the self-governing Dominion of the Irish Free State.&rdquo;  That is a denial of the claim that has been made since the 6th December last that the Treaty placed Ireland in a position of equality with England.  The Saorstat is not a self-governing Dominion.  It is not a Dominion, as has been pointed out so frequently, and as Mr. Lloyd George, the late Premier of England declared, quoting so eloquently the late Commander-in-Chief, Michael Collins, who said Ireland was a mother country, and was not in the relation to England that Australia or new Zealand or Canada were in. But even Australia does not acknowledge the title &ldquo;Dominion.&rdquo;  It claims to be a Commonwealth, not a Dominion. And I think it is due to the authors of the Treaty on the Irish side, and to the authors and supporters of the Constitution on the Irish side, to assert that Ireland&mdash;Saorstat Eireann&mdash;is not a Dominion, but is a free nation, a free partner, an equal partner in the Commonwealth of Nations, which is a very different thing from the status of a Dominion. 
     
     
    
      
       It is in the Constitution.  Article 1 of the Constitution says so. 
     
    
      
       Article 1 speaks of the Irish Free State being a co-equal member of the Community of Nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations, and that does not place Ireland in the position of a Dominion.  I leave to other Members of the Dail the duty of speaking their minds on that particular matter.  Another question of somewhat different character is worthy of consideration here.  In the course of certain discussions during the Constitution debate there was quoted, I think, a report of a speech by Mr. Lloyd George at the Conference of Prime Ministers of the British Commonwealth in June, 1921, in which he said: &ldquo;The direct communication between the Prime Ministers established during the war has, I think, worked well. We have endeavoured to keep you thoroughly abreast of all important developments in foreign affairs....&rdquo;  This was a speech to the Ministers of the Dominions&mdash;&ldquo;We have endeavoured to keep you thoroughly abreast of all important developments in foreign affairs by special messages sent out weekly, or even more frequently when circumstances required.  Indeed, at every important Conference, either here or on the Continent, one of the first duties I felt I ought to discharge was to send as full and as complete and as accurate an account as I possibly could not merely of decisions taken, but of the atmosphere, which counts for so very much.  I have invariably, to the best of my ability, sent accounts, some of them of a most confidential character, which would give to the Dominions even the impressions which were formed, and which gave you information beyond what we could possibly communicate to the Press.  We shall also welcome any suggestions which you may have to make for associating yourselves more closely with the conduct of foreign relations.  Any suggestions which you can make upon that subject we shall be very delighted to hear and discuss.  There was a time when Downing Street controlled the Empire; to-day the Empire is in charge of Downing Street.  On all matters of common concern we want to know your standpoint and we want to tell you ours.&rdquo;  Now, my desire is to know   whether there has been any communication from the present Premier of England in regard to the recent Conferences &mdash;that at Geneva and the more recent one, which comes within the period since the Saorstat was established, that held in London&mdash;and whether any representations have been made to that Conference of the desire of the Government here in regard to the Reparations Policy, in regard to the effect of the demands for Reparations and the fulfilment of the Peace Treaty to the letter. It is a matter upon which some expression of the mind of this Government should be made known to the Premier in England because of the inevitable effect upon Irish affairs of a settlement or the continued unsettlement of European politics.  The Minister for External Affairs has, no doubt, been keeping a close watch upon European politics, the movements of Ministers and the movements of peoples; and I have no doubt that he was waiting for the moment, when he was in formal office, when he had a right to make representations to the Ministers in London in regard to these European affairs and the dangers of a still further conflict, especially in view of the reactions upon Irish economy. I think we ought to know whether such representation has been made, and, without going into details, what the purport of those representations was.  We cannot, unfortunately, disassociate ourselves from Europe, and whether the Irish Minister is going to support the French point of view or the English or Italian points of view in regard to foreign affairs is a matter on which we ought to have some information. 
     
    
      
       On the same lines that Deputy Johnson suggests, I would like some information from the Minister for External Affairs as to an item of news that appeared in the  Irish Independent  of December 12th.  It stated that a message from the Pope was received by the Governor-General.  Now, no matter what our status may be, of being equal or co-equal with England, we have at least according to Article 1 of the Treaty the same rights as the Dominions. In the Dominions if a Governor-General receives any communication a copy of that communication is lodged with some Minister, usually the Secretary of State.  I know that is so with regard to Canada.  I would ask the Secretary   for Foreign Affairs in the first place have we still a representative in Rome? and was this message from the Pope through His Eminence Cardinal Gasparri, Papal Secretary of State, and did it come through our Envoy in Rome; and also did a copy of it come to the Minister for External Affairs?  I would also suggest, that in future he should get copies of any communications coming to the Governor-General. The same applies to messages coming from the King of England.  I think the Minister has a right to have a copy of such communications.  I notice here that this Ministry has not heretofore been a charge upon the Exchequer funds, that is its organisation is still being considered, and I would like to know did we appoint a Minister at a salary, and is his position still being considered.  I would also like to know is it an indication that this Ministry is going to be disbanded, or what is the meaning of this Note.  In connection with the expenditure also, I would like to know if the Consuls or Trade Commissioners&mdash;I do not know what they are called, or whether they have any new term&mdash; whether their expenses come under the charge here, and whether diplomatic representatives, like the one in Rome, and the one in America, whether they alone, or the Trade Commissioners, are included in the expenditure.  I think I might suggest that if the Minister for External Affairs has not got this communication from the Pope he should draw the attention of the Papal Secretary of State to the fact that we have a Minister in Rome to whom the communication should have been sent. 
     
    
      
       We have been for a good many years protesting very emphatically a right to a place in the world's affairs, and I fear that there may be some reluctance in the pressure of a great deal of work and responsibility that has fallen upon the Ministry to accept that now, that we have got it, because I maintain that we have got it.  It is clearly and emphatically laid down in the Constitution that we are a co-equal member, and I think that Deputy Johnson has done service in drawing attention to what I, myself, can only describe as a very unfortunate wording of certain messages to and fro by our colleague, our equal colleague, of the designation of this country as a Dominion.  Of course,   it may be true that Ireland is a Dominion. I think not myself; but if that be the case, then I have to learn for the first time that England should be described as a Dominion, because in Article 1 of our Constitution it is definitely stated that the Irish Free State is a co-equal member of the Community of Nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations.  England forms part of that Commonwealth. If we are co-equal with them, and we are a Dominion, then England is a Dominion.  I do not think, if we address the communication across the water to them as a Dominion, that they would regard it as a very courteous form of address, and consequently I think that when communications are addressed the other way we might also resent it as possibly not the most courteous form of address. The matter arises in connection with this Vote, because we have a certain responsibility at the present moment of which we can not disavow ourselves, whether we would like to do so or whether we would not like to do so, because here we have an item set down in this Estimate of salaries, wages, and allowances of £10,000.  But, as Deputy Dr. MacCartan has already stated, we are also informed that the organisation of this Ministry is still being considered&mdash; that is to say, the organisation, in spite of the fact that it is in existence since the beginning of this year, that organisation apparently has not been completed, and apparently it does not yet exist; and, in spite of the fact that no organisation exists, we have an Estimate here for that, including travelling expenses, telegrams, and incidental expenses, coming to the sum of £15,000. How it could be possible to estimate so large a sum for travelling and incidental expenses for an organisation which is still being considered, and which does not yet exist, is a matter which somewhat passes my comprehension.  It is important&mdash; this is possibly one of the most important votes we could be required to make.  It is one of the most critical and important votes for the future.  I am not quarrelling with the size of any of these sums. I think that the Votes that we are being asked to pass here are exceptionally moderate, considering the responsibilities we have undertaken, but I would have like that when this was being moved we should have been told exactly what the   nature of the organisation was so far, and what was the rest of the organisation that we are told is still being considered. 
     
    
      
       I would like to ask the Minister for External Affairs to tell us what is the policy of his Ministry with regard to the question of the League of Nations.  Those who are opposed to war and militarism in this country, are strongly desirous of seeing set up in Europe a real League of Nations that will prevent a recurrence of the terrible war which affected us. Troubles in Europe have their reactions, as has been stated, in this country, and I would like to get an assurance from the Minister that as soon as he is satisfied that a real League of Nations is set up&mdash;not composed of big Empires, out for greed or possession and control of great straits or exploitation of mining districts&mdash;his Ministry will take the earliest opportunity to see that Ireland has a seat in that League of Nations. 
     
    
      
       I do not think there is any Department of State where the Government should step more warily, at the present time, than in regard to external affairs.  Speaking for myself, I am very glad to see that the whole subject is rather in a state of constructive development.  Many concrete proposals in regard to foreign affairs are submitted to us in this Estimate.  The Estimate certainly covers a very large amount of money, but, in view of the fact of its being concerned with affairs practically of the whole world, I think it is quite legitimate that a very large Vote should be asked for.  There is no reason that the money should be entirely spent, but at the present time, in view of the fact that it is an experimental and creative stage, I think the Vote is justified.  I cannot agree with Deputy Johnson in his idea of there being a delimitation of our powers by any language in the Address yesterday.  The members of the Oireachtas were addressed in these words:&mdash;&ldquo;To-day, in the name and with the authority of the people of Saorstat Eireann, you enter into the fullness of your partnership in liberty with the Nations co-operating in co-equal membership of a great Commonwealth of free peoples.&rdquo;  Surely that is the position we have been standing for.  It was officially announced to us yesterday.  It puts all the people who are in that Commonwealth on a free   and equal footing.  It declares their free and full partnership.  I hold that we are free and full partners and have equally free and full rights with England herself, and that we are on just as great a status of national freedom as England is.  There has never been, by reason of the objection of the other parties to that partnership, a definition of what exactly their independence meant.  They themselves objected to any definition of the term Dominion.  It is all in the nature of growth, and I hold that we, in making this Treaty, and in entering into the position we now occupy, are equally as free and as independent as any of them, both in our home and in our foreign policy.  I hope the foreign policy of Ireland will be directed from the inspiration of the national history of Ireland; that it will be directed by our taking as full a part and as national a part as we are entitled to take in the development of such an idea as a League of Nations, and that every year the Estimates for the Ministry for External Affairs will show us that that Ministry is extending its usefulness, its initiative, and its work throughout the world, and that our representatives abroad are everywhere animated with that spirit, and that they are pushing the interests of Ireland along the lines of peaceful development all over the world, towards the general propagation and strengthening of the same principles upon which we have entered in joining this Commonwealth of free nations. 
     
    
      
       I wish a reply to a question.  The gist of the question, I think, was indicated in Deputy MacCartan's query&mdash;that is, who are our representatives abroad?  Are our representatives Trade Consuls, and, if so, do their salaries come out of this Vote; or are they, as it seems they might be so regarded, items of expenses to be defrayed by the Ministry of Trade and Commerce?  It is very hard to make these things definite water-tight compartments. I think a little information as to what is involved in travelling and incidental expenses and telegrams would be extremely illuminative.  I would like also to support the suggestion of Deputy Sears that the question of Ireland's attitude towards the League of Nations should have serious consideration from the Minister.  I have some sympathy   with the latter part of Deputy Johnson's inquiry when he asked was this particular Ministry taking its part in the development of world policy.  Though I am inclined to think that it is somewhat premature to anticipate what advantage either to ourselves or to Europe will accrue in face of these things at the present time, I take it that the note in the Estimate about the organisation of this Department being considered does not certainly indicate an intention as to whether the Department should or should not be considered.  We have got a certain international status.  It is natural, I think, at the beginning of things, and I think it is very important and vitally important in regard to our position as a factor in international affairs, that our relations with other parts of the world, instead of being curtailed, should be very much increased; and I think the exposition of a policy towards that end, which will indicate that our relations abroad are such as make for an increase of our commercial relations with other States, and make for the increase of our friendship with other States, should strengthen our influence as a factor towards peace. I think the policy outlined by this Ministry indicating that would justify an even larger Vote than is now before the Dail. It is one of the most important matters which concerns us.  This is a Vote which has implications, and may have ramifications of the most far-reaching consequences. I think this is not at all an extravagant Estimate, and I hope, if circumstances warrant, we shall see that value is yet obtained, and I think the Vote in the next Estimates will be substantially increased on the present one. 
     
    
      
       I do not quarrel with this Estimate at all, but as a student of history I would like to say that a League of Nations has always been a League of Tyrants, if not in its initial stages at least in its development.  I quite fail to see, or to appreciate the millennium which a League of Nations is presumed to bring about.  Ireland's position in this matter should, as far as regards the League of Nations, be practically more or less the position of the United States&mdash; that is, while always keeping in mind its own relation to foreign countries and encouraging Trade and Commerce as much   as possible, it must also keep itself clear of all foreign combinations of any kind whatsoever. 
     
    
      
       The item here under B, &ldquo;Travelling and Incidental Expenses and Telegrams,&rdquo; does not exactly convey what it covers.  It covers the cost of maintenance of establishments in foreign countries.  The use of the word &ldquo;Dominion&rdquo; for countries such as South Africa and Canada defines them as Free Nations.  Ireland also is a Free Nation.  The application of the word &ldquo;Dominion&rdquo; to Ireland does not change Ireland's position, but the application of that word to Ireland changes the meaning of the word &ldquo;Dominion.&rdquo; 
       With regard to Conferences, we have not received reports of these conferences from the British.  We have only been in our present position for one week, and I may just as well say, that during that time we were much concerned with &ldquo;sacro egoisms,&rdquo; and far too much concerned with the affairs that are of too immediate importance to us to take up these other matters.  We naturally presume that the British representatives in Conferences, in places where we are not represented, will convey to us a full report of what took place.  With regard to the message from the Pope to the Governor-General it should be understood that the Governor-General was in correspondence with the Pope prior to his taking up his position here.  It was an individual personal correspondence, and I understand the Governor-General in that correspondence, conveyed the news of his appointment to the Pope.  If it was conducted in any other circumstances I presume the Pope would have thought fit to communicate it to us through the proper channel. 
     
    
      
       May I make a suggestion? I know of a similar case of Sean Leslie who was sent by Cardinal Gibbon to take a letter and deliver it in Washington; he was asked for a copy of that letter by the Secretary of State, and he lied like a gentleman.  It was a private communication, but the Secretary of State expected to get a copy of it.  I expect that indirect correspondence will always be carried on behind the backs of these gentlemen. 
     
    
      
       We did actually receive a copy of the letter   but I was referring to the channel. Ordinarily it should come through one channel, but as it was a personal correspondence with the Governor-General, before he took up office, it came to him directly.  Now the word &ldquo;organisation&rdquo; in the footnote referred to by one of the Deputies actually means re-organisation, that is to say, this estimate is presented from the point of view of the Treasury. The Treasury has had no expensive knowledge of our existence up to the present, therefore from their point of view we are being organised.  From our point of view we are being re-organised. The functions of the Foreign Affairs Department of the past Dail were slightly different from ours under the new Dail.  At that time the Foreign Office attempted to attain what we have now, and now we wish to use what we have attained.  The Trade Commissioners abroad are under this Department, and the expenses of their Ministry are included in this Estimate.  Some months ago, it will be remembered, a motion, or rather a resolution, was brought forward in this Dail, proposing that as soon as advisable Ireland should proceed to take proper steps with a view to taking her place in the League of Nations.  That resolution will be acted upon. 
     
    
      
       I should like to say&mdash;&mdash; 
     
    
      
       I understood the Minister was closing the Debate. 
     
    
      
       I was, as a matter of fact, inclined to criticise the Minister speaking for a Ministry like this who really has not dealt with many of the matters raised. 
     
    
      
       The Deputy had an opportunity of speaking when others were putting points to the Ministry. 
     
    
      
       With all due respect I think it is right that if a member of the Dail thinks he has not got sufficient light from the Minister, he has a right to press for further information and to ask the Minister further questions. I do not think it is at all a proper course that Deputies on this side when these Estimates are brought forward,   should be content with asking questions of the Minister when the Minister has merely formally moved the Estimate and then after a few questions are asked, the Minister replies and that then the closure comes into operation. 
     
    
      
       Not necessarily except as a matter of arrangement. But the Deputy has a right to continue if he so desires. 
     
    
      
       I want to criticise, and I stand for the rights of Deputies to criticise.  I am not quite satisfied, or at all, with the replies of the Minister.  I have said that this Ministry is a first-class one and an important one, and I rise to ask whether it is a real Ministry or a sham one.  I want to know the work it intends to do.  The Minister says its work is not going to be like the Ministry of the Second Dail. The work for that is gone, and the work for the new Ministry is beginning.  I want to know&mdash;because the new Ministry will be the test of our status, not only in the British Commonwealth, but internationally&mdash;whether it is to be a play at having a Ministry of External Affairs in order that we may cod ourselves into the belief that we are really an independent State functioning in international affairs or not.  The Minister has said that the Consuls are Trade Consuls, and that they are functioning under this Ministry.  I want to ask him if their whole function is merely that of Commercial Consuls, or whether they have political functions in the countries to which they have been allocated?  Is it the intention of the Ministry that they should have political functions or be commercial representatives; and, if the latter, would not their proper Ministry be the Ministry of Trade and Commerce, which ought not to be concerned with the political relations of the State?  I should like to ask whether it was the intention of the Minister to appoint anyone with an ambassadorial function to, say, Washington or Paris?  The old and the new relations between Ireland and the United States have been very close. They undoubtedly should be as close, apart altogether from the question of contiguity as between Canada and the United States, and I should like to have an answer as to whether the Ministry propose to make such appointments,   whether in Washington or Paris or Petrograd, or anywhere else.  There is another thing upon which we must insist: that a definite stand be made by the Executive Council.  Are we going to have any kind of representative in London?  I think that will be the hallmark of our equal status with Great Britain&mdash;whether or not we are going to have a political representative in London.  Another thing I should like an answer on is whether the functions carried out by this Ambassador in relation to, say, France, Germany, or the United States, or Canada, or Australia, will be carried out in relation to Great Britain by this Ambassador, or whether they will be carried out by the President of the Ministry, or by whom shall they be carried out?  All those things are bound up in the exercise of our status.  It is quite true that there is very much to be done here, and the Constitution is so critical that a great deal of attention should not be given to continental or international issues, but we have got to stand up on certain rights, and especially on those rights, because things done there may very seriously affect us here.  It is universally known, in spite of the statement to the contrary in the Governor-General's address, that part of the unemployment here in Ireland, as everywhere else, is not due to local conditions at all but to international conditions, to the mess that was made by the Great Powers after the Treaty of Versailles, and for that reason it is necessary that we should pay attention to the development on the Continent, because this may affect us, and therefore, it is not right for the Ministry to say we have got our hands full here, and it is no business of ours.  It is our business, and it is the business of the country.  I hope that the want of seriousness in the Minister's reply to Deputy Johnson about the Dominion of the Irish Free State&mdash; whatever that means; I do not know what it means except it is the Dominion over the Twenty-six Counties&mdash;will not be a sign that this Ministry and its business is going to be treated lightly, because this Dail deserves better treatment than that.  There is no such thing to Irishmen as the Dominion of the Irish Free State in the sense of the Dominion of Canada.  I want the Minister to reply on those points I have raised, particularly on the question of   Ambassador at Washington, the question of political representatives in London, and if such are to be appointed by this or any other Ministry; also the method of communication between Great Britain and the Irish Free State.  We have got unfortunately to look on with, as it were, two sets of eyes upon the Government that sits at Westminster. We have got to consider them as being the Imperial Government.  We have got in the other connection to consider them as the National Government of the State next door to it.  Our relations with them therefore would be delicate in some respects, and intricate in other respects. The contracts that acknowledge other places ought to be of a certain kind.  I want to know if, and when, the Irish Free State Government is dealing with the Government of Westminster as the National Government of England, what are to be our methods of communication with them? 
     
    
      
       Before the Minister replies I would like to call his attention to the fact that, through an oversight no doubt, he omitted to answer some of the questions put by a previous Deputy.  One question is how many representatives there were and where they were placed. 
     
    
      
       Deputy O'Shannon failed to understand that in my last remarks I was replying to a definite question from Deputy Dr. MacCartan, who from his knowledge of the work of the old Dail, knew that we had representatives abroad under the Department of Industry and under the Department of Foreign Affairs.  The representatives under Industry were Trade Commissioners and those under Foreign Affairs, for want of a better word, were described as Diplomatic Commissioners. He asked if the Trade Commissioners were also under this Department, and my reply was they were.  I was just definitely specifying them as distinct from the others.  Deputies asked if we proposed to have Diplomatic Representatives in Paris, Washington and London. The reply is in the affirmative. When dealing with the British Government as the Government of England I suppose we will deal with them through our London representative, who will shortly, I hope, be appointed.  My reply in regard to the use of the word &ldquo;Dominions&rdquo; was not intended to be   light but it was merely intended to be clear.  Deputy Figgis asked me the number and whereabouts of our representatives. In Paris we have two, Diplomatic and Trade; in Belgium we have one, Trade; in Holland one, Trade; in Germany one, Trade; in Italy two, one Trade and the other I may call Diplomatic; in Spain one, and in the United States Trade and Diplomatic, and in Switzerland we have a representative, who is watching and giving us information with regard to the League of Nations. 
     
    
      
       Evidently the Minister did not quite catch my point about Trade representatives.  I asked him if the present Trade representatives have any political functions. 
     
    
      
       No, they have not.  As in most places where they are we have a Trade representative also, and the Trade representative confines himself to trade, and the diplomatic people, or whatever you may call them, to diplomatic affairs. 
       Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail in Committee, having considered the Estimate of the amount required in the year ending 31st March, 1923, to pay the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of External Affairs recommend that £25,000 be adopted in due course by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       The Dail will now go out of Committee. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - [  DAIL RESUMED. ] 
    
      
       I now move that the Dail leave the Committee stage, and: 
       (1)  That the several sums set out in the third column of the Summary of Estimates, 1922-23, as laid before the Dail, excepting amounts relative to Votes 60 to 64 inclusive, be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, for expenditure in respect of the services therein mentioned respectively, such sums amounting in the aggregate to £37,709,586, and including amounts already authorised to be issued in respect of the said services out of the Consolidated Fund of the Provisional Government. 
     
     (2)  That a sum not exceeding £15,500 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during   the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, for the salaries and expenses of District Justices. 
     (3)  That a sum not exceeding £250,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, for certain payments of compensation in respect of personal injuries or death. 
     (4)  That a sum not exceeding £10,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, for the salaries and expenses of the Governor-General's establishment. 
     (5)  That a sum not exceeding £41,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, as a Grant-in-aid of the Development Fund. 
     (6)  That a sum not exceeding £25,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, for the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of External Affairs. 
    
      
       I second that. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ACTING CHAIRMAN. 
    
      
       If there is going to be a debate on this I would like to remind the Dail that through an oversight of mine before entering on the Committee Stage of the Estimates I omitted to tell the Deputies that I saw to-day Deputy Padraig O Maille, An Leas Cheann Comhairle, and I regret to say he will not be available for service during any period this side of Christmas. I suggest, therefore, that it would be necessary that there should be some other Deputy appointed who could take the chair here from time to time, during my short absences.  I think this might be a suitable time, if we are going to have a discussion, to come to a conclusion on that matter. 
     
    
      
       It is quite impossible for the Chairman to sit in the Chair all the time. 
     
    
      
       I have much pleasure in proposing that Deputy George Nicholls be appointed Deputy Speaker during the absence of Mr. Padraig O Maille. 
     
     
    
      
       I beg to second. 
     
    
      
       I move that Deputy Fitzgibbon be appointed to act in the meantime. 
     
    
      
       I have great pleasure in seconding it. 
     
    
      
       Unfortunately owing to the way in which my education was neglected in my youth and the difficulty I find in late years of getting an old dog to learn new tricks I am afraid that my want of knowledge of the National language precludes me from carrying out the duties of the Chair.  From the way the business of this Dail has been conducted from the start it would, I think, be improper for anyone to occupy the Chair who was not familiar with the language in which every member is entitled to address the Dail. 
     
    
      
       I take it that Deputy Fitzgibbon's name is therefore withdrawn. 
     
    
      
       It is not so much withdrawal as unfitness to fill the Chair at present. 
     
    
      
       I was touched by the last two words that Deputy Fitzgibbon used, &ldquo;At present,&rdquo; so he is hopeful for the future. 
     
    
      
       I live in hope. 
     
    
      
       I think that Deputy Fitzgibbon might with the assistance of the Clerk of the Dail fill the office. 
     
    
      
       As Deputy Fitzgibbon has withdrawn, I propose that Deputy Figgis be appointed. 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
    
      
       My view would be that it would do no harm if the Dail would agree to have two people on either of whom I might call.  Perhaps the Dail would agree to that? 
     
    
      
       This appointment is one contemplated by Standing Orders because the idea was that the Dail might meet some day and find both the regularly constituted officials absent for some reason or another. We are now unfortunately dealing with a temporary appointment, but one which I feel will be of protracted duration.   Therefore whoever is appointed would be sitting in your place for such time as you require for rest and refreshment, and therefore he must be qualified in all respects to fill the Chair. 
     
    
      
       I think you might press your suggestion about the two. 
     
    
      
       Would Deputy Fitzgibbon agree to my suggestion and leave it to my discretion by appointing two? 
     
    
      
       I am putting it on the ground of incapacity. Supposing some Deputy were to use expressions which were challenged, it would be impossible for me to rule on the point, and the Dail might be reduced to turmoil or disorder through the incapacity of the Chair to rule.  We know that tempers sometimes get heated, and it is when tempers get heated that such questions arise, and that the Chair should be really impartial and have a knowledge of the business. 
     
    
      
       There is no member perfect.  Every member, no matter who he may be, will suffer from some disability, and I suggest that the disability that Deputy Fitzgibbon speaks of is the one disability which would be easily overcome if the other members of the Dail assisted.  There are other disabilities that might not be so easily overcome, and which members of the Dail would not, or could not, so readily assist him with.  We might have a Deputy appointed to the Chair who, shall I say, is slightly hard of hearing.  We might have another who has an unruly temper. That is not so easily overcome by the assistance that the Deputies in general can give.  The difficulty that Deputy Fitzgibbon speaks of can easily be overcome if members of the Dail are generally prepared to assist him. 
     
    
      
       I would like to point out also that the great objection urged by Deputy Fitzgibbon is, that he is afraid some Deputies might use some disorderly remarks in Gaelic.  Now, the whole record of this Assembly is that the only disorderly remarks that have been made were made in English, and possibly, if we all spoke in Irish, we would never be disorderly, so I think that apprehension of his has no precedent to   warrant it.  Another point is, that the duties of the Deputy Chinn Comhairle are of very short duration, and it is likely that whoever is appointed will have no difficulty, and that Deputy Fitzgibbon will be able to rise to the occasion.  In any case, if there were some remarks made that brought about the anger of certain Deputies, unfortunately there are many of us just as incapable of knowing whether we are disorderly or not when speaking in the Dail, and the Clerk of the Dail could act as interpreter and inform the Deputy Chinn Comhairle of the nature of the observation. 
     
    
      
       It is not only that, but it is also when dealing with the irrelevancy of arguments.  I do not think that is so likely, as Deputies have been so orderly, and as Deputy Milroy says, there have been so few personal scenes since we came here a few weeks ago, there is very little fear on that account.  But I do fear irrelevant arguments. 
     
    
      
       We are dealing with a very special situation. Would the Dail agree that the names of Deputy George Nicholls and Deputy Fitzgibbon be placed on a panel, so that I may call upon either of them to occupy the Chair for a brief space?  I take it the Dail overrules Deputy Fitzgibbon's objection. 
       Agreed. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DEBATE ON ESTIMATES. 
    
      
       On this motion I want to say a word or two with regard to the proposed dissolution of the Ministry of Agriculture and the establishment of a new Ministry.  It is a very short time ago since we had before us certain estimates for the Ministry of Agriculture. We passed those Estimates in Committee and they included charges connected with that portion of the Department of Agriculture which dealt with Fisheries. Within a very short time after consideration of these Estimates, a proposal was put before us to dissolve that Ministry and set up a new Ministry of Fisheries.  I believe that the time will come when a Ministry of Fisheries may be justifiable.  I do not think it is justifiable yet unless the Minister for Finance and the Executive Council in general is prepared to allot a very large sum of money for the purpose of the   organisation of Fisheries in Ireland. The proposal is to disestablish the Ministry of Agriculture, for which Estimates have been considered, and which we are now asked formally to agree to, and establish a new Ministry without making any provision for the financing of that new Ministry.  I think the position of the Fisheries and the Government's supervision of Fisheries hardly at present justifies the appointment of a Minister of Fisheries.  The Minister of Fisheries must be the head of a Department, and the existence of a Department suggests that there is some kind of an organisation of the business arrangements for controlling the Fisheries of the country.  I presume there is such an organisation as a Sub-Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, but no case has been made for the establishment of a new Minister of Fisheries at this stage. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order, a Committee was set up and it met to-day in connection with these new Ministries, so that I think this discussion is out of order.  The Dail can reject the proposals of this Committee for new Ministers if they choose.  I think this is hardly the proper time when this discussion arises.  Mr. Johnson was not present, although he is a member of the Committee. 
     
    
      
       The motion is that certain moneys be granted which include the charges for Agriculture, and I presume the proposal to appoint the Ministry may be discussed, although it will arise on the Report of the Committee, which is on the Order Paper for to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       I have no doubt that the appointment of the Ministers will arise, but I am now querying the wisdom of dividing the present Ministry into two, for the reason that no justification has been given for the establishment of a new Ministry at this stage. All that has been suggested is the necessity for the new Ministry, and that was the only suggestion; no proposal and no indication was given by the President as to the policy that the Executive Council as a whole desires to pursue in respect of the Fisheries, and unless we have from the late Minister for Agriculture some explanation as to the necessity for dividing the Ministry, and   the urgency for doing so, and appointing a new Ministry with a new staff, and the consequential charges for the financing of such a staff and such a Ministry, we ought not to pass this motion without some discussion and explanation. Now, to a very large extent the same arguments apply to the proposal to appoint a new Minister if it is intended he shall be a Minister, and I do not know what Vote it comes under except it comes under the Vote for Dail Eireann, or it is perhaps an unforeseen and unprepared-for contingency.  A suggestion was made that there should be appointed a Minister to act as a liaison between the Dail and the Senate, and I take it that in one or other of the Estimates provision has been made for such an officer.  Again, I want to point out that if it is intended that officer shall be a Minister, he must be the head of a Ministry unless he is a Minister without portfolio, in which case he could be a member of the Executive Council.  But, assuming that the financial provision for such a Ministry is included in this volume, I would ask that some reasonable explanation be given for the desire to have such an officer appointed. 
     
    
      
       As Deputy Johnson has asked for my own view, I think I had better say what I have got to say first.  Personally, I am quite clear, if my opinion is of any value to the Dail, that there should be a Ministry of Fisheries, distinct from the Ministry of Agriculture. On the face of it there is a real good case for it, and in the interests both of Agriculture and of Fisheries. The Deputy has asked why should there be a Ministry of Fisheries. 
     
    
      
       At this stage. 
     
    
      
       At this stage, and with all respect to him he has not given any reasons why there should not, and I might as well ask why there should not be a Ministry of Fisheries. 
     
    
      
       It is you asked for the money. 
     
    
      
       I say on the face of it and at the first blush that anybody who knows anything about the Fisheries of this country and the importance of Agriculture and the rest is in favour of having a separate Ministry of Fisheries,   and not having the Ministry of Fisheries merely a sub-Department of Agriculture. I take it that everyone will agree that Fisheries are developing into something almost as important as Agriculture in this country.  I do not think Deputy Johnson disagrees with me in that.  I think it is the common case that it should develop into something.  At the present moment the trade is in an exceedingly depressed condition.  It will require very much more money to develop it than has appeared for the service on the Estimate.  I would not like to express an opinion, but it is possible that before the next financial year a supplementary Estimate will be required not to create an additional staff &mdash;the staff are there already; they are in the Congested Districts Board and in the Department of Agriculture&mdash;but for the development of the industry; and I think Deputy Figgis will agree&mdash;he has interested himself in this particular problem&mdash;that it is the one industry which requires a vast amount of money, compared with any other industry, to put it on its feet, and I think that the Dail Report on Fisheries recommended that there should be a separate Ministry of Fisheries. 
     
    
      
       Hear, hear. 
     
    
      
       I feel, and I am saying this purely in the interests of the industry, that if you do not begin now&mdash;I think I heard Deputy Johnson saying some time ago, and I agree with him, that we are making important precedents now&mdash;if you do not begin now you may find it exceedingly difficult to begin later on, when the necessity is more urgent, and the necessity is urgent now.  The Minister for Fisheries and his staff will be fully occupied in clearing away the debris for the next three months.  He will be fully occupied, in addition, in dividing the industry, as, unfortunately, it will be necessary to divide it, between the North and South.  The two big questions between the North and the South, that is, between North-East Ulster or, as they call it, Northern Ireland, and the Free State is a division of the Fisheries, a division of the industry, and the division of the Diseases of Animals Act administration. I do not think I am called upon to go into any other aspect   of the case.  We are agreed that ultimately it must be a separate Ministry; we are agreed that it will require a very large amount of money to develop the industry; we are agreed that it should develop into as big an industry as Agriculture, and I say, that being so, the sooner we get it done the better.  And it is these considerations, and these considerations only, that forced me to advise the President, as I advised him months ago, that the present Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries should be divided and a separate Ministry created. 
     
    
      
       I would like to support the suggestion that the Ministry of Fisheries be set up at once, because I happen to live in a part of the country where the question of Fisheries is a very pressing one, and I venture to say that if the Government does not set up a Ministry of Fisheries at once there will be no fish left for them to administer over.  Of course, there are two kinds of Fisheries, as everybody knows, the Maritime Fisheries and the Inland Fisheries, and the Maritime Fisheries, on account of the lack of watchfulness of strangers on our coast, on account of the fact that the only vessel which had been doing duty&mdash;the Helga&mdash;having been withdrawn, I know that foreigners are coming in and are doing untold damage to the spawning beds on the coast.  As regards Inland Fisheries, Fresh Water Fisheries, tremendous damage has been done already, and I, for one, strongly support the suggestion that a Ministry of Fisheries be at once appointed, because, as I said at the beginning, if he does not begin to function at once there will be no Fisheries to administer over. 
     
    
      
       I also rise to support the appointment of this Ministry, because, as representing a constituency where a good deal of fishing is being done, and where the fishing is absolutely neglected at the moment, I believe if we put this question back for three or six months that we will be doing a grave injustice to these people, who have to earn their living by this means.  As has been pointed out here, I think that the Minister, if he is appointed, will have plenty of work to do to get his Department into proper order and to have it ready when the time   comes when we can find sufficient money for him to be enabled to carry on his work in a proper manner.  As regards the appointment I might say, without giving away any names, that the Committee considered every aspect of the case that was put forward, and they were unanimous in stating that the appointments should be made immediately. For that reason I support it. 
     
    
      
       There were other things raised on this question besides the question of the Ministry of Fisheries.  One of the other questions has not been answered from the Government side, and that was the question with regard to the other Minister, the Liaison Minister, or whatever he is to be.  Now, we are all agreed that there ought to be a Ministry of Fisheries, and that there ought to be the greatest possible development of the Fisheries.  I agree with the Deputy, the late Minister for Agriculture, that the question of Fisheries is one of the difficult questions in connection with the separation between the Belfast Government and the Government of the Irish Free State, but he has not yet made out the case why exactly it requires a Minister to do all these things.  I do not see any reason at the moment why all this could not be done by the Department. He says the staff is there all right, and presumably the staff is getting paid, and it might require an increased staff and it might not, but why must there be a Minister?  Is it possible for that Department of the Ministry for Agriculture to do the work required within the next three or four months?  Why the urgent necessity for having a Ministry at the head of this Department for these four coming months, because after that the situation will be different.  There is a consideration in that, and in connection with the other Ministry that is suggested, that is the Liaison Ministry, there was mentioned also a third Ministry, a Contracts Ministry.  I do not know, I suppose we will not know until this Committee reports to-morrow, whether there will be such a Ministry appointed, but I am presuming for the moment that there will not be.  There are other things of very great urgency and importance for which a fair case may be made out for a Ministry, a very   fair case.  I am thinking of health, for instance, the general national health of the people of the country.  I am thinking, for instance, of a Ministry of Transport and Communications, and above all&mdash;and this now trenches a bit on the bigger policy&mdash;if I incidentally have to bring in another matter in connection with it, I want to be understood that I am not bringing in that matter simply to throw bricks at the Government, but for a quite different reason&mdash;and that is a Ministry of Reconstruction.  I have been long convinced that part of the root of the trouble the State is suffering from now is that it was unable, that the old Dail was unable, to meet the situation which faces every Government that comes out of a war, that is to say it had on its hands a certain number of soldiers who for a number of years had been engaged in nothing but destruction and war, and did not have time, and did not take into consideration how it was going to dispose of those back again into the civil population.  Long before you come to the end of the present war, or even if you had no war at all, you will want reconstruction, and it will, in my opinion, require a Ministry, because it will require to be built from the foundation up.  It will need to take into consideration the question of demobilisation and the question of the general national reconstruction of the State and it will require, because of the necessity of co-ordinating the various elements and questions, to be a Ministry. You are not going to start to do it when the need is just there.  Now, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Health may be a Ministry of Reconstruction too, but remember until you make an amendment in the Constitution you are confined to twelve Ministers, and, therefore, I say this is not a good time for forming a new Ministry to deal even with Fisheries.  I say that there should be a great deal of money spent in the development of Fisheries, but equally we should not rush into building up Ministries now until we have got along a bit, and see what Departments exactly will require all the dignity and equipment of a separate Ministry.  We have to discuss and debate all these things and try until such time as we have an amendment in the Constitution to fit into twelve separate   Ministries all the Departments over which the Government has control. Therefore I say that this is not the time for forming a new Ministry, and that no case has been made why within these four months we must have a Ministry of Fisheries, and why we must have a Ministry for the other thing. Even if you require a man to be head of that Department there is no reason in the wide world, and none of us will object to it, and even if you want to dignify him with a title you can give him the title of Assistant Minister or something like that.  It is the objection to the Minister that makes me oppose this. You can have a Department and make it develop all the Fisheries in Ireland, but the argument that because of the separation of the powers between the North and the South you will therefore require a Minister to do that is not convincing. No doubt an expert will be required on the job, but this is a question for the whole Ministry, and it is a boundary question, I think, rather than for an Administration Department of the Government to deal with. 
     
    
      
       What I wish to say is this, that in this question what we are really discussing is whether you should divide Agriculture and Fisheries.  We seem to have reached this point: was it right to do it at present?  Well, it depends on how much the Minister for Agriculture will have to do, and it depends just as much on how much the Minister for Fisheries will have to do. I am absolutely convinced, and we are all agreed upon it, that ultimately&mdash;and if the service was properly administered in the past it would be now&mdash;but ultimately it must be as big and important an item in the national economy as Agriculture. I am satisfied about that.  I think anyone who has thought about the question, or knows anything about the question, will agree with me.  It has been asked, why set up this Ministry? Surely we are beginning the Free State. At present the question is being dealt with by two Departments, the Agricultural Department and the Congested Districts Board, but if properly developed and co-ordinated, with a man and policy at the head of the whole thing, you could develop into something, and why not begin immediately?  I suggest that is the only course.  On the other   hand, you have the present work of the Ministry of Agriculture dealing with the Land Commission.  You know what all that means&mdash;dealing with the Department of Agriculture, dealing with the Congested Districts Board, dealing with very important matters as between the North and South, which have to be divided, and dealing, moreover, and I want the Deputy to realise this and to attend to it&mdash;dealing with the huge financial question between Ireland and England that is presented by the question of this £173,000,000 of Land Stock that is between us.  No, to my mind, there is no more case for having these two Ministries at the present moment in one than there would be for the amalgamation of the Ministry of Local Government and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce&mdash;that is from experience of both&mdash;and for six months I had advised the late Commander-in-Chief and late President, Mr. Collins, that these two Ministries should be sub-divided.  I have a certain amount of experience in the position, and I am perfectly satisfied it should be done now.  I am equally satisfied it should be done before now. In that state of affairs, I think the right time is chosen, namely, when the first Free State Government is being set up. 
     
    
      
       I would like to say that the whole question to me is a question of perspective.  We have twelve Ministers required, and the demand will come inevitably that you have a Ministry of Health, a Ministry of Transport, and probably a Ministry of Reconstruction. The claim for those is at least equally as great as the Ministry of Fisheries, and it is rather for the Ministry as a whole to decide than the head of a Department, who is sure to advocate the claims of his Department, very naturally and quite rightly; but it is a matter for the Dail, on the advice of the Ministry as a whole, to decide the relative merits of the claims for the establishment of a Ministry of Health, a Ministry of Transport, and a Ministry of Reconstruction, and these other two Ministries that were suggested.  Whether they are going to be brought into being I know not, but I submit in relation to these other things no case has been made for the establishment of this Ministry of Fisheries. 
     
     
    
      
       On a point of personal explanation, I do not think the Deputy is quite fair to me.  He deliberately asked for my opinion in this matter, and I gave it. 
     
    
      
       I think you are perfectly right in making the case as it must appear from the point of view of the Ministry of Agriculture.  I admit that, but the Ministry as a whole must consider all the Departments of the State and put them in their due relationship. 
     
    
      
       I have only to add that the Ministry as a whole did, and they got the advice which you are getting now.  If Deputy Johnson does not think there is some case for reconstruction and these other things he advocated I can only say so many men so many opinions, and we never can agree on it. 
     
    
      
       I would like to urge this view, that at the present time it does not seem essential to establish this Ministry for this reason&mdash;above all things at the present time we want to conserve and develop the natural resources which will mean the life of the people.  The country is in a desperate way undoubtedly in regard to the Agricultural industry, which is the chief industry of the people, and I think a perfect case has been made out for dividing these Ministries.  We have a big Land Programme before us in the coming session, when the whole question of the Ministry of Agriculture and the problems that face them will be presented to the Dail, and that Ministry should deal with them and with nothing else.  From the point of view of conserving the natural resources of the country and developing them to the utmost, I believe that next to the Ministry of Agriculture the Ministry of Fisheries will help to develop the full resources of the country, and from that point of view alone I would urge the creation of this Ministry before the creation of other Ministries that undoubtedly are desirable.  But all things follow from the producing of food, as food is the first necessity, the first thing that any nation has to do is to develop its food resources.  I think, going on these lines, we will be going on safe and sound lines. 
     
     
        Motion made and question put:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee on the said Resolutions. 
     Agreed. 
    
      
       There is the question of granting the money. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - WAYS AND MEANS RESOLUTION. 
    
      
       The money has been voted.  Now a Resolution is necessary to give us permission to take it out, and I beg to move:&mdash;&ldquo;That towards making good the supply granted for the Services of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1923, there shall be granted out of the Central Fund such sum as, together with sums already issued for supply services out of the Consolidated Fund of the Provisional Government, shall amount to the aggregate of thirty-eight millions fifty-one thousand and eighty-six pounds.&rdquo;  It is simply the authority to discharge the administration of these services. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
    
      
       I move:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agrees with the Committee in the said Resolution.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I second. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DAIL RESUMED. - ADAPTATION OF BRITISH ENACTMENTS BILL. 
    
      
       I move for leave to bring in this Bill.  It is a Bill that is necessary now in view of the setting up of the Saorstat.  Certain terms, certain funds, and certain other matters require to be regularised and to be legalised owing to the change that has taken place.  I suppose it is not necessary to say anything on that, but simply to ask for permission to bring in the Bill. 
     
    
      
       I think so. 
     
    
      
       I formally second. 
       Motion made and question put:&mdash; 
     
     
       &ldquo;That the Adaptation of British Enactments Bill be read a first time.&rdquo; 
     Agreed. 
    
      
       Now might I move the suspension of Standing Order 66, so that we would get through with the Second Reading of this Bill.  Standing Order 66 reads:&mdash;&ldquo;When a Bill shall have passed its first stage and have been circulated, notice of motion shall be given for its Second Reading, the debate on which shall be confined to the general principle of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
    
      
       I take it the motion is to suspend that Standing Order in order that the Bill, which is in the hands of the members, may be taken for a Second Reading now. 
     
    
      
       Yes. 
     
    
      
       Before we have read it? 
     
    
      
       If leave to introduce a Bill be granted such Bill shall be printed and circulated.  I have anticipated that, and I have the Bill printed and in your hands, which is equal to the second stage.  In order to explain the matter I am asking for the suspension of the Standing Order. 
     
    
      
       I suggest, with great respect to you and to the President, that the first stage is leave to introduce, and that the second stage is a debate on the general principle. 
     
    
      
       Is the suspension of the Standing Order seconded? 
     
    
      
       I second it. 
     
    
      
       Before passing it I think I would like to have it made clear that the purpose of the proposal is that the Minister should introduce the Bill and explain the intentions, and not proceed with the discussion until we have had an opportunity to read it. 
     
    
      
       Would we not go into Committee subsequently and have an opportunity for discussing it?  It really amounts to not having a discussion on the Second Reading. 
     
    
      
       As a mere matter of procedure, is not what the President desires to do now to explain   the general nature of the Bill, a matter that lies within the four corners of the First Reading?  That does not preclude our going on to the Second Reading at some future time. 
     
    
      
       If we are expected to pass the second stage before we have had an opportunity to read the Bill I think that is unfair to the Dail.  I think it would be very desirable, having passed the first stage, that the Minister in charge should explain the Bill and then adjourn the discussion until a later date, so that we could read it. 
     
    
      
       The explanation is part of the first stage, and that is an important point. 
     
    
      
       I think what the President desires to do is to pass the first and second stage to-day and to take up the details in Committee to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       That is right. 
     
    
      
       In that case I am bound to protest. 
     
    
      
       What is the urgency precisely? 
     
    
      
       I will explain that when I come to the terms of the measure. The urgency of it is this: Take the resolutions that we are after passing. That resolution refers to a Central Fund.  There is no such thing as a Central Fund at present.  There is no such thing in existence.  This Bill is simply to define what is a Central Fund, what is meant by the Houses of Parliament, what is meant by the National Debt Commissioners, and so on like that.  And it is really necessary that these things should be done at once. You are not committed to anything.  It is simply a question of regularising the proceedings and a question of speed. That is the whole substance of it. 
     
    
      
       I think this is a matter of some importance.  We have had this Bill with no opportunity to read it, and I suggest that we should take the first stage to-day, and that on this stage we should follow the principle adopted in every other Assembly, namely, that the proposer of the Bill should explain the object of it, and we   could take the second and third stages to-morrow&mdash;the third stage being the Committee Stage. 
     
    
      
       The first stage is already passed, for which I am not under any obligation to the Deputy, and now I want the second stage, for which I will thank the Deputy if he assists me. 
     
    
      
       The same result will be achieved by taking the second and third stage to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       No, because Deputies can take away the Bill now and read it between this and to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       I think it is obvious that we should have an explanation of this Bill from the President.  I think this Bill is of very special nature, and one which I think there will be general desire to discuss. 
     
    
      
       The matter for discussion is wholly a matter of detail, and it is very largely a matter of names.  I will take it that the motion to suspend the Standing Orders and take the Second Reading is agreed. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       The main object of this Bill is to provide the Government with the machinery legally necessary for enabling current administration to be carried on without breach of continuity by reason of the coming into operation of the Constitution of Saorstat Eireann.  The position with which the Bill is intended to deal can probably be most clearly explained by means of a simple illustration.  The complex machinery of government in this country has heretofore been regulated by Acts of the British Parliament.  Our Constitution provides in Article 73 that these Acts should continue to operate until repealed or amended by enactment of the Oireachtas.  Now, when we come in practice to apply this provision of the Constitution we find that the existing British law, which we are adapting for the time being, provides, for example, that money may be issued out of the Consolidated Fund or that something shall be done by the National Debt Commissioners.  The Consolidated Fund and the National Debt Commissioners thus referred to are British   institutions which do not exist in Saorstat Eireann, and it is consequently necessary that legal provision should be made by which we are authorised to substitute for such references in British laws references to the proper corresponding person or body or thing in Saorstat Eireann.  The British Consolidated Fund will in this way be replaced by the Central Fund, to which reference is made in Clause 1 of the Bill. Similarly, the other clauses of the Bill, especially 2, 5, 8, 9 and 11, make provision for replacing various British officers, boards, funds, etc., by corresponding authorities or funds of our own.  It will be understood that this procedure is not to be taken as committing us in any way to a decision as to whether it is advisable in some or all of these matters to adhere as a permanent arrangement to the methods adopted by the British Government.  It will, no doubt, be necessary to consider when there is more leisure what will be the most appropriate measure in future for our own purposes, but at the moment we are taking over a great and complex administrative organisation, and its activities cannot be allowed to break down while we take time to think about improvements. This Bill is, above everything else, an emergency measure, and it is intended primarily to solve difficulties which must be solved urgently if the current work of government is to be carried on.  We must have operative machinery to issue moneys out of the Central Fund for such purposes as may be approved by the Dail.  We must give the Comptroller and Auditor-General, who is to be appointed by the Dail, the functions at present provided by British law for an officer of this character.  If a Bill of this character were not introduced we should have no means of operating upon the Exchequer for the purpose of drawing money to pay wages and salaries from day to day, for paying old age pensions, or, indeed, for paying any of the charges incidental to the work of the Government.  Since the 6th December no money has been drawn from the Exchequer, and it will not be legally possible to draw it until this Bill and the Appropriation Bill, which will presently be laid before the Dail have been passed.  This measure is, therefore, of real and special   urgency, and for that reason is being chosen as the first measure to be submitted to the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann.  Before the Speaker ruled against my speaking on the question of the necessity for a Liaison Officer I intended to say that necessity had already arisen.  I understand the Seanad adjourned until next Tuesday.  This Dail wanted the Seanad to continue for some days this week, if at all possible.  There fore, as the Ceann Comhairle usually discharges his office with remarkable ability, it is not right that I should charge him with having ruled me out about that.  But these are the facts.  I only discovered when I went to see about other matters that it had adjourned ten minutes or so ago.  Now, that Bill and this Appropriation Bill are absolutely necessary.  This is more or less a matter of regularising things.  It is not legislation in the ordinary acceptation of the term.  It will not arise very much oftener unless we have forgotten some things in this Bill, and that is the reason for the urgency, and I think it will be appreciated that our action is reasonable. 
     
    
      
       I beg to second that. Motion that &ldquo;The Adaptation of British Enactments Bill&rdquo; be read a second time, put and agreed to. 
     
    
      
       I take it that a third stage is to be taken by the Dail in Committee to-morrow. 
     
    
      
       When must amendments be in? 
     
    
      
       Before 2 o'clock to-morrow, or before 1 o'clock would be more convenient.  There are Standing Orders which allow them to be taken by special leave.  It will be very desirable that we have them as early as possible, so that they could be circulated. 
     
   
   
     DAIL RESUMED. - GOVERNOR-GENERAL'S ADDRESS. 
    
      
       She an ceud rud eile na an diosboireact a cuireadh ar ath lo inde ar Oraid an tSeanascail. The next business is a motion on the adjourned debate that the Dail returns thanks to the Governor-General for his speech, and approves of the programme of the Government as outlined in the speech.  Before the Deputy resumes I wish to say I have received two amendments,   one of which is already in the hands of Deputies, I think. 
       The amendment by Deputy Johnson reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To omit all after `Dail' (line 1) and insert:&mdash;`regrets that the policy of the Executive Council transmitted through the Governor-General should consist in deferring to an indefinite future any attempt to remedy social and economic difficulties of the people, especially the evils arising from widespread unemployment; and also regrets that no indication has been given of the intentions of the Executive Council respecting the recommendations of the Commission on Irish Railways.' &rdquo; 
       The amendment by Deputy T. O'Connell reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To omit all after the word `Dail' and insert:&mdash; `regrets that the programme of legislation outlined in the speech of the Governor-General contains no proposal for the reform of the present educational system, including the provision of an effective system of compulsory school attendance.' &rdquo; 
       Mr. Gerald Fitzgibbon took the chair at this stage. 
     
    
      
       I rise to speak to the motion proposed yesterday so clearly by Deputy Seoirse McNicholls and seconded in this Dail.  There are one or two matters I notice that are dealt with by amendments that I think possibly might best be kept to the amendment.  We have had put into our hands quite recently the Report of a Committee which was set up to look into the condition of Irish railways, and one would imagine that the present state of the railways was such that we would have some indication of what the Government would do in that matter, and I am sorry that there has been no such mention in this Address, for frankly this Address should be treated for what it is exactly.  There is a formality in other countries by which Addresses of this kind are treated as if they came from the Governor-General on his own initiative or from the King.  Actually we know the fact to be that these Addresses are written by the Ministry for the time being, and they are the statement of the Ministry to Parliament of the measures they propose to suggest for legislation   during the coming session.  It would be better if we treated them frankly in that spirit, instead of dealing with some sort of circumlocution which pretends that the Address of the Governor-General was his own, and which he delivered here as his own, though it is really the composition of our friend President Cosgrave, who is head of the Executive Council.  There is one matter, however, that I think touches everybody in this country dealt with in paragraph 4, where the Address speaks of the decision of Ulster to contract out of the Free State.  I am saying what I think everybody in this Dail will agree with, as also will everybody in the country, that this decision has been received by the fellow-citizens of the Irishmen in the North who live in the South and West with sorrow, but, after all, we have to accept the Treaty, under which they have that right conferred upon them.  Having had that right conferred upon them, they have exercised it.  I am perfectly convinced that the economic necessity of this country will decree unity in the very near future both in that matter and in certain other matters where there are divisions.  I think perhaps the best thing to do for the future is not to lament too greatly over this decision that they have taken. We are sorry that this division has occurred, but we have at the same time to remind ourselves that the Treaty is before us, and, therefore, I am particularly glad to note in this Address the statement by the Ministry that they intend to proceed with the setting up of the Boundary Commission at a very early date, and that the case of those in the North&mdash;whose desire it is to continue relations of unity with those in the South &mdash;will be prosecuted by the Government of the Free State before that Commission. We have noticed certain statements in the public Press by which it has been suggested that the Boundary Commission will not necessarily function. The Boundary Commission is a necessity equally with the right of the Northern Parliament to contract out of the Free State.  They have exercised their powers under the Treaty.  There are also other rights under the Treaty which must be equally well recognised.  I hope a statement will be made by the Minister for Home Affairs when he deals with this paragraph 6 of the speech which refers   to the constitution of the judicial system and the setting up of a Judicial Commission. We are informed that a committee of persons of expert knowledge upon the subject is being set up immediately, and we have been promised that the terms of reference to be placed before this Committee or Commission will be put before this Dail.  I would like an assurance also to be given that not only will the terms of reference, but that the names of the persons who are to be put upon this Commission will be laid before this Dail before the Commission is brought into being.  There is also paragraph 9, which is a little puzzling in the wording adopted &mdash;it reads: &ldquo;A Bill relating to your National Defence Force in time of peace will be shortly offered for your consideration.&rdquo; We have had many protestations that this is a time of war and exactly what it means to the conception of a National Defence Force is not self-apparent, because it seems to me that at the present moment if only to save a great many questions that are being raised the Bill should be brought before the Oireachtas in order to provide for legalising the existence of the National Army both now and later on whether in times of peace or in times of war. 
     
    
      
       The motion I have to move as an amendment is as follows:&mdash; To omit all after &ldquo;Dail&rdquo; (line 1) and insert:&mdash;&ldquo;regrets that the policy of the Executive Council transmitted through the Governor-General should consist in deferring to an indefinite future any attempt to remedy social and economic difficulties of the people especially the evils arising from widespread unemployment; and also regrets that no indication has been given of the intentions of the Executive Council respecting the recommendations of the Commission on Irish Railways.&rdquo;  It may seem to the casual reader that the reference to the social and economic problems is precise enough and showed signs of earnest desire to consider these problems, but I want to draw attention to the phraseology of this particular paragraph.  After pointing out that it must be the first and most urgent care to bring these disorders to a speedy end, it goes on to say: &ldquo;In the mean-time&rdquo;&mdash;that is, during the time when this disorder is being dealt with, with the object of bringing it to a speedy end&mdash; &ldquo;my Ministers&rdquo;&mdash;by the way, &ldquo;my Ministers&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;are giving their best attention to the working out of schemes dealing with the problem which they hope to have ready to submit to your active consideration as soon as circumstances will allow of their being put into operation.&rdquo; In another place that would have been criticised as a policy of &ldquo;Wait and see.&rdquo; Wait until we have tackled successfully the war-problem and then we will begin to deal with the civil problems.  I submit that there is a good deal of connection between the two, as has been stated here before, and that it is not enough to wait until you have solved the military problem before you begin to put into operation your civil problems, particularly your economic problems.  It is not merely enough to give consideration as to how to deal with these problems after the military problem has been closed.  I contend that in this particular kind of military problem the argument that an army marches on its belly applies.  The military problem runs concurrently with the economic problem as was the case in Europe from 1914. The Governments found, and this Government ought to realise, that the two problems ought to be dealt with concurrently and that one of the most considerable factors in bringing an end to the military difficulty will be to deal effectively with the social and economic difficulty. Ministers if they had been observant, if they had not been dependant entirely on the advice tendered to them by the Military Council would have noted that the enemy, as I think we might designate him, has an economic objective as well as a military objective.  It is fighting its war on an economic plane as well as on a military, if we might call it so.  It is not only trying to take life, but is trying to destroy the economic and social structure. We find the answer which the Ministry gives to that attack is to say: &ldquo;Wait until we have defeated this enemy on a military plane, then we will begin to tackle the economic and social problem.&rdquo;  I contend that that is the wrong way to deal with this question, and that it is negligence and it is ill-advised on the part of the Government to remit to some indefinite future the tackling in a practical way of the problems of unemployment, low prices and the cessation of production.  The attack is   being made on the economic life, and I think that everybody admits that that is the most effective and disastrous of the two, if one is going to take monetary values into account.  The loss of life is infinitely more deplorable even than the destruction of property, but the virulence of the attack is being made upon the economic life, yet the defence is being made only on the military side. A campaign of destruction I contend ought to be countered by an acceleration of production and construction, and if the Government were wise they would counteract that attack by the introduction of schemes for actual production and construction.  We shall be met no doubt with the argument that while destruction is going on, while the enemy forces are engaged in a campaign of destruction it is useless to attempt to construct, but I do not think that the Ministry will argue that the whole of the country is in the position of being liable to destructive attack upon its economic front.  If it is so, then we are indeed still in a parlous position, and some change of military policy ought to be adopted, because it would imply that no improvement, but rather the opposite is taking place in the military situation.  We know there are very large areas in the country which are not subject to persistent attack upon the economic plane, and if it is a good thing to counter destruction of civil and economic life in one part of the country by the rehabilitation of economic life and schemes of construction and intensified production, then those schemes ought to be put into operation in every place outside the range of fire from the Irregular forces.  It is not enough to wait until the victory over the destructive forces has been accomplished.  Conceivably that might take quite a long time, and if we are not going to utilise our human and material resources in building up in these other places, distant from the points of attack, then the end of it all is going to be calamity indeed.  I think there are many lessons to be learned from the European War.  We look back and find that in England and in Ireland and in France and in Germany and in America during the time of war, by one means or another all the elements of construction&mdash;all the elements of production I should say&mdash;were in operation within the country, actively producing something and living by the process.   That something happened to be material for destruction, but I would submit that we could learn a lesson in this country from the examples that were shown by those countries how to set into operation all the various kinds of machinery of production, construction and consumption. The answer will be given, I have no doubt, as it has already been given on other occasions when similar questions have been raised, that there is no money; that until the present warfare is brought to an end, until the industrial and commercial life be set moving, there will be no money and no credit.  I submit, on the other hand, that unless these forces of production are set moving and brought into operation, there will be no money and no credit, and that it ought to be by the setting into motion now of these forces of production that success may be achieved militarily, and that when the time has arrived, when peace has been accomplished, that the intensified production will have had a good start, and that the demobilised men will have something to turn their hands to.  I said that the answer would come no doubt, that there was no money and no credit.  The European War cost England and Ireland something like eight thousand million pounds, and it was financed somehow&mdash;the money was found somehow.  It was not saved up money; it was found simply by the process of putting into operation the processes of production.  These processes of production were set going by the definite initiative of the Government.  They floated loans, no doubt they conducted certain book-keeping operations which were called the flotation of loans, but they did not gather eight thousand million pounds of actual wealth to carry on their war.  They bound themselves no doubt, at least they bound the future, to pay certain interest and principal to certain money-lenders large and small for ever and ever, Amen, but they did it by a process known to bankers and known to financiers, and known to the Treasury here no doubt, which did not cost the country, at that time, unemployment. The process that the Ministry is proposing to adopt is going to cost the country unemployment; it is going to cost the country the loss of money, of many million pounds worth of production, that should be in operation, and is not.  I took out of the official  Gazette   this morning certain figures which throw a little light upon the process of financing civil and military operations. There is in the issue, dated the 27th October, a statement of the amount of Irish bank notes in circulation.  The average circulation for the four weeks ending September 2nd was £17,358,000. The gold and silver held by the Irish banks against the notes in circulation was placed at £10,589,000.  Now, that does not seem so bad.  There are £17,000,000 worth of notes in circulation against which gold and silver valued at £10,000,000 is held, but there is an informative little note at the foot of that table, saying that this column referring to the gold and silver includes currency notes deposited at the Bank of England, which, by virtue of a certain Act, is treated as coin.  The currency notes are treated as coin, and therefore we find that the average amount of notes issued by Irish banks in circulation amounts to £17,000,000, against which currency notes, British currency notes, are held.  Now I find from another table that the currency notes outstanding amount to £300,000,000, and the gold and silver held in England against the £300,000,000 worth of currency notes&mdash;and you are all supposed to be able to cash these currency notes for gold at the same time&mdash; is declared to be £34,000,000, so that we have the Irish banks circulating £17,000,000 worth of notes of their own against which they hold, perhaps not gold at all, but they have deposited currency notes in the Bank of England, and against these only about one-ninth or one-tenth is backed by gold.  Now, if that can be done&mdash;and it is done in England&mdash;it can be done in Ireland, and the same kind of credit, the same kind of security, for these loans&mdash;not only these loans which are called currency notes, but the other seven thousand million pounds, the only security is the future but the other seven thousand million productivity of the people.  The people that accepted them believe that they would be met by something to be produced in the future, or by something which exists to-day and is exchangeable. It is based upon faith&mdash;faith in the productivity of the soil, faith in the value of human labour applied to the soil, faith in the belief that the community will at some time or other become orderly and   productive; and if that security is good enough for the banks it is good enough for the Government.  If it is good enough for the banks to issue notes to the value of £17,000,000, if it is good enough for the banks to issue all kinds of loans, believing that order will eventually come, and that the sun will continue to shine and the rain will continue to fall and the earth will continue to give forth her increase, then it is good enough for the Government to finance production just as well as it is possible for the banks to do that thing.  And that is the answer I am making to the anticipated objection that there is no money to finance undertakings, that there is no money to finance production.  I want to plead that the Government ought to enter upon a policy of production, financed by itself, upon the security which every other lender will base his loan upon&mdash;the ability of the people of this country to produce wealth from the soil of this country.  The farmers will tell us that they have large supplies of food, crops, and cattle awaiting a market.  We tell you that there are large numbers of men, women and children that could eat a good deal more than they are eating, and that the most of these families are willing to put their labour into the soil, to put their labour to the work of production, which production will repay what is expended, and repay the farmers for the produce which they have handed over.  We have to set in motion this cycle of production and consumption, and we have to ensure&mdash;and here you have the kernel of the problem&mdash;that consumption equals production, and that there is no block on the way, there is no blocking up of the channels and the cessation of production because the way is blocked to consumption.  I submit that it is the duty of the Ministry to set into motion this cycle, and that it should have its first operation on the land.  Deputy Gorey will tell us that the farmers cannot sell what they have already grown.  Why?  Because the people have not the wherewithal to purchase these commodities.  I think you will have to set about the work of production, and, incidentally, the work of consumption, immediately.  And I repeat with more knowledge, what I said a few weeks ago, that you would cut very deeply into the forces of Irregularism if you could ensure that the   demobilised Irregulars were in a position to obtain civil employment.  Also I submit that when you set into operation a course of consumption you will find it necessary to devise ways and means of ensuring that a larger proportion of the purchasing power of these consumers shall be directed to the purchase of home manufactured commodities.  I believe that just as it is necessary to curb natural impulses by self-discipline&mdash; sometimes coercive forces&mdash;so it will be necessary for a considerable time to curb the natural desire of the people in general to purchase imported commodities because they are better advertised, or because they are more tastily produced, or even perhaps because they are cheaper.  We come very naturally from that consideration to the whole question of fiscal relations between the Saorstat and other countries.  I invite the Ministers to tell us whether they have any views on fiscal policy.  I want just to touch upon a paragraph in the Message that deals with the boundaries.  There is an aspect of that problem that very closely relates to the fiscal problem.  We are met with complaints that low-paid industries over the border in the &ldquo;wee&rdquo; land, as I might call it, are taking advantage of their lower wages to compete with the higher wages and higher standard of life of the people in the Saorstat. We have reports like this: a certain millowner in Newry is competing with a millowner in Dundalk over the Counties of Monaghan, Cavan and Louth.  The wages he is paying in Newry are 10s. or 15s. per week per man below the very moderate wages paid by the competing employer in Dundalk. We maintain, and we ask the Government to accept the proposition, that the end of their government, the purpose of it all, is to maintain and improve the general standard of life as well as the freedom of the people.  That is the purpose of government, and we for our part are determined, in so far as it is necessary to act beyond the Government, to maintain that standard of life at as high a level as it is possible.  We are not willing to reduce the cost of production in Dundalk by reducing the price of labour there to the level of the price of labour in Newry.  There we have frankly stated a very difficult problem affecting both parts of this island.  I want to know   whether the Government has any policy, or whether what we may call direct action on the industrial plane is to be brought into operation to prevent the lowering of the standard of life for citizens of Saorstat Eireann by the competition of a lower standard of life among the residents in the Six Northern Counties. We can prevent that competition.  We can prevent the destruction of that Dundalk mill.  (I am only giving a specific instance of a mill, but it applies to many other small industries.)  We can prevent the destruction of that Dundalk mill by preventing or by controlling the distribution of the commodities produced over the border under sweated conditions. There are quite a number of men already disemployed as a result of that particular competition, I mean in that particular small industry.  There are very many men and women disemployed by virtue of that particular kind of competition. Through disorganisation and through political manipulation in the North of Ireland, men have become disorganised and their political and religious sectarianism has led to their disruption, and to the destruction of their standard of life and the standard of wages.  That competition is facing us in all parts of the border line.  Similarly, it is facing us in other parts of the Saorstat from the competition of other countries, but I am quoting especially the northern competition, because it touches upon an aspect of the border problem that appeals to us very closely.  I believe that if there is to be any fiscal barrier set up we will have to follow the example of Australia and see that it shall be directed to ensure that the standard of life of the workers is maintained, and that no protection of any kind, fiscal or other, shall be given to manufacturers or employers who do not maintain the right standard of life for their employees.  I will put forward on my own account this definite proposition&mdash;that we ought not to allow imports from the Six Counties to compete with the manufacturers and producers in the Twenty-six Counties when that competition is only made effective by the low rate of wages paid to the workers in the production of those commodities. I come to the second paragraph in this amendment which regrets that no indication has been given of the intentions of the Executive Council respecting the recommendations of the   Commission on Irish Railways.  That report has been issued for some time.  We do not know whether it is receiving the consideration of the Government.  We do not know whether they have decided upon any policy, or whether they are awaiting a decision upon any policy to pursue.  We believe that it is essential that they should come to a decision at a very early date and that they should give some indication that the decision either has been come to or that such a decision will not be very long delayed.  I do not want at this stage to raise a general discussion upon this question.  I want rather to give an opportunity to the Ministers to tell us whether they are thinking of this &mdash;whether they have come to a decision or whether they are likely to come to a decision within a very short time.  I could go on to make suggestions as to direction of a policy that in my opinion the Government ought to adopt.  But after all it is the business of the Ministry, knowing better than we do its powers, its facilities, its machinery, and the prospects of the future, to state its policy.  I repeat what I began with, that if you are going to bring about an early cessation of the military strife you ought to attack it upon the double front&mdash;the economic front and the military front. If it were clear that you are dealing effectively and practically with the social and economic problems and that you show signs of understanding the importance of those problems to the daily lives of so many thousands of people, it would be the most rapid solvent of the military problem in so far as seventyfive per cent. of the operators on the other side are concerned. 
     
    
      
       I desire to second the amendment moved by Deputy Johnson, and to deal as briefly as I possibly can with that portion of the amendment concerning the failure of the Government to deal with the recommendations of the Railway Commission.  I quite agree with Deputy Johnson that this is not the appropriate occasion, and personally it is not my desire or wish that the Dail at this particular period should be asked to discuss and to deal with all the implications in the recommendation of the Commission&mdash;the first Commission that was set up under the auspices of the Provisional Government.  I   would like, however, especially in view of the fact that at this particular moment negotiations between the Railway Managers and the representatives of the men have broken down, to urge the Government to try to face this particular problem as soon as they can.  Negotiations have been going on between the Railway Managers and representatives of the Railwaymen's Union for the last week or two, and to-day these negotiations have definitely broken down.  When the members of this Dail realise that part of the proposals of the Railway Managers invited the representatives of the Railway Union to agree to the abolition of the eight-hour day and to substitute for it a forty-eight hour week, including Sunday duty, I believe you will agree that it is quite clear that no body of representative Irish railwaymen could entertain such a proposal.  Personally, I do not see any good reason why that and other particular proposals were put up, except for the reason of forcing three or four thousand Irish railwaymen into the ranks of the unemployed.  That, at any rate, is the meaning of that particular proposal if put into practice or accepted by the representatives of the men. I would like, when the opportunity is afforded, that the members of this Dail, and the Government in particular, would try to approach the consideration, and if possible the permanent solution, of this railway problem, apart altogether from the prejudices that it has been endeavoured to create by an interested Press in this country.  The Railway Commission was the first that was set up under the auspices of the Provisional Government. The recommendations of that Commission have been before the Government and in the hands of the members of this Dail for at least two months.  The President himself has admitted, in answer to a question here, that the matter has already been discussed by the members of the Executive Council and possibly a decision of some kind has been arrived at by them.  I cannot see, therefore, what advantage is to be gained by the Government delaying or preventing the members of this Dail from discussing whatever decision the Government have arrived at on that particular Commission. I fully realise, and I have always tried to realise, that there are difficulties in the way of this Government, especially in regard to the solution of this particular   problem.  The difficulties may be quite obvious to some, but I think it is fair that we should ask the Government to give us an opportunity of dealing with the decision which they have arrived at, so that the people of this country may, at any rate, know that this, the first native Irish Government, tried to permanently settle the problem of the transport industry. If this first Parliament of the Free State really means to lay a solid and permanent structure for the full and free development of the agricultural industry, then the transport services of Ireland must be placed in the hands or under the control of people who will develop and use the railways and canals in the interests of the trading and travelling public.  I have been wondering and trying to find out what are the possible difficulties and what is in the way of the Government coming to the members of this Dail and putting their particular proposal before them.  I have been wondering whether it is part of the policy of the present Executive Council to try to carry on a policy of spoon-feeding so far as the people of North-East Ulster are concerned.  The representatives of North-East Ulster have of their own free choice, without submitting the matter to the consideration of the people who live within the area&mdash;of their own free choice they have decided to vote themselves outside the Free State.  I believe that if they have taken that deliberate action and that particular responsibility upon their shoulders, that they must face all the consequences, economic and commercial.  I do not think that the Executive Council of this first Free State Government should hold back in regard to a policy of this or any other kind, or that they should defer the consideration of any scheme that would help the Free State on progressive lines, for the purpose of spoon-feeding people who have taken the action I refer to.  I do not wish to force, or ask the Government to force, a debate upon the merits of the recommendations of the Railway Commission at this particular time.  But I invite them, in view of the seriousness of the position on the railways at the present moment, to give this Dail the earliest possible opportunity for discussing the recommendations of that their first Commission in all its implications. 
     
    
      
       I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry to a statement   made yesterday: &ldquo;Accordingly, it becomes the duty now of my Government to take such steps as may be necessary for constituting the Commission which is to determine in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants, so far as may be compatible with economic and geographic conditions, the boundaries between Northern Ireland and the rest of Ireland.&rdquo;  It seems to be that we are going to get beaten on the Boundary Commission as we have been beaten so often before diplomatically.  A short time ago I heard that the present Prime Minister of England in a private conversation said that he had to make a selection between Southern and Northern Ireland.  Presumably he has made the selection, and he has selected to settle with what is called Northern Ireland.  That is quite clear if one reads even part of the English papers. 
     
    
      
       I think the Deputy is out of order in discussing this question upon the amendment. We have got a particular amendment under discussion, and my view is that when that amendment has been either adopted or defeated we will then be back to the general question of the Address as a whole.  It will be then open to the Deputy to put forward his views. It would lead to interminable delay in dealing with Deputy Johnson's amendment, if we were to revert to other questions; but the Deputy will not be shut out.  I will do my best to see that the question the Deputy is raising is not shut out when the amendment has been dealt with. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order, does not Deputy McCartan's point arise out of the amendment inasmuch as the proposer and seconder have dealt with the matter to which Deputy McCartan has alluded? 
     
    
      
       The proposer and seconder of the amendment were dealing with the question of the railways in so far as they were affecting the Northern Province.  Deputy McCartan was going into the matter generally, and was not confining himself to the railways. 
       (At this stage An Ceann Comhairle resumed the chair.) 
     
    
      
       With regard to remarks of Deputy Johnson on the question of increased productivity in this country, I   am informed that if the people of this country were to work full time for three weeks on textiles they would make sufficient garments to supply the whole of the country.  Similarly with regard to production on the land.  If we were to increase our tillage we would find we would have no market.  The Deputy, I think, is basing his argument that the money to pay for those over-productions would be obtained by the issue of State scrip.  There are two outstanding nations in Europe to-day.  Russia and Germany, where they have issued unlimited scrip. As regards Germany, while there is not much unemployment there, the financial experts say that eventually a crash must come in that country, as it has come in Russia.  Therefore I think the idea of increasing production by the issue of notes will not commend itself. Deputy Johnson bases his chief argument on the point that we should make the demand equal to the supply by reason of having the notes to give to people to pay for what is produced.  If he could translate that into actual practice I believe I could agree with him, but at the present time we have too many cattle and we have a superabundance of potatoes.  Our neighbours in England have something like two hundred million tons of potatoes over and above their requirements.  Having regard to these two facts, if Deputy Johnson could translate his scheme into actual practice I believe we would be in a measure able to stave off this unemployment. What we are suffering from in this Saorstat Eireann is a little over-appreciation of our own abilities.  No man in Saorstat Eireann at the present time considers that what is paid to another man similarly employed in any other white country would be sufficient for any personage dignified by being a member of Saorstat Eireann; that is the position that is put forward.  A member of the &ldquo;wee country&rdquo; is willing to produce flour at a certain wage; a member of Saorstat Eireann is not willing to produce it at that wage, and we are asked then to put up a barrier so as to prevent the man who gives value for the money. We are asked to put up a barrier to support a member of Saorstat Eireann because he will not give his labour at the same price as a competitor. That is the proposition.  Similarly with   any other trade you take up.  And it all comes from this overweening confidence in our own keenness and ability.  We consider that we are the sons of Saorstat Eireann, and by that means that we are entitled to more than anyone else.  If we could translate that into practice I would not object.  But we have to get down to bedrock fact, and we have got to live, and we can only live by hard work and self-denial and proceeding in the same way as other people who are engaged in similar occupations in other countries, and who are compelled to place their goods upon our markets. 
     
    
      
       I am in a bit of a quandary, because I am afraid I shall have to speak again if I am to deal with all the topics that I would like to deal with at the present moment; but I think this particular amendment precludes me from speaking upon the Address generally. In some respects, with regard to the economic aspect of things, I am more disposed to agree with the conclusions and the philosophy of Deputy Johnson than I am to agree with Deputy Wilson in his last remarks.  This is a matter of national economics that deals with Governmental attitude, not in terms of the individual, but of the general welfare, and it is not a question whether a man on this side of the border has to compete with cheaper methods on the other side of the border. It is a question whether those who have the authority of the State in their hands can counteract the conditions which make the citizens of their State the victims of uneconomic conditions on the other side of the border.  Now, that is one of the reasons why, all through our discussions whenever the matter cropped up here, I seized upon every opportunity that came my way to emphasise the vital importance of the Department of Trade and Commerce.  I do not want to introduce that now, even incidentally; but I would like to draw the attention of the Dail to this fact, that that Department and the Department of Agriculture are practically the only two creative Departments of Government functioning.  The others are merely putting administrative duties through their hands; and it was because I had some sort of an idea that these vital matters would arise, or that at least matters arising out of them should be the function of the Government, and would in future arise in a very acute manner,   such as was indicated by Deputy Johnson this evening, that I was anxious that these Departments should stand apart from every possible obstructing aspect of the administration.  Deputy Johnson alluded to the effect of what he called the objective of the enemy.  I do not think it is tactful to use that expression.  I think someone else previously used the term of our unwise friends, and though they may be carrying out operations that would be wise if carried out by an alien enemy, still I think it is unwise to use descriptions that are calculated to render wider the gulf that has so disastrously come between them and us.  It is quite true&mdash; and I insisted all along upon it&mdash; that their main object has been the economic destruction of the country.  It is not, I think, accurate to say that on their side they are running a military objective concurrently with their economic objective, but their whole objective and their whole operations have been, as far as I can study them, a mere assault upon the economic resources of the country.  I think it is not inaccurate to assume that the one big weapon by which we can counter and diminish this economic destruction&mdash;the immediate instrument&mdash;is that of the military weapon. You do not counter the destruction of a railway bridge by immediately rebuilding another railway bridge, in order that it also may be immediately destroyed.  You counter it, if it is possible, by preventing a recurrence of such an action in advance. I do not for the life of me see that this passage which refers to the development of schemes for the relief of distress can be accepted by the widest stretch of the most elastic imagination, as a &ldquo;wait and see&rdquo; policy.  Now, if there is any man in this Dail, I think, that can be credited with a wide, farseeing and economic policy, it is Deputy Johnson.  I believe he has not yet disclosed to us how far-reaching that economic policy is, and I certainly think, if he were challenged at the moment to try to put into operation his scheme of economic and social reconstruction, that under present conditions he would find it absolutely impossible to comply with that challenge.  He would in the face of turmoil and destruction have to consider how far the immediate circumstances permitted his scheme to be put in operation. He would be forced to consider how far the cessation or diminution of these   hostilities and disturbances would enable the development or enlargement of his efforts to be carried through.  I can place no other construction upon this particular part of the Address to which he calls attention except that it is precisely the principle upon which the Government propose to act in the immediate future.  It is quite impossible to tackle the matter in any serious way at the moment.  That is the tragedy&mdash;the appalling tragedy&mdash;of the thing, that, as a result of the disturbance and destruction going on upon our economic resources, men and women are disemployed and are compelled to live in filthy disease-breeding slums, and no one can realise it better, I think, than those who have given attention to the acuteness of these problems in the light of Governmental intervention.  I think I could credit the Deputies upon the Labour benches with that.  No one can realise how utterly impossible it is to cope with anything at the present time that is more than the mere fringe of those social and economic conditions that exist to-day.  I see in this Address, not so much a scheme of economic reconstruction, as a ground plan of national reconstruction in which, of course, economic construction will play a most vital part. I want to say a word or two before I sit down on the last matter referred to by Deputy Johnson&mdash; that is the Railway Commission.  I hope that there will be no attempt to rush this Government into hasty action on that matter.  Any far-reaching effect which becomes something like a revolution in control and management would seem to me to imply and necessitate enormous financial commitments on the part of the State, and those are things which at present we should know what they are and what they involve and what they warrant, and the results to be achieved by those commitments.  For these reasons I feel disposed to dissent from the amendment of Deputy Johnson. Of course I know he has to propose some sort of amendment.  He had to express some dissent from the policy of the Executive Council which is outlined in these.  Otherwise he would not have been fulfilling the functions of an opposition leader; he would not have filled the columns of the daily Press with his words of wisdom had he remained silent while this Address was before the Dail. 
     
     
        I do not say there was anything reprehensible in his opposition.  I believe there was excellent purpose served by such an attitude, if it were only in the clash of mind and exchange of different moods. 
    
      
       On a point of order, is this the amendment now?  I was called to order for much less. 
     
    
      
       It is.  I am simply making a commentary on those Resolutions which were proposed.  I say this amendment has not been supported by any evidence to show that what it asks is something this Dail should assent to. I was sorry that I could not refer to some of the references in the Address on this amendment, especially to the references alluding to the Northern situation. I take it that before this Address is disposed of there will be an opportunity of discussing the Address as it stands, and there are other matters that do not arise out of this amendment which I think it as well that the opinion of this Dail should be expressed upon before this Address is disposed of. 
     
    
      
       I think that the suggestion in the amendment where the wording of the amendment says &ldquo;That the policy of the Executive Council transmitted through the Governor-General should consist in deferring to an indefinite future any attempt to remedy social and economic difficulties of the people especially the evils arising from widespread unemployment,&rdquo; I think that really would convey&mdash;were such an amendment adopted by the Dail&mdash;the idea that there was nothing constructive or definite in any of the proposals of the Government, and that the whole of the enormous Estimates that the Dail has adopted were simply for administration purposes to carry on the government of the country without in any way developing the resources of the country, or without in any way affecting the social and economic difficulties of the people, and as if this Dail actually passed this enormous amount of money and spent all the available resources the Government hopes to get in during the financial year without getting any actual results for the country, except to carry on the ordinary administrative work.  Such an amendment   is nothing more or less than a complete vote of want of confidence in the Government, and I feel assured that the majority of the Dail will have no difficulty whatever in coming to a decision on this amendment and will reject it, and reject it emphatically.  Then we have the further suggestion in the amendment that the Dail also regrets &ldquo;that no indication has been given of the intention of the Executive Council respecting the recommendations of the Commission on Irish Railways.&rdquo; Everyone will remember that Commissions used to be regarded as a way of shelving a question in the easiest and most convenient way for a Government. I do not think we regard Commissions that are set up, or will be set up, in that light, or their recommendations either, but considering that this State is only a week in existence and that it has the whole of the administration of new Ministries and the carrying on of the Government in a state of security such as exists at present surely this is not the time in the midst of all this intricate and very important problems to add to them.  At the present moment recommendations in regard to the Commission which has quite recently reported are before us, and I for one would be dead against the idea of this Dail rushing headlong into immature legislation.  The more time that is given during the coming recess towards preparation so that nothing will be done too hastily, the sounder will, I think, be the results and the better the measure which will finally be passed for the good of the people.  I believe in the old phrase, &ldquo;Hurry slowly,&rdquo; do not let the report go to the waste-paper basket, but do not hurry in legislation without considering so vital a problem as the future of the Irish Railways.  Although in younger days I used to regard nationalisation as a sort of panacea for all the ills that flesh is heir to in such matters as railways and the like, actual experience has made me feel that in many cases, including the nationalisation of railways, that nationalisation is a greater curse than a blessing to the unfortunate nation that goes in for it. 
     
    
      
       On a point of order, are we now discussing the nationalisation of railways? 
     
     
    
      
       I understand that what is in the amendment is an expression of regret that no indication is given of the intention of the Executive Council respecting the recommendation for nationalisation.  It would be better if we had not a debate on nationalisation, although I think it would be in order. 
     
    
      
       It certainly arises out of this report. 
     
    
      
       I would like to warn Deputy Cole that to begin a debate on nationalisation of railways would be a serious thing, although he is quite within his rights to do so. 
     
    
      
       I do not think a more serious issue in regard to the internal trade and commerce of this country could at any time be considered by this Dail than this question of railway nationalisation. The railways are the greatest means of communication between the traders of the country, and the whole question of transport and the control of transport would be more influenced by the future organisation under which the railways are conducted and controlled than by any other means.  I think this question of the railways, when it comes to be discussed, should be discussed by this Dail as a special question on a particular motion, and not on a motion such as this. 
     
    
      
       I take it that that is the general intention. 
     
    
      
       Well, the way it is put here seems to me that if we adopt such an amendment as this, it would be practically an instruction to the Executive Council to bring up for immediate consideration of the Dail the carrying into effect all the recommendations of the Commission on Irish Railways. 
     
    
      
       Or some other. 
     
    
      
       I think we are entitled to consider how far the amendment would influence the Dail in coming to a decision on that report.  It is too serious a question, to my mind, to be considered on the Governor-General's Address with a view to giving an instruction practically to the Government what they are to do if this amendment is carried.  For the reason I put forward first, the crowded state of the programme before us during   the coming session, I do not think the railway question is ripe for a concrete proposal at present.  We know that the whole question of the control of the railways and the relation between the Companies and the Staffs is very, very acute and critical, and I would be very sorry to see this Dail give an expression of opinion at present that might possibly accentuate the difficulty that exists in trying to reach what I hope will be a permanent settlement and very much happier relations between the Companies and their Staffs.  I hope it will be one of the great triumphs of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce to bring about, without having to take the whole question of the railways into account, such a state of affairs before we consider what the future control of the railways and the work of the railways should be.  I certainly did think that the more individual initiative in regard to the trade and transport of the country is encouraged the more will healthy competition be possible and all the means of transport developed, including the canals and subsidiary means of transport, in unison with the railway system.  The more the trade of this country will develop the stronger it will become, because it is the experience of other countries where there have been State railways that such railways have not been as efficient as those run by private Companies, and the more competition has been left in the hands of private individuals the greater the trade of the country has developed, and the less there has been of bureaucracy and the less burden on the State than where things have been done otherwise.  We see the one service in this country which may be regarded as a National Service is not a paying department&mdash;that is, the Post Office.  Now I think very probably if the Post Office and railways were nationalised services before long we would have in the railways the same sort of thing we have in the Post Office, that out of the public funds of the country, a great deal of money would be required annually to maintain a service that otherwise should be, and probably would be, self-supporting. We know perfectly well that until the war the railways of Ireland were self-supporting; they paid dividends, and their staffs were not eternally out on strike. 
     
     
    
      
       They ought to have been. 
     
    
      
       Well, if they ought to have been that is another question. They were not, and I am only dealing with the facts.  Their staffs were not eternally out on strike, and the trade of the country was not smashed to atoms, as it is at the present time, between strikes and the rest of it.  At the present time I think the best interests of the commerce of Ireland will be upheld by leaving to individual enterprise, and by non-interference by the State, except in a controlling capacity, the whole question of transport.  I strongly urge that the amendment dealing with this matter be rejected by the Dail. 
     
    
      
       This amendment, I believe, has been proposed with the object of drawing attention to the unemployment in the country.  We all know the cause of the unemployment, and to my mind the way to deal with unemployment, and the way to encourage development, is to first put down the cause of unemployment.  First take away the source of the evil that has caused unemployment and that has retarded development in the country.  The Government has definitely stated that they have a policy, and I think the outline of the policy given in the speech that was read to us is a policy that covers the situation we have to deal with.  The amendment &ldquo;regrets that the policy of the Executive Council, transmitted through the Governor-General, should consist in deferring to an indefinite future any attempt to remedy social and economic difficulties of the people, especially the evils arising from widespread unemployment.&rdquo;  I do not think that is a fair statement to make in an amendment, and I do not think it is fair to ask the Dail to adopt such a statement.  Now, there is a big attempt made to deal with the economic difficulties that are facing us.  You have proposals to deal with the Malicious Injury claims that will come before us, and in these alone there will be a big scope for employment with the rebuilding of all the damage that has been done.  It will mean a tremendous amount of employment to rebuild all the bridges that have been blown up all over   the country.  But to my mind the difficulty will be to get the labour to build these bridges, because unfortunately the minds of the youths of this country are turned in other channels, and it is the first duty of the Government to get them to look at their responsibilities, and to take a civic outlook, and to remember that there are other things in life besides the destruction of property.  It was mentioned yesterday, I think I mentioned it myself, that there is to be a Land Bill introduced.  Those of us from the West of Ireland know that a good deal of economic distress is caused there by congestion, and I hope that the Land Bill will deal with this question.  I feel sure that it will deal with it in a way that will be of great economic benefit to the small landholders in the West; of great benefit to the landless men there who now have their eyes on the vast ranches that are under the bullocks.  The Government have, to my mind, outlined a policy that is the only practical policy to pursue at the present time.  All through it they maintain their first duty to the people, to the labourer, to the artisan, to the small landholder, to the big landholder, to the small shopkeeper, to the shop worker, to the vast monied interests in the country, is to establish law and order.  They have put that in the forefront of their programme, and they have asked us in this Dail, to which we have been sent as representatives of the people, to give them our wholehearted support in carrying out that policy.  I think it is our duty not to be critical about i's that are not dotted, and t's that are not crossed, but that we should take a wholehearted stand behind that Government who are establishing law and order in Ireland.  We should show all who are carrying on Irregularism in Ireland to-day, all who are opposing ordered government, and backing up the forces of anarchy, that we, at least the spokesmen of the people, who know what is the difference between ordered government and anarchy are not going to put obstacles in the way of the Government; that we are wholeheartedly behind them and that we will give them every assistance that they want from us.  I say by doing so we will be voicing the views of the people who sent us here. 
     
    
      
       The Deputy should now move the adjournment   of the debate.  I think it is the simplest way. 
     
    
      
       I beg to move that the debate be adjourned until to-morrow. 
       Motion made and question put:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the debate be adjourned until to-morrow.&rdquo; 
       Agreed. 
     
    
      
       I would like to say on the adjournment that I expect the Dail will have to meet on Saturday and possibly on Monday to deal with two Bills&mdash;&ldquo;The Adaptation Bill&rdquo; and the &ldquo;Appropriation Bill.&rdquo;  It may not be necessary to meet on Monday, but, as far as I can see, it will be necessary to meet on Saturday. 
     
    
      
       I have been given notice by Deputy Figgis that he will raise a matter on the adjournment of the Dail this evening, but Deputy Sears has informed me that he desires to ask first a question of special urgency of the Minister for Local Government with regard to an epidemic in county Mayo, and I understand the Minister for Local Government desires to make a brief statement of what is being done there.  With the consent of Deputy Figgis and the agreement of the Dail, I think we could take the question and the answer and regard the matter as closed. 
     
    
      
       My consent was already asked, and I gave it willingly. 
     
   
   
     DAIL RESUMED. - TYPHUS IN THE WEST. 
    
      
       I desire to ask the Minister for Local Government whether he has been officially informed of an outbreak of typhus fever in the barony of Erris, county Mayo, and if he would state what steps he has taken to cope with the disease since it made its appearance. 
     
    
      
       In the middle of last June cases of typhus fever came to be reported to the Minister for Local Government by the medical officers of health in Belmullet, and have continued at intervals over the intervening period. In all about twenty cases have come under notice, including the sanitary subofficer, who contracted the infection in the discharge of his duties, and one of the   nursing sisters who nursed the patients in the local hospital.  The source of the disease has been attributed to crowding in a disused coastguard station, in which families took up their abodes and deserted their own homes.  Belmullet has long been recognised as a district in which typhus may be said to be endemic.  The population is very poor, living in small and congested homes, with primitive habits, and the practice of housing animals in dwellings still persists.  The normal disadvantages of the district have been aggravated by the unsettled conditions of the present time, and sanitary administration is being carried on in the area under the gravest disadvantages. As soon as communications permitted, the district was visited by an Inspector of the Ministry, who reported on the immediate needs of the situation.  Subsequently a medical inspector was despatched to the district on two occasions to render such advice and assistance as might be needed.  The other action taken by the Ministry may be summarised thus:&mdash; 
       (1)  The despatch of an additional medical officer to aid the local medical staff in attendance on the sick and in preventive measures. 
       (2)  The despatch, in conjunction with the Lady Dudley Nursing Organisation, of two trained and experienced nurses for the care of fever patients. 
       (3)  The despatch of equipment for six beds in the local hospital. 
       The most recent information received by the Ministry is that there are no fever cases at present in the district, excepting two contacts who are under observation in hospital. 
     
   
   
     DAIL RESUMED. - A DEPUTY'S APPOINTMENT. 
    
      
       I gave notice at an earlier hour to-day of my intention to raise what I judged to be a question of very, very great importance indeed, and that is the appointment of a member of this Dail to a salaried position in connection with the services of the Oireachtas.  I desire to emphasise the words that I have been careful to choose, &ldquo;a Member of this Dail,&rdquo; not the particular member who was so appointed, and I chose these words carefully   because the matter is not in any sense whatever, I need hardly say, personal. I think, in many ways and for many reasons, that the particular Deputy who was chosen was an excellent choice.  If I did not think so I should say so, and I should say so with regard to the fact that there has been for a long time, and I hope there will be for a still longer time, a personal friendship between himself and myself.  I believe that the choice is good, but I think that the principle of appointing members of an elected House to such positions to be thoroughly bad.  I may say with regard to the Deputy who was chosen in that way, and I say it very sincerely, that I think him much too good to be made a lackey in the Lobbies of this Dail, but whatever my opinion in regard to him and to his position may be, I do feel that there is a tendency displayed in this appointment which is not a good tendency. Ministers are, owing to the unfortunate circumstances of the country to-day, living out of contact with the people at large, because they are living at Government House without the opportunity of that freedom which we would all wish that they could enjoy.  They probably are not fully aware of the criticisms that are prevalent in the country to-day, to which reference has already been made with regard to appointments in general. But this is an appointment of a peculiar and special kind.  We know very well that in no local government body to-day would an elected Councillor be permitted to be appointed to a service in the gift of that Council, and we know very well that if any such appointment were to be made that we here would require of the Minister for Local Government that he should cancel that appointment; and yet although we would ourselves require that one of the Ministers of this Dail should prohibit such appointment when made by local bodies, we are becoming guilty of exactly that same kind of appointment.  I have hesitated before raising it, and I hesitated before raising it in this peculiar and special form, because the matter is still worse in view of the fact that these appointments are being made, in every case, from members of this Dail, who should not be so appointed, and for members who may be, or are being, appointed, and I say it guardedly, because of their services to   one of the parties of this Dail.  It is a bad precedent to have set up.  It is a precedent that corrupts the very purity of the wells of public life, if it once becomes prevalent.  We are establishing precedents that cannot help but prove injurious in the future, and Deputy Johnson referred, at an earlier stage of the discussions of to-day, to the fact that a large sum of money has been placed aside for the appointments in the Governor-General's establishment.  Unless this matter be stopped and unless publicity be drawn to it I feel that there will be other appointments made in the Governor-General's establishment from members of this Dail, and for services given in connection, perhaps, with votes in this Dail.  That is a thing to be denounced, and strongly denounced, and I have raised this matter because I believe that it is for the public interest that it should be raised, that it is for the public interest and for the best interests of this Dail that this matter should be ventilated and should receive the attention that is required. 
     
    
      
       There are certain times when I think one is justified in counting out the Dail.  I asked Deputy Figgis to leave this over until to-morrow night, when we could deal properly with it, and he refused, but I could have counted out the Dail.  I am glad I did not do so.  We all criticised the British Government when they left their soldiers in the workhouses and I hope we are not going to follow their example.  When Darrell Figgis lay in his feather bed Brennan was fighting for Ireland. 
     
    
      
       Deputy Darrell Figgis. 
     
    
      
       Well, Deputy Darrell Figgis.  I agree with the proposition that members of this Dail ought not to get jobs.  I have no Government job and I am proud of it, but if we are going to forget the men who made it possible for us to meet here to-day, then we ought to be classified with the British, who sent their soldiers to the workhouses.  If Deputy Figgis stands for that, let him, but I will not.  I do not know if I am entitled to refer to the fact that Deputy Figgis was drawing a salary from this Government.  I do not   know if that interferes with his position in the Dail; at least he has not resigned, and Deputy Brennan has.  I do not know if he is drawing it yet.  I believe he is, but I may be wrong.  If any Deputy got up here and said that Deputy Figgis was drawing a salary from the Government he would be one of the first to object, but I say that Brennan has been fighting for us, and doing good fighting, and if we are going to turn him down and send him to the workhouse I will not stand it. 
     
    
      
       I rise to make a personal statement in view of what Deputy McCarthy has said.  I am not drawing any salary whatever.  I was not appointed under this Dail.  I was appointed Chairman of the Constitution Committee, and that office expired very soon after this Dail assembled.  I have also made it perfectly clear that I was not raising this question in respect of Deputy Brennan.  I do not think it would be exactly right to describe his position in this Dail as a position in a workhouse, although I believe we are attempting to get some work done. 
     
    
      
       It is with reluctance that I intervene at all here. Deputy Figgis, in the course of his remarks, expressed his profound respect for Mr. Brennan.  He alluded to the great personal friendship existing between himself and Mr. Brennan, and in the next breath he referred to Mr. Brennan as a lackey in the Lobby of this Dail.  I am surprised at Deputy Figgis.  He also referred to the fact, or what he stated to be a fact, that the Government, because of its position, was out of touch with the feeling of the people in the country on these matters.  Well, I think that if the Government be out of touch with the feeling of the people of the country on these matters, the Government must also be out of touch with the majority of the Deputies in this Dail, and consequently must have no support from this Dail.  I do not think, therefore, that Deputy Figgis can possibly be correct when he says the Government does not know the feeling of the people of the country on these matters.  I think before any Deputy in the Dail, much less the Deputy who has a certain amount of notoriety, such as Deputy Figgis has, would refer to corruption, he   should hesitate and think seriously.  It is the first time that any Deputy has raised in this Dail the charge of corruption, and I say that if a Deputy believes that the Government is engaged in practices of corruption, he owes to the public a certain duty, and should discharge that duty, and that duty is to bring his position in the Dail before those who sent him here. 
     
    
      
       I rather gather that Deputy Figgis's point was that it would open a Government of a political party to such a charge if such precedents were set and followed, but my difficulty in this case arises from the difficulty of understanding what office Mr. Brennan has been appointed to, and what right the Government had to make the appointment.  I think that the principle enunciated by Deputy Figgis is a right one, and I leave it at that; but another principle is involved, whether in a matter of the relations between the two Houses the appointment of a servant of this Dail or a servant of the Seanad or the Oireachtas is the gift of the Government.  It is a question that affects the rights and privileges of the Oireachtas.  We must not allow it to continue that the Government is superior to the Oireachtas and that it has the appointments of persons who are under control of the Oireachtas.  I think this particular appointment is a matter that ought to have been left to the discretion of the Oireachtas, or some servant of the Oireachtas.  If the appointment is of a subordinate character it rightly might have been left to his superior officer, who is a direct servant of the Oireachtas.  In this case I am not sure whether the appointment is that of a servant of the Seanad.  I rather gather that is so, but in such a case surely the Seanad has the right to refuse to accept that appointment. It is an appointment in the hands of the Dail itself.  If it is the appointment of a person to serve the joint Parliament of the two Houses in unison, then it should be the decision of the Houses and not of the Executive Council, so that there are two issues involved in this discussion.  I think it is well that we should have some understanding, so as to prevent mistakes being made.  We all realise how easy it is at this stage of our life to make blunders, but if we can correct them in the early stages, then it is   well that we should draw attention to them to prevent repetition. 
     
    
      
       I would like to know if Deputy Johnson objects to an Army man having preference for positions. That is what I want to get at. 
     
    
      
       I am not raising that question at all. 
     
    
      
       This is the very question.  We are going to see that our fighting men are going to be placed properly. 
     
    
      
       Now I understand where we are.  All members of this Dail who have been in the Army and through the fight are to be placed in positions. Is that the proposition? 
     
    
      
       No. 
     
    
      
       How soon is the Dail to be deprived of the services of those members who have gone through the fight?  How soon are we going to have the elections to replace those members who have been appointed from this Dail? How soon are we going through with the proposition of Deputy McCarthy? 
     
    
      
       That is not the proposition at all, but I do say that preference must be given to fighting men who made it possible for us to meet here. 
     
    
      
       As I understand the making of these appointments, they are appointments of the Executive Council, and I made that appointment. I believe I was right in doing so, and the Deputy who raised the question, I think, having regard to the extraordinary notions he had in regard to the purity of public life, ought to have resigned the position that he held in the days of the late Provisional Government, which was responsible to this Dail.  Even though this Dail may have changed its name or changed its character, to some extent, he was nevertheless the servant of this Dail when he held that appointment, although an Independent member of it.  Otherwise, I can say, from my experience of public life&mdash; and I think I have more of it than the Deputy&mdash;very much more of it&mdash;it comes certainly very badly from him.  I was Minister for Local Government for a number of years, and I conformed to the regulations and the orders   and the laws of local government as they existed, and I insisted on other people conforming to those laws, and it is not in the power of this Dail or of the Minister for Local Government, or of anybody else, to question or to interfere with the liberty of the local authority, as long as that local authority conforms to the rules regulations, orders and laws under which local government is administered. It is not by virtue of your independence or of your character as a member of this Dail, that you would be entitled to question any act of local government. Then as for any infringement of the law, there is no law at present in force regarding the conduct or the privileges or anything else concerning the members of this Dail, or preventing them from taking office, should office be given to them.  I selected this officer from my knowledge of him, and from information regarding his suitability for that office, and it is not the office of a lackey.  It is very incorrect, very wrong, and very insulting for any member of this Dail to call a man occupying that position, who is a great friend of his, a lackey. What is his position?  At this moment he is the one connecting link between the Seanad and the Dail.  It is part of my responsibility to see that there is a connecting link.  Am I to sit here and wait until some person asks me: &ldquo;What are you going to do about that&rdquo;?  My idea of my duty is to set up machinery for carrying out the administration of both this Dail and the Seanad, if there is no other machinery set up to deal with it.  I have not interfered with the rights or privileges of this Dail, or any other one, and I think it is my duty, if I know anything about my duty, to appoint that officer.  I know that at the last election that gentleman did not intend to present himself for election. During the war he rendered great service, and his family rendered great service, too.  Even at this moment his mother has not a house to live in by reason of attacks.  This gentleman at one time occupied the position of Clerk of a Board of Guardians and Rural District Council.  He knows all about public business, and will be in a position to discharge the duties of his office in a thoroughly competent manner.  If this Dail does not provide us with a Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry, it is   the usual thing, as I understand it, between both Houses to have at least some connecting link.  I made the appointment in the full and firm belief that the man I appointed to the position was a person well qualified for that position, and no person could say this is a job. I must appoint somebody.  I know full well every appointment I make will be criticised.  That is my responsibility and I will have to bear the brunt of that when I stand again for election.  The Deputy tells me that I am out of touch. I go out whenever I have time.  I occasionally attend Church.  I suppose the Deputy will not be surprised at that. At early and at late hours I often walk through the streets.  Do not think I am cut off from association with the people outside.  I meet a large number of people in all walks of life.  I am not out   of touch, and if I were there are intelligent members in my own party who would very quickly bring me to task if I make any serious mistakes.  I make mistakes; everyone of us makes mistakes. I do not care who attacks me at any time during my life.  I believe it was a good appointment and I am perfectly satisfied with it, and the fact that he happened to be a member of this Dail does not concern me.  We have reduced our majority by one, if you go into it as a party question.  I will not look at it as a party issue.  I believe the Dail is honest enough to consider the question on its merits, and it is not a question of the popularity of the Government and whether it is to last or not. 
       The Dail adjourned at 9 o'clock until 3 o'clock on Thursday, 14th December. 
     
   
 