 
 
 
   
      
   Do chromadh ar obair an lae ar a 3.15 p.m.  Bhi an Ceann Comhairle, Micheal O hAodha, sa Chathaoir. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS. 
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. 
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - PRINCIPLE OF UNIVERSITY REPRESENTATION. 
      
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 This motion could not be made at a more favourable moment, because we have very popular Professors here, but I think to place a strong claim because Professors have proved sometimes to be useful politicians is a very unfortunate thing, because in this Dail we have very short memories.  One Professor   could do as much damage as it would take one million Professors to make good in twenty years.  It is a most unfortunate thing, but a Professor is a masterhand at wrecking.  We are not to consider the motion on that ground anyhow; but there is one ground upon which this motion has been recommended, and it appeals very strongly to me, and I am sure it appeals very strongly to every man in this Dail.  There is a certain interest in Ireland for which three or four members here spoke, and they have spoken very eloquently and very persuasively on certain questions that have come up in this Dail.  We are all looking forward to the day when the twenty-six counties and the six counties will be amalgamated.  I am sure that that small representation in this Dail will be of the utmost advantage in bringing about that desired union between the North and South, and although it has been advanced that this motion has been recommended upon grounds that are opposed to all democratic principles, and I am strongly opposed to the motion for that reason. I say Professor Magennis's arguments are not convincing.  Professors of the Universities are no more entitled to special representation than the other interests I have mentioned.  If this special representation for which Deputy Fitzgibbon speaks would hasten by one day the time at which North and South will come together, then I think we should keep this representation here. For that reason, and although I have no great faith in political professors, I support this motion.  The great movement that was brought to a success in Ireland in recent years&mdash;that great movement that culminated in this Dail&mdash;was not brought about by professors. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - I gCoiste ar an mBille um Bunreacht Shaorstat Eireann.  (In Committee on the Constitution of Saorstat Eireann Bill.) 
      
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 27.  ELECTION FOR THE CHAMBER. 
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 28.  VACANCY IN DAIL EIREANN. 
      
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 29.  COMPOSITION OF THE SEANAD. 
    
    
   Commerce, Distribution and Exchange.  Constructional Works&mdash;Building and Civil Engineering.  Engineering and Shipbuilding Industries.  Food Preparation Industries.  Textiles and Clothing Industries.  Education and Health Services.  Public Administrative Services.  Law and Religion.  Miscellaneous Industries.  Miscellaneous Services.  The methods of election to the Senate/Seanad, and the delimitation of constituencies, shall be determined by law.&rdquo; 
    
    
    
    
      
    
    
    
    
    
      
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 30. 
 &ldquo;Every University in the Irish Free State/Saorstat Eireann shall be entitled to elect two representatives to the Senate/Seanad Eireann.  The number of Senators, exclusive of the University members, shall be fifty-six.  A citizen to be eligible for membership of the Senate/ Seanad must be a person eligible to become a member of the Chamber/Dail Eireann, and must have reached the age of thirty-five years.  Subject to any provision for the constitution of the first Senate/Seanad the term of office of a   member of the Senate/Seanad shall be twelve years.&rdquo; 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 31.  ELECTION OF SENATORS. 
 Article 31 read:&mdash;&ldquo;One-fourth of the Members of the Senate/Seanad Eireann exclusive of the University Members shall be elected every three years from a panel constituted as hereinafter mentioned at an election at which the Irish Free State/ Saorstat Eireann shall form one electoral area, and the elections shall be held on principles of Proportional Representation. One Member shall be elected by each University entitled to representation in the Senate/Seanad every six years.&rdquo; 
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 32.  MODE OF ELECTION OF SENATORS. 
 Before each election of Members of the Senate/Seanad Eireann (other than University Members) a panel shall be formed consisting of:&mdash;   (a)   Three times as many qualified persons as there are Members to be elected of whom two-thirds shall be nominated by the Chamber/ Dail Eireann voting according to principles of Proportional Representation and one-third shall be nominated by the Senate/Seanad Eireann voting according to principles of Proportional Representation; and   (b)   Such persons who have at any time been Members of the Senate/ Seanad (including Members about to retire) as signify by notice in writing addressed to the President of the Executive Council their desire to be included in the panel.  The method of proposal and selection for nomination shall be decided by the Chamber/Dail and Senate/Seanad respectively, with special reference to the necessity for arranging for the representation of important interests and institutions in the country; Provided that each proposal shall be in writing and shall state the qualifications of the person proposed.  As soon as the panel has been formed a list of the names of the Members of the panel arranged in alphabetical order with their qualifications shall be published. 
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 33.  VACANCIES IN SEANAD CAUSED BY DEATH. 
 In case of the death, resignation or disqualification of a Member of the Senate/Seanad Eireann (other than a University Member his place shall be filled by a vote of the Senate/Seanad. Any Senator so chosen shall retire from office at the conclusion of the three years period then running and the vacancy or vacancies thus created shall be additional to the places to be filled under Article 31.  The term of office of the Members chosen at the election after the first fourteen elected shall conclude at the end of the period or periods at which the Senator or Senators by whose death or withdrawal the vacancy or vacancies was or were originally created would be due to retire; Provided that the fifteenth Member shall be deemed to have filled the vacancy first created in order of time and so on.  In case of the death, resignation or disqualification of a University Member of the Senate/Seanad, the University by which he was elected shall elect a person to fill his place, and the Member so elected shall hold office so long as the Member in whose place he was elected would have held office. 
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 34.  SECTION 2.&mdash;LEGISLATIVE PROVISIONS. 
 The Chamber/Dail Eireann shall in relation to the subject matter of money bills as hereinafter defined have legislative authority exclusive of the Senate/ Seanad Eireann.  A Money Bill means a Bill which contains only provisions dealing with all or any of the following subjects, namely, the imposition, repeal, remission, alteration or regulation of taxation; the imposition for the payment of debt or other financial purposes of charges on public moneys or the variation or repeal of any such charges; supply; the appropriation, receipt, custody, issue or audit of accounts of public money; the raising or guarantee of any loan or the repayment thereof; subordinate matters incidental to those subjects or any of them.  In this definition the expressions &ldquo;taxation,&rdquo; &ldquo;public money,&rdquo; and &ldquo;loan&rdquo; respectively do not include any taxation, money or loan raised by local authorities or bodies for local purposes. 
 The Chairman of the Chamber/Dail shall certify any Bill which in his opinion is a Money Bill to be a Money Bill, but if, within three days after a Bill has been passed by the Chamber/Dail, two-fifths of the members of either House by notice in writing addressed to the Chairman of the House of which they are members so require, the question whether the Bill is, or is not, a money bill shall be referred to a Committee of Privileges consisting of three members elected by each House with a Chairman, who shall be the senior judge of the Supreme   Court able and willing to act, and who, in the case of an equality of votes, but not otherwise, shall be entitled to vote.  The decision of the Committee on the question shall be final and conclusive. 
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 35.  BUDGET OF THE FREE STATE. 
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 36.  APPROPRIATION OF MONEY. 
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 37.  BILLS. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 38. 
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 39. 
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 40. 
 &ldquo;So soon as any Bill shall have been passed, or deemed to have been passed by both Houses, the Executive Council shall present the same to the Representative of the Crown for the signification by him, in the King's name, of the King's assent, and such Representative may withhold the King's assent, or reserve the Bill for the signification of the King's pleasure.  Provided that the Representative of the Crown shall, in the withholding of such assent to or the reservation of any Bill, act in accordance with the law, practice, and constitutional usage governing the like withholding of assent or reservation in the Dominion of Canada.  &ldquo;A Bill reserved for the signification of the King's pleasure shall not have any force unless and until within one year from the day on which it was presented to the Representative of the Crown for the King's assent, the Representative of the Crown signifies by speech or message to each of the Houses of the Parliament/Oireachtas, or by proclamation, that it has received the Assent of the King in Council.  &ldquo;An entry of every such speech, message or proclamation shall be made in the Journal of each House and a duplicate thereof duly attested shall be delivered to the proper Officer to be kept among the Records of the Irish Free State/Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
    
    
 &ldquo;It appears that but one Act of the Dominion Parliament has been disallowed. It was passed in 1873, and empowered any committee of the Senate or House of Commons to examine witnesses upon oath when so authorised by resolution.  There was confusion of opinion as to the competency of Parliament to enact it. The law officers of the United Kingdom eventually advised that the Act   was  ultra vires , and it was accordingly disallowed for that reason and not upon considerations of policy. Disallowance of either Dominion or Provincial legislation on this ground is practically obsolete.  Such questions are properly for the Courts.  Several Acts, however, have been reserved, and some of them have not gone into operation as they did not receive the assent of the Queen in Council.  &ldquo;Probably this course was taken with the consent, if not at the instance, of the Canadian Government. The power of disallowance has not been exercised by the British Government for more than fifty years, and while it still has a legal existence, it may be regarded as constitutionally dead.&rdquo;  I need not stress these words because they were written by a man who was at the time Canadian Premier, and he had access to the records in that particular instance.  He would not have used words so grave if he had not very good reason for it.  Having stated that the power of disallowance may be regarded as constitutionally dead, he proceeded:&mdash;  &ldquo;Similarly the power of reservation has been little used in recent practice, as a suspending clause is usually inserted in any measure, the provisions of which require negotiation with the British Government or further consideration or action by the Dominion Government before they may properly become operative.&rdquo; 
 There are other quotations one could give.  Quite clearly it is laid down that the law, practice and constitutional usage in Canada, according to the authority of the Canadian Premier at the time he wrote that book, is that no such withholding of assent and no such reservation should proceed in the law, practice and constitutional usage in Canada except on the advice of the Executive Council.  It may be asked if there is no difference, why ask for the substitution of one form of words if they both mean the same thing.  That would be a reasonable objection to make to the amendment except for one little matter.  The question may arise where urgency was the very essence of the problem.  If we had it exactly in these words which define the usage in Canada   to-day it would not be possible that an urgent question of that kind could be held up while negotiations were proceeding across the Atlantic to discover what was the usage.  In any case, knowing what the usage is, it is better to put it in the Constitution clearly and definitely what that usage is. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
      
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 41. 
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 42. 
    
    
    
    
      
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 43. 
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 44. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     DEBATES ON ADJOURNMENT. - ARTICLE 45. 
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
     TREATMENT OF PRISONERS. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
 
