 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 12 meadhon lae. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE OF SHASKIN RIVER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether plans for the drainage of the Shaskin River, near Ballymahon, have been received from the Longford County Council, and if he will state when a decision in regard to the scheme is likely to be made. 
     
     
      
       to the  MINISTER for FINANCE (Mr. Burke):  The Commissioners of Public Works in December, 1925, received a petition under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, from the Longford County Council in respect of the drainage of the Shaskin River.  Owing to the large number (529) of petitions received under the Act, and the limited staff of engineers available for the work of investigating them, it has not yet been possible to deal with all the petitions, and this particular proposal has not yet been investigated by the Commissioners. It is not at present possible to say when a decision in regard to it can be reached. An inspection of the district will, however, be made at an early date. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary say how long it will be before the Commission can investigate it? 
     
     
      
       I could not state that definitely.  It will be at an early date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GOVERNMENT BOOT CONTRACT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he is aware that a Government contract for boots has been given to Messrs. Adams Bros. (Raunds) Ltd., Wellingborough; if he will state what   was the class of boot specified and the quantity under this contract, and what were the grounds for placing such a contract outside the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The contract referred to was for 700 pairs of boots for boy messengers.  No quotation was received from any of the Saorstat firms, although special measures were taken to obtain tenders from them, and in the circumstances there was no alternative but to allot the contract to the firm which tendered at the lowest price. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IRON ORE DEPOSITS IN LONGFORD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that a rich iron ore deposit exists and was worked up to as recently as 40 years ago, in Smear, County Longford; and whether, in view of the poverty and unemployment in North Longford, he will cause a geological survey to be made of the district in order to discover if coal for smelting is available, and the possibility of the economic production of iron. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that iron ore was worked in this locality some 40 or 50 years ago and was sent to England for smelting purposes, but that the project was ultimately abandoned as it did not prove a paying proposition.  I do not control the Geological Survey Office, but am informed that the original geological survey of this district was revised about 1900.  There is not evidence that the geological formation of the area carries seams of payable or commercial coal, and in these circumstances I am not satisfied that the expense of another revision would be justified.  It would require in addition a large expenditure to carry out preliminary prospecting so as to obtain information as to the quantity and quality of iron ore.  It does not appear that this expenditure would be justified in the present state of the iron ore   market.  If, however, there are known to the Deputy any places where coal has recently been discovered, I shall arrange to have them inspected and reported on. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister possibly be misled by the geological survey that was left here by the British? 
     
     
      
       I might be misled by the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CARRIAGE OF DEAD POULTRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that the Great Southern Railway refuse to carry dead poultry by goods train, although they allow pork and other perishables to be carried by that service, and that the rate for poultry by passenger train from Gorey to London is 2/7 per cwt. more than that charged for pork carried on goods train; and if representations will be made to the railway company to permit such freight being carried by goods train. 
     
     
      
       The Great Southern Railways Company inform me that they do not refuse to carry dead poultry by goods train services.  The comparison between passenger train rates for one article and goods train rates for another made in the question does not, therefore, arise. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RAILWAYS AND BUS COMPETITION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether, prior to granting approval under the Railways (Road Motor Services) Act, 1927, the Minister will consider the advisability of inviting the Railway Company and the private bus owners to confer officially as to the possibility of adjustments between them, with a view to the avoidance of a destructive campaign on the roads which is likely to result in loss of revenue to, and adverse labour conditions on the railways and many other economic disadvantages to the country. 
     
     
      
       I see no occasion   for a conference between the Railway Company and private bus owners before the Railway Company has been authorised to exercise the powers of running road services.  That authority has now been given, but I would not feel inclined to propose any conference to the parties if the best justification that can be advanced for it is the unwarranted assumptions contained in the latter part of the question. 
       The Act was adopted by the Oireachtas without any serious contention because the Oireachtas was satisfied that the railway companies should not be refused powers possessed by every private bus owner, and that the grant of such powers would be advantageous to the general public as well as to all concerned in the railways.  I am not prepared, as invited in the question, to administer the Act on the assumption that it should not have been passed. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that, unless some immediate steps are taken in regard to this bus traffic, it will be necessary for some of the railways to be closed down? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of that at all. 
     
     
      
       If the newspapers are to be believed, we are on the eve of a traffic war on the roads. 
     
     
      
       I would not advise the Deputy to accept everything that the newspapers say. 
     
     
      
       Sometimes they tell the truth. 
     
     
      
       Give me proof of it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DELAYED MURDER TRIAL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that Edmund O'Reilly, Goold's Cross, County Tipperary, was returned for trial in custody by the District Court on the 29th of January, 1927, to the Central Criminal Court in connection with the murder of Guard Hugh Ward, at Hollyford, on the 14th of November, 1926, and, if so, whether he will state why this man has not been brought to trial or released. 
     
     
     
      
       I am aware that Edmund O'Reilly was returned for trial in custody by the District Court on the 29th day of January, 1927, to the Central Criminal Court in connection with the murder of the Guard Hugh Ward at Hollyford, on the 14th day of March, 1926.  The case is one of very considerable importance and one in which a considerable number of witnesses will have to be produced both for the prosecution and the accused. Owing to the large number of cases which came before recent sittings of the Central Criminal Court it was not found possible for the trial of Edmund O'Reilly to be proceeded with.  The case was adjourned by the Judge to the next sittings of the Central Criminal Court which are to be held on the 22nd day of this month and the trial of the accused will be proceeded with at that sessions. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the late Minister for Justice, in, I think, May last, in reply to a question which I put to him, gave an undertaking that this man would be tried at the Central Criminal Court in June last?  Does the Minister consider that it is fair or just to keep a man in prison for twelve months without bringing him to trial? 
     
     
      
       I have already told Deputy Morrissey that I have undertaken that the trial will be proceeded with at the next sitting of the Central Criminal Court.  I am strongly of the opinion that every case should be tried as quickly as possible&mdash; not only this case, but that every person who is charged should be brought to trial as quickly as possible. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister give the House any good reason why this man should be kept in prison twelve months without trial, or could he give the House any explanation as to why the promise that was given by his predecessor that this man would be tried in June last was not carried out?  I think it is a monstrous thing that a man should be kept in prison for twelve months without trial. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this man is in very bad   health since 1921 as a result of his fight against the British?  I know he is suffering from neuritis, and I would like to inform the Minister, if he does not know, that is a fact.  I think this treatment is intended to break this young man, who is one of the best men who ever stood in this country. The Minister might not think so, but perhaps some of his colleagues might know something about that. 
     
     
      
       The prisoner, as I think I mentioned before, in answer to a question, has actually increased in weight in prison, and the reports on his health are good. 
     
     
      
       Through want of exercise, of course. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister answer my question?  A definite promise was given in this House that this man would be brought to trial last June.  I have asked the Minister if he can give any explanation to the House as to why this was not done, why it should be necessary to keep this man in prison for a further six months, and I have not got any reply to it. 
     
     
      
       The reply I make to that is that it has been owing to the congestion of business in the Central Criminal Court. 
     
     
      
       Is it a fact that men arrested and charged subsequent to the arrest of O'Reilly have been brought to trial in the Central Criminal Court? 
     
     
      
       Very probably that is so. 
     
     
      
       Then congestion is not the proper explanation. 
     
     
      
       All those cases have not been brought to trial. 
     
     
      
       They want to finish O'Reilly. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRAINING COLLEGES VACANCIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education how many vacancies for boys in Drumcondra and De La Salle Training Colleges are to be competed for at the Easter Examination, 1928; whether any of these are reserved for monitors, pupil teachers, etc., and, if   so, how many; also the number of probable vacancies for boys not at present serving the Department of Education in any capacity. 
     
     
      
       The total number of vacancies in St. Patrick's and De La Salle Training Colleges for teachers next year will be approximately 157. 
       It is estimated that it will be necessary to reserve about fifty places for Pupil Teachers (New Class), Untrained Assistants, University Graduates and third year training students. 
       The number of vacancies for open competition for boys at the Easter Examination of 1928 will be about 107. 
       Monitors, of whom now only a few remain, have to compete at the ordinary examination for entrance to training, but are allowed the advantage of service marks. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WOMEN APPLICANTS FOR MILITARY PENSIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether, in view of the statement of the Minister for Finance that women were eligible for military service pensions under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, any pensions have been refused to women applicants, and, if so, on what grounds. 
     
     
      
       A pension has been refused to only one woman who applied on the prescribed form and within the prescribed time.  It was not proved in her case to the satisfaction of the Board of Assessors that she rendered the minimum amount of military service required by sub-section 4 of Section 2 of the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOURS OF CANTEEN ASSISTANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that shop assistants employed in the canteens, grocery and coffee bars in military barracks and camps in the Saorstat complain that they are deprived of the weekly half-holiday as provided for by the Shops Acts (Chapters 3 and 24) of 1912; whether he is   aware that the notice in the prescribed form as provided for in sub-section 2 of Section 1 and Clause 3 of the Fifth Schedule of the above Act is not affixed in any of the establishments mentioned; whether these assistants are working from seventy to one hundred hours per seven-day week without any relay of staff, and whether he will have inquiries made in the case with a view to enforcing the provisions of the Shops Acts. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of the matters mentioned by the Deputy.  Section 13 of the Shops Act, 1912, provides that it shall be the duty of local authorities to enforce the provisions of the Act.  I am prepared to facilitate those authorities in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister no control over the barracks and camps throughout the Saorstat, and is it not his duty to see that outside men employed in these barracks and camps are getting decent conditions of employment, especially those who have to reside in the camps and who are working such long hours? 
     
     
      
       The matter of decent conditions is one upon which a variety of opinions could be held.  The Deputy has asked a specific question about the Shops Acts.  The enforcement of the regulations, or of the Shops Acts themselves, lies with the local authority and not with the Minister for Defence. 
     
     
      
       Have the local authorities power to apply the Shops Acts to shops inside barracks and camps? 
     
     
      
       If they have not, the Shops Acts do not apply. 
     
     
      
       Then decent conditions do not apply to people employed inside barracks and camps? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is now getting at the other side of decent conditions.  We will have to get a new definition of decent conditions from the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       Are military camps immune from the law? 
     
     
     
      
       Oh, not at all. 
     
     
      
       Then it applies to them. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Colohan thinks not. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NEGLECTED LONGFORD ROADS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether representations have been made to him concerning the neglected condition of certain bye-roads in County Longford, particularly that leading from Smear to Carrickmaquirk, known locally as the Lady's Road, and also the road through the townland of Clonback; and if the Minister proposes to take any action to see that the Longford County Council will put the roads referred to into proper repair. 
     
     
      
       No representations have been made to my Department in this matter, which appears to be one that any interested party should take up with the Longford County Council in the first instance. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NEED FOR WESTERN PIERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he had received a copy of a resolution passed at a recent meeting of the Westport Proposals Committee of the Mayo County Council drawing the attention of the Government to the necessity for the provision of suitable piers and landing places on the western coast, and what action he intends to take as a result. 
     
     
      
       I received a copy of a resolution stated to have been passed some days ago by three persons meeting as the Westport Proposals Committee. The resolution was communicated to me on unheaded paper, and there was nothing mentioned connecting the Committee with the Mayo County Council. 
     
     As regards piers and landing places in County Mayo, I may say that there are three cases in which I feel satisfied   that improvements to the existing piers are very desirable, and there is a fourth case in which I regard the provision of landing facilities as urgently necessary. In two of these cases I have offered the County Council to recommend a grant-in-aid from State funds, provided the council will carry out the necessary work and bear a reasonable proportion of its cost.  In each instance the Council has declined to undertake the work.  In the third case I offered to have repairs carried out if the Council would agree to maintain the structure in future.  This they refused to do.  In the fourth case, repairs are being carried out by the Office of Public Works at the joint expense of the Council and my Department. 
     
      
       Would the Minister be prepared to mention the three cases to which he refers? 
     
     
      
       I think Belderg is one, the Bunlough pier and the Corraun boat-slip, and the place where the work is going on&mdash;Tiraun. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - APPLICATION FOR FISHING BOAT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state why the application made in September, 1926, by James Gorman, Murrivagh, Mulranny P.O., Westport, County Mayo, for fishing boat and gear, was refused. 
     
     
      
       The loan applied for in this case was £500, and I felt constrained to refuse the application because the sureties offered by the applicant did not appear to be solvent for such a sum. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TIRCONAILL HOMESPUN INDUSTRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what steps, if any, have been taken by his Department to revive the homespun industry in Tirconaill. 
     
     
      
       As mentioned in my reply of 8th instant, to a question by Deputy Miceal McFadden, the appointment of an Inspector of Rural Industries for my Department is in the hands of the Civil Service Commissioners.   As soon as the appointment is made the inspector will be sent to Donegal to put into operation a scheme for the revival of the homespun industry. As a matter of fact, I think all that remains for the Civil Service Commissioners to do is to have the medical examination. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FISHING PIER AT INISHFREE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if a sum of £400 was allocated by the Land Commission in the year 1924 for the purpose of erecting a landing place or pier at Inishfree, Tirconaill, and, if so, whether he will state the reason why the work was not carried out, and if, in view of the urgent need for a landing place or pier on the island he is now prepared to issue instructions for the work to be commenced immediately. 
     
     
      
       No work in connection with the construction of a landing place at Inishfree was carried out by the Land Commission, but any representations which may be made in regard to the necessity for a landing place will be placed before the Minister for Finance for consideration. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that owing to the fact that there is no landing place or pier at Inishfree the fishermen have very often to risk their lives to save their boats, and in view of that fact will he give immediate instructions to have a pier or landing place provided, because I am sure that neither Deputies nor the Parliamentary Secretary wish to see another fishing disaster? 
     
     
      
       I have already said that any proposals put forward in regard to this landing place will receive consideration. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF KILTEEVAN LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state why the Irish Land Commission has decided to take no steps to acquire the   lands of Kilteevan, etc., the property of Miss Mapother, in the County of Roscommon, for the relief of congestion in the district, and if he is aware that on this property there are 12 tenancies, 48 of which are under £10 valuation, 23 of these being under £6 valuation, and 20 under £3. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are aware that the majority of the holdings referred to are under £10 Poor Law valuation, and they are considering the question of the acquisition of the untenanted lands on the estate. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this estate was already inspected, and that his Department decided to take no steps to acquire the property?  That is the information I received. 
     
     
      
       Obviously, the Deputy got the wrong information. 
     
     
      
       I am very glad to hear it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. LONGFORD TURBARY SUPPLIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries when he proposes taking over and distributing the bog known as Culrey, on the Dopping Hepenstall property, Aughnacliffe, Longford; and whether, having regard to the fact that promises have been made to this effect to the farmers of the district of Aughakine, for a considerable time, the Minister will expedite the acquisition and division of this bog before turf cutting begins, to enable them to cut their supplies on this bog, and not have them put to the inconvenience of travelling from six to seven miles for their supplies of turbary. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission do not propose to acquire the bog referred to. 
     
     
      
       What is the reason for not acquiring the bog? 
     
     
      
       This bog is required for the owner's use, and I understand that there is plenty of bog available for the people referred to. 
     
     
      
       I can assure the Minister that there is not plenty of bog   available within six or seven miles. This bog is 40 acres in extent and within immediate reach of these people. The only reasonable objection I heard was that of trespass. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DOUGLAS ESTATE, CO.LONGFORD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that for over twenty years uneconomic holders and landless men have been agitating for the acquisition and division by the Land Commission of the Douglas Ranch, County Longford, and whether it is proposed to acquire the said ranch, and, if so, whether steps will be taken to expedite matters in that direction; further, whether it is proposed to accept as a tenant purchaser a farmer who is in possession of 400 acres of the best land of the ranch, and who also has a large farm in another county. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to are tenanted lands on the estate of N. W. S. Douglas which is pending for sale under the Land Act, 1923.  The estate is being dealt with under the Act by the Commissioners and the lands referred to have been retained, and the Land Commission proposes to take proceedings for the resumption of these holdings. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IMPORTATION OF BACON. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if licences for the importation of bacon and pig carcases into the Saorstat are issued by his Department, and, if so, what are the conditions governing importation, what is the number and quality of bacon and pork carcases imported within the last six months, and the countries of origin; and whether any steps have been taken to ensure that these commodities have been sold as the produce of their countries of origin, and if any prosecutions have been instituted in this regard. 
     
     
      
       Owing to the short notice received, I would ask the Deputy to be good enough to repeat this question next week. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TARIFF ON IMPORTED BACON. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that there is at present a slump in the pig trade, and if he will consider the advisability of applying a prohibitive tariff on imported bacon, with a view to stabilising the home market for the Irish product. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that the prices of pork and bacon pigs are relatively low at present, because of overproduction in some of the countries which supply the markets of Great Britain, notably in Denmark.  There are, however, indications that production is being restricted in these countries, and this circumstance, together with the coming of colder weather, will tend to improve prices in the near future.  Irish farmers should not, therefore, in my opinion, reduce their breeding stocks. 
       As regards the concluding portion of the question, the matter is one which should be raised in the form of an application made by some of the interests concerned&mdash;the farmers or the curers&mdash;to the Minister for Finance, for submission to the Tariff Commission. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CATTLE LOSSES COMPENSATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture to state whether he has received from the Cattle Traders' Association the proposition or scheme referred to in the Dail on the 13th May last, for the raising of a fund by a levy on cattle exported, to cover compensation for losses due to foot and mouth disease, with a view to giving it legislative effect, and when he proposes to introduce proposals for such legislation. 
     
     
      
       I have received a draft of the scheme referred to, and have had it carefully examined.  As there are, however, matters of principle and detail involved which require further consideration, I am unable to make a statement on the subject at present, but hope to do so at a very early date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NATIONAL STUD, CO. KILDARE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the National Stud, Co. Kildare, is owned by the Government of Saorstat Eireann, and if so, whether he will state when and under what conditions this property was taken over by the Saorstat Government; further, what profits have been derived from the stud since 1922, and to what purpose they have been allocated, and also if he will state the number of sires, brood mares and young stock at present on the farm. 
     
     
      
       (replying): I would ask the Deputy to repeat the question next week. 
     
   
   
     BUSINESS OF DAIL. 
     Ordered: That Government business be not interrupted at 2 p.m. for the consideration of Private Members' business. 
     
      
       It is my intention to move the adjournment of the Dail next week for two or three months.  I hope to be able to find time for the Local Government (No. 2) Bill early next week. 
     
   
   
     LOCAL ELECTIONS BILL&mdash;COMMITTEE&mdash;(RESUMED). 
     &ldquo;This Part of this Act applies to every local authority whose functional area is outside the County and the County Borough of Dublin and also applies to the Commissioners of the town of Balbriggan.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom an leas-run so do chur os coir na Dala, &ldquo;go bhfagfar linete 39, 40 agus 41 as Cuid II., alt a ceathair.&rdquo;  Se mo thuairim go mbaineann na linnte seo le cheist toghachain i gCathaireacha Baile Atha Cliath, agus Chorcaigh agus ma fagtar istig iad ni feidir linn, nuair a   thiocfhaimid nios deanai go dti Cuid III., ni feidir linn aon eifeacht a thabhairt do run ata ar aigne againn do chur os coir na Dala nios deanai. Se ar dtuairim, mar sin, go mba choir an leas-run so do chur anois agus gan fanuint go dti go dtiocfaimis go dti Cuid III. Fagann se sin go leighfidh an t-alt so mar seo:&mdash;&ldquo;This Part of the Act applies to every local authority&rdquo; agus stad annsin. 
     
     
      
       Baineann Cuid III. le toghachain i gChondae Bhaile Atha Cliath agus baineann Cuid II. le toghachain I ngach ait, eile. 
     
     
      
       The whole House is interested in this, not only 10 per cent of the House.  I should like to know what the reply of the Minister was.  It is a matter of public importance and 90 per cent. of the House would like to know exactly what he stated.  I would ask that you, sir, or somebody on your behalf, would translate both the questions and the answers. 
     
     
      
       I do not propose to assume the role of translator.  I sympathise with the Deputy, but I am not here as an interpreter. 
     
     
      
       Would your sympathy, sir, not extend to 90 per cent. of the House, as well as to the Deputy who asked the question? 
     
     
      
       My sympathy is all-embracing. 
     
     
      
       Not 90 per cent. 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied that only 10 per cent. on the opposite benches understood the Minister, but they have not the courage to say so. Those who have a knowledge of the language ought to give those who are also interested in this matter under discussion the benefit of it. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy possesses his soul in patience, it will all come out in good time. 
     
     
      
       I may be asked to vote on it. 
     
     
     
      
       The first thing I have to do is to reply to the Deputy's point.  The point raised is that the last three lines of Section 4 be left out, so that the whole of Part II. would apply to every local authority in the country.  But the Bill has been constructed so that Part III. refers to elections in the County Dublin, and Part II. refers to all other elections.  There is nothing more sinister in Section 4, as it now reads, than that we propose to deal with the City and County of Dublin separately, and then with the rest of the country, including Balbriggan, for the reason that Balbriggan does not come within the scope of the Greater Dublin Commission's Report. 
     
     
      
       If we pass Section 4, we may be passing something which may require to be altered if we change Part III., or get rid of Part III., as we hope to. 
     
     
      
       The question at issue is whether the matter of Dublin City can be raised.  I am not sure that it can be raised on Section 4. 
     
     
      
       It was quite as relevant as Cork to Section 3. 
     
     
      
       Is not the point that if the last three lines of Section 4 are deleted, then all of Part III. can be deleted also? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy handed in an amendment to delete lines 39, 40 and 41&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       To delete the section. 
     
     
      
       When did the Deputy hand in the amendment to delete these three lines? 
     
     
      
       On the 15th of November. 
     
     
      
       I understood that was withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       It was said it was not necessary to give notice. 
     
     
      
       It is not necessary to give notice to delete a section.  If the Deputy intends to delete the section his remedy is when the   question is put from the Chair&mdash;&ldquo;That the section stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash; to vote against it.  If an amendment were accepted simpliciter to delete the section, we would possibly have first a debate, and then perhaps a division. The question that the section stand part of the Bill would have to be put then and the same considerations would arise.  If he proposes to delete the section there is no necessity for an amendment at all. 
     
     
      
       The purpose was not to delete Section 4, because it was intended that the first line of the section should stand if the Bill were to have force.  The purpose was to delete the next three lines, and that amendment was taken in the office when sent in by Deputy French.  He was told that it was not necessary to give notice of amendment to delete these three lines.  The amendments were put upon one sheet when sent in. Some appear on the Paper now and others do not. 
     
     
      
       The assumption was that we could debate the question of Dublin and Cork separately on Section 3 of Part I. and Section 4 of Part II. The belief was that the amendments would serve no purpose if these two clauses were passed.  It was merely in order to get a debate on Dublin and Cork in two distinct clauses of the Bill.  If Section 4 is passed, no matter what action is taken on Part III., I understand it would not be effective, as authority is given in the previous sections of the Bill.  The idea is to get a definite vote of this House upon the local government of Dublin. 
     
     
      
       I appreciate the point, and so far as I am concerned I raise no objection to any amendments that will deal with the matter. 
     
     
      
       Without notice? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I understand what the Deputy is endeavouring to attain now could be done later. 
     
     
      
       If it would have the same effect, I would have no objection. 
     
     
      
       If this is allowed to go, it should not be taken as a precedent. 
     
     
     
      
       There is some mistake somewhere about this amendment and the notice of it.  I have considered this matter, but I have never considered the idea of deleting lines 39, 40 and 41 of Section 4.  I am not sure what the result of deleting these lines would be.  I do not know what the effect of having the section read, &ldquo;This part of this Act applies to every local authority&rdquo; would be, or whether it would make sense at all. 
     
     
      
       It might mean that Part III. of the Bill would fall.  It might be necessary to carry out certain alterations in Part II. again.  The only suggestion of any amendment that I got in connection with the matter was the mimographed amendment that was circulated to delete Part IV. 
     
     
      
       The information I got was that if the amendment to delete lines 39, 40 and 41 were moved it would have no effect if Part III. of the Bill were passed and vice versa: that they both control the same point.  I think I ought to be understood perfectly.  The matter intended to be moved is that the local government of Dublin should be handed back to the elected representatives of Dublin.  If that can be done with the authority of this House by deleting Part III. and that the case is not prejudiced by allowing these three lines to stand, there is no necessity for dividing on Section 4.  We are entitled to know whether the passing of this section, as it stands, would render inoperative any action this House may take on Part III. 
     
     
      
       It is scarcely fair to press an amendment which could not be examined in the short time at our disposal.  Looking over Part II. of the Bill, my impression is that the elimination of these lines would not effect the purpose that the Deputy has in mind.  I do not find any year mentioned in respect of the election of Aldermen and Councillors or in connection with boroughs.  &ldquo;In every county the ordinary date of the election shall be such date not earlier than 23rd day of June or the 1st day of July,&rdquo; but it does not actually fix the date for next June.  I have not had time to examine the amendment.  I do   not know what its purpose would be, but I suggest it would be dangerous to press the amendment now without being able to examine here.  I think what cannot be examined here.  I think what the Deputy means to effect is what is in Part III. of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I suggest to the Deputy to look at his own amendment, No. 5, in which he asks in Section 19 to delete the words &ldquo;31st day of March, 1929, and to substitute therefor the words 30th day of June, 1928.&rdquo; That is his reasoned way of raising this question of the Dublin Corporation, and the question could be much more satisfactorily raised there. 
     
     
      
       Does that apply to Dublin City as well as to Dublin County? 
     
     
      
       It does. 
     
     
      
       The matter arises in this way: it was thought necessary to preserve to Deputy French the right to raise the matter he wanted to raise.  It was suggested to him, perhaps wrongly, that if he did not move on Section 4 he would be precluded when Section 4 was passed from moving on Section 19.  Is not that the position? 
     
     
      
       It is. 
     
     
      
       It was not thought desirable to put him in that position.  It appears now&mdash;and the matter can be dealt with on Report, if that is considered necessary&mdash;that amendment 5 is the proper amendment on which to raise the question of Dublin City. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry I misled you.  Part III. refers only to the County of Dublin, and the City of Dublin comes in under Section 3, which has been disposed of already. 
     
     
      
       It is because Part III. seems to concern the County of Dublin only that when the Deputy brought in his amendment 5 he was asked did he want to make allusion to the City of Dublin.  When it was discovered that he did, it was suggested that was not the right place. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;This part of this Act applies to the Council of the   County of Dublin and to every local authority whose functional area is situate within the County of Dublin except the Commissioners of the town of Balbriggan.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Part II. deals with elections, etc., outside Dublin City and County. 
     
     
      
       Section 3 says: &ldquo;Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect the operation of any order under Section 12 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923), or Section 72 of the Local Government Act, 1925 (No. 5 of 1925), nor of the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1926 (No. 22 of 1926).&rdquo; 
       If this Act is not to prejudice the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1926, it is not going to prejudice the position with regard to Dublin City, the position with regard to Cork City and the position with regard to Dublin Union.  In fact, Section 3 of the Act proposes to bring the County of Dublin into accord with the County Borough of Dublin. 
     
     
      
       When we were discussing Cork City yesterday on Section 3 the question of the Dublin City Commissioners should also have been raised. 
     
     
      
       It can be raised on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       The only remedy I can see now is that on Report, and relevant to Section 3, some amendment should be put in which would have the effect of limiting the time during which the present Dublin City Commissioners can function and compelling an election for the Dublin Corporation to be held.  That is what is desired? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The only way that can be done is by limiting the operation of Section 3 on Report.  Part III. refers to the county, and Deputy French's amendment 5, although it would be relevant to the county, does not cover the point he wants to make   in regard to the city.  That being so, Section 3 having been decided already, we can see whether on Report an amendment to Section 3 cannot be brought forward in such a way as to bring in Dublin City. 
     
     
      
       What will happen in regard to consequential changes that may have to be made?  It is obvious Section 4 will have to be changed. 
     
     
      
       Not of necessity. 
     
     
      
       The question that would arise on Report is that if an amendment is carried to a particular section which necessitates consequential amendments, these must be made, and the onus of making them all through the Bill lies upon the people in charge of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I think the question depends upon the interpretation of the first section of Part III.  It would be important for our information that you give a ruling as to what the words in the section imply.  It says it applies to every local authority whose functioning area is within the County of Dublin, excepting Balbriggan.  That might be taken to mean areas geographically situated in the County of Dublin.  That is the way I would read it, and I do not know if that is the legal interpretation. 
     
     
      
       No.  The County of Dublin is a distinct thing, and there is a Borough Council of Dublin, which is another thing.  The County of Dublin, for the purposes of the Local Elections Act, does not include the County Borough. 
     
     
      
       The words are not to be taken in the geographical sense, but rather in the strictly legal sense? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Local Government Acts generally, when they refer to the County of Cork, mean something different to the County Borough of Cork, and when they refer to the County of Dublin they mean something different to the County Borough of Dublin, and it is   because of that that Deputy French was giving certain advice on the whole question. 
     
     
      
       The Minister did give the impression on the Second Reading that Part III. applied to Dublin Borough.  He said it was proposed to postpone elections in County Dublin and the County Borough until a date not later than the 31st March, 1929.  In the discussion, in which the Deputies on this side took part, we took it for granted that Part III. applied to the Borough of Dublin and that March 31st, 1929, was the date before which the elections for Dublin City would be held.  If it is the fact that there is no date fixed&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is a date fixed already by legislation, by the Local Government (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1926, by which an election must be held in the County Borough of Dublin, in Cork County Borough and for the Dublin Union, and that date is the 31st March, 1929. 
     
     
      
       That is in Section 3. 
     
     
      
       That date is fixed by reference, but it is not actually set out in the Bill.  It will be better to let the question go until Report as regards the City of Dublin rather than endeavour to discuss an amendment now which might possibly not have the desired effect. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry to persist, but I would like a little further information.  If it is true that Section 3 does not apply to Dublin City&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Section 3 does, but Part III. does not. 
     
     
      
       I meant Part III.: then that is where the City comes in? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       It is proposed under this Bill to postpone not only the election for the County Borough of Dublin but also the elections for all other local governing bodies in the County.   I would like some more information as to why that is considered necessary, why, for example, the Dublin County Council Election cannot be held next year, the same as the elections for the rest of Ireland? 
     
     
      
       The Greater Dublin Report marks out an extended area for what it proposes should be called &ldquo;Greater Dublin,&rdquo; and that eats into a large section of the County.  On page 3 of the Report the following paragraph occurs:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In the area to be administered within Greater Dublin and to enjoy unitary control of administration, there now function some nineteen thinking and spending authorities.&rdquo; 
       The only one of those thinking and spending authorities that does not come, in some way, within the ambit of the Greater Dublin Commission Report is the town of Balbriggan.  For that reason, while allowing the elections to go ahead in Balbriggan, we are holding up the elections for the other rural districts and Boards of Guardians. That means that their period of functioning in office is extended by nine months, or I should say that actually it only means that their period of office is extended for an additional period of nine months.  It seems reasonable, bearing in mind what is involved in the report of the Greater Dublin Commission, that that would be so, and that we would not have elections for areas that might be materially changed by March, 1929. 
     
     
      
       We have got the Greater Dublin Commission now into discussion, and that will enable us to bring up some points that we wanted to have discussed in this House.  We have had the matter mentioned on the Second Reading of this Bill, and we had various explanations offered by the Ministry as to why there has been such considerable delay in the preparation of legislation following that Report.  I am not satisfied with the explanation offered.  The explanation offered by the Ministry is not satisfactory.  The Report has been in their hands now for a period of twelve months, and, apparently, from the replies that we have received from the Ministers, it has not   even yet been presented to the Executive Council, so that the principle contained in the Report could be decided on.  The impression given to us certainly during the whole course of the debate was that the Government does not appreciate the seriousness of depriving the ratepayers of the County Dublin and these other districts of their democratic rights.  They have shown no anxiety whatever to restore these rights to them now.  I think that whatever legislation is necessary, that legislation should be decided upon to give effect to the recommendations in that Report, or otherwise.  I say that, because we have not even yet been informed that that Report will be accepted by the Government and that the legislation that will be introduced will be on the lines indicated there.  I see no reason why that cannot be effected in sufficient time to enable the elections for the local governing bodies in Dublin to proceed at the same time as the elections for the other local governing bodies throughout Ireland.  Whatever opinions we on these benches may have   on the matter, there can be no doubt that the number of local governing bodies in Dublin are too many, and that some reduction will have to take place. At any rate, I think that the area in which Greater Dublin will operate should be defined.  It does not require very deep consideration to map out roughly what that area will be, particularly as you have a very full report from the Commissioners who considered the matter for two years.  No doubt that matter has been already considered by the Minister's Department. They have had the Report for twelve months.  If legislation defining the area in which the County Council of Dublin would have control could be introduced next June&mdash;and I see no reason why it should not&mdash;then we could have the elections for the Dublin County Council in June, and they could proceed on that day to hold the elections for the County Council of Dublin the same as the elections throughout the rest of the country. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 4 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 64; Nil, 59. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Martin Conlon. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. John Daly. Peter De Loughry. Eugene Doherty. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. D.J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. 
             Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     
       
       Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Richard Anthony. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Daniel Bourke. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Henry Broderick. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Archie J. Cassidy. Patrick Clancy. Michael Clery. James Coburn. James Colbert. Hugh Colohan. Dan Corkery. Richard Corish. Martin John Corry. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon De Valera. James Everett. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Andrew Fogarty. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. 
             John Goulding. Patrick Hogan (Clare). Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. Frank Kerlin. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killelea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Daniel Morrissey. Thomas Mullins. Thomas J. O'Connell. Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Patrick Smith. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers.&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle.  Nil: Deputies G. Boland and MacEntee. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     SECTION 5. 
     (2) Every election of aldermen and councillors of a borough other than a county borough and of urban district councillors and town commissioners shall be held on the day which is fixed under this section as the ordinary day of election of county councillors for the county in which such borough, urban district, or town is situate, and every such election shall be held together with the election of county councillors for such county. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To delete sub-section 2, and to substitute the following new sub-section:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Every election of aldermen and councillors of a borough other than a county borough, and of urban district councillors and town commissioners shall be held on a day one week later than the day which is fixed under this section as the ordinary day of election of county councillors for the county in which such borough, urban district or town is situate.&rdquo; 
       The principal reason which prompted me in putting down this amendment was to elicit more definite information as to the method which is to be adopted as regards polling.  The Dail will, I think, agree that there is certain difficulty in asking voters to fill up two different ballot papers on the one day and practically at the same time, assuming that there will be in the future, as there has been in the past, a considerable number of candidates.  I can quite anticipate a ballot paper a yard long in some county council elections. Here, for instance, are two specimen ballot papers. 
     
     
      
       How many names? 
     
     
      
       Twenty-two and twenty.  I anticipate that there will be greater enthusiasm in the future, and there is a possibility of having forty names on the ballot paper.  Is there any manner by which we could avoid that and make the method simpler? 
     
     
     
      
       The object, as I have said before, of having the two elections on the one day is for general economy, saving the time of the schools, and also of the time of the people.  This amendment proposes to bring people to a county council election one week and to an urban election the next week, thus doubly taking up the time of the schools.  As regards the question of confusion, I have had particulars obtained as to the number of candidates and the number of vacancies in county electoral areas and in certain urban areas, and the case for confusion cannot, in my opinion, be argued very strongly, having regard to the extra expense.  Take Wexford, for example. If an election takes place in an urban district in Wexford on one day and the county council election is held another day, it means that the urban district of Wexford will have to pay £50 in additional expense and the county council will have to pay £120 additional.  That means that every third year the rates for Wexford town would be 1.1 of a penny up, and that the rates for the county would be three-farthings up, and that because of a desire to avoid suggested confusion, particularly through the illiterate voter, as has been mentioned.  In Wexford, at the 1925 elections, there were seven county council vacancies and there were twelve candidates.  In the only ward in which there was an election for the urban district council there were six vacancies and eight candidates. What the Local Government elector in Wexford town was called on to do was to take a list of twelve candidates, to mark down his preferences to fill seven vacancies, and he was asked to take a list of eight candidates and record his vote to the extent of six names.  If a person is going to be a Local Government elector at all, intelligently co-operating by his vote to have Local Government work carried out, it is not too much to ask that he be sufficiently intelligent to fill his ballot paper properly. 
     
     If you run down the whole of the lists you will find very little possibility of confusion.  In Cavan there were twenty candidates for eight vacancies on the county council, and in one area there were ten candidates for seven vacancies   in the urban district, and in another there were eight candidates for six vacancies, so that out of thirty candidates on the two lists the elector was asked to pick fifteen names.  There is no town, and I have got particulars for most of them, for which it could be seriously argued that there is a liability of confusion.  The question of over-nomination has been raised, and, to a certain extent, there is over-nomination, but it does not seem to have created very great confusion, because some of the nominees got very few first preferences. One very glaring case of that occurred in one part of the town of Wicklow, where there was an especially large number of candidates&mdash;twenty-two in part of the urban district for nine vacancies.  Three of the candidates got no first preferences, one got one, six got three, and four got five.  The same happened in Athy, where, out of sixteen candidates for nine vacancies, two got one first preference, one got five, and one got six.  Thus, if you look to actual results, the extra few number of names put on a ballot paper does not seem to have created very much confusion. Considering the cost and the inconvenience to people coming a second time to vote, even in urban districts, and taking into account the extra call on the time of the schools, confusion has not reached the particular stage at which it ought to bear against other considerations. 
     
      
       I admit that there is a certain amount of confusion caused by holding two elections on the one day, but I think, on the balance, it is more advantageous to have them on the one day.  I do not think that the number of names on a particular ballot paper makes very much difference.  In the Dail elections we have had from nineteen to twenty-three and twenty-four candidates' names on the ballot paper, and it has not, so far as I know, gone to any great extent to increase the number of spoiled papers.  The same could be said of the Seanad elections. I admit that the number of people who polled and the percentage of spoiled papers was very small.  I think there is less chance of an illiterate voter making a mistake than anybody else, as the illiterate voter's paper is marked by the   presiding officer.  The person who is supposed to be able to mark his or her own paper is more likely to make a mistake than the illiterate voter.  I suggest that if you hold the two elections within a week or a month you would have a very small vote.  One of the reasons why I favour the holding of the two elections on the one day is that by that method you will have a larger poll.  It must be remembered that it is only in the urban and county borough areas the question of two ballot papers arises at all.  It does not apply to the rural areas.  So far as I recollect, on the last occasion steps were taken in the polling booths to see that the persons voting put the ballot papers in the proper boxes&mdash;that is to say, that a person did not put a county council ballot paper into an urban council ballot box, and vice versa.  The ballot papers for the two bodies were of a different colour, and the people were told when they were handed the papers that one was for the county council election and the other for the urban council election. While there is likely to be a certain amount of confusion, I think if Deputy French looks into the matter he will see that, on the balance, we should be in favour of holding the two elections on the one day. 
     
     
      
       This amendment is not one on which the Deputies on these benches are taking a party attitude. We are individually open to conviction on it.  I admit that the arguments put forward in favour of the Bill as it stands with regard to imposing a lesser burden on the local rates and avoiding inconvenience to the schools, and also, as pointed out by Deputy Morrissey, that there is likely to be a larger poll, are strong arguments, but at the same time there is the danger of confusion. I do not think that any useful comparison can be made on the elections of 1925.  At that period there was considerable apathy in the country.  In the case of Wexford, I think the Minister mentioned that only in one district in the urban area did an election take place.  At that particular period the elements represented by the Deputies on these benches did not participate in the local elections to any extent in the majority of districts.   These circumstances are likely to be changed, and there will probably be much keener competition next year than there was in 1925, and consequently a much larger number of candidates nominated.  I would like, if the Bill goes through as it stands, to support the suggestion put forward by Deputy Morrissey, that the papers should be of a different colour and that there should be printed on the top of the ballot paper the local body to which that paper had relation.  In addition, there should be in the polling booths posters in which would be clearly set out specimen papers showing which is the paper for the urban elections and which for the county council elections, so that voters would be less likely to be confused and place their papers in the wrong boxes.  I think if the necessary precautions were taken that danger would be reduced to minimum, although it would be there as long as the elections are held on the one day. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       It is quite clear that certain precautions can be and will be taken.  There is no reason why different coloured ballot papers should not be used, or why the top of the boxes should not be of the same colour as the ballot papers that are to go into them.  Arrangements can be made to have everything that is required done. 
     
     
      
       I think on the balance that the advantage is on the side of having the elections on the one day.  There is a danger of confusion, but I think most of the Deputies on these benches are not likely to press that point.  I do not think Deputy French wishes to press the point. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment; by leave, withdrawn 
     
     
      
       One point which has, perhaps, escaped the notice of Deputies is the loss of a couple of extra days to school children attending national schools in the country by having the elections on separate days.  That may not appear of importance to some, but in my opinion it is of the utmost importance,   especially to working-class parents whose children as a result of recent changes in the educational system have had their school period lessened.  I need hardly refer to the question of teachers who had to put in intensive periods learning Irish and then having to teach it to children who had no knowledge of Irish. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, has not the amendment been withdrawn? 
     
     
      
       Anyhow, I agree with the suggestion that the ballot papers should be printed in different colours.  I would also suggest that the names of the candidates be printed in different shades of green, according to the intensity of their patriotism. 
       Section 5 agreed to. 
     
     
      
       On Section 6, Deputy Kilroy raised a point on Second Reading that, I think, deserves consideration&mdash;that is, that prior to the 23rd June a very large number of migratory labourers leave Co. Mayo.  I think it should be possible to get some special arrangement for that county by which the election would be held, say, a month earlier.  Of course, there is the difficulty of the publication of the register.  But even if the register was published a fortnight earlier in that particular county, it should be possible to hold the county council and other local elections on a date that would enable these people to participate in the elections. 
     
     
      
       The same thing applies to Tirconaill.  I do not know the number of migratory labourers who leave the county, but probably it is as big as the number who leave Mayo, and I would agree with Deputy Lemass that the same principle should apply to Tirconaill and other congested areas as would apply to Mayo. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would consider whether we could put in from the 23rd May to the 1st June instead of the dates we have here. It would change the Electoral Act, but that could be easily done. 
     
     
      
       The whole point is the preparation of the register. The statutory date on which the new   register comes into force is 1st June. The earliest possible date on which an election could be held on the new register, bearing in mind that it comes into force on the 1st June, is the 23rd, or at a stretch the 22nd.  What is being done now is shifting the election from the earlier part of June to the end of June.  Deputy O'Connell pointed out that the greater number of migratory labourers leave about the 20th June. The evidence we have been able to get on the matter has not been such, up to the present at any rate, as would warrant going into the whole question of the preparation of the register, and the particular times of the year on which it is made out.  In the County Council election for June, 1925, the percentage of the poll in Mayo was fifty-three of the local government electors.  The percentage of the poll in the last Dail elections was sixty-six.  It seems, looking at that comparison all around, that it is a fair comparison of the interest that is taken in the Local Government and Dail elections.  If you consider Tipperary: In the South Riding of Tipperary in the Local Government elections of 1925 the percentage of the poll was sixty, and the percentage of the electors who voted in County Tipperary in the June Dail elections this year was seventy-seven.  You have a difference of seventeen per cent. there, as between the Local Government elections of 1925 and the Dail elections, whereas you have only a difference of thirteen per cent. in the Mayo case.  So that I think the matter would require to have much stronger grounds for making an exception in the case of those Western counties than we have been able to get. None of the Mayo bodies have been among those that have asked for the postponing of the elections from January to June.  The consensus of opinion&mdash;and it includes, as far as I can find out, Mayo&mdash;is that June is the most suitable month.  I would suggest the case is not strong enough at the present moment.  We have not sufficient information that would make a strong case for differentiating between the times in which elections are held in Mayo and Donegal as compared with other parts of the country. 
     
     
      
       If this section goes   through as it stands the matter will be fixed for all time.  Would it not be possible to put in a section authorising the Minister or some other authority to make an order in a particular case, if strong arguments can be advanced for it, to postpone the election?  I know the difficulty of the register coming into force on the 1st June is a considerable one, but I believe the matter of the register could be, with considerable utility, altered, and the date of the publication put much earlier in the year than it is at present.  That is another matter altogether, and it is possible that at some future date the Electoral Act may be amended so as to ensure that the register would be published earlier.  It should be possible to hold county council elections in Mayo and Donegal on an earlier date.  In order to save trouble, would it not be convenient to put some section in the Bill giving discretionary powers? 
     
     
      
       Is not the Minister aware that the number of migratory labourers from Mayo is more or less ten thousand?  It is a serious thing to disfranchise ten thousand people in a constituency. 
     
     
      
       Could not the elections be held in April on the previous year's register?  Perhaps if the register were only compiled every other year it would be an economy. 
     
     
      
       As a matter of fact, I do not know whether a strong case could not be made for the alteration of the date, so as to make it generally applicable to the whole of the country. The consensus of opinion amongst farmers, on these benches, seems to be that the last week in May would be the most suitable date for these local elections. In connection with the question of the register, too, I think that the Minister ought seriously to consider whether publication of the register should not be made at least six or seven weeks before the date of these local elections.  The three weeks that are now given do not afford candidates a reasonable opportunity of getting into touch with the electors, particularly in the larger electoral areas.  While, of course, it does seem a big thing now to suggest that in this one section you   could also consider the alteration of the Electoral Act, so as to secure the earlier publication of the register still the two things hang together, and if some formula could be devised fixing the date of the election earlier than 23rd June I think a useful purpose would be served.  That would leave the way open to fix an earlier date for the publication of the register under the Electoral Act. 
     
     
      
       In regard to the suggestion made by Deputy Lemass, suppose you put in &ldquo;May&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;June,&rdquo; making the dates 23rd May to the 1st July, and then leaving the date for the election to be &ldquo;such date as shall be fixed by the county borough, with the consent of the Minister for Local Government.&rdquo;  I think that would meet the case that has been made from these benches.  Leave the period wider, and let the consent of the Minister be necessary for the fixing of the date of the election.  I think that would meet the case. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the point raised by Deputy Lemass, I would not like, on a matter that he felt keenly about, simply to give an undertaking to look into it and leave it there without some kind of hope that something could be done.  I hardly think it would be feasible to do what he suggests.  As far as we can find out, it is in the end of June that you get a strong wave of migration. Therefore, the 23rd of June gives you a reasonable date upon which, in the western counties, the elections could be held.  If the Mayo and Donegal County Councils hold their elections on the earliest possible date it meets, as far as our information goes, the situation in a reasonable kind of way. With regard to the point of leaving the period wider, we have come to the conclusion that it is better to have the local Government elections held inside one week all over the country.  We think there is a lot to be said for that, so that in the absence of a considered amendment bearing on the matter I would not be prepared to change the dates in the section.  The preparation of the register extends over a very long period, from the 15th October to the 1st of June.  Every aspect of the   preparation of the register was fully considered four years ago, and since then nothing has arisen in any kind of vital way to suggest an alteration of the dates.  I did consider it when this particular matter first arose. 
       After giving full consideration to it, I decided that as the county council elections had in the past been held in June, as that was found to be a suitable month and as the urban bodies were applying for an election in June &mdash;twenty-seven of them, as I have already stated&mdash;that it was reasonable to take June and fix a date at such a time in June that the new register would come into operation.  If we go to the expense of preparing a register yearly it would be absurd to have the elections held on the eve of the publication of a new register, so that taking everything into consideration I think it is more satisfactory to leave the dates for the preparation and publication of the register as they are and hold your elections on the 23rd June or after.  In regard to the point made by Deputy MacEntee, that does not mean that you may not have your new register until the 1st of June.  In many cases the register is available for some weeks before that date. Everything possible is done to see that it is available at the earliest possible moment, but the point under the section is that it does not come into statutory operation until the 1st of June.  For these reasons I think it is better that the section should stand as it is without further experience or further information that would warrant us in making special provision by which the western counties should fix their elections for a different date. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister not aware that the last week in May is a much slacker time in the country than, for instance, the last week in June?  As regards having all the elections on the one day, if the phrase &ldquo;with the consent of the Minister&rdquo; is put in he could easily arrange that the elections would be held practically within a week.  As regards the other point, it would simply mean putting forward by one week the date on which the register is to come into operation   if that were necessary.  I suggest that it is not fair to disfranchise a large number of people who will be disfranchised if the section is allowed to stand in its present form. 
     
     
      
       It would not be warranted at all if you are going to have the Local Government elections fixed at a regular time, not to fix that date by statute.  The position would be that you would have the Minister used as a kind of clearing house as to the opinions of different county councils as to what particular week in the year the elections ought to take place.  It would be an impossible position for the Minister to be in.  As regards having the elections in May, the representations and the general consensus of opinion that we have had is that June is the most suitable month.  That fits in with our legislation with regard to the register and makes a very strong case for having the elections in June. 
     
     
      
       From the agricultural point of view and the point of view of people residing in rural districts the last week in May would be the most suitable time for holding the elections.  Generally all the work is finished then.  Towards the end of June hay-cutting on early meadows has to be attended to.  The slackest time and the most convenient time to have the elections held for these people would, in my opinion, be the last week in May. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 6 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       We are not pressing this matter to a division, but we are not satisfied that this could not be better done. 
       Sections 7 to 13, inclusive, agreed to. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 14 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The amendment to this section in the name of Deputy Brennan is not appropriate to this Bill, but would be to a Bill dealing with the electoral law. 
     
     
      
       I might say with regard to Deputy Brennan's amendment that the powers that he seeks under it we have already under   sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 1 of the Local Government Act of 1919. 
       Amendment not moved. 
     
     
      
       There is just a small amendment that I desire to move to this section.  In sub-section (8), line 2, on page 6, to delete after the word &ldquo;town&rdquo; the word &ldquo;of&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;or&rdquo;. It is really a verbal correction. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 14, as amended, agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       Before Section 15 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       (1) The poll, if any, at an election of members of a local authority shall commence at nine o'clock in the forenoon and be kept open till nine o'clock in the afternoon and no longer. 
       (2) Paragraph (c) of sub-article (2) of Article 5 of the Local Government (Application of Enactments) Order, 1898, and so much of all Rules made under said Article 5 as relates to the hours during which a poll is to be kept open shall cease to have effect in respect of any local authority to which this Part of this Act applies. 
       The effect of the amendment is to make the hours of polling for Local Government elections the same as those for Parliamentary elections.  I think the experience generally is that these hours suit the public convenience. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 15 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I do not know if I would be in order in raising on this section a matter now which relates, to some extent, to the conduct of elections, in so far as it has to deal with the counting of the votes.  There appears to be great dissimilarity in many parts of the country in the methods by which the counting is carried out. 
     
     
      
       This question does not seem to arise on this section. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Section 16 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     
     
     
      
       I move: 
       Before Section 17 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       Whenever the day on which anything is required by this Part of this Act to be done falls on a Sunday or on a bank holiday that thing shall be done on the next following day which is neither a Sunday nor a bank holiday. 
       I think that amendment is self-explanatory. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Sections 17 and 18 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 19. 
       (1) Section 2 of the Local Elections Postponement Act, 1925 (No. 42 of 1925) shall cease to apply to the local authorities to which this Part of this Act applies and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the statutory elections of members of such local authorities which but for that Act would have been held in the year 1926 shall be postponed until and shall be held on such date not being later than the 31st day of March, 1929, as the Minister shall by order prescribe. 
       (2) An order under this section (including an order under this sub-section) may be revoked by a subsequent order, but in every such case a new date for the holding of such election shall be prescribed by such subsequent order. 
       (3) In this Part of this Act the expression &ldquo;the prescribed date&rdquo; means the date prescribed under this section for the holding of the statutory elections of the local authority in relation to which the expression is used. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy French I move: 
       In sub-section (1), line 27, to delete the words &ldquo;31st day of March, 1929,&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;30th day of June, 1928.&rdquo; 
       The idea was, especially in view of the statement made by the Minister, the last day that this Part III. of the Bill related to the County Borough of Dublin, as well County Dublin. 
     
     
     
      
       Is this amendment 5 or 6? 
     
     
      
       Amendment 5. 
     
     
      
       Is the amendment going to be moved by Deputy French? 
     
     
      
       As he is not here I am moving for him. 
     
     
      
       I thought there was an understanding that this amendment would not be moved at this stage. 
     
     
      
       I did not know that. 
     
     
      
       What happens is that Friday is a bad day for a contentious amendment like this.  This raises the whole question of the Commissioners, and obviously that calls for very considerable discussion.  I expect all parties will want to speak on it, and that we will have what is called a fairly full dress debate.  That is almost impossible on a Friday. 
     
     
      
       We are not responsible for bringing the Bill in on Friday. 
     
     
      
       It was quite obvious that contentious matters were going to be raised. 
     
     
      
       Certainly, but is this the best time?  Are we to finish it now?  I do not mind. 
     
     
      
       Will you take back the section? 
     
     
      
       We will take it on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       On one point, the President's remarks are, apparently, in conflict with what was decided regarding this Bill.  We have already decided that it did not relate to Dublin Borough at all. 
     
     
      
       That is the point that I wanted to make, that this section only applies to the County Dublin.  The point that Deputy French wants to raise applies to something else, which could not be raised on this amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move &ldquo;To delete sub-section (2).&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The real object of sub-section (2) is that it might be   useful in case of an earthquake, or something like that, which would upset the arrangements. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 19 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       Sections 20 and 21 agreed to. 
     
     
      
       In connection with the amendment proposed by Deputy Duggan, I would like to ask if the words &ldquo;Catholic holiday&rdquo; could be inserted in the new section after the words &ldquo;Bank holiday.&rdquo;  In the constituency I represent&mdash;the diocese of Ferns&mdash;the Catholic holidays are observed the same as Sundays. 
     
     
      
       Perfectly right.  I hope the Deputy does the same thing. 
     
     
      
       I do.  I would ask the Minister to put in the words &ldquo;Catholic holiday&rdquo; after &ldquo;Bank holiday&rdquo; in that section on the Report Stage.  I do not think that is too much to ask. 
     
     
      
       I will consider the matter. 
     
     
      
       It is a great tribute to the Deputy's piety to raise the question. 
     
     
      
       I hope the Minister will take the suggestion in that sense, and treat it accordingly. 
       Title ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. Bill, as amended, reported. 
       Fourth Stage fixed for Wednesday, 23rd November. 
     
     
      
       In view of what the President said about an early adjournment, I will, probably, ask for facilities to have the Final Stage of this Bill taken on Wednesday or Thursday next. 
     
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - FINANCIAL MOTION (RESUMED). 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     Question again proposed: 
     That it is expedient to amend the law relating to Customs and Inland Revenue (including Excise) and to make further provision in connection with Finance. 
     Debate resumed. 
     
      
       Resuming the debate   on this motion at this stage is like recommencing a tale of &ldquo;far off things and battles long ago.&rdquo;  It is with the echoes only and not with the primary voices in the controversy that one has to engage, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to regather the threads and to reawaken interest in the arguments. However, the one recollection which I am sure is still fresh in the minds of most Deputies is the spirit of sweet reasonableness which informed the speeches not only of the Minister for Finance, but of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture.  They were both protectionists, cautious but resolute protectionists, with scarcely a hint in their speeches of the old controversies that drove the former Minister for Posts and Telegraphs into open conflict with the Minister for Lands and Agriculture and with most of his colleagues on the present Government Benches, and almost split the Government Party in two&mdash;not a hint, not a word, not a whisper!  In fact, as I listened to the speeches of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture and the Minister for Finance I was reminded of a cartoon I once saw&mdash;a gentleman bathing, while behind a near-by tree lurked a tramp waiting for a favourable opportunity to steal his clothes.  The Government&mdash; and probably the Carlow-Kilkenny election had something to do with it&mdash;seem to be in the same psychological position as that tramp; in fact I would say that at the present moment almost the only members of the Government majority who are satisfied with their own clothes are Deputy Good and Deputy O'Hanlon.  As for Deputy Heffernan and the members of the Farmers' Group, they do not seem to be quite certain which suit they are wearing; they seem to forget that four or five weeks ago they changed their coats on this question. 
     
     We do not mind whether the members of the Government steal our clothes or not, provided that they do something really effective to develop this country economically and industrially. But if they do steal our clothes, if they do commit the theft, for goodness sake let them clothe themselves decently and not be strutting around exhibiting their free trade nakedness, as the Minister for Lands   and Agriculture and the Minister for Finance did on the opening day of this debate in endeavouring to impress upon the House the specious argument that tariffs increase the cost of living. 
     In a certain superficial way it may be argued that a tariff which so operates as to produce revenue does increase the cost of living, in so far as it takes from the producer and conveys to the Government a certain proportion of the fruits of production.  But it does that because in such circumstances it has a dual nature and function; it is not only a tariff to protect native industries, but it is also a tax to produce revenue.  But the total amount of taxation in any year is determined, not by the method of raising revenue, but by the estimated expenditure for that year.  Tariffs on imports constitute one method of raising the revenue necessary to meet that expenditure. 
     Every tariff produces a certain revenue, which may be large or small according to circumstances.  But if a tariff is not imposed, what then?  The expenditure has still to be met, the revenue has still to be raised, and it must be raised by taxation in another form.  Tariffs do not increase taxation; wasteful, extravagant expenditure on the part of the Government increases taxation and thereby increases the cost of living; but because a tariff on imports not only produces revenue but operates also to develop native industries, the advantage is, if anything, on the side of the tariff, as against most other expedients for raising revenue. Take the tariff on boots, to which Deputy Good referred.  That tariff, the Deputy stated, produced a revenue of £272,228 in a certain year.  He admitted also that its operation has provided employment for 700 hands.  So far so good.  But from these facts the Deputy proceeded to deduce the conclusion that every extra man, woman and child employed in the boot and shoe industry cost the State to-day £389 per annum. That is a very shallow argument.  I do not believe that the Deputy himself seriously intended it or really believed it. 
     First of all, I would point out that it is not the tariff, nor the industry that it protects, nor the people engaged in that industry, which costs the State   £272,228.  Certain public services are responsible for that taxation, and those have to be paid for with money raised in one way or another.  Suppose we decided to raise that money in any other way than by the imposition of tariffs on imports; suppose we decided to raise it by increasing, say, the income tax, would that appeal to Deputy Good or to Deputy O'Hanlon?  I am fairly certain that it would not.  But whether it appeals to those who are free traders or not, there is a more important question still: would such a tax provide, as an offset to the disabilities which all taxation necessarily imposes upon industry, any compensation in the form of increased employment? Would it at once create work and wealth for the community, and provide revenue for the State?  A tariff will do that, but the income tax will not.  Or, if we rule out increased income tax and decide on certain imports which do not happen to be manufactured here, such as tea, for instance, would a tax on tea increase the cost of living?  I think most people will agree without any great hesitation that it would.  But would it provide increased employment? 
     Revenue has to be raised: decide not to impose tariffs on imports such as boots and other commodities which we can manufacture here, but to impose a tax on tea instead. Which would be more beneficial to the State?  A tax on tea would increase the cost of living.  Would it have any compensating offset to that disadvantage?  Would it provide increased employment?  Because it would not provide increased employment you rule out a tax on tea and suggest instead a tax on something which we do not import but which we manufacture &mdash;porter, for instance.  Would a tax on beer increase the cost of living, say, to the dock labourer, and would it, as a compensation for that increased cost of living, provide him with increased employment?  Or, if we rule out the tax on porter, rule out taxes on articles which we do not import but do manufacture, and suggest instead a tax on something that we neither import nor manufacture&mdash;land, for instance&mdash; would such a tax increase the cost of   living for the farmer, would it make it easier for him to hold his place in the English markets and to find employment for his sons at home on the land?  The fundamental fact is that every tax, no matter what, increases the cost of living, but that some forms of taxation carry with them certain compensating advantages to offset their primary disadvantages.  The form of taxation which provides that compensation in the greatest measure is a properly considered tax on imports. 
     The tax on boots not only provided money for the public services, but it provided employment for 700 additional hands.  These 700 hands would have had to be maintained by the State, either at work or in idleness.  To have maintained them in idleness, to have maintained them on the poverty line, would have cost the community immediately and directly £54,600, and there would also have been a secondary expenditure on public health and prison services, arising directly out of that, which would mean a sum which I do not propose even to guess at.  Therefore, not only has the tariff on boots produced a revenue of £272,000, but it has saved to the State £54,600 worth of consumable wealth annually.  That represents in interest and sinking fund, at 5 per cent. over 25 years, a sum of £682,000, which would almost provide two additional sugar beet factories&mdash; one for the President in Cork&mdash;and build 1,000 five-roomed houses.  But that is not all.  That tariff on boots produced a secondary revenue for the State in the form of income tax on the profit derived from the expanding industry. As well, those profits remained in the industry to provide not only for its expansion, but for the development of associated industries. 
     That brings me to the point made by Deputy O'Hanlon, and in a more comprehensive way by the Minister for Finance.  Deputy O'Hanlon professes to be an authority on the economics of the Stone Age.  It is a pity that his economic reading did not extend to a somewhat later date.  Then, instead of aspiring to be the leader of the lost cause of Free Trade in this House, he might become a valuable ally of the progressive economists here.  The   Deputy and the Minister made the point, that because the cost to the consumer of a protected article may be higher than an unprotected one&mdash;and I do not admit it must necessarily be so &mdash;then the general cost of living must also be higher in consequence.  That is a variant of Deputy Good's argument. To illustrate his point, Deputy O'Hanlon contrasted the price which the consumer would have to pay for a pair of boots, of which the declared value on import was £1, and upon which there had been imposed a tariff of 15 per cent., or 3/- in the £1.  He contrasted the retail price of that pair of boots with the price which the same consumer would have to pay for the same quality boots if a tariff had not been imposed, and he found that there was an apparent difference of 4/5 in favour of the non-tariff boots.  From this the Deputy proceeded to argue that the cost of living to every individual consumer of a pair of such boots has been increased in that year by 4/5. 
     Let us examine that proposition further, particularly in its relation to the general cost of living.  First of all, it is necessary to emphasise that the example given by Deputy O'Hanlon is not a truly representative one.  The average value of boots imported is nothing like £1 per pair, and, consequently, the actual average increase in the retail price of tariff boots is nothing like 4/5 per pair.  According to the Trade and Shipping Statistics for 1926-27, the quantity of boots and shoes imported into the Twenty-Six Counties during that year was 4,811,232 pairs, of which the total value was £1,792,394, or an average value of 7/51⁄2 per pair.  Duty amounting to 15 per cent. of the declared value was imposed on those boots, making their prime cost to the wholesaler, £2,061,253.  To that £2,061,253 we will first add ten per cent. on the £1,792,394 to cover handling, storage and other distribution charges and then add another ten per cent. to cover the wholesalers' profit, making the total cost of the boots to the retailers, £2,464,542.  To this we also add 33? per cent. to cover retailers' profit, and the cost of all imported boots to the people who are misguided enough to buy them is £3,286,000. 
     
        Consider the position if the boots had not been tariffed.  The prime cost to the wholesaler would be £1,792,394. We will have to add a sum of ten per cent. for handling, ten per cent. for profit, and 33? per cent. to cover the retailers' charges, and we get a total cost of all imported boots, not tariffed, of £2,891,720.  There is then a difference of £394,326 between the cost of the non-tariffed boots to the purchasers and the cost of the tariffed boots to the purchasers to be accounted for.  From that £394,326 the State first of all takes £268,859 for revenue purposes.  That leaves us then with a sum of £125,467.  Let me emphasise again that if the State had not derived that revenue of £268,859 from the tariff, it would have had to secure the revenue in some other way, either by a tax upon tea or sugar or bread or land, or an increase in the income tax. Some other expedient must be devised to raise that £268,859, if it is not raised by way of the tariff.  Therefore, the fact that the money is raised in this way by a tariff, and that if it is not raised in this way it must be raised in some other way, shows at least that so far as the £268,000 is concerned, the tariff did not increase the cost of living to that extent, at any rate.  The only item that we have to consider, therefore, is the balance of £125,000. 
     What has been the effect of the tariff? First of all it has provided employment for 700 hands.  Taking into account the skilled hands and the charges for supervision, etc., I am not putting it very high when I say that the rate of wages paid to these 700 hands must be about £2 10s. per week, or £130 per year.  Seven hundred hands at £130 per year accounts for £91,000, and that leaves us a balance to account for of £34,464.  From this sum of £34,464, which we will concede, if you like, as the extra profit which the wholesalers and retailers secure upon these boots&mdash;and which amounts, not to 4s. 5d. a pair, as Deputy O'Hanlon wished to impress upon us, but to something like 13⁄4d. per pair&mdash;amounts in fact to something like 1.05 per cent. additional profit to the wholesaler and retailer&mdash;the State takes at least £2,500 by way of income tax.  That leaves us with £32,000 to account for.  Of that   £32,000, the greater portion, most likely, is immediately expended in maintaining the wholesaler and retailer of boots and shoes.  Part of the expenditure is insurance against certain members of these trades going out of business and becoming a burden upon the community.  Furthermore, in helping to maintain the wholesale and retail distributors of boots and shoes, the £32,000 is providing a similar insurance in respect of other sections of the community, and a considerable portion of it is immediately absorbed by these sections who return some of it to the Government by way of income tax and utilise most of the remainder of it in maintaining other sections of the community. Thus the process goes on. The purchase of the necessaries of life puts a sum of money in circulation and tends to provide employment for other sections of the community and to maintain them, while these sections in turn create the same reactions in others, and so on to an infinite series, so that every penny piece in circulation in the community is a rolling stone that, contrary to the proverb, does gather moss. 
     It may be argued that not all the £32,000 is used in the way I have suggested, and that some portion of it is saved and invested.  Even so, in that case, some will be invested at home and some abroad.  Probably most of it will be invested at home, because the tendency is, in protectionist countries, in the earlier stages of development at least, to import capital and not to export it.  The part so invested at home will create immediate employment, and so make a general return to the whole community.  The part invested abroad, which, it is as well to remember now, is practically an insignificant portion of the whole, will, also, make a general return to the whole community secondarily in the form of interest on the investment, thus constituting an invisible export, which will help to redress our unfavourable trade balance. I think, also, in this connection, the reactions of tariffs upon such balances are among the most important and the most advantageous to the community as a whole, but I am not going into that now.  It is a much   wider and bigger question than we could adequately discuss in this debate, but I shall conclude this part of the argument with this: we find the whole of the difference between the amount of the selling price of the non-tariffed and tariffed boots has been either returned directly to the State, and has, therefore, obviated the necessity of raising revenue by other forms of taxation, or has been expended within the community for the ultimate benefit of the community as a whole. 
     With these facts before us, I cannot see how it can be argued that any tariff which does not exceed the rate which is essential for the proper protection of the industry increases the cost of living to the community.  Before passing from this case, I would like to deal with the more general case made by the Minister for Finance.  In the course of his speech he said that the tariff on boots is not at present throwing any great burden upon the people, simply because, so far, it has only been to a limited extent successful, but, as it becomes successful, a point will be reached where it will throw a substantial burden upon the people.  These are the Minister's own words.  In endeavouring to prove that contention the Minister asks us to assume that when the tariff has been successful and all the boots used here are manufactured here, so that the tariff will produce no revenue, it will still be maintained at 15 per cent. 
     In regard to that assumption, the first point to be considered is that if a tariff of 15 per cent. produces the results which the Minister asked us to consider&mdash;and he holds it will&mdash;there is no necessity for the tariff to remain at 15 per cent., because the increased output in the factories will enable these factories to produce more cheaply and to meet the more intense competition from the foreigners.  Consequently, the tariff can, without any diminution in its effectiveness, be reduced to 10 per cent. or less.  Suppose we take it at 10 per cent., then the total price of all the boots sold in the Saorstat might be enhanced.  And it is only a &ldquo;might.&rdquo;  I am not admitting for a moment that a tariff of 10 per cent. will increase the cost of boots sold in the Saorstat by 10 per cent.,   but conceding the Minister's point and assuming that it does entail the consequential increase of 10 per cent., then the total price of the boots to the purchasers will only have been appreciated by £200,000.  What have we to set off against that?  In the circumstances he foreshadowed, the Minister suggested that between 7,500 and 10,000 people would be engaged in the manufacture of boots.  Immediately before the tariff was imposed, I do not suppose there were 500 hands actively and continuously employed in the industry here.  The difference between 500 and 9,000&mdash;I am taking the middle and the round figure for convenience&mdash; represents the amount of employment a wholly successful tariff would provide, while stopping all imports and producing no revenue.  If there was no tariff, 8,500 additional persons who have been in employment consequent on the tariff would either have to be maintained by the community or would have to emigrate.  There is no other course.  If the Minister is correct in his argument, if the tariff provides employment for those people, then there is no alternative employment that they can find inside these shores, and if they want to remain here they must be maintained by the community as a whole.  In the first place, if they are maintained by the community as a whole, then to maintain them even on the verge of destitution will cost £663,000, and the State will have to provide additional revenue for the Public Health and Police services.  If they emigrate, then there is a loss to the community by the emigration of those persons of a capital sum which I suggest is almost incalculable, but as I want to deal in terms of figures I will put the loss at no less than £5,000,000.  Offset this figure of £663,000 against the £200,000 by which the Minister considers the price of boots would be increased here and you have the net gain to the community and the gross reduction in the cost of living&mdash;not an increase but a reduction in the cost of living&mdash;which has ensued as a consequence of the imposition of a tariff on boots.  So again it is clear that even a wholly successful tariff does not increase the cost of living. 
     I have dealt with the arguments of   the Minister for Finance and the arguments of Deputy O'Hanlon.  I am going to say a word about Deputy Cooper. Deputy Cooper, I think, has already proclaimed himself in this House as a protectionist in a peculiar sort of way. I think he is really in the position of the members of the Farmers' group, that he does not know which suit of clothes he is wearing.  I remember when the Deputy was engaged on the hustings in the County Dublin in June last he proclaimed himself an anti-protectionist, and one of the most extraordinary arguments that he adduced in support of that attitude was that if protection were imposed it would make it more difficult to procure tropical fruit here.  In fact, it seemed to me that what the Deputy chiefly feared was that when one day he would go into a fruit shop he might find the shopkeeper singing &ldquo;Yes, we have no bananas to-day.&rdquo; The Deputy made a point&mdash;and I really cannot see the force of it in this debate&mdash;that highly protected countries sold less per head to Great Britain than we do.  Well, naturally the country which sells practically all of its produce to one consumer should buy more and sell more per head to that consumer than other countries whose trade is more widely dispersed.  I do not see that that furnishes any argument against protection. The fact of the matter is, as Deputy Lemass pointed out, that the protected countries of Europe sell much more to Great Britain than they purchase from Great Britain, and that they appear to be able to make much better terms&mdash;to have a much better part of any business contract or bargain that they enter into with Great Britain than we do.  Therefore, if there is any argument for the Irish farmer to gather from this discussion, or from the point which Deputy Cooper made in his speech, it is that if he wants to increase his trade with Great Britain, that if he wants to sell more to Great Britain, one of the ways in which that may best be done, judging by the position of the trade of Denmark, New Zealand, of the Netherlands, of France, and the United States of America as regards Great Britain, is to protect our native industries against foreign competition as every one of the countries I have mentioned do. 
     
        Now I come, I suppose, to the strongest champion of free trade in this House.  We all know that Deputy J.J. Byrne is opposed to protection&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       That is not correct. 
     
     
      
       Then the Deputy should re-deliver his speech&mdash;the speech which he made in this debate.  If he wishes to retract it, of course, I am willing to give him the opportunity. 
     
     
      
       I never stated that I stood for free trade.  I stand for selective protection. 
     
     
      
       And for the re-writing of both Irish and English history. 
     
     
      
       I think the better way to state the Deputy's position would be to say that he stands for infinitesimal protection.  But we never had any delusions as to that since we heard the Deputy speak on Deputy Morrissey's motion on unemployment. We discovered then that the Deputy's outlook on this question was fossilised under innumerable strata of economic text-books, memorised but scarcely digested.  During the debate on the last occasion the Leas-Cheann Comhairle protested that the Deputy, who at the moment was discussing the merits of free trade, should have protection.  We agree, and we suggest that it should take the form of a tariff on economic history, which would save the Deputy from harping back to the days of his boyhood.  He never seems to be able to begin a speech without dragging the year 1834 into it. 
     
     
      
       No; 1923. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Hanlon referred to some Deputies as stone-age economists.  I think that we would not be out of order to refer to Deputy J.J. Byrne as an &ldquo;Early Victorian.&rdquo;  Last Wednesday, I think it was, he told us about Cobbett, the father of the Fourth Estate.  Incidentally, in this connection, I wonder did he ever hear of Wilkes? 
     
     He talked of the wonderful progress England had made as a direct consequence of the repeal of the Corn Laws. England's industrial development was not the consequence but was the direct cause of the repeal of the Corn Laws.   The process of development of England's industrial side had started many generations before the Corn Laws were repealed.  It started when the British merchants secured a foothold in India.  It started when French industry was being crushed under excessive taxation, as Irish enterprise is to-day being crushed under excessive taxation, imposed by Louis XIV. and Louis XV. and Louis XVI., and it progressed during the Napoleonic wars, which gave it a tremendous impetus. The Deputy apparently never heard of or considered the effect of the industrial revolution.  The Deputy never considered the effect on England's trade of her victory in the Napoleonic wars.  The Deputy never noted the remarkable increase in the volume and value of England's exports which took place between the years 1811 and 1841.  Here are some figures for the Deputy to ponder on.  The official valuation of Great Britain's exports between 1811 and 1841 is given in these figures: In 1811 England's exports were valued at £34,000,000; in 1821 at £38,000,000; in 1831, £61,000,000, and in 1841, £102,000,000.  While Great Britain's trade was growing, mark what was happening to Great Britain's agricultural population.  In 1811 the population was 10,164,000; in 1841 it had grown to 15,914,000, but, more remarkable still, the percentage of population employed in manufacture and trade and all other occupations except agriculture had increased from 64.8 per cent. in 1811 to 74 per cent. in 1841, while the percentage engaged in 1811 in agriculture was 35.2 per cent., and in 1841 25.93 per cent.  At the period of the Corn Laws agitation in England it seemed as if the population were fast overtaking the capability of the soil to produce the necessary amount of food. It was this intense industrial development, which was drawing labour from agriculture into industry, which produced Malthus with his law of diminishing returns and his principles of population. Malthus's work had much more influence on the repeal of the Corn Laws than the work of Cobden. 
     The Deputy referred also to Australia. In the last three or four weeks, Australia has become a word benisoned   and blest, like Mesopotamia, in the mouths of free traders.  They seem to think that it has an almost talismanic virtue.  Ever since they read in a newspaper, not remarkable for exactitude in its reports, a summary in twenty lines of what was obviously a comprehensive survey of the whole subject, they have been speaking about Australia.  I only glanced at the summary and, so far as my recollection goes, it was a condemnation, not of tariffs, but of the abuse of tariffs.  We stand for tariffs, not for the abuse of tariffs.  We stand no more for the abuse of protection than for the abuse of Parliament or for the abuse of this Dail by utilising a false and fictitious majority to suspend the Constitution for the purpose of exterminating political opponents.  We stand for the reasonable use of tariffs. 
     
      
       Is it Parliamentary for the Deputy to refer to members of this Party as false and fictitious? 
     
     
      
       Cap fit, cap wear. We stand for the reasonable use of tariffs as agencies and instruments for the development of native industries. So far as Australia is concerned, even if tariffs have been abused there&mdash;and I am neither admitting nor denying that fact&mdash;we do know that tariffs have also been wisely used there and that that use has been beneficial to the State and to the community as a whole.  We know that under the protection of a 50 per cent. tariff the biggest coach-building factory in the world has been built there.  And Australia, unlike Ireland, had not a long tradition of craftsmanship in this particular industry to give confidence and to set a standard.  She had no trained workers and had practically no machinery. The Deputy, in the course of his laudation of the British industrial system of the period of which he is an economic relic, referred in terms of the highest praise to the Earl of Shaftesbury. He did not tell us why he praised him. 
     
     
      
       I merely quoted the Earl. 
     
     
      
       He did not tell us that that great and most humane man   owes his fame to what he did on behalf of the hapless workers of England who were victimised by the industrial system which Deputy Byrne praised so highly.  He did not speak of the Earl of Shaftesbury's life of labour to reform the law relating to the employment of workers in mills and factories. He did not tell us of his visits to the hospitals in Lancashire where he found workers crippled and mutilated and presenting every variety of distorted form, &ldquo;just like a crooked alphabet.&rdquo; He did not tell us of the conditions which prevailed in the collieries at the time; of women degraded to the level of beasts; of children of five and six years of age chained to a cart, crawling on all fours&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, the matter under discussion has no relation to the conditions of factory workers. 
     
     
      
       I am trying to describe the conditions under which free trade England built up her present manufacturing supremacy.  I am describing them in the words of a man who was so appalled by them that he spent all his lifetime in trying to remedy those conditions.  I am describing to the House this industrial system which Deputy J.J. Byrne holds up to us as a model for imitation.  He did not tell us, as I was saying, that children of five and six years were crawling on all fours through collieries, dragging their loads in that abyssmal darkness for eighteen hours every day.  Deputy J.J. Byrne, who finds so much to admire in the economic system of England and thinks of England, as he said in the first speech I heard him deliver in the Dail, as the economic complement of this island, did not tell us anything of these facts. 
     
     The Deputy pictured for us the expansion of England's wealth and policy under free trade.  Let us examine the reverse side of the picture, the one with which Deputies in this House should be more concerned.  England admittedly prospered under free trade for a considerable period, though that fact was due less to free trade than to other circumstances. Her exploitation of her Indian Empire, the development of her colonies, her virtual mastery for an   extended period over the Far Eastern trade&mdash;these things have much more to do with the growth of England's industrial and manufacturing supremacy than the repeal of the Corn Laws, though the repeal of the Corn Laws admittedly did give her cheap food to sustain her manufacturing people.  But the real factor which helped her to secure that supremacy of which the Deputy boasts was the virtual monopoly she had of certain large tracts of territory and the domination she exercised over certain subject peoples. 
     England admittedly did prosper for a period under free trade.  What of Ireland in the same period? Up to 1841, Ireland's population was increasing step by step with England's. In 1841, out of an aggregate population of 21,000,000 in Great Britain and Ireland, 57.44 per cent. were in Great Britain, 32.55 in Ireland, and 10.01 in Scotland.  Ireland then had a population of 8,000,000.  I am confining myself so far as I can to a purely Free Trade era, though that is rather difficult, because England's attitude in regard to free trade has been substantially modified in later years, and, in fact, to-day she is avowedly a protectionist country.  In 1901, out of 41,500,000 people in Great Britain and Ireland, 78.46 per cent. were in England, 10.75 were in Ireland, and 10.79 were in Scotland.  Ireland in 1841 had 8,000,000 of people, and sixty years later, in 1901, she had a population of only 4,250,000 souls. 
     The fact of the matter is this, that England has found free trade just as effective for exterminating this people, for exterminating the ungodly, as Cromwell found the sword.  Deputy J.J. Byrne wishes us to continue this process of extermination in order that he may justify his Trinity education.  If there is going to be any hope for this country, we must think of the things we produce and the things we require in terms of commonsense. We have idle hands here in Ireland; we have mouths that want to be fed; we have men who are hungry, starving and workless, and so long as those conditions prevail nothing that can be   made or grown in Ireland should be imported into Ireland.  Only when we follow that principle, the principle followed in their own concerns by the business-men we have in this Dail, will we put Ireland on a sound economic basis. 
     
      
       The eloquence of Deputy MacEntee has been largely employed in making a case for the Government's attitude with regard to protection for four years.  A good deal of his speech has been devoted to giving us a wrong picture of, and a wrong cause for, the effects he has mentioned. I would like to disabuse Deputy MacEntee's mind, and also Deputy O'Kelly's, in regard to something bordering on rashness in their mention of the recent election in Carlow-Kilkenny as having something to do with the economic situation&mdash;something to do with the question of protection versus free trade.  If the Deputies want to know what gave rise to the result of the Carlow-Kilkenny election, I will supply the particulars. 
     
     
      
       This matter has nothing to do with tariffs. 
     
     
      
       I will supply them with leaflets and with half-a-dozen other documents containing particulars. 
     
     
      
       This has nothing to do with the matter under discussion, and we can only hear the Deputy on that matter. 
     
     
      
       When the Deputies opposite make certain claims and attribute certain effects to certain causes, I hold I have the right to reply.  I do not intend to go into this question much further, but when they are allowed to make a claim attributing the result of the election to certain causes, I should be allowed to reply. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear any Deputy suggest that the result of the Carlow-Kilkenny election had anything to do with the matter before us. 
     
     
      
       It has been said. 
     
     
      
       May I appeal to you, sir, to allow the Deputy to proceed with his speech, as we would be glad to hear him? 
     
     
     
      
       I do not want to hear him on that point. 
     
     
      
       I leave the subject with this remark, that I can supply the Deputies opposite with all the leaflets that had a good deal to do with the result of that election. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should also supply us with copies of the speeches of the Minister for Fisheries in which he threatened&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You must allow the Deputy to proceed. 
     
     
      
       I will perhaps incur, I will not say the displeasure of Deputy J.J. Byrne, but perhaps, a falling out with him, in regard to the causes that led to England's prosperity.  Most Deputies have, I think, forgotten the real factor, the key, which opened up England's prosperity.  Free Trade was not the cause, though it helped towards that prosperity, but the real key to it has been England's coal, her cheap power.  That has also been the cause of the greatness of Germany and America, and it may be said that when steam became the world's power the countries that progressed by leaps and bounds were those which possessed coal and cheap power.  Cheap food was only one factor which helped England to capture her world trade, but the real key was cheap power.  I do not set any value on the percentages which Deputy MacEntee quoted in regard to those employed in industry and those employed on the Land in England.  The percentages which he gave for 1911 and 1841 lead us nowhere.  Could he give us the actual number employed in 1841 and 1911? 
     
     
      
       1811. 
     
     
      
       Very well, 1811.  These figures lead us nowhere.  I want to know what is the precise position in which we are now.  In the earlier stages of this debate, and of the other debate when the question of unemployment was made a question of protection versus free trade, certain statements were made and attitudes were assumed by certain Deputies, but I would like to know where we are&mdash;whether it is an indiscriminate claim for protection or a claim for protection after examination and investigation.  Listening to   the speeches of Deputy O'Kelly and Deputy Briscoe the other day I gathered that they came down from their original attitude of an indiscriminate claim for protection and adopted the attitude of selective protection after examination which the Government has long since adopted. 
     
     
      
       We on these benches never had a policy of indiscriminate protection.  It was always a policy of protection as a result of investigation. 
     
     
      
       Then there is no quarrel on your part with the Government Benches? 
     
     
      
       We want to hurry things up. 
     
     
      
       At which end is investigation wanted? 
     
     
      
       We want a proper Tariff Commission. 
     
     
      
       Do they want investigation and examination with a view to imposing or with a view to exempting? 
     
     
      
       Whatever is necessary. 
     
     
      
       I hope the Deputy understands me.  It is one thing to have examination with regard to the imposition of tariffs, and it is another thing to embark on a wild policy and have examination afterwards with regard to exemption.  Who then would represent the consumer if we had examination at the exemption end?  I think that the Government have the right end of the stick, as examination at the imposition end is the proper way to deal with the question.  We do not want examination at the exemption end.  I have heard many debates on this question in this House, but I have never listened to a less convincing case made for protection than I have heard in this debate.  I heard the case made much better here before during the last few years, and when Opposition Deputies referred to Deputies on these benches as having stolen their clothes, I would like to know when they first came into possession of this economic suit.  Who was their tailor? 
     
     
      
       I think it was Griffith. 
     
     
      
       Did they get their tailor from Drumcondra or Cork?  The issue here is not between free trade   and protection, but between indiscriminate protection and selective protection. We have left the stage of free trade long behind us.  We may not all be in agreement here, but the majority of the Dail have left the free trade stage long behind.  The Government stand for deliberate protection after examination, not for unconsidered schemes, but for deliberate, well-thought-out schemes of protection. They have always been careful to take no plunge in the dark, and what they did they did deliberately.  Some of us who have been examining this question since 1918 claim to have average ability to deal with it, but we do not make the claim that we know everything about it, even after all those years, but I think we know more about it than Opposition Deputies do.  We have reached the stage of knowing how little we know about it, and when Deputies opposite reach that stage they will have gone a long way on the road towards being educated on the question. I hope Opposition Deputies will not be offended when I say that they have yet to pass that stage.  Every item requires careful and special study. We cannot apply the same policy to every item for which protection is sought.  It should get expert examination. I am sorry that Deputy De Valera has left the House, because I wanted to say something very special to him.  A short time ago Deputy MacEntee referred to Deputies on this side of the House as having stolen their clothes.  We want to know who is their tailor and when they got this suit of clothes to steal?  It is not very long since Deputy De Valera went into the highways and by-ways looking for somebody to help him to frame an economic policy, and early in this year he sent out circulars and issued advertisements for people to meet him in some hall or hotel in Dublin to frame an economic policy.  That is the suit of clothes which Deputy MacEntee says that we have stolen. 
     
     
      
       We did not go to Molesworth Street. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what street you went to.  After the advertisements had been issued we find Deputy De Valera in conference with   ex-Deputy Belton, and later he secured Deputy Bergin of Athy and a few other queer fellows.  They were at one time touring the country, and were known as the Belton-Bergin troupe. Circumstances have altered, and a good deal of water has since run under the bridges.  The Drumcondra tailor has been dropped and the Cork tailor taken on.  Now we have Deputy Flinn, Senator Dowdall and his brother, with a new policy, endeavouring to fit up Deputy De Valera and his party with this new suit of clothes. 
     
     
      
       And a late member of the Executive Council. 
     
     
      
       Deputy De Valera picked up early in 1927 these economic doves, and he called a conference in some part of the city.  These two or three people have been looking for a place on which to place the soles of their feet for a long time.  They found Deputy de Valera's conference.  They were as anxious to attend that as Deputy De Valera was that they should attend.  Exception has been taken here to the persons appointed by the Government to examine the question of tariffs.  Even if they are not experts, they were not supposed to be on the particular issues on which they would have to decide, but they were supposed to be experts in the taking of evidence and coming to a decision. This question of experts will come up again on the motion by Deputy Lemass. I think it is premature to discuss it now, and I will reserve what I have to say on that till the motion comes up. But who are the experts on the Opposition side?  Mr. Belton, Mr. Bergin and people from Cork very much interested indeed&mdash;and I say this without in any way intending to offend Deputies on the other side&mdash;in a blind rush for tariffs.  We do not want experts to examine this question who have been anticipating and speculating on the question to be examined into.  To properly examine this subject we require experts competent to deal with it as a national question.  It has been said that this question should not be made a party one, and with that I agree.  It is too big a question, too much of a national question, to be dealt with from a party point of view.  No effort   should be made to make party capital out of it.  The proper attitude to adopt is to consider the policy that is good for the nation, and having come to a decision on that point then go ahead with it. 
       Deputy Doctor Ryan, when discussing this subject, went into details.  The impression his speech conveyed to me was that he is inspired by a desire to help, but that he is groping in the dark and is anxious to get light.  The same might be said of Deputy Lemass.  I think these two Deputies honestly desire to help.  With regard to Deputy Ryan's speech, I should like to deal with that part of it where he talked about a tariff on bacon raising the price of the Irish article.  We know that the article coming into this country on which it is proposed a tariff should be put is selling at a much lesser price than the price we can get for our surplus bacon on the other side.  We know that the price of bacon must go up 2d. in the lb.  If we get as remunerative a market here for the stuff we export to replace the stuff we are now importing, if it means rising the price 2d. in the lb., that would leave no better profit for the producer, and then it means that we would have to go higher than the 2d. in the lb. in order to get the 1d. in the lb. that Deputy Ryan has been speaking about.  I suggest to the Deputy, as one who knows a little about bacon both as regards the producing and factory ends, that he ought to be careful about his molasses rations and other rations.  We do not want bacon produced in this country tasting and smelling like fish.  We do not want yellow soft fat; we want white hard fat.  I have heard adverse comments here, and more adverse comments still outside, on what is probably the only hope of salvation for this country if it is to occupy any position industrially, and that is the Shannon scheme.  One Deputy said the scheme was good, perhaps, but it is twenty years too early; in other words, it is twenty years too soon to stop emigration, for it is only through that scheme or some other means which will give a sufficient supply of cheap power so that we can develop industrially that we can stop emigration. 
     
     
        If it cannot be stemmed by the Shannon door it cannot be stemmed at all. We have not coal, and the only method of producing cheap power is by utilising our water.  The Shannon scheme must be the beginning.  Otherwise we cannot develop our water power at all.  That has been already argued, and no sensible man who reads the records of the debates of this House will doubt it.  I have already made an appeal not to make this a party question.  I want it to be approached apart from party, and in the light of the nation's need and of clear and deliberate thinking.  Judging from the speeches of the Opposition, as contrasted with their earlier speeches. I think they have nearly arrived at that stage.  I welcome that atmosphere.  I think it is for the good of the nation. It has been said here that there is a considerable claim in the country for protection.  That is not so.  The Deputies making that claim here do not represent the views of the country. 
     
      
       Question. 
     
     
      
       Let it be questioned. The claims are made by people who are materially interested.  These people have been waiting on us for the last three or four years, deputation after deputation.  They are not the people of the country.  We have no illusions as to what it means.  When the claim is made that protection is going to be a benefit to agriculture I, as an agriculturist, deny it.  I deny it from conviction, a conviction that has been borne in on me by careful investigation.  We are not going to stand in the way of protection if it is going to be for the national good, but we are not going to suffer from the delusion that it is going to be good for agriculture.  We have no doubts as to what it will mean for agriculture.  If you are going to offer the nation a loaf in the way of protection, very little of that loaf will come to the agricultural community.  Their share will only be the crumb of a crust. We have no illusions with regard to it. 
     
     Deputy Maguire talked about wheat. He painted a rosy picture about what the growing of wheat would do for the agricultural population.  The agricultural population must be very dense if,   after the education of years, they do not know what is best for their interests. There are few men engaged in trying to make a living from their lands who would make the assertion that Deputy Maguire made.  I do not know what way he farms or whether he farms at all.  If he had personal experience of the matter he would, hardly advance the theories that he did about the growing of wheat.  If it meant the replacing of some other crop, I would like to know what the value of the other crop would be.  He gave figures here that are palpably wrong.  He talked about wheaten straw being sold at four shillings a cwt., and said it was needed for thatching.  It might be needed for thatching in a particular district, but if he thinks wheaten straw is going to fetch four shillings a cwt. all over the country he is making one of the greatest mistakes of his life.  It will not fetch a shilling. 
     
      
       May I ask the Deputy what proportion of his land is under tillage? 
     
     
      
       I have from twenty to twenty-five Irish acres of tillage.  I employ eight men. 
     
     
      
       Out of how many acres? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will give me notice of the question, I will let him have all the details.  I will bring him down for a week.  The Deputy may take it that we farm our land on the basis of commonsense and experience, and that the theories re advances are only found in cities and amongst people who know nothing about it. 
     
     
      
       It is a fair question. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the Deputy come down with me, and I will educate him on it.  Deputy Maguire, in showing the profit on the growing of wheat, put down wheaten straw at four shillings a cwt. and made no provision for manure, while he only allowed a few shillings for the horse power that is required.  In regard to the tariff on bacon, I am ready to make a case before the Commission.  There is no use in putting a tariff on bacon if it does not mean that you are going   to supply the home trade in addition to the trade we have already.  It is not going to help the country if it means that we are only going to supply the Irish trade instead of the English trade, and if it does not mean the production of more bacon in the country.  There is no use in developing the pork trade if it means changing from bacon to pork.  If a tariff on bacon does not mean that we are going to keep more pigs and that we are going to supply the home trade as well as the trade we have, then people are only talking of what they know nothing about.  Another Deputy talked about a subsidy for certain crops.  The system of subsidy must be absolutely wrong.  If Deputies examine it closely they will see the error of it.  If you can make a case for a subsidy for one crop a case can be made for a subsidy for every other crop.  An equal case can be made for every crop that is grown. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy against the beet subsidy? 
     
     
      
       I am glad I mentioned the matter of the subsidy.  The Deputy's question shows how little they know about it.  The Deputy talks about sugar beet as against crops that have been growing in this country for four or five hundred years.  I am talking about crops that we grow in the ordinary way.  Sugar beet is being grown for the first time and because of that it is being subsidised.  Will anyone put it on a level with barley, mangolds or turnips. 
     
     
      
       Why should not wheat be on a level with beet? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy himself can make a speech and explain that. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy does not know the difference I am afraid I cannot educate him. 
     
     
      
       Too true. 
     
     
      
       In my opinion subsidies sap self-reliance and self-effort in a people.  They make people so careless that they do not put their heart into a thing.  You give them the idea that they   have something to fall back upon. That feeling leads to carelessness.  It leads to national decay and national ruin.  The principle of subsidies is wrong because it saps self-reliance and self-effort in the people.  It is a direct way of cutting a nation's throat.  Any further remarks that I have to make on this question I shall reserve for the motion to be moved by Deputy Lemass. The hour is getting late, and I do not wish to deprive other Deputies who may wish to speak of the opportunity of doing so. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I think the most remarkable thing that has happened in this debate has been the degree in which, due to this debate and due to the causes which brought it about, the two apparently sundered and divided sections, economically, in this House have begun to find a common measure of agreement.  I have read all the speeches which have been delivered from all sides of the House, and I am beginning to find a great deal of difficulty in discovering the points of disagreement.  I, for instance, had the misfortune the other day to deliver a speech bristling with heresies.  I find that all these heresies are now part of the common stock and part of the common belief of all parties in this House, and that, therefore, if I want to be original I shall either have to abandon the things I believe or invent some new heresies.  Mind the fact that there is agreement upon a great many fundamental principles does not mean that there are not absolutely lunatic expressions dropping out upon details. For instance, we have a whole series of McGilliganisms.  Mr. McGilligan&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Minister. 
     
     
      
       I beg your pardon&mdash; Minister for Trade and Commerce. 
     
     
      
       You do not even know the right title. 
     
     
      
       I shall be happy to be put right.  The Minister for Industry and Commerce decided the other day to discriminate in some way between   agriculture and farmers.  He said that the intention, purpose or result of a tariff system would be to quarter the unemployed on the farmers.  Now what are the unemployed quartered on at present?  What can the unemployed be quartered on except produced wealth or the savings of produced wealth.  We are told, and I believe, that 80 per cent. of the production of wealth in this country at the present moment is by farmers.  That means that all the unemployed people, all the people who are not producing, must be quartered upon the producers, and, therefore, they must be quartered on the farmers to the extent, at any rate, of the 80 per cent. to which they are producing.  What radically changed the position in this House and brought the two parties more or less into agreement was that there was a general election which went wrong and sent back to this House a body of people who, rightly or wrongly, were determined to have protective tariffs and a protective system of industry brought actively into operation, and, as a result, a moribund association of very excellent Civil Servants produced to order apparently two tariffs.  It looks very much as if they will produce other tariffs also to order.  Now, one of the tariffs which those people are at the present moment considering is a tariff upon flour, a controversial question. 
     
     The Minister for Industry and Commerce the other day alluded to the proceedings of that Tariff Commission, and to the questions which were sub judice with that Tariff Commission.  I listened with amazement to the tone and temper of the allusions of the Minister for Industry and Commerce to the proceedings of what was supposed to be a judicial Committee set up on the authority of the Dail.  I was not here on the first day of the discussion on this particular motion, but I read carefully the speech of Deputy Lemass in order to see what impression that speech had made upon the mind of somebody else.  I found that it had made the impression upon Deputy Lemass that Messrs. Jacobs were holding a pistol to the head of this Government, this House and that Commission, in such a spirit as to produce an atmosphere   of reaction, of hostility, in the minds of people who have heard the Minister for Industry and Commerce, towards Messrs.  Jacobs.  Deputy Lemass had formed, apparently, the same impression as I had formed.  The Minister for Industry and Commerce had given to Deputy Lemass precisely the same impression that he had given to me, if we were to judge only by his speech, that in Messrs. Jacobs we were dealing with an unreasonable and rather an angry man.  Now, I could not fit that into anything I knew of Messrs.  Jacobs, or the record which it has, the splendid and supremely good record it has in Ireland as an industrial firm.  I do not think that any man who knows the history of the firm of Messrs.  Jacobs would associate with it in any way deep unreasonableness or folly or opposition to what was ordinarily good for the general community. I went back to find out what exactly had occurred, and I found that there was no basis whatever for the suggestion that Messrs. Jacobs were unreasonable, or desired to hold a pistol at the head of this State, or did or said anything which would cause resentment in this House.  That was an impression honestly gathered by two perfectly independent observers from the speech of the Minister for Industry and Commerce in relation to the proceedings sub judice under what is supposed to be a judicial body, the chief member of which is one of the Minister's own staff. 
     
      
       Might I ask the Deputy to name the member of my staff who is on the Tariff Commission? 
     
     
      
       I may be wrong. 
     
     
      
       Quite wrong. 
     
     
      
       I beg your pardon.  I withdraw that.  I should have said on the staff of the Minister for Finance. But, at any rate, he is subject to a member of the Government.  Messrs. Jacob and the millers had been in conference, and certain evidence was put forward before the Commission by the millers at the request of and in full agreement with Messrs. Jacobs after they had given the matter careful consideration.   Messrs Jacobs were satisfied if &ldquo;permits were to be issued to any manufacturer of biscuits or cakes for the importation of flour, duty free, during a defined period to the extent to which flour has been exported by Irish manufacturers contained in manufactured biscuits and cakes during a corresponding period.&rdquo;  That was nothing unreasonable.  They were prepared to make a reasonable arrangement, and what happened was that when that suggestion was put before the Tariff Commission they themselves said that it was impossible. Now, it may have been impossible, but there does not seem to have been any suggestion of an attempt, if the thing is desirable, to say: &ldquo;If you are agreed as to what is required to be done we will try to find some alternative means by which it can be done.&rdquo;  There is no suggestion of any sort or kind to justify the tone or temper in which the firm of Jacobs was introduced into this House as unreasonable and unreasoning. 
     
     We have exactly the same attitude of mind on the part of the Minister for Industry and Commerce in relation to another tariff, the tariff on margarine. He said that this was a tariff to enable slovenly and unbusinesslike methods to continue.  That was not based upon any evidence which was in the possession of the House.  Either that is evidence which he has privately or it is evidence that does not exist.  What the Tariff Commission report said was that one firm of three was efficient.  What do the Tariff Commission know about efficiency? What has their training been to pronounce on that?  What is their capacity to judge of the efficiency or the non-efficiency of a business concern? An advertisement has been published by one of these firms, which the Minister for Industry and Commerce for the Irish Free State declared to be inefficient and slovenly in its methods, in which it asserts that the best margarine in the world is made in Ireland and that the best margarine in Ireland is made in Cork.  Those are two very strong statements, made by a responsible firm.  Against that you have the statement of the Minister that they are inefficient.  We stand over the statement   that there is no better margarine made in the world than in Ireland, and we will stand over, under test conditions, the statement that no margarine is made in Ireland that is better than the Cork margarine.  We are prepared to go to an arbitrator to stand over that statement and to show that the Minister has gratuitously libelled an industry in the State, the industries of which it is his business to guard and to maintain.  If the Minister is prepared to accept a friendly challenge I will give it to him&mdash;that the firm submit samples to an arbitrator and that if he does not bear out what I have said I will pay to the St. Vincent de Paul Society in Cork £100, if the Minister will do so should he find he has done&mdash;what I say he has done&mdash;libelled and slandered an industry whose credit it was his business to guard. 
     What is our test of efficiency?  Our test of efficiency in that industry is that the product of that industry obtained, in open competition in the market, continuously and over a period of years, a higher price than any competing article.  If that is a standard of inefficiency that has not been accepted by the Tariff Commission, then the Tariff Commission itself is utterly incapable of forming a judgment upon a business question.  I give that challenge again, personally and not in an unfriendly spirit, because we are all here to guard the reputation of our industries.  I am prepared to stand over the statement that the industry which is said to be inefficient has turned out the best products, not merely in Ireland, but in the world, and if the Minister is prepared to accept that challenge I am prepared, in £100, £200, or whatever figure he likes, to make a sporting business of it. to pay to a charity if I lose, if he will do the same, should it be proved that he was wrong in saying that an Irish industry was slovenly and inefficient. Is that challenge accepted?  It is open to anybody else upon those benches, who thinks that the reputation of the Tariff Commission and of the Minister is good enough for the money, to accept that sum, or any larger or any smaller sum, before this debate ends this afternoon. 
     
     
      
       I will take six to four. 
     
     
      
       You would require odds on before you would back your own Minister. 
     
     
      
       I am not laying the odds. 
     
     
      
       We have had enough about odds. 
     
     
      
       Let us come to the questions upon which we agree.  The first thing upon which we agree, undoubtedly, is that the &ldquo;single-customer&rdquo; idea of Irish industry is dead. I will now quote the Minister for Lands and Agriculture: &ldquo;It is unhealthy to sell all your goods in one market and to have all your eggs in one basket.... No one is so foolish as to take up the position that having only one market for our exports, which in bulk is practically 75 per cent. agricultural, is a sound position.&rdquo;  We can take it that there is no section of any Party represented in this House that now maintains the doctrine that it is desirable to concentrate upon one customer.  I am not taking any debating advantage at all in the matter.  I am not arguing anything from that.  All I want is to have it solidly recognised that there is no advocate now in Ireland, except the serial story in the &ldquo;Irish Times,&rdquo; of the doctrine that Ireland is wise to concentrate on one customer, and one customer only.  &ldquo;No one is so foolish as to take up the position that having only one market for our goods is a sound position.&rdquo;  That is an enormous advance. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy says he does not want to make a debating point.  If he will just read two lines further on I will be satisfied. 
     
     
      
       I will.  &ldquo;Let us agree to start at that point.  I want to see industries in this country.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I have not the report before me, but if the Deputy will look down lower he will see another quotation to the effect that it is not wise to throw out the dirty water until you get in the clean. 
     
     
      
       I agree, and I avoided quoting that because I do value the English market for our goods, and I   am not prepared to insult my customer by calling him &ldquo;dirty water.&rdquo;  Now let us take the second thing about which there is agreement&mdash;retaliation. Again I will quote, first, as the greatest and best authority, the Minister for Agriculture.  Mind, in all this I am not seeking advantage.  I am anxious simply that the things which are fundamentally good shall be done by agreement in this House in relation to our economic affairs.  The Minister for Lands and Agriculture says that we are paying too much attention to this idea of what anybody else thinks. He says: &ldquo;Do not worry about saying: &lsquo;Do not do this, that, or the other, because the British will retaliate.&rsquo;&rdquo; He is satisfied that is not going to happen.  Deputy Shaw again throws over any possibility of retaliation by governmental action.  He says there may be propaganda against us, but that there will be no governmental action.  Deputy Tierney says that we are not to worry about what people think; that we are not up against retaliation.  The only man who is afraid of retaliation is that prominent exporter of agricultural produce, Deputy Good.  The only man who thinks that England is mad enough, and foolish enough, to do that thing is the representative of the Dublin Chamber of Commerce. 
     
     
      
       What happened in the tobacco trade? 
     
     
      
       We will come to that later. 
     
     
      
       I have already corrected a Deputy for alluding to Deputy Flinn himself as speaking on behalf of a particular interest. Deputy Good represents County Dublin.  It would be better if we kept to that all round; otherwise you will get into difficult water. 
     
     
      
       We are out to get to the bottom of this story of retaliation. Why should we be afraid of retaliation? Because we have got either of two things.  We have got an inferiority complex to the end, or because we have reason to be afraid.  It is one or the other; it is either because we have got   a slave mind in us, and because it is coming out in our actions or expressions, or because we recognise as a fact that England can do, in relation to this co-equal member of the Commonwealth, what she would not do, and what no one suggests she would attempt to do, in relation to any other member of the Commonwealth.  I do not believe that the inferiority complex is founded on any just, reasonable cause.  I think the fact that this country has survived all that it has gone through is one of the greatest miracles in the whole history of humanity, and that there is in this country some solid soundness which has been expressed over a period of hundreds of years, a soundness on which we can base a confidence and reliance in ourselves, which ought not to be expressed in an inferiority complex.  I do not believe that it would pay England over a period to attempt to subject this country to retaliatory measures.  At any rate I am not afraid of retaliatory measures.  I am afraid of the immediate impact of retaliatory measures, a sudden outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. We are familiar with that sort of work.  It might hold us up for a bit if we were disorganised here.  If she closes her ports against us, or does something of that kind, we could suffer very much under the first impact of the blow, but if, as I have suggested to this House, there is an organised opinion behind this country, prepared to tighten its belt and stand by for a little, there is no weapon in the hands of England but the sword which will enable her to enforce her economic demands upon us. My security that she will not enforce them by that means is this: that in drawing up the Treaty or Constitution, or whatever you like to call it&mdash;it was her Act of Parliament&mdash;she defined our liberty in the terms of the liberty of the other so-called co-equal members of the Commonwealth. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should be clear that the Constitution is our Act of Parliament. 
     
     
      
       That might be.  It is an Act of Parliament of both. 
     
     
      
       It is   ours too.  The Constitution is ours and the Constitution Act was passed here. 
     
     
      
       Under duress. 
     
     
      
       That is another question. 
     
     
      
       I will not engage in any argument on that.  In doing that, in my opinion, for the first time in the history of England's constitutional relations with this country, the hand of the potter shook.  She tied a knot which it will be dangerous fundamentally for her to attempt to cut with a sword.  There is general agreement now upon a Tariff Commission, not a Tariff Commission which can be subjected to the pressure of the intemperate utterances of a Minister for Industry and Commerce, but something which is independent, something which, while it does report to the Ministry, has also a statutory instruction to report to this House. 
       I think it is Deputy Tierney who said that business-men were utterly unsuited for it: that they have their own interests and their own preoccupations. Is an exclusively Civil Service Commission fitted for it?  I will tell the House that in our own conferences here I defended the Civil Service Commission as far as I could.  I put up as high a case for the Civil Service Commission as I could.  But in face of the experience which we have had of the action of the Ministry for Industry and Commerce in this matter, I do say that a commission made up of civil servants is not a commission which deserves the respect and confidence of this House in coming to a decision on a matter in which the Ministry may have opinions of their own.  There is another point upon which there seems to be a tendency to agreement&mdash; I find it scattered through the different members of the House&mdash;that some differentiation in the pressure of income-tax would have a beneficial effect.  I do not want to press the point&mdash;it could be brought very regularly into order&mdash; but I do not wish to press it at present. 
     
     We come now to the question which was held to be very controversial&mdash;the question of Irish capital.  In that connection. I would quote the Minister for   Finance.  He said on the 8th November: 
     &ldquo;I have indicated already that I prefer an industry to be controlled by people living here, citizens of the country, rather than have it built up by people from outside.&rdquo; 
     He also stated, in a previous debate, that an industry which was built up by foreign capital could not expand, and he gave as an example two firms which did expand because their capital was internal&mdash;Guinness' and Jacob's.  It is extraordinary that the Minister for Industry and Commerce should go down the country and pick out those two firms as examples of foreign capital for the purpose of attacking the economic case which we have put forward. He said that if the lunacy, or whatever you call it, of Deputy Flinn were carried into effect, if foreign capital is penalised, then we are going to drive out Jacob's, we are going to drive out Guinness', and we are going to drive out Ford's, and we are going to drive out the sugar beet scheme. 
     Jacob's is outstandingly an example of a firm, a system of industry, and a mentality in industry, which deserves to be encouraged in this country.  Starting from small beginnings in Waterford, it came here seventy years ago, and it has built itself up in this city. It has now a branch in Liverpool, but the whole mentality of that firm, as shown in its own evidence before the Tariff Commission, which ought to have been within the knowledge of the Minister for Industry and Commerce when he declared it to be a foreign firm, is the mentality of a firm which is doing everything that is humanly possible to keep production upon this side.  Let me say this: if the Minister for Industry and Commerce will come here with the authority of Messrs. Jacob to declare them a foreign firm in this country, then I will accept it.  But until he does, until he has the direct authority of Messrs Jacob to label them as a foreign firm, I for one am not going to put that title upon them.  I am prepared to say that they are an Irish firm, a credit to Ireland, and a credit to themselves in every act they have taken in industry in Ireland. 
     Now we turn to Henry Ford.  Henry   Ford's is another of the foreign industries which we were supposed to be willing to drive out.  Why did Henry Ford come here?  He came because he was a Corkman&mdash;for no other reason.  He came here against the opposition of his own staff.  He came here to build up in Ireland, and in the city from which he sprang, an industry which would be a monument to himself.  Let no man be in doubt as to whether Ford's is paying in Cork.  It is a good sound commercial concern, but, on balance, it would have paid Henry Ford better, I think, to concentrate the activities of that firm in one of his other plants.  He came here because he was an Irishman, because his capital was Irish, and with the purpose of serving Ireland.  The firms of Jacob's and Ford's are not firms that we are going to drive out, or the sugar beet scheme, which has a couple of millions of Irish money in it.  That is what is keeping it in existence. I can see some case for saying that the other £300,000 also should have been provided, even from the same source from which the £2,000,000 is being provided, but to say that the sugar beet scheme is an example of foreign capital is simply to talk in ignorance of the facts.  We have frankly to recognise, if we are going to face the facts&mdash;I am very sorry to say this &mdash;that there is good reason why men should hesitate at the moment to put money into Irish industry. 
     
      
       Might I ask the Deputy a question? 
     
     
      
       I was thinking of asking him one myself, but we will have Deputy Davin's first. 
     
     
      
       Who controls the share capital of the sugar beet factory? 
     
     
      
       The share capital is controlled from Belgium. 
     
     
      
       I was wondering whether this has any relevance to tariffs. 
     
     
      
       Everything I am talking about is out of the debate upon tariffs&mdash;every reference I have here, on which I am arguing, is out of that debate. 
     
     
     
      
       The unemployment debate. 
     
     
      
       With the exception of just a few words at the beginning. 
     
     
      
       I know that this is a very wide subject, and I do not want to interfere with the Deputy's case, but I think he has been quoting nearly altogether from the debate upon unemployment.  For instance, the Minister for Industry and Commerce has not spoken in this debate. 
     
     
      
       He spoke in a previous tariff debate. 
     
     
      
       He has not spoken in this debate. 
     
     
      
       I submit to your ruling, sir.  I personally have not been able to detect in any debate up to the present any line of delimitation between debates on unemployment and on this subject, but I shall as nearly as possible keep to the point.  There is this difference. I did raise the question of foreign capital.  I did not do it carelessly. I shall take a very simple case &mdash;candles.  That industry was quoted by Deputy Lemass as one in which the tariff worked excellently.  My information is that the candle industry in Ireland exists because the two big firms that have control of the raw material are fighting one with the other.  As soon as they come together it is doubtful, in spite of the tariff, whether or not you will be able to maintain the candle industry in this country. 
       The Minister for Finance told us the other day that a large factory was being set up in this country to do the work of a large number of widely distributed soap factories in the country. The fact in regard to the soap industry is this: it is under a tariff, but every single firm, with the exception of Dixon's, is owned or controlled by one single firm. 
     
     
      
       And Dixon's also. 
     
     
      
       I wanted to leave something to the good.  Now you are going to put up another factory capable of economically doing the work of all   these widely-distributed factories&mdash;a characteristic of factory life that we want to keep.  As soon as you have done that you can shut down all the other factories.  And what I want the House to recognise is that when you have shut down all the little factories you can shut down the big factory also if you like in spite of tariffs.  I am said to be a sort of whole-hog, wild-hatted tariff man.  There is no man who has, in the same sense as I have, pointed out to the House the difficulties and the dangers of this two-edged weapon and called upon the House to take those precautions which the House can take, if it means to take them, to enable tariffs to be imposed in this country and yet to keep clear of that difficulty. 
       I have said before that the only effective protection for industry in this country is nationality, a sense that this is our own country and that we have to do whatever is necessary to see that this country is maintained.  I have on me at the present moment a pair of boots made in Ireland, bought in a retail shop belonging to the factory that made them, but they have taken their name out of them. 
     
     
      
       You should not wear them then. 
     
     
      
       No.  A man went into a shop&mdash;the Secretary of the I.D.A. in Cork&mdash;to buy an Irish hat.  They showed him a hat, and he said: &ldquo;This is not Irish.&rdquo;  The man said: &ldquo;It is.&rdquo; He said: &ldquo;It has not got the Irish trade mark in it.&rdquo; The man said: &ldquo;It had.&rdquo;  This was in a retail establishment,   remember.  He brought him into the office and showed him the invoice, but he said: &ldquo;I had to take the Irish trade mark out of the hat before I could sell it in Ireland.&rdquo; I know three firms in one town manufacturing Irish products with Irish capital and Irish labour and putting those products under an English trade mark to sell them.  As long as that continues, as long as we are so debased in our own minds, so long as we have the spirit that is afraid of retaliation to the extent that we take our own trade mark out of our own goods no economic expedient of any kind will be effective to save us from the results of that mental degradation.  I will give you tariffs, I will give you no income tax, I will give you anything, but give me what Mr. Ernest Blythe demanded from Trinity College the other night: the language of this country universally known, respected, and used.  Give me the spirit which alone could make that language universally regarded, respected and used and I do not care what power there is against us.  We shall be able to build up the industries, prosperity, the population and the liberty of this country in spite of all comers. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy know Dean Swift's definition of nationality? 
     
     
      
       I move to report progress. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. Progress reported. 
       The Dail adjourned to Wednesday, 23rd November. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SUGAR SUBSIDY AND EXCISE DUTY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance (1) what was the total sum paid to the Irish Sugar Manufacturing Company by way of subsidy for the year 1926-27; and (2) what was the total amount of excise duty remitted in respect of sugar produced in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The total sum paid to the Irish Sugar Manufacturing Company by way of subsidy for the year 1926-27 was £181,502 4s. 9d.; and (2) the total amount of excise duty remitted under Section 27 of the Finance Act, 1925, in respect of the sugar on which subsidy was paid was £111,702 3s. 0d. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DAIL LOAN SUBSCRIPTION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that Michael Kiely, The Square, Monasterevan, County Kildare, states he advanced the sum of two pounds to the Dail Loan, and that though this money was repayable last June, it has not yet been returned to him, and whether he will inquire into the matter. 
     
     
      
       Repayment of the amount subscribed to the Dail Eireann Internal Loan by Mr. Michael Kiely was duly authorised, and I understand   that a savings certificate to enable him to obtain repayment, in accordance with the provisions of the Dail Eireann Loans and Funds Act, 1924, was sent to him by the Department of Posts and Telegraphs on the 16th March last. The certificate has not been returned, nor has any application for repayment of the amount shown on the certificate been made.  I am communicating with the Department of Posts and Telegraphs with a view to having inquiries made in the matter. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SUGAR BEET YIELD AND ACREAGE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture to state, in respect to the Irish Sugar Manufacturing Company, what acreage of sugar beet was grown in each county for the year 1926-7, what was the average yield of beet for each county, what was the average sugar content for each county, what was the number of beet growers in each county, and what was the total sum paid to farmers for beet for the 1926-7 crop. 
     
     
      
       The area of sugar beet as officially recorded in 1926 was 9,483 statute acres, and was distributed as follows:&mdash;Carlow, 1,975; Leix, 1,684; Wexford, 1,672; Kildare, 934; Tipperary, 826; Kilkenny, 639; Waterford, 512; Offaly, 444; Wicklow, 348; Louth, 310; other counties, 139 statute acres. 
     
     I am not in a position to reply to the second, third and fourth portions of the question, and as over 5,700 farmers grew beet for the Carlow factory in 1926, I think it would be unreasonable to ask the Irish Sugar Manufacturing Co., Ltd., to go to the trouble and expense of furnishing the information asked for in those parts of the question, and particularly so in view of the fact that yields and sugar content of various varieties of sugar beet were determined by experiments conducted by the Department in 1926 under the supervision of the County Agricultural Instructors throughout the country, and as the results of those experiments have been published.  I may say, however, that the average yield and sugar content of the 1926 crop published by the Department of Industry and Commerce in   April last were 9.1 tons (factory weight) per statute acre, and 17.3 per cent., respectively.  The total sum paid to farmers for beet by the Irish Sugar Manufacturing Co., Ltd., during the 1926-27 manufacturing season was approximately £255,000. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF NENAGH LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries to state whether the Land Commission proposes to acquire the lands of Ballincur, Nenagh, owned by Mrs. Corneille, and, if not, whether he will give the reasons for such decision. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Ballincur, containing 170a. 3r. 23p., have been purchased under prior Land Purchase Acts, and are subject to Land Commission Annuity.  They have not been offered for sale to the Land Commission, and it is not proposed to take any action regarding them. 
     
   
 