 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CUITEAMH AR DHOGHA NA BEARRAICE. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid an bhfuil fhios aige gur moladh £700 ag an Shaw Commission do Mrs. E. Nally chun bearraic na bpoilini i gCinn Mhara a doigheadh ag an I.R.A. d'ath-thogaint; gur cheannaigh Micheal O hAnnluain fothrach na bearraice sin agus an talamh ar a bhfuil se suidhte o Mrs. E. Nally i mbliain a 1921; gur chuir se iarratas isteach ar an £700 ud chun an tighe d'ath-thogaint ach nach bhfuair se fos e; agus cathain is mian leis an Aire an t-airgead san a thabhairt do Mhicheal O hAnnluain. 
     
     
      
       An mola a thug an Coimisiun Cuitimh (d'Eirinn) i dtaobh dogha Bearraice na bPoilini i gCinn Mhara is i bhfabhar unaeri na foirginte, Eilis, Bean Mhic an Fhailghigh, agus Eibhlin Ni Eidhin, ata tar eis bhais, a tugadh e. Isi Bean Mhic an Fhailghigh ata ag riara estait Eibhlin Ni Eidhin.  An meid ata gan ioc den mhola. ni feidir e ioc ach le Bean Mhic an Fhailghigh no le duine a cheapfa si siud an iocaiocht d'fhail. 
     
     Do cheannuigh Micheal O hAnnluain suidheamh agus fothrach na bearraice, ach, cho fada agus is eol dom, nior dhin se leas na n-unaeri sa mhola do cheannach agus, ar an abhar san, ni feidir aon iocaiocht do thabhairt do.  Do chuir mo Roinn-se in iul da Aturnaethe ar an 27adh Marta, 1925, gur le Bean Mhic an Fhailghigh a bhi meid an   mholta inioctha agus go bhfeadfadh si siud, da mba mhian lei e, an leas a bhi aici ann do chur da laimh. 
     
      
       An bhfaighead an bhean an t-airgead gan an tigh do thogaint? 
     
     
      
       Ni bhfaighead.  Caithfidh si an tigh do thogaint. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IASACHT DHAIL EIREANN. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid ce an fath nach bhfuair Micheal O Beirn (Michael Byrne), Ceathramha na Gaoithe, Baile an Mhuilinn, Tuaim, an cuig puint (£5) a thug se ar iasacht do Dhail Eireann 1919-1920, ce gur chuir se iarrataisi isteach, 27. IV. 1927 agus 4 VIII. 1927. 
     
     
      
       Thug an Roinn Puist agus Telegrafa cairt choigiltis amach do Mhicheal O Beirn fe Alt 5 (1) den Acht Iasachtai agus cisti Dhail Eireann, 1924, ar an 5adh la den mhi seo, chun a chur 'na chumas aisioc 'fhaghail i leith a shintiuis cuig punt d'Iasacht Inmheanach Dhail Eireann. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DAIL EIREANN (INTERNAL) LOAN, 1919-20. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance why Mr. John Hayes, of Listarkin, Union Hall, County Cork, has not received the ten pounds which he subscribed to the Dail Eireann (Internal) Loan of 1919-20, although applications were sent to his Department on July 14th and October 15th, 1927, and acknowledged on July 21st and October 18th, and asked the Minister if he will expedite the return of this money. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Hayes did not apply for repayment until July of the current year, notwithstanding the fact that notices were inserted in the Press in the beginning of 1925 inviting subscribers to the Dail Eireann (Internal) Loan to apply forthwith for repayment. It was impossible to deal promptly with the large number of   applications which were received in my Department when the repayment of subscriptions was begun in June last. Nevertheless, if Mr. Hayes had sent us the receipt which was admittedly in his possession, or even quoted the number of it, he would already have been repaid. It is anticipated that authority for the repayment of his subscription will be sent to the Department of Posts and Telegraphs at a very early date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OBAIR NA nOLLSCOIL. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid cad e an meid den bhreis airgid bhliana do tugadh do na hollscoileanna sa tSaorstat ata da chaitheamh acu ag solathar cursai ardleighinn agus cultuir tre Ghaedhilg. 
     
     
      
       Nil aon Tuairisg fachta ag an Roinn Airgid i dtaoibh an mheid den deontas breise a tugadh do Cholaiste Bhaile Atha Cliath den Ollsgoil agus do Cholaiste Chorcaighe den Ollsgoil ata da chaitheamh aca ag solathar cursai ardleighin agus cultuir tre Ghaedhilg.  Ta Colaiste na Gaillimhe den Ollsgoil tar eis cuid da dheontas breise do chaitheamh le leigheachtoiri lan-aimsire do cheapadh i (a) Stair, (b) Matamaitice, agus (c) Economaiocht, Trachtail agus Cunntaisiocht agus ta de dhualgas ar an daoine do cheapadh, leigheachtai tre Ghaedhilg do thabhairt uatha.  Na theanta san, cuirfear sgeim speisialta sgolaireachtai ar bun i gcoir mac leighinn gur cainnteoiri duthchais iad.  Ta aontuithe ag Bord Riartha an Cholaiste, mar choingheall a bhaineann leis an ndeontas breise, go ndeanfar gach iarracht, nuair a bheifear ag solathar fuirinne don Cholaiste pe uair a bheidh post folamh feasta ar ollamhna agus leigheachtoiri d'fhail a bheidh abalta na cursai leighinn do mhuineadh trid an nGaedhilg. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. CORK WOMAN'S OLD AGE PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the reasons why the old age pension to Mary   Givenan, Ballywater, Shanballymore, County Cork, was stopped. 
     
     
      
       Payment of the old age pension has not been stopped in this case.  The facts are that on 10th August last the Pension Officer raised a question that Mary Givenan was no longer entitled to an old age pension on the grounds that her means exceeded the statutory limit.  On being informed by the officer that the question was being raised the pensioner voluntarily surrendered her pension order book. 
       A final decision has not yet been given on the question, which is at present before the Department of Local Government and Public Health on appeal. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that there has been a misunderstanding in this case?  The Pensions Officer claimed that this lady owned land which in reality she never owned.  Her son received 29 acres on the Penrose Estate, on which he is compelled to pay a rent of £30 per annum.  In view of the present depressed condition of farming I am sure the Minister is aware that 29 acres of land is barely able to support himself and his family, without having the extra burden of his mother on him. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid that is a different question.  The Deputy should put down another question, I think. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CUITEAMH DO MHUINTEOIRI. 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais (a) cad e an cuiteamh ata aige le tabhairt do na hoidi scoile d'ar diultadh pagh le cheithre bliana agus go bhfuil ceaduighthe doibh ag an Aireacht dul ag obair aris; agus (b) an iocfaidh an t-Aire a bpagh in iomlan leo de chionn aon tseirbhise da dtugadar 'sa scoileanna naisiunta ar feadh an achair sin. 
     
     
      
       No question of compensation with regard to these teachers arises. 
     
     They were notified on the 30th April, 1925, that salary was withdrawn from   them.  Payment was made to them for recognised personal service up to that date and they were declared ineligible for further service in National Schools. Notwithstanding that they were declared ineligible for service some of those teachers continued to teach in the schools in which they were previously employed for the whole or part of the time which has since elapsed. 
     It is not proposed to make payment to these teachers for the period during which they were not recognised, viz., the period between the date when they were declared ineligible and the date on which it was announced that they would be again recognised as eligible to serve in National Schools. 
     
      
       Would it be possible for the Minister to make their recognition retrospective? 
     
     
      
       Oh, no. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GUNNAI DO GHABHAIL. 
     
      
       den Aire Dli agus Cirt cad na thaobh ar thog na Gardai Siochana (Ard Raithin) na gunnai o Mhicheal O Fathaigh, Cathair a'Mhoinin, Cinn Mhara, agus o Shean de Burca, Cathair Mhor, Cinn Mhara&mdash;beirt fheilmeir go bhfuil na preachain agus na coinini ag deanamh dioghbhala da ngabhaltais; ce an fath ar dhiultuigh Ceannphort na nGardai ceadunaisi gunna a thabhairt don bheirt sin i mbliana fe mar a tugadh anuiridh; agus cathain a gheobhaidh siad na gunnai agus ceadunaisi aris. 
     
     
      
       Reliable information reached the Garda Siochanna that Michael Fahy, Cathair a Mhoinin, Kinvara, and John Burke, Cahermore, Kinvara, who had been issued certificates authorising them to have possession of single-barrel shot guns were persons who could not be permitted to have firearms without danger to the public safety and peace.  Accordingly, the Superintendent, exercising the powers conferred on him by the Firearms Act, 1925, revoked the certificates.  As required by Section 6 of that Act, the firearms are now retained by the Garda   Siochana until Fahy and Burke have found suitable purchasers.  When such purchasers are found the Garda will hand the guns over to them. 
       I may add that, apart from any other consideration, neither of these men is strictly entitled, under the Act, to the certificate, because neither of them is a rated occupier of land. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SCHOOL ATTENDANCE PROSECUTIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if instructions will be issued to school attendance officers and the Garda not to prosecute under the School Attendance Act, 1926, parents who, owing to unemployment and various other causes, are unable to buy clothing for their children to go to school. 
     
     
      
       It does not appear to be desirable that instructions of a general kind such as that referred to in the Deputy's question should be issued to the police engaged in the work of enforcing the provisions of the School Attendance Act. 
       Section 4 (1) of that Act provides that the parent of every child to whom the Act applies shall, unless there is a reasonable excuse for not so doing, cause the child to attend school in accordance with the provisions of the Act. 
       Under Section 4 (2) (d) it is a reasonable excuse for failure to comply with the provisions aforesaid if a child has been prevented from attending school by some sufficient cause. 
       It is open to the parent of a child to inform the police of any special circumstances which he may consider a reasonable excuse for the non-attendance of a child at school, and should the case come into court the question as to whether the cause which prevented a child from attending school was a reasonable one is a matter for the District Justice. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister give instructions to the Garda Siochana that the want of clothing for children should be considered a legitimate excuse for non-attendance at school? 
     
     
     
      
       Strictly speaking, of course, that would really be a matter for the magistrate to decide, but of course if the children are in such a condition that they cannot go to school no attempt will be made to enforce the Act. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLOCATION OF BUILDING GRANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether, when he is allocating relief grants to local authorities, he will make arrangements whereby such grants may be utilised for the clearance of building sites for housing schemes, and thus render possible the development of many schemes which could not be otherwise undertaken. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy's suggestions will be borne in mind.  Where there are housing problems development work on housing schemes which it might be difficult otherwise to undertake would appear to me to be one of the best methods of utilising money allocated for relief purposes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLOTHING AND MEALS FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health what steps, if any, he proposes to take to provide clothing and a meal for children whose parents are destitute owing to unemployment and various other causes, and who are therefore unable to buy sufficient clothing for the children to go to school, and who are threatened with prosecution under the School Attendance Act, 1926, if they remain at home. 
     
     
      
       Poor Law Authorities already have power to relieve destitute parents either in money or in kind.  Urban district councils are also empowered under Section 3 of the Education (Provision of Meals) (Ireland) Act, 1914, to apply to the Minister for authority to expend money from the rates for the supply of meals to necessitous school children attending National   Schools if there are no other adequate funds available for the purpose. A letter reminding urban district councils of their powers in this respect was issued on the 8th October. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware of the fact that the amount usually paid in home help is about 8s. for a man, his wife and four children? 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider the advisability of having that Act extended to the rural areas and of asking the county councils to do what they have already asked the urban councils to do, because it is the children in rural areas who are suffering at the moment? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that there are no district councils at the present time? 
     
     
      
       I said county councils. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CAPPOQUIN OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he would state why an old age pension has been refused in the case of Thomas Duggan.  Dromore, Villierstown, Cappoquin. 
     
     
      
       It was reported that this claimant was maintained on his brother's farm of 60 acres (Poor Law Valuation £50) with over 13 acres of tillage and 15 milch cows.  No statement or evidence as to his means was submitted by or on behalf of the claimant.  It was considered that his means, as calculated for old age pension purposes, consisting of maintenance on this substantial holding were beyond the pensionable limit, and the claim was disallowed on the 4th of June, 1927. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND FOR AFFORESTATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that there are some four or five tenants at Comeen Fews, County Waterford, who have offered to sell about 600 acres of mountain to the Department to be used for afforestation purposes; and if he will state when a decision will be come to in the matter. 
     
     
     
      
       The reply to the first portion of the question is in the affirmative.  A decision will be arrived at when it is possible to secure in the district sufficient offers to make up a compact block of land suitable for afforestation, free of all rights, and procurable at a price within the limits applicable to the acquisition of lands by the Department for afforestation purposes.  The offers so far received do not constitute a block of this nature. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILLYBEGS PIER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can make any provision by way of grant, for the purpose of erecting a stone pier at Killybegs, to replace the existing wooden pier which is held to be unsafe for horse or other traffic and not suitable, in view of the increased fishing expected there next year. 
     
     
      
       I can make no promise of a State grant for the replacement of the existing pier at Killybegs by a stone or concrete structure.  The existing pier is, I am informed, quite suitable for the needs of the fishing industry, but some repairs are needed to the deck to make it safe for traffic. 
       The pier is under the control of harbour commissioners, who are empowered to levy tolls for the maintenance of the work. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask if it would be possible for the Minister for Industry and Commerce to take this matter into consideration when he is allocating the £150,000 for the relief of distress? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that this is a matter that should be met from a Relief Grant.  There was a deputation from the harbour commissioners a week or two ago making representations on the matter, and the case was rather fully gone into with them. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FISHING ON THE MEALAGH RIVER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for   Fisheries if he is aware that fishing on the Mealagh River at Donomark has been injured in recent years by reason of the fact that salmon cannot go up the river to spawn, but that if the river was cleared at this point the fish would travel up to the upper reaches to the splendid fishing pools there; if the Minister is further aware that an Inspector of the Fisheries Department inspected this river over a year ago, and whether any steps are being taken to act on his report. 
     
     
      
       The falls at Donomark are undoubtedly an obstruction to the ascent of salmon to the upper waters of the River Mealagh, and work done to facilitate their ascent has not proved permanent. 
       If the persons interested in the fisheries of the river are prepared to carry out further works of improvement, the Department will give them such advice and assistance as are in its power. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISTRIBUTION OF CAPPOQUIN ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries when it is intended to distribute the lands of the Chearnley Estate, Cappoquin, County Waterford. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission is considering the question of the acquisition of the Chearnley Estate, Cappoquin, Co. Waterford, but they are not at present in a position to state when the lands, if acquired, will be available for distribution. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF CASTLEBAR LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state the reason for the delay in taking over and dividing the lands of Mrs. Grehan, Culliass. Belcarra, Castlebar; also the lands of Mr. George Acton, Bridgemount, Belcarra, Castlebar. 
     
     
      
       The owner has accepted the offer of the Land Commission for the purchase of the lands of Culliass on the estate of Mrs. Grehan. As soon as the requirements of the   statutes and rules have been completed the Commissioners will be in a position to take possession of the lands.  Negotiations are proceeding for the acquisition of the lands of Mr. Acton. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state about what date that will be concluded? 
     
     
      
       I cannot state until the statutory notice expires in a few weeks' time. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BRANNICK (CO. MAYO) ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state if it is proposed to take over for division amongst the people the estate of James Brannick, County Mayo (Reg. No. 5530), and, if so, what is the cause of delay; and if the Minister proposes to deal with Mrs. Quinn as a tenant of this estate with a congested holding, and if not, will he state the reason. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission has acquired the holding of James Brannick, County Mayo, and it is proposed to offer Mrs. Quinn a parcel thereon when the lands are being divided. 
     
   
   
     ORDER OF BUSINESS. 
     Ordered: That Government Business be not interrupted at 7 o'clock this   evening for the taking of Private Deputies' Business.&mdash;(The President). 
   
   
     DAIRY PRODUCE (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1927&mdash;FINAL STAGES. 
     Bill received for final consideration and passed. 
     Ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
   
   
     NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE BILL. 1927&mdash;MONEY RESOLUTION. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That for the purpose of any Act of the present Session to make provision for the continuance of the Medical Certification Fund and for that purpose to authorise the payment of certain sums respectively into and out of that Fund and also to make provision for the continuance of a certain Enactment relating to the application of sums unclaimed in the Stamps Sales Account, it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas of such sums as, together with the other sums directed by such Act to be credited to the Medical Certification Fund, shall be sufficient to meet the sums directed by such Act to be paid out of the said Fund. 
       Prior to 1924 the approved societies were not called upon to contribute to the cost of medical certification at all, the entire amount being borne by the State.  In that year the charge was imposed on the funds of the societies In 1925-6 the charge on the societies' funds was reduced from 10d. per member to 5d. per member, the balance being obtained by drawing on the Unclaimed Stamps Sales Department.  The amount drawn from the latter account for the year 1926 practically exhausted the amount available, and for the year 1927 the amount required must be provided out of public funds.  It is estimated that a sum of £39,750 will be required, and provision is made for this expenditure under sub-head (6) of the National Insurance Commission Estimate for 1927-8. 
     
     
        Question put and agreed to. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in said Resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE BILL, 1927&mdash;COMMITTEE. 
     Bill passed through Committee and reported without amendment. 
     Final Stages to be taken on Friday, 11th November. 
   
   
     EXPIRING LAWS BILL, 1927&mdash;FINAL STAGES. 
     Bill received for final consideration and passed. 
     Ordered to be sent to Seanad. 
   
   
     COUNTY COURT APPEALS BILL, 1927&mdash;FIFTH STAGE. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Ordered to be sent to Seanad. 
   
   
     DENTISTS BILL, 1927&mdash;COMMITTEE (Resumed). 
     The Dail went into Committee and resumed consideration of the Dentists' Bill. 1927. 
     SECTION 16. 
     (1) The Board shall keep in such form as shall be approved by the Minister after consultation with the Minister for Finance all proper and usual accounts of all moneys received or expended by the Board. 
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Ryan, I move amendment 13: 
       In sub-section (1) to delete all words after the word &ldquo;keep,&rdquo; line 43, to and including the word &ldquo;Finance,&rdquo; line 45. 
     
     
      
       If Deputies will read the next sub-section they will see that the accounts of the Board are to be audited by an auditor appointed by the Minister. I thought it was unnecessary that the Board should first of all keep their accounts in a form approved by the   Minister, after consultation with the Minister for Finance, if they were afterwards to submit those accounts to an auditor appointed by the Minister.  I thought that naturally the auditor appointed would advise the Board how to keep their accounts, and that, therefore, it would not be necessary for the Board to keep their accounts in such form as is approved by the Minister. I do not want to press the amendment, but only to see if the Minister will accept it. 
     
     
      
       The amendment is unacceptable from my point of view.  It is a matter of common form.  The Board shall be constituted as a public authority, and it is right that there should be the authority of this House over it.  The Board is being given control of dental practitioners registered in this country.  They are for the first year to be financed out of moneys voted by the House.  Therefore, for the first year this House has a vital interest not merely in seeing the audited accounts, but in seeing that the accounts are kept and presented in such a form as will clarify them for members of the House.  Even after the first year, the Board will continue as a public authority, and it is right and proper, and a matter of common form, that the form of accounts should be prescribed, not by the auditor, even though that auditor be appointed by a certain Minister, but that the exact form of the accounts should be laid down, so that it will be in accord with the form that public accounts are generally kept in, so that the members of the House if there is any discussion on them will have the matter properly before them.  That is quite usual and necessary, and there is no hardship on anybody.  The only thing that the Deputy could possibly see was that the Board&mdash;these nine or ten dental practitioners, or persons appointed by them&mdash; may have some conflict with the Minister as to the form of the accounts. If that is to be the case, then as they are a public authority, the accounts should be kept in the form prescribed by the Minister and not by the auditor. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 16 agreed to. 
     
     
     
      
       I move amendment 14:&mdash; 
       Before Section 17 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;There shall be paid by the Board to the members thereof such fees for their attendance at its meetings and such travelling expenses in connection with such attendances as shall be determined by the Board with the approval of the Minister and the consent of the Minister for Finance.&rdquo; 
       The object of the amendment is to secure that the members of the Board will be paid for their attendance and given their travelling expenses.  It would not be reasonable to expect that they should attend without payment. There was a similar provision made in the Medical Practitioners' Act. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask the Minister whether, if this section were not inserted, the Board would not still have power under the Bill to make any arrangement they might think desirable for payment, and whether if explicit provision for a particular payment is inserted, it would not really lessen the power of the Board with reference to dealing with various questions which might arise afterwards in administration. 
     
     
      
       I think if the following section is to be amended and made wider, as seems to be the intention, it gives power to the Board to pay.  There is one good thing in the amendment, that it says such fees as shall be determined by the Board, with the approval of the Minister for Local Government and the consent of the Minister for Finance.  To that extent, I have great sympathy with the amendment. It is taken from the Medical Practitioners Bill.  There is always the fear that when you allude to certain things specifically, instead of putting them in a general way, there may be a rigid determination afterwards that only that particular thing is meant and that everything else is excluded.  I would be in favour of accepting the amendment suggested subject to redrafting. 
     
     
      
       But to insert the present amendment now? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes, but I can put down an amendment if necessary to change the form. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the new section stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 17. 
       (1)  All expenses incurred by the Board in the execution of this Act up to the expiration of one year after the establishment of the register shall, to such extent as shall be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be defrayed out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas. 
       (2)  All expenses incurred by the Board after the expiration of one year after the establishment of the register shall be defrayed by the Board out of its own moneys. 
       (3)  All expenses incurred by the Minister in the execution of this Act shall, to such extent as shall be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 15:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of sub-section (1) the words: &ldquo;and shall be repaid by the Board out of its own moneys to the Minister for Finance not later than three years after the establishment of the register.&rdquo; 
     
     I move this amendment as one who is neither an expert in regard to the technicalities of dentistry nor in what some of those on the Government benches referred to as the trickery of quackery.  I notice that on the second reading several medical practitioners referred to the fact that this Bill was necessary to protect the interests of dentists in the Saorstat&mdash;in other words, to prevent dental mechanics or other unqualified people acting as dentists.  This measure might be likened somewhat to a trade union among dentists, and that being so, I do not think that the Oireachtas should be asked to provide the money for the safeguarding of that particular trade union.  If I were to get up on these   benches and say that we were attempting to form a trade union to safeguard the interests of the working class people and had the audacity to call upon the House to provide money, I am sure the Minister would make a hop-step-and-jump across the floor to attack me for doing so.  Section 17 says that all expenses incurred by the Board in the execution of this Act up to the expiration of one year after the establishment of the Register shall, to such extent as shall be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be defrayed out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas.  Section 14 states that the Board shall appoint a Registrar and may appoint such other officers and servants as it thinks proper.  It does not lay down how much is to be paid to the Registrar or to the other officers. The Minister for Industry and Commerce has now agreed to accept an amendment moved by Deputy Hennessy in which it is provided that there shall be paid by the Board to the members thereof such fees for their attendance at its meetings and such travelling expenses as shall be determined by the Board and these are to be borne by the Oireachtas.  I think the taxpayers of the country should not be called upon to pay these expenses seeing that this Bill has been introduced to safeguard the interests of dentists. I think it is funny that the suggestion should come from the Minister for Industry and Commerce that the Oireachtas should be called upon to meet these expenses, whereas in Tirconaill the Ministry refused to sanction a small grant of £30 for a nurse in Tory Island.  For that reason and for no other I move this amendment. 
     
      
       I am not sure from Deputy Cassidy's remarks whether he understands exactly what is going to happen.  The Oireachtas is going to be asked to defray the expenses in connection with the first year, with the further limitation that the first year's expenditure has to be approved by the Minister for Local Government and sanctioned by the Minister for Finance.  There are two checks on the extent of the expenditure which the Dental Board may incur in the first year, and, after that first year, the   Dental Board is to meet all the expenses out of its own money.  We did think it was a quite fair thing, in the case of the medical and dental professions, that inasmuch as they are incurring extra expenses by reason of the establishment of this State, expenses which are involved on them by reason of that status should be borne by the State.  In addition, there is the point, which is specially appropriate to the dental practitioners in contrast with the medical practitioners, that the Dental Board will have very little money at any time, and they could not possibly pay the expenses even of the first year after three years unless they proceeded to charge a very high fee. 
     
     
      
       My amendment suggested the money should go to the Dental Board and be repaid after three years. 
     
     
      
       Yes, and I am saying that unless the Dental Board were to charge a very high fee they could not possibly repay in the three years even on the best estimate.  The amount of money that will be involved by the establishment of the register in the first year will be relatively small. There is another point in connection with the dental profession as opposed to the medical profession, that the medical practitioner pays one registration fee and is registered for all time unless his name is erased for some cause and he has to obtain re-admission later. The dental practitioner has to pay a fee here every year, and, in respect of doing that, he is penalised in comparison with his brother dental practitioner in England who pays the same fee and has the same rights as a medical practitioner. He has the right to be on the register for all time.  We impose the burden of the yearly fee on the dental practitioner here in order to give the Dental Board a certain amount of money with which to carry out its duties.  It is a relatively small sum of money that is in question in comparison with the amount of money that the Dental Board will be able to collect&mdash;a pretty big sum.  I think it is a gesture that the State might make towards the Dental Board: to pay the expenses of establishing the first register and the first year's   expenses outside the establishment of that register, recognising that, in fact, all the expenses of the Board are going to be subject to the approval of the Minister for Local Government and subject to the sanction of the Minister for Finance. 
     
     
      
       It ought, I think, to be added that the interpretation of the Bill shown by Deputy Cassidy is an extremely limited and insufficient one.  One of the principal causes for this Bill is the necessity for protecting the public.  It is to protect the public from the operation of unqualified or improperly qualified dentists that the Bill has been brought forward. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
       Section 17 agreed to. 
       SECTION 18. 
       The Board shall out of the moneys received by it, whether by way of fees or otherwise, pay the expenses incurred by the Medical Council in the execution of their duties under this Act and the expenses of the Board which are required by this Act to be defrayed by the Board out of its own moneys and shall allocate the surplus (if any) of such moneys to purposes connected with dental education and research, or any public purposes connected with the profession of dentistry in such manner as the Board with the approval of the Medical Council may determine. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 16:&mdash; 
       In line 11, after the word &ldquo;Act&rdquo; to insert in brackets the words &ldquo;(the amount of such expenses to be settled in default of agreement by the Minister).&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 18:&mdash; 
       In line 13 to delete the word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;may.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       My object in putting down this amendment with Deputy Hennessy was this, that I believed the   word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; compels the Dental Board to allocate money in a certain way, and that it does not permit them to keep a certain amount on hands.  I propose, therefore, to substitute the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; for &ldquo;shall,&rdquo; so that if they desire to do so they &ldquo;may&rdquo; keep a certain amount on hands. 
     
     
      
       I ask the Deputy to consider this amendment in relation to amendment 19, which proposes to delete the words &ldquo;with the approval of the Medical Council.&rdquo; Presuming for the moment that the amendment will be accepted, the section would then read: &ldquo;The Board ... shall allocate the surplus (if any) of such moneys to purposes connected with dental education and research or any public purposes connected with the profession of dentistry in such manner as the Board may determine.&rdquo; They shall allocate the surplus in such manner as the Board shall determine.  Does not that give full rights to the Board?  In addition to that, there is the question: when does the surplus arise?  The Board themselves may decide on various purposes. One might very well argue that the Board would see that in certain legal cases it would have to intervene. that it would have to fight certain cases with regard to people practising dentistry. They might want to set aside a certain amount of money to meet a contingency of that kind in a particular period.  If they see that ahead they need not proceed to close their accounts until such time as they like.  The question only arises when there is a surplus over and beyond the certain purpose they have in mind.  I put it to the Deputy that if they have determined on a surplus in any year they can allocate it for any public purpose connected with the profession of dentistry or in such manner as the Board may determine.  I think that gives exactly the freedom to the Dental Board that the Deputy seems to desire. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to press the matter, but if you read the whole section you will find that it provides that the Board is to pay the expenses incurred by the Medical Council as well as the expenses of the Board, which are required to be defrayed by the Board   out of its own money.  It appears to me that at a certain point they are to pay everything up to date, and then they are to allocate the surplus.  It seems to me that every single halfpenny left after that is surplus, and that they could not keep anything on hands. 
     
     
      
       There is another consideration on that.  Under the first two lines of the section the Board must pay all the expenses incurred by the Medical Council.  Secondly, they must pay all the expenses which are required by this Act to be defrayed by the Board out of its own money.  If the Deputy will look at sub-section (2) of the previous section, he will see that &ldquo;all expenses incurred by the Board after the expiration of one year after the establishment of the register shall be defrayed by the Board out of its own money.&rdquo; Therefore, if you relate the two things, the Board must first of all pay all the expenses of the Medical Council and thereafter pay all their own expenses.  If there is a surplus after doing that, what is it going to be applied to?  I think it is better leave the section as it is.  The Deputy may ask me: why put in the word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; at all?  Because, unless the mandatory phrase with regard to the allocation of the surplus is there, the Board might proceed to allocate surplus money to purposes not connected with dentistry at all. 
     
     
      
       I agree with that, but for a month or a week after the audit of the accounts they may not be permitted to keep enough money to pay a typist if they have one or for some other object of that sort. 
     
     
      
       I do not think so.  I think the Deputy would be right if we stated at certain times of the year the books may be closed but at what point of time is within the Board's own control. 
     
     
      
       Is there any legal definition of the word &ldquo;surplus?&rdquo; Will it be impossible for the Board to carry forward from one year to another any balance over? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
     
        Amendment 18, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
      
       When Section 18, as amended, is seen, any amendment may be proposed if necessary. 
       Amendment 19.&mdash;In line 16 to delete the words &ldquo;with the approval of the Medical Council&rdquo; (Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala, Thomas Hennessy, Seamus O Riain) agreed to. 
       Section 18, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 19. 
       Amendment 20.&mdash;In paragraph (a) line 22 to delete the words &ldquo;with the approval of the Minister&rdquo; (Seamus O Riain). 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy argue the whole question of &ldquo;with the approval of the Minister&rdquo; on amendment 20 and take the decision on it for amendments 24, 34, and 35? 
     
     
      
       I think it follows that I should withdraw this amendment and the next one. 
       Amendments 20 and 21 not moved. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 19 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 20. 
       (1)  If at any time the Minister is satisfied, either after such inquiry as the Minister thinks fit to make or without such inquiry, that the Board has on any occasion failed to do any matter or thing which the Board is authorised or required by this Act to do and the doing of which by the Board on that occasion was in the opinion of the Minister necessary or appropriate for the proper exercise of the functions or the proper discharge of the duties conferred or imposed on the Board by this Act, the Minister may by order direct the Board to do such matter or thing and for that purpose to do such other matters or things ancillary or incidental thereto as may be specified in such order. 
     
     (2)  If the Board fails to comply   with the directions contained in an order made by the Minister under this section, the Minister may himself take such steps as he thinks fit to carry out the directions contained in such order and for that purpose the Minister shall have and may exercise such of the rights and powers conferred on the Board by this Act as are necessary for the due compliance with such directions. 
     
      
       I move amendment 22:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), lines 45, 46, 50, 53, to delete the word &ldquo;Minister&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;Executive Council.&rdquo; 
       The idea is to bring it into conformity with the Medical Practitioners Act. 
     
     
      
       The only difficulty in this is, as the Executive Council will always act through a Minister and the Executive Council in this case would act through a Minister, in whose Department the matter of the legislation would lie.  Even if the Executive Council were put in, it would be, in the first instance, for the Minister for Local Government to be satisfied and would certainly be for the Minister to make inquiries.  This is only a change of machinery, and the change will involve this: that the Executive Council would have thrown on it the responsibility to be satisfied about certain things and to make certain inquiries. Eventually the Executive Council, instead of the Minister, would advise the Board by Order to do certain things, but unless one is to speak of the Minister in charge of this as an extern Minister the Minister doing these things would always have to have the approval of the Executive Council At least, the Executive Council will have collective responsibility for any act of his in this matter.  If one is to think of the Minister as an extern Minister, that Minister, being extern, is subject to the control of the House, and if the theory of the extern Minister is to be considered as important, and the control of the House as better than the collective responsibility of the Executive Council, then it is wrong to take   that function away from the extern Minister and give it to the Executive Council.  In either case, it would seem to be the better thing to leave out the Minister.  If the Executive Council acts through a Minister, it is the same; if not, the Minister will be subject to the control of the Dail. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question &ldquo;That Sections 20, 21, 22 and 23 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 24. 
       (1) Subject to payment of the prescribed fee, there shall be registered in the register at the establishment thereof&mdash; 
       (a)  every person who was registered in the General Dentists Register immediately before the establishment of the register and was then resident in Saorstat Eireann, and 
       (b)  every person who was registered in the General Dentists Register immediately before the establishment of the register and was then resident outside Saorstat Eireann and applies to the Board within one month before such establishment to be registered in the register. 
       Amendment 25.&mdash;In sub-section (1) to delete paragraph (a) and substitute therefor a new paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
       (a)  every person who was resident in Saorstat Eireann immediately before the establishment of the register, and has at any time been registered on the General Dentists Register; provided that his name has not been erased from that register for a reason which would lead to the erasure of his name from the register under sections 29 and 30 of this Act.&mdash; James Craig, William Thrift. 
     
     
      
       I think we are satisfied that this amendment is unnecessary in view of the altered definition given by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       Provided amendment 26 be passed, this is consequential on the definition. 
     
     
     
      
       Before agreeing to the withdrawal of Deputy Craig's amendment to Section 24, I would like to know from the Minister if his amendment (3) to Section 1 covers the case of a man who was admitted to the General Register of the United Kingdom after the passing of the Act of 1921 and who subsequently was removed from the register by reason of the fact that it had been discovered he had not completely reached the age of 23 years at the time of the passing of the Act in England.  I have before my mind two such cases, and if we now legislate to rule these people off the Dental Register it appears to me we will be inflicting serious hardship on them.  One of them, of whom I have details here, submitted himself to be registered on the Dental Register of the United Kingdom in January, 1923.  He got a Certificate of Registration and practised on that certificate for some months until the Dental Board of the United Kingdom discovered he had been three months under the age of 23 years at the time of the passing of the Act.  Subsequently, an amending Act was passed in the British House of Commons reducing the age from 23 years to 21.  He did not get the benefit of that Act. There is no provision in this Bill giving him the benefit of it now.  Perhaps I may not continue to give details of the case or of the hardship inflicted if the Minister has it in his mind that his amendment meets a case such as the one I mentioned. 
     
     
      
       I would like to have another point settled which depends, to some extent, on the statement made by the last Deputy.  The Minister has told us that he is referring to a Committee, the Second Schedule, and this reads: &ldquo;Persons entitled to be registered upon passing special examination.&rdquo; What I want to ask him is: is he referring any cases that will not be subject to a special examination to this Committee?  For instance, many of us think these cases the Deputy referred to should be upon the register without any examination.  One of the cases is a man being put on the register and remaining on for some months.  It was discovered he was three days under the age and he was struck off. 
     
     
        This man, we think, should be put on the register without any examination. There are cases in which the man was not allowed to be placed on the register because he was three months&mdash;others were six months&mdash;under age.  What I want to know from the Minister is if he is referring these cases that will not require any special examination to the Committee, either to the Committee that he has working or to the Select Committee that has been appointed. 
     
      
       My feeling with regard to the Bill, as I stated, is to go right through and refer the Second Schedule to a committee.  Whether that is to be a Select Committee of the House, or whether the House is prepared to allow a Departmental Committee to make recommendations, I do not know.  I would prefer that a Departmental Committee should make recommendations to a Select Committee of the House, and that the Select Committee should decide and come back with recommendations on the Report Stage.  I am simply referring you to the Second Schedule and to the consequential section&mdash;Section 26. 
     
     
      
       May I intervene for a moment?  There were certain men who did not apply for registration, who for various reasons, into which I need not go now, did not apply to get upon the British Register and those people should be entitled to be registered now without examination. That makes two classes of cases, that is, cases that were refused registration, because they were six months or nine months or a year under age, and those cases where the men did not apply for registration for various reasons which I need not go into now. 
     
     
      
       It would be my proposal to refer the Second Schedule, and Section 26, not 25, to a Select Committee.  On that there would be raised the whole question of people who are not now entitled to be registered as dentists and who would never come in under this Bill as it stands.  A case could be made for allowing people in after examination. Strictly, that is all that should be considered. If the Committee, having got   certain other cases of hardship before it, recommended that certain people, not merely after examination, but here and now, should be admitted, the suggestion is that the House should reconsider that.  That would mean another amendment on the Report Stage.  It would mean putting in a new section. 
     
     
      
       I would be perfectly satisfied if that is understood. 
     
     
      
       That is the proposal with regard to the Select Committee. With regard to what Deputy Ward said, without knowing the details of the case, I cannot say whether that case that he has referred to would come under the Bill, but I assume the individual would not.  The definition of &ldquo;registered dentist,&rdquo; referred to under Section 3, states clearly that a registered dentist means a person who is registered in the General Dentists Register.  I am assuming that the person to whom Deputy Ward refers is not and cannot be registered in England at the moment because he was too young to be brought in under the 1923 extension.  Consequently that individual would not be brought in under this definition and certainly would not be brought in under the second part, &ldquo;having been so registered at any time after the 1st January, 1922.&rdquo; I think the individual to whom the Deputy refers would not be brought in under this definition or section.  But it is clearly one of the cases which is to be considered.  The Select Committee could make a recommendation that the term be enlarged so as to include the individuals named. 
     
     
      
       I am quite satisfied on the understanding that the Minister will guarantee a Select Committee of the House. 
     
     
      
       I am guaranteeing to recommend a Select Committee. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister prepared to state that the person who was on the register, even if he was erroneously there, should not be on the register at all?  Take the case of an individual who practised for a certain   number of months.  I am not prepared myself to say that that case would be covered. 
     
     
      
       I think that individual would be covered, but it would depend entirely on the interpretation of the words, &ldquo;registered in the General Dentists Register.&rdquo; It means there &ldquo;legally and correctly registered.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       And practising for a couple of months? 
     
     
      
       Practising would not matter.  He would have to get an interpretation of those words. 
     
     
      
       I would like the Minister to consider also possibly a further amendment to that definition, in view of the representations that have been made and the statement that has been made to us by Deputy Craig. There seems to be a strong case for making the definition include those who were registered and even those who were entitled to be registered even though they did not make their claim. I am sure the Minister will consider that. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move amendment 26: 
       In sub-section (1), page 9, paragraph (a), lines 56 and 57 and paragraph (b), lines 60 and 61, to delete the words &ldquo;registered in the General Dentists Register&rdquo; and substitute in each case the words &ldquo;a registered dentist.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is consequential on the acceptance of the definition in amendment 3. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 24 as amended put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
       SECTION 25. 
     
     (1)  After the establishment of the register the following persons shall, on making the prescribed application and paying the prescribed fees, be entitled (save as is otherwise provided   by this section) to be registered in the register, that is to say: 
     (a)  every person who is at the time of such application registered in the General Dentists Register, and 
     (b)  every person who is at the time of such application possessed of a degree or licence in dental surgery granted by a university or college in Saorstat Eireann having, at the time of such degree or licence, power to grant the same. 
     (2)  No person whose name shall have been erased from the register by the Board on account of his having been convicted of treason or a felony, misdemeanour, crime, or offence or by direction of the Medical Council on account of his having been judged guilty of infamous or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect shall be entitled to have his name restored to the register under this section solely by reason of his being registered in the General Dentists Register. 
     (3)  A person not previously registered in the register shall not be entitled to be registered therein under this section if at any time before his application for such registration his name has been erased from the General Dentists Register on account of his having been convicted of a felony, misdemeanour, crime, or offence or his having been judged guilty of infamous or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect. 
     
      
       I move amendment 27: 
       To add at the end of the sub-section a new paragraph as follows: 
       (e)  every person who has been engaged in a manner satisfactory to the Board in the practice of dentistry for a period of ten years. 
     
     This amendment is put down for the purpose of leaving a small loop-hole for cases which may not occur in time to be considered by the Committee dealing with the second Schedule, and in order not to have the hands of the Board tied too tightly.  This amendment does not interfere with the power of the   Board, because any concession granted under it is to be given by the Board itself.  That Board could be made up, to a very large extent, of persons representing those who are short of qualifying under the Dentists Acts of 1921. The necessity for the amendment, I admit, depends largely on the interpretation of Section 27 and what there is to be taken as covered by the word &ldquo;qualifications.&rdquo; In interpreting that section, it will be clear that the Board will only have power to admit those who will obtain qualifications similar to those recognised in the Bill, as qualifications for registration, including training and passing examinations and such like.  It could not be taken in a general sense, but would mean special qualifications for practising dentists as contemplated by the Bill.  On certain qualifications as a general dentist, the individual shall be admitted.  It is open to argument if that is a correct interpretation of Section 27.  I would urge that some such loop-hole as that suggested in this amendment is necessary. The amendment would simply give the Board power to add to the register those who had been practising for ten years without the special qualifications contemplated by the Bill. That would give the Board power, if they recognised that it was worth while, to admit in a case where a person had been satisfactorily engaged in carrying out the work of dentistry. 
     
      
       I do not see the great necessity for Deputy Thrift's amendment.  I think there should be some finality with regard to those who would be entitled to go on the Register. I know the Irish Dental Association is opposed to Deputy Thrift's amendment, and I think with very good reason, as at present a Committee is sitting to investigate the claims of men who are to go on the Register and those who may be recommended, on further examination, to go on. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has practically met the reason which induced me to associate myself with this amendment.  He has practically met us in this by the suggestion that he was going to allow the names of certain people to go before the Committee.   I would be perfectly satisfied with that.  This schedule included persons who had to pass a certain examination. He did not suggest that any others would be included.  But since he suggests that he would leave the Committee to deal with the other cases, I am satisfied.  I do not know whether Deputy Thrift is satisfied or not. 
     
     
      
       I cannot understand the scope of the amendment.  On the other hand, I cannot understand the limitations that Deputy Thrift would like to have put on it.  Is it intended that the ten-year period is only to run prior to the passing of the Act? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       What people are there who have been ten years in practice and who are not covered by the 1921 Act?  It may be possible to find the special type of case of a man who did not come in under the extension of time allowed by the 1923 Act by reason of being a few days too young for the purposes of the extension.  But outside that, and outside the special cases that Deputy Ward has in mind, I do not know of any other cases that could arise. 
     
     
      
       Where are you going to draw the line?  There are men six months, twelve months, eighteen months and two years short, and they will all have grievances.  This is not to say that a man who has been practising for ten years up to the present date should necessarily go on the register; it is merely to give the Board, if the members of it are satisfied with the justice of his claim, the power to put him on the register.  They would have to be perfectly satisfied that the justice of his claim permitted that course being adopted. 
     
     
      
       The line would have to be drawn by the Committee on its examination of the different cases. Perhaps the members of the Committee would simply say: &ldquo;You are an individual so many months short.  We are prepared to waive aside that period and allow you to go on the register.&rdquo; If this amendment were put in it would leave it open to people to make application   to the Board whether the application would be granted or not.  It could be said that the man who was applying had practised for ten years in some other country&mdash;simply practised for ten years, although he had not the qualifications that would entitle him to go on the register here.  Similarly it seems to open the door to certain suggestions, one suggestion being that if a man succeeds in evading the law for ten years in this country by practising dentistry, then the Board might consider his case and allow him on the register.  It would be a sort of example to certain people. 
     
     
      
       Prior to 1921. 
     
     
      
       I presume that was implicit in the amendment.  It opens the door for a great number of cases to be put before the Board for a good many years hereafter.  This Dentists Bill has been under discussion for four or five months.  It was spoken of for one and a half years before that and nearly everyone affected by it has had time to make representations, and numerous representations have been made to my Department.  It seems to me that the best course to adopt is that this Committee should consider all cases of hardship and close the list once and for all, thereafter allowing the Board to be approached only by people with decent dental qualifications.  There must be finality and that is the great necessity with regard to practitioners. 
     
     
      
       It came under my notice a short time ago in connection with registration for nurses that certain nurses who had practised for twenty years had failed to come up to the standard required in the ordinary way.  Application in connection with those nurses was made to the Board but the Board had no power of discretion and neither had the Minister. The same point would apply here and I suggest Deputy Thrift's amendment is giving some discretionary power that should not be and would not be abused. 
     
     
      
       I cannot imagine it being abused.  I cannot imagine the amendment doing anybody any harm. If anything, it will tend to do good   inasmuch as it does not tie up the Board completely.  Deputy Craig asks me if I am satisfied.  I am not dissatisfied but I am not accepting his position completely.  I am not satisfied that if the Second Schedule is referred to the Committee it would not be ruled by the Chairman that nothing could be considered by the Committee except registration after the passing of an examination.  The Second Schedule as it stands would be a binding thing on the Committee and they would be open to consider only the names of those who had passed an examination. That would be the position unless other terms of reference were given by this House.  I think Deputy Craig would find himself in the position on the Committee that he could not consider the cases that he wanted to consider. 
     
     
      
       I think that is quite wrong.  I think Deputy Craig could get all the cases he wants considered by the Committee by bringing them in the guise of people who wanted to get on after examination. Their cases having been discussed, he could make a special plea that there was a hardship in asking these people to pass an examination.  On the accepted interpretation of Section 26, there could be a definite recommendation that even the examination could be waived.  I know of three cases in which it seems to me that there would be hardship in having an examination imposed on the persons concerned. Even if that matter could not be raised at the Select Committee, it is open to the Deputy to put an amendment down on the Report Stage.  The report of the Committee will be known to the members of the Committee before we come to the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       I would not be satisfied if these cases had to be brought in the manner suggested by the Minister&mdash;under the guise of people who wanted to get on the register after examination.  I think we should be fair and square and above board.  If we admit these cases we should recognise that we do admit them because they have some claim upon us.  I believe there were some people who did not apply because of political reasons   and there were others who did not apply for various reasons which I need not mention.  If the Minister cannot meet me in this matter I will still support the amendment that stands in Deputy Thrift's name and my own.  I am not going to bring cases forward that are under any suspicion; I am not going to bring them forward if they have not passed an examination.  I certainly would not bring them forward in such a manner as has been suggested. 
     
     
      
       I appeal to the Minister not to allow men to be taken on the register who are unqualified or only partially qualified.  The dentists have no representative to protect their interests here, and we should be as jealous of these men who went to the trouble of getting properly qualified as if they were here to fight their own case. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy explain what he means by &ldquo;properly qualified&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       Neither Deputy Craig nor myself is anxious to pack the register with people not qualified.  We are anxious that every worthy practising dentist should get an opportunity of earning his livelihood.  I would be quite prepared to withdraw the amendment if the Minister wishes, provided he secures a resolution requesting the Committee to take into consideration the type of persons covered in the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Yes, if that comes within the scope of the Standing Orders of the House.  I know there are certain people who should be admitted without examination, and I want to get these cases referred to the Select Committee. 
     
     
      
       It is really a matter of words. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I desire to move amendment 28:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), line 17, to delete the words &ldquo;treason or.&rdquo; 
     
     This and amendment 30 more or less cover the same ground.  Section 25 deals with persons entitled to be registered after the establishment of the Register and Section 29 deals with the   erasure from the register of persons convicted of crimes.  In the British register we find that the reasons for erasure or for non-admission to the register are misdemeanour and crime. These are the only things to prevent admission to the register in Britain. On the Irish register we have added the crime of treason.  There is a small point of difference there. For instance, we are talking here of reciprocal treatment, and it is possible that if a person was not admitted to the Irish register because he had been guilty of treason he would have his name admitted to the General Register in England as they do not consider that sufficient to keep his name off the register there.  A person whose name was on the General Register in England would necessarily have to be admitted to the Free State register. It only means going through the British register to get on the Irish register, if he is guilty of treason.  There is another consideration.  Whatever this crime of treason is it is not a felony, it is not a misdemeanour, it is not a crime; it is, therefore, considered either to be worse than any crime or any felony, or it is considered something that is not a crime or felony at all but something on a plane of its own and sufficient to keep a man from getting on the Dental Register.  At the present time, I am quite aware, with the Public Safety Act in force, that there would be no necessity for this provision at all, because, as far as I remember the Public Safety Act, it is mandatory on the Military Court to condemn the person to death, and the person being dead would not have to apply to get on the Dental Register.  But a time may come when the Public Safety Act will have gone, and there is no doubt about it that that time will come. 
     
      
       That section of the Act is not operative. 
     
     
      
       The people who framed the Act&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       We are not discussing the Public Safety Act now. 
     
     
      
       It is quite possible that the people who framed that Act would   also have the audacity to make it operative, and, as I have said, in that case this question of treason would not arise, but the time may come when we will go back half-way to normal again, and when this Public Safety Act is removed, but the crime of treason would still remain, and you might have a very respectable man, as you had respectable men in the past, found guilty of treason.  He might, perhaps, be put into jail or somewhere else for six months or twelve months by some Government that would not stand longer than six months or twelve months, and then this man might be released, but the Dental Board would have no option but to keep that man's name off the register unless a special Act of Parliament were introduced to deal with his case.  Everybody here is fairly familiar with the history of treason in this country.  Everybody can see the danger of leaving this section in.  The danger has been there for all time, and, as we do not see much improvement amongst the powers that be with regard to this offence, we see a certain danger there that perhaps a very upright and honest man in every way, or a woman, as the case may be, might be found guilty of this crime of treason, and, the Public Safety Act being gone, it would not be necessary to have the person executed.  The person might be put into jail for a long sentence, and it might be possible that that Government that did that, for some reason or another, might go out after six or twelve months and the person be released.  The Dental Board would find it impossible to allow that man back to his practice of dentistry. I, therefore, ask that the Minister will consider the question of having these words removed from the Bill and of bringing it into line with the British Act, because, as I said in the beginning, it is ridiculous as it stands at present. As it stands at present, a person can get on the General Register in England and thereby compel the Free State Board to put his name on. 
     
     
      
       Taking the main foundation of the Deputy's argument as his last statement, if the Deputy reads the Schedule (paragraph 4, subsections (b) and (c) he will find there   is no way round.  If a man has his name erased in this country he cannot go on to the British register and come back here.  He is definitely and clearly blocked. 
     
     
      
       A person might not apply for registration here.  He might have the sense to first apply to go on the British register. 
     
     
      
       That does not make any difference.  I cannot argue with the Deputy until he reads the section of the agreement I am referring to. 
     
     
      
       I have read it. 
     
     
      
       Then it is a matter of getting it understood.  There is no way round an erasure from the Irish register.  If an Irish court convicts a man of certain things and if the Irish Medical or Dental Board strikes his name off the register no assertion of right to go to England and register there either before or after conviction will get that dental practitioner or medical practitioner back into registration in this country.  It is quite impossible. 
     
     
      
       I was not speaking of erasure.  In this case I was speaking of getting his name, in the first instance, on the English register. 
     
     
      
       If there is a conviction in the country for anything which leads to erasure no man who has a right to get on the British register whether prior to his name being erased from the Irish register or trying to insert it after the erasure can come back to practise in this country. It does not matter whether he was on the British register or not.  He cannot practise here. 
     
     
      
       Supposing he was never on here? 
     
     
      
       Then he will never go on here. 
     
     
      
       Why not? 
     
     
      
       Because he cannot assert a right derived from the English register for the purpose of being put on here.  That is the   beginning and the end of it.  That agreement has not been understood.  I am open to correction on Report Stage, but I make that statement.  It is obviously clear cut that that right cannot be asserted to over-ride a decision of the Medical or Dental Council here&mdash;no right of prior registration or of post-registration.  If a man does not want to go on the register here he can go to England.  A man convicted of treason, felony or misdemeanour can practise under their register; that is their lookout.  He can practise on their nationals and we do not care.  As a matter of fact, the other argument is equally fallacious. Treason is not mentioned in the British Act.  Does the Deputy really consider these circumstances that a man can be convicted of treason against England and be allowed after his sentence of death was commuted, to practise as a dentist?  Has he ever considered that the word &ldquo;felony&rdquo; in fact includes treason? 
     
     
      
       That is what I asked. If it does, why include it here? 
     
     
      
       We are establishing an Act of this particular kind which will be more in accord with the present division of offences.  The British Act in regard to the old division of crimes was felony and misdemeanour. Then there came along a Medical Act after the word &ldquo;treason&rdquo; had been more or less elevated to a category by itself, though it is still stated in the law books to be strictly a form of felony.  The British did not think it wise, simply because of the Medical Act coming along, to make a change in the Medical Act in the classification of crimes which they had established under the system of jurisprudence. We have a more modern classification of treason, felony, and misdemeanour.  We think that treason is sufficiently big to have it elevated. even though it is included in the term &ldquo;felony.&rdquo; What is treason?  The levying of war against the State.  Is it asserted here that anybody can playact at levying war against the State and thereafter be allowed to pull the teeth of Irish nationals?  That is what it comes to.  The Deputy has talked   about the Government convicting men of treason.  No Government ever convicts a man of anything.  The courts convict a man of treason, and if the courts have convicted a man of treason I say it is proper and right after that man was sentenced to death and his sentence was commuted to a certain period, that when he comes out he should not be allowed to practise dentistry unless some special circumstances can be pleaded as to warrant the bringing in of a special Act to enable him to go on the register again.  There is no way for him to come round from the English register and practise here.  If the Deputy gets somebody to examine books of law he will find that that term &ldquo;treason&rdquo; is strictly included in the term &ldquo;felony.&rdquo; You find by all sorts of implications and statements that treason is included in the word &ldquo;felony.&rdquo; To say that a man can be a traitor in England and still practise dentistry is an absurd proposition. 
     
     
      
       I asked the question why treason is put in if it is included in the category of felony.  There is no necessity to put it in.  The Minister misunderstood me on one point.  I asked: is it not possible if a man has never been on the Free State register. and if he applies to the British register and gets on it, to get on the Free State register? 
     
     
      
       Until he does something which entitles the Dental Board to put him off. 
     
     
      
       What is the good of that? 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy take it from me that the Free State Dental Board is supreme in the matter of erasing names and that no one can assert an English right in order to get on against the definite erasure or against conduct which would lead to erasure if the man had been previously practising in this country. 
     
     
      
       I am not speaking of erasure. 
     
     
      
       I am putting the other side of it also. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister referred to the word treason in connection with its meaning in England, and said that the word &ldquo;felony&rdquo; includes treason. I do not know if the Minister realises that there are several interpretations in the dictionary of the word &ldquo;treason.&rdquo; Treason is considered on different grounds in different countries using the English language.  At the same time, we have a Treasonable Offences Act, under which it may not mean that a man would have to wage war to be guilty of treason.  A man may be pulling a tooth and he may be found guilty of a treasonable act because he was harbouring an individual&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       He should be put off.  We are not going on the dictionary definitions of the word &ldquo;treason.&rdquo; We are going on case law. 
     
     
      
       On the Minister's interpretation. 
     
     
      
       The State has to go on it. 
     
     
      
       I want to say that our position in this is that we regard &ldquo;treason&rdquo; here as evidence of the continuation of party spirit.  In any country wherever there has been, between two parties, a conflict such as there has been in this country, you always find one party trying to use treason as a means of overcoming their opponents.  The introduction of that here is obviously a party matter, just as the definitions of treason here in the past have been party matters.  We are against that.  We think that an attempt to deal with matters of that kind in that spirit is trying to stop the tide with a pitchfork.  There are people on the other benches who were found guilty of treason.  We know what happened after 1916, when men were put off public boards because they were found guilty of treason.  Resolutions were erased off the minute books of public boards.  Is all that sort of thing going to continue?  We are against it on principle.  We think it is a wrong thing to introduce it at this particular stage, and quite irrespective of the arguments of Deputy Dr. Ryan, we are against it. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy has alluded to pre-1916 treason and the pr-1916 definitions of treason.  I am not alluding to anything of that sort, but to treason as defined and established by an Act of this State.  That is the interpretation which it will have under this Bill.  I do not know if Deputies realise the full force of what has just been said, that apparently the full and free flow of party politics in this country implies treasonable activity. That is, apparently, what Deputy de Valera means. 
     
     
      
       What I said was that the definitions of treason have represented only one party in the country. 
     
     
      
       There is an amendment to take a certain term out of the Bill before us, and the question arises as to what is intended to be effected by the omission of that term. What is intended to be the effect, we are entitled to know.  Talk about party spirit and the differences there are between the various political parties here does not get us anywhere.  Is there any person affected by the inclusion of this term in the Bill?  Is there any person whose name is going to be struck off the register of dentists?  If so, it is open to Deputy Dr. Ryan to explain what person there is who is at present subject to disability by reason of this term being included in the Bill. If there is not, we must take a line from this on.  Does Deputy Dr. Ryan, Deputy de Valera, or any other Deputy wish to preserve the right of a person to wage war against the State?  We ought to know. 
     
     
      
       Many persons under the Public Safety Act, the Treasonable Offences Act and other   Acts would be adjudged as guilty of treason.  We do not hold that these people have been guilty of treason, and we hope that there will be a majority in this House who will see that those classes of crime which are regarded as treason will be wiped out. 
     
     
      
       I do not want any woolly expressions about this matter. We are entitled to get a clear and explicit statement of the case for the people of this country.  Any person who wages war against the State, any person who shoots at and wounds or kills a Minister of the State or an officer of the State in order to bring about the overthrow of the Government of the State is guilty of treason and is a traitor.  We want no nonsense about this thing, having people great patriots who besmirched themselves, their names and their country's name by crimes that are disgraceful.  I want to know, and we are entitled to know, whether the excision of this term &ldquo;treason&rdquo; really means to entitle persons whose names are on the register of dentists for the future to commit treasonable acts and to wage war against the State. 
     
     
      
       I would like to say a word on this matter, to explain what my position would be if this amendment were put to a division. 
     
     I deprecate the feeling that is growing up that this question should be discussed as a matter between parties. I hold that it is not a matter as between parties.  I cannot agree with the assumption if this Government was out of office to-day or to-morrow or the next day, that thereby the crime of treason would disappear.  I must assume that if the Labour Party or if the Fianna Fail Party got into power the crime of treason would still remain, and if, as Deputy de Valera says&mdash;and assuming for the moment that I agree with him&mdash; the definition of treason is contained in the Treasonable Offences Act; or any of the other Acts he mentioned, if things are not as they should be, then it is open to the majority of the Deputies of this House to change them. But until they are changed they are the law of the land.  It is the duty of whatever party is returned to power,   whatever party has control of the State for the time being, to make the law, or to amend the law if they think it should be amended.  But while the law remains we cannot take up the position that although the law defining treason is there, there is, in fact, no such crime as treason. 
     I take it that when a person is convicted of treason it means that that person has been taken to the ordinary civil court and convicted of the offence by a jury.  If that is the position I can see no justification for allowing a man who is convicted of that crime to practise dentistry, while a man who would be convicted of a much smaller crime is prevented from doing so.  I take it that the crime of treason is one of the greatest crimes that could be committed, because it is a crime against the State, not against a party.  An offence against a party should certainly not be regarded as treason.  But treason, as I understand it, is a crime against the State, that is, against the whole people, and it is a crime which would justify the removal of a person from the dentists' register, so that if this amendment goes to a Division I must vote for the retention of the words in the Bill. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Connell is entitled, and he is right in doing so, to interpret this according to the way he thinks this question of treason is likely to be interpreted by any Government that may be in power. We have, especially those of us on these Benches, to view this matter in the light of the way we believe it will be interpreted under present conditions, and in order to arrive at some idea as to how the Bill, if it be passed with the word &ldquo;treason&rdquo; in it, would be viewed and would be acted upon by the present administration, to bear in mind what has happened in the past.  We are satisfied that under present conditions, if this were made the law of the land with the word &ldquo;treason&rdquo; included, it would be used most certainly for the furtherance of party spirit, and not for the betterment of peace and order in   this Free State.  That is our belief, and we have a great deal to go upon; we have the administration of the present Safety Act, as it is called, in the Free State area and by the Free State authorities. We have other acts done by that Government in our minds too.  They are more remote, but they are fresh in our minds.  We have in our minds the fact that without any law, or at least without any process of law, if these same authorities have not struck men off a register, they have gone so far, without bringing men to trial and getting them convicted, as to shoot them, and they have done that on more than one occasion.  Mr. Cosgrave is well aware of it&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       President Cosgrave. 
     
     
      
       President Cosgrave, if you like, or if he likes&mdash; the President, is it not, of the Executive Ministry of the Irish Free State?  I think that is the title.  They have done that before, and we are satisfied&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is not this a question of a conviction by a court? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;No person whose name shall have been erased from the register by the Board on account of his having been convicted of treason.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Would one of the special courts under the Public Safety Act be recognised as a court? 
     
     
      
       I do not know anything about that; that is a question of law, but I was wondering whether this was not a question of conviction by a court. 
     
     
      
       It is.  I am just saying how easily these people, by their own laws, laws that they brought into this House and got passed in time of panic, can do this.  They have been able to secure the passage of laws in times of panic, and we know how these laws have been administered.  We can envisage how a law of this kind, with these words in it, may be administered. 
     
     
        We can well imagine that from their doings in the past.  Though they are past, and though some years have gone by, nevertheless they are fresh in our minds.  We know what they are capable of and what they are capable of advising their Administration to do, and, therefore, we are not going, by any act of ours, to give them further powers in that direction.  There are still people in this country who are not content to accept the Twenty-six Counties as representing Ireland, or to accept the Twenty-six Counties as being the ultimate goal of Irish nationality&mdash;an Irish Free State for twenty-six counties&mdash;and there are probably dentists amongst the number of those men who are not prepared to accept President Cosgrave's arrangements with Mr. Lloyd-George, or Mr. Baldwin, who rules over England at present, or the Government of England, if you like, and agree that the arrangement about Irish affairs and the partitioning of our country are to last for all time.  I do not hope that a time will come when they will have to take arms again or have to go out and shoot anybody, English or Irish, to get that arrangement upset, but upset it will be, whether Mr. President Cosgrave or his Ministers like it or not.  Upset it will be.  It is not going to last, and there will be plenty of dentists, amongst others, as there were in the past, who will help in that work.  We are not going to stand for these young men to be taken out and shot, nor will we stand for them being struck off the register because they hold national ideals, the old ideals that Mr. President Cosgrave used to preach himself so often and which got him into jail and condemned to death in his time&mdash;all credit to him for it and all credit to those others who did similar things&mdash; nor are we going to stand for these ideals to be put under foot in our time. We are not going to allow anybody to be struck off the register and to be punished because he is true to the faith that our fathers handed down to us. That is our position.  If we were satisfied that this law, if it be passed, would be administered in the sense that the majority of Irish Nationalists would have in mind&mdash;treason against Irish   nationality, treason against an Irish Government, governing in Ireland under the full authority and with the free will of the people of Ireland&mdash;we certainly would not move this amendment. But under conditions such as we know them, with Ireland divided and partitioned and made a colony of England, as long as these conditions last we will not stand here and permit any law or any amendment, as far as we can prevent it, being put through without doing our best to see that the road is left open and clear for everybody&mdash;for the future John Mitchels, treason-felonists as they were in the past and will be again, to be free to do whatever little they can to bring about the final realisation of these ideals, to which we on these benches, at any rate, hope to remain faithful. 
     
      
       It is because I believe the Public Safety Act, as it is in existence at the moment, is not the ordinary law of the land, and will certainly not remain so for a very considerable time, and also because I believe that the administration of the law will not be carried out by this present Government of the Free State for all time, that I am in favour of the retention of this word &ldquo;treason&rdquo; in this clause.  As Deputy O'Connell stated, treason should not be taken to mean disloyalty to a party.  Treason means treachery to the whole community as a State, and it is because I subscribe to this State, as now constituted, not run by this party or by that party, but run by the people of this country, that I am in favour of the retention of this word. 
     
     
      
       I desire to support this clause, and I do not want to give a silent vote, if it is put to a division. I think it is time that we were done beating about the bush as to what we mean or do not mean by treason.  The plain common people that I represent cannot follow, all the time, the subtle reasoning of people who make treason and patriotism synonymous terms. Deputy O'Kelly spoke about a one and undivided Ireland, and expressed the hope that one day this country would be a united Ireland.  I want to say to the Deputy, and to others who think   like him, that if he desires to bring in the North, and make this an undivided Ireland, the contribution which he has made to this debate will not help in that direction.  If there is anything that will tend to make this country a united Ireland it is by making conditions, economic and political, in the Twenty-Six Counties so attractive as to bring our brothers in the North in. It is time we were done with this tomfoolery with regard to the definition of the word treason.  I hold that the word treason has been defined to my satisfaction by Deputy O'Connell.  I find myself again on this occasion, at least, in agreement with the President, when he asks here and now to have the attitude of the Fianna Fail Deputies defined in relation to the word treason.  I hold with the President this time, that any act directed against a Minister of this Government, whether it be assassination by the bullet, the bomb or the knife, is a treasonable offence, not against a party but against the whole State, and I will vote for the retention of the word in the clause for that reason. 
     
     
      
       While this country is overshadowed by Treason Acts, Coercion Acts and Public Safety Acts, we cannot discuss the word treason at all.  If we were working under a proper Constitution, a Constitution which, at present, is in such an extraordinary condition that one does not know under the Public Safety Act whether it is in existence or not, if the Public Safety Act had disappeared, and if it was not that one had to argue from history and   to look back and see that there has not been a year for the last 127 years in which there was not some sort of Coercion Act passed, then one might argue that the Public Safety Act may end next year, or the year after.  But in view of what has happened in the past, we must argue as to what is going to happen in the future.  The word treason has been always interpreted from the British point of view, and while the Public Safety Act is there it is capable of being interpreted under that Act in a most dictatorial manner by small groups belonging to one party.  We ought at least to try to exclude the region of dentistry from that kind of politics, which is simply a riot of fear and anger, because those have been always the methods behind treason in Ireland.  It has not been a question of treason against a real Constitution of the real Irish people. 
     
     
      
       I would not venture into this discussion at all only that I think some of the Ministers, and some Deputies, do not seem to realise what they are letting themselves in for.  I can foresee the time when the President and some of the Ministers are out of office, and when they may be quite anxious to become wandering dentists in Ireland.  If this word is allowed to remain in the Bill I fail to see how they will be able to undertake that profession, because I believe in 1914, in an outburst of patriotism, the Minister for Finance wrote an article in &ldquo;Irish Freedom&rdquo; in which he stated that any man who agreed to partition is a traitor and should be treated as such. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 53; Nil, 81. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Archie J. Cassidy. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Dan. Corkery. Martin John Corry.
 William R. Kent. Frank Kerlin. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killelea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben. Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. 
             Fred. Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon De Valera. James Everett. Frank Fahy. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Patrick Hogan (Clare). Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy.
 Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Henry Broderick. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. Patrick Clancy. James Coburn. John James Cole. Mrs. Margaret Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Richard Corish. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig James Crowley. John Daly. William Davin. Michael Davis. Peter De Loughrey. Eugene Doherty. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. Osmond Thomas Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. D.J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). 
             Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. Timothy Joseph Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Conner. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. William O'Leary. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. William Archer Redmond. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       That also disposes of amendment 30. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 29:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(4) The prescribed fees shall not exceed three guineas per annum.&rdquo; 
       It seems to me that there should be a major limit for the fee to be charged, more particularly because it is an annual fee, and in that way differs from the medical fee, which is a single one. 
     
     
      
       I would hesitate to accept this, because I think it is unwise to have a sum fixed which is to last over an undefined period in future. 
     
     
        Money values change, and the Board will have to regulate the amount of the fee by the amount of its expenditure in any year.  I think the dentists can be trusted to see that a board will not be appointed which will charge a higher fee than is necessary, and I think it would be unwise to put in any limit. 
     Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     Sections 25 and 26 agreed to. 
     SECTION 27. 
     
      
       I should like to ask the Minister what is the meaning of this section and what class of person it covers.  I think it is quite unnecessary. 
     
     
      
       The section was put in to meet one special case&mdash;the case of a dentist from another country who might be brought over here for demonstration purposes, and might have to give a demonstration of the drawing of teeth or other dental work. Unless there was some such section as this, it was considered that such a man might not be able to practise even for demonstration purposes.  I am not sure that actually that case is not met in another way, but that is the only case I have in mind which the section was meant to cover.  I would guarantee to have the matter looked into before Report Stage to see if the section could not be withdrawn, because outside that case it seems to give very wide powers to the Board to admit people without insisting upon examination or special type of qualification&mdash;simply trusting again to the Board, and I would rather see certain limitations put upon them. 
     
     
      
       Certain Deputies thought it would be possible under the section to admit people who would have difficulty in getting on the register, even where their cases go before the Special Committee. 
     
     
      
       It was not meant to cover that&mdash;only the case I spoke of. 
       Sections 27, 28 and 29 agreed to. 
       SECTION 30. 
     
     (1)  The Board may at any time and shall on the application of any   university or college in Saorstat Eireann having for the time being power to grant certificates of fitness to practise dentistry or dental surgery hold or appoint one or more members of the Board to hold an inquiry into the conduct of any person registered in the register who is alleged to have been guilty of infamous or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect. 
     (2)  If, as the result of an inquiry held under the foregoing sub-section or as the result of a report received by the Board from the General Dental Board of an inquiry held by such Board, the Board finds that the person in respect of whose conduct such inquiry was held was guilty of infamous or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect the Board shall send to the Medical Council a report of the facts proved at such inquiry and of the finding of the Board. 
     (3)  If the Medical Council, on consideration of a report sent to it under this section and after giving the person to whom such report relates and the university or college (if any) at whose instance the said inquiry was held a reasonable opportunity of being heard, is of opinion that the name of such person should be erased from the register, the Medical Council shall direct the Board to erase the name of such person from the register and the Board shall forthwith erase such name accordingly. 
     (4)  A person whose name has been erased from the register under this section may be restored to the register by order of the High Court under this Act or at any time by special direction of the Board given with the consent of the Medical Council but not otherwise, and when a person is so restored to the register by the Board the Board may with the consent of the Medical Council attach such conditions (including the payment of a fee not exceeding the fee which would be payable by such person for registration if he was then being registered for the first time) as the Board with the approval of the Medical Council thinks fit. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 31: 
       In sub-section (2) to delete all words after the word &ldquo;Board,&rdquo; line 39, to the end of the sub-section and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;may if it seems fit erase the name of such person from the register.&rdquo; 
       The effect of it will be to give full disciplinary power to the Dental Board, instead of asking them to report cases to the Medical Council.  In my view, the persons on the Dental Board will be persons of standing, and they should be allowed to do their own work.  It is not fair to ask them to report cases to the Medical Council.  In addition to that, there will be representatives of the Medical Council on this Board.  If they want to have any say in the matter, it is sufficient for them to have representatives on the Board.  However, I do not want to press the amendment, but would ask the Minister to consider it. 
     
     
      
       The amendment can be considered, but it changes the whole scheme of the measure.  It was very definitely stated on Second Reading that it was not proposed to give the Dental Board these penal or disciplinary powers, because it was thought that the larger body, which has been constituted with a view to inquiring into cases of infamous conduct in a professional sense and so on, could better decide even a technical dental matter, as long as they had competent witnesses from the Dental Board before them.  It was, therefore, thought better to allow the larger Board to have the control of penal cases.  It can be argued that it would be better to let the Dental Board have control of penal cases relating to its own profession, but that point has not been raised by the profession.  The medical and dental practitioners seem to be in agreement, and as long as that agreement existed I thought it was better to have the larger Board have control of penal cases.  If we are going to accept the amendment, I think consequentially we will have to look a little further into the constitution of the Board, and try to insist that it will have people appointed to it who will have certain qualifications, not necessarily   naming the qualifications, but seeing to it in the choice of personnel.  Unless the Deputy sees any great value in removing these cases from the larger to the smaller Board, I would ask him to hesitate before pressing it. 
     
     
      
       Did I understand the Minister to say that the dentists themselves did not ask for this amendment? 
     
     
      
       I have heard of no objection whatever to the Medical Board being given control in this matter. 
     
     
      
       It was from a source of that sort that the amendment was suggested to me. 
     
     
      
       There are two Dental Boards in the country and I have been in touch with them, and in addition I have been in considerable touch with professional men in Dublin and elsewhere, and I must say that I have not heard any objection put forward. If it were put forward and pressed with any vehemence, of course it would have to be considered.  I suggest to the Deputy that he should leave this over until the Report Stage, and in the meantime see for himself what is the strength behind the argument that he refers to. 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied with that. 
     
     
      
       I should like to say just a word to supplement what the Minister has stated on this matter.  All the amendments that I have put down were at the request of the Irish Dental Association, and I did not hear from any of them that they objected to the provision with regard to this. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 30 agreed to. 
       Sections 31, 32 and 33 agreed to. 
       SECTION 34 (3). 
     
     (3) Every person who after the establishment of the register wilfully and falsely represents himself to be or holds himself out as being a person who is registered in the register   or uses any name, title, addition or description (whether expressed in words or by letters or partly in words and partly by letters) implying that he is so registered shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding twenty-five pounds. 
     
      
       I move amendment No. 36:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3), line 54, to delete the words &ldquo;twenty-five pounds&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;one hundred pounds and not less than fifty pounds.&rdquo; 
       In moving this amendment I wish to point out that under Section 3 very serious offences are dealt with.  While my object is to make the punishment fit the crime I think that the punishment provided under this section is altogether inadequate.  I do not want to suggest that a man should be imprisoned or get bovine doses of castor oil, but I feel that the punishment provided under this section of the Bill should be increased.  I think that the fine, instead of being £25, should be £100 and not less than £50. 
     
     
      
       This is simply a matter of making the punishment fit a particular offence.  There are three sections dealing with certain offences and penalties, Sections 34, 35 and 43. Section 43 refers to people who practise &ldquo;or represent or hold themselves out whether directly or by implication as practising or being prepared to practise dentistry or dental surgery.&rdquo; The punishment under that section on summary conviction is a fine not exceeding £100 and not less than £50.  That is for the actual practising or holding oneself out to practise dentistry without having qualifications.  Under Section 35 it will be an offence for any person who is registered to describe himself &ldquo;by any name other than the name in which he is registered in the register,&rdquo; or to use any additional title except the one that he is entitled to have on the register.  The penalty there is very severe.  His name may, at the discretion of the Board, be erased   from the register, thus taking away his professional livelihood.  Section 34 deals with a very small matter.  Every person who, after the establishment of the register, &ldquo;wilfully and falsely represents himself to be or holds himself out as being a person who is registered in the register or who uses any name, title or description,&rdquo; etc., implying that he is so registered, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding £25.  This section is only intended to meet a minor type of offence, such for instance as might happen in the case of a person travelling on board ship. To acquire a certain social standing on the ship he might put himself down on the register as &ldquo;Mr. So and So, licensed dental surgeon,&rdquo; when in fact he had no right to use the title.  I think it would be a very difficult matter to get a court to accept a minimum penalty of £50 under this section. I am afraid what would happen is that the court would not convict at all, and therefore the effect aimed at under the section would be lost.  I think that if the Deputy considers the variety of the offences and penalties set out under these three sections he will see that it would not be wise to press this amendment. 
     
     
      
       I agree with the views expressed by the Minister.  I think a maximum penalty of £25 is quite sufficient. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to press the amendment unduly, but I would like to remind the House that offences under this section will be entirely against the public.  The public will be the sufferers because the culprit will have misrepresented himself as possessing qualifications to which he was not entitled. 
     
     
      
       The public cannot suffer until an unregistered and unqualified person begins to practise on the public.  When that point is reached there is an offence under Section 43 for which a very heavy penalty is provided. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister says that Section 43 meets my point I am satisfied. 
     
     
        Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     Section 34 agreed to. 
     Sections 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 agreed to. 
     SECTION 40 (2). 
     For the purpose of satisfying itself upon any matter or thing relating to which any such university or college as aforesaid is required under the foregoing sub-section to furnish information to the Medical Council, the Medical Council may appoint any person whether such person is or is not a member of the Medical Council to attend any qualifying examination held by such university or college and every person so appointed may attend such qualifying examination. 
     
      
       I move amendment 37:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (2) line 3 to delete the word `any' and substitute therefor the words `A fit and suitable.&rdquo;' 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 40, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 41. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 39:&mdash;&ldquo;To delete sub-section (6).&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       This was an error that crept into the previous draft. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 41, as amended, agreed to. 
       Section 42 agreed to. 
       SECTION 43 (2) 
       The provisions of the foregoing sub-section shall not operate to prohibit&mdash; 
       (a) the practice of dentistry or dental surgery by a registered medical practitioner who is at the date of the passing of this Act a registered medical practitioner, or&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       I move amendment 40: 
       In sub-section (2) (a), to delete all words after the words &ldquo;medical practitioner,&rdquo; line 18, down to and including the word &ldquo;practitioner,&rdquo; line 19. 
       I do not know that there is any necessity for me to repeat the arguments I used on the Second Reading of this Bill.  I must, I suppose, mention some of the great objections to this. The medical profession in its entirety is opposed to giving dentists protection against the general profession.  The Medical Associations are all in support of this amendment.  The fact of the matter is that the dentists are a branch of medicine and surgery, and they are seeking for protection against the practice of dentistry by any medical man. That is a principle that the medical profession object to entirely.  They say that they cannot allow a side line of the profession, if they can possibly help it under this Bill, from getting protection against the rest.  If we once assented to this principle there is no reason why we should not have to assent to the same principle with regard to ophthalmists, throat people, gynaecologists, and the rest.  That is one of the reasons why I am opposed to this, because we cannot assent to the principle that any one particular side-line of the profession should be protected against the rest. 
     
     I come now to the second part which I mentioned, that is, the selfishness of the dentists who are proposing this.  If the Government had made provision for the poor people throughout the country, one would have very little to say.  No such provision is made. Therefore it follows, with regard to large areas in the country, that the only treatment poor people can receive is from the dispensary doctor and at practically no cost to them.  If, on the other hand, they require this dental treatment, and if this amendment is not carried, then the doctor will be certainly within his right to do dental work.  If he refuses to do dental work, as was pointed out, the poor man may have to travel 25 miles, pay for the journey, and then pay the dentist.  This is a selfish move on the part of the dentist to prevent doctors making a   few shillings and doing work for the poor.  They want to keep all the work they can to themselves.  This is a selfish move and I need not enlarge further. I hope the Minister will accept the amendment, because it is absolutely essential that the medical profession should be able to do some dentistry, and the amendment hits at a wrong principle. 
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a man in Dundalk who is prohibited under the Bill, if he brings his patients to Newry, can operate as a medical man?  I am not speaking of Inverness or some outlandish place, but a man at present on the British register can do something in Newry which he cannot do in Dundalk.  The man who practises in Dundalk may go across the border. 
     
     
      
       As one in favour of medical inspection of school children, I support the amendment, because I realise that if medical inspection were put into operation and this clause remained in the Bill, it would mean that you should have a dental and a medical inspection.  I also agree with the Deputy's remark as to the rural districts.  It would be a hardship to everyone except the dentists themselves if the amendment is not inserted. Therefore, I support the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I beg to support the amendment.  Deputy Craig has dealt with most of the arguments in favour of it.  The part of it that appeals to me most is the fact that there is no alternative treatment for the poor and the destitute poor.  I have been a dispensary doctor for the past twelve years, and during that time I have often had destitute people come to me for extraction of teeth or for treatment and advice that would ordinarily be given by a dental surgeon if available.  I do not know how the Minister proposes that that section of the community should be looked after.  I am not aware of any doctor who wants to practise dentistry.  We would all be relieved if we had not to treat this class of case.  There is no other provision, and unless people are left without treatment at all, or there is some fund   to enable them to pay for treatment, I cannot see what is to become of them. The Minister, on the Second Reading, indicated that he was prepared to look on the extraction of teeth as a surgical operation, and that, under that heading, doctors in future could extract teeth. We have never looked upon it as a surgical operation, and, to my mind, it is no more a surgical operation than the paring of the Minister's corns, if he has any.  I have seen teeth become so loose in the socket that you could extract them with the naked hand, but I do not think that could be described as a surgical operation.  If it is a surgical operation, then under paragraph (c) of this section we find quite a number of classes of people are to be licensed to perform surgical operations. Pharmaceutical chemists, chemists and druggists or a licentiate apothecary can practice in urgent cases.  The only class of the community who now extract teeth and are not included in the category of people who can perform surgical operations are blacksmiths.  They are not included under paragraph (c). The practice of dentistry and dental surgery is defined in the first Section of this Act: 
       The expression &ldquo;practice of dentistry or dental surgery&rdquo; means the performance of any operation and the giving of any treatment, advice, opinion or attendance usually performed or given by a dental surgeon. That is a rather sweeping definition. 
       For all practical purposes, that means that a medical practitioner would require to have a notice put up in his surgery: &ldquo;Do not mention your mouth, because we cannot discuss that part of a person's anatomy without running the risk of offending against the law,&rdquo; if this Bill is passed.  Apart from the fact that there is no provision for the destitute poor, the dental profession has not spread its ramifications into the country sufficiently to place dental treatment within a reasonable distance of the destitute.  I hope the Minister will consider this point carefully and agree to accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I rise to support the amendment, because, as Deputy Sir James Craig has rightly said, there is no provision in this Bill for the desti-   tute poor.  I had a very striking case that brought the facts prominently to my notice last week.  A poor man told me that his wife went to the Dental Hospital to have her teeth extracted and that, in order to have the job done she would have to pay a fee of 5/-.  There was no one else in the city to do the extraction, and if this amendment is not carried it will mean in future that the very poor people must go without dental treatment at all. 
     
     
      
       It must have been overlooked by Deputy Craig and Deputy Ward that under our present Local Government laws any dispensary doctor can send eight patients, requiring dental treatment, to the district hospital.  We are doing it in Waterford, and I suppose the same holds good through the Saorstat, so the only treatment doctors do, as far as dentistry is concerned, is the extraction of a tooth. We know that if a large number of teeth are to be extracted&mdash;we are not called on often&mdash;the patients are sent to the General Hospital.  I fail to see where the poor will be hit in this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I also would like to support the amendment, and in doing so I want just to draw attention to the fact that these two amendments, 40 and 41, must really be considered together.  It will not do to put up sub-section (b) as a reason for not granting amendment 40.  With reference to what Deputy White has said, I do not think that that really meets the case at all, because, in very many cases, it would mean that a patient would have to be sent a very long way in order to receive dental treatment in a dental hospital.  Further, saying that a doctor would have power in an urgent case to extract teeth would only open the door to a definition of what is or is not an urgent case, and it would be impossible to decide what was an urgent case.  I hope the Minister is prepared to accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       It is with some temerity I intervene in a debate which has been participated in largely by experts, but there are a few points which occur to me.  I quite see that there are good grounds for the objection raised by   Deputy Ward, that is, that dental services for the poor would be interfered with.  I would like to know from those putting forward this amendment whether, if it were adopted, there is anything to prevent a medical practitioner who would not be under the control of the Dental Board from specialising in dentistry, making dentures and devoting himself almost entirely to the practice of dentistry.  That is a point I would like to have cleared up. 
     
     
      
       There is nothing to prevent it. 
     
     
      
       I am against this section inasmuch and in so far as it prevents a doctor, a medical practitioner, from the full practice of his profession.  We do not ask the right to draw teeth merely as a privilege. We are entitled to draw teeth as part of our training.  Every doctor, or at least every qualified doctor, has put in a study of anatomy, physiology and pathology of the mouth.  A dentist is allowed to specialise in the treatment of the mouth without having studied the anatomy of the rest of the body. That is a great privilege for a dentist. But the doctor has to make a study of the whole body, from the crown of the head to the toe nails.  That should be no reason why the mouth should be reserved as a special subject for dentists. It is a very serious thing in so far as it is an encroachment on the rights of the medical practitioner, and for that reason we must resist it.  Now, a dentist is a very privileged person in being allowed to practise a section of medicine without doing the whole lot. It would be just as reasonable for a midwife, because she gets a smattering of training in midwifery, to come along and claim that a doctor should not be allowed to do any midwifery cases.  I think this is only putting in the thin end of the wedge and making a precedent for that and such things. 
     
     Again, would it not be very awkward in a dispensary in the country if a doctor were to be debarred from practising any dentistry?  Potential patients may say: &ldquo;If this doctor cannot draw teeth, what can he do?&rdquo; Moreover, it will be a great hardship on the patient, because there are several rural districts   where the nearest dental hospital would be six to ten miles away.  I do accept that the doctor who is well trained in surgery of the mouth and in extraction of teeth in which he has become efficient by practice&mdash;sometimes, I admit, at the expense of the patient; in that he is no exception&mdash;is not qualified to practise dentistry.  I do not see why a doctor should be debarred from dentistry.  I do not want the doctor to be in the position when a patient comes in, that he is to be a piece of statuary in the surgery, a piece of surgical incompetence.  In fact, impotence is the proper word in which to describe it.  We do not ask for this as a privilege, but as a right, simply because we are trained in the anatomy and treatment of the mouth as well as in the treatment of the rest of the body. There is a great deal in a doctor having full knowledge of the entire body. Very often the fact of a man's knowledge being limited to the mouth will be a serious matter for the patient. The dental practitioner will only know about the mouth, and he will find that sometimes what is wrong with the mouth and the teeth is only a secondary manifestation of the disease that has its primary origin in some other part of the body.  It would be a serious thing for the patient if the practice of dentistry is limited entirely to dentists. 
     
      
       The Minister said there was nothing to prevent a medical man from practising dentistry.  Any objection to that could very easily be got other by putting in, in the Report Stage, that nobody except he is on the dental list, will be entitled to sue for his fees. The medical man will be allowed to sue for his fees if he is on the dental list. The medical man could be allowed to practise dentistry, but in order to get paid for his work he should be on the register.  To my mind, the difficulty could be got over in that way.  The medical man then could practise dentistry for his own amusement if he likes. 
     
     
      
       These arguments in connection with the amendment turn on two points&mdash;First, that if the amendment be not accepted, the   poor have to suffer, and, secondly, medical men are going to be deprived of certain of their present rights and privileges.  Now, the time may have arrived when this field of medical work may have to be carved out, and when we should insist on specialised qualifications before you allow that work to be done.  On the other matter, which is more important, I stated, not as Deputy Ward said&mdash;that I was prepared to look upon teeth drawing as a surgical operation&mdash;but I stated that I was so advised that that was the interpretation likely to be put upon it.  It comes to this, that after consultation with dentists and doctors, this point has been put to the Department that medical men should be allowed to extract teeth, and, secondly, that medical men should be allowed to give treatment by drugs in certain cases. It was as distinctly stated then as anything could well be that the majority of medical men do not want to go in for dental surgery.  They do not want to deal in dentistry or anything like that. 
     
     We looked for an amendment which would meet those two points, and we believe that we have got it in (b), which reads: &ldquo;The performance by a registered medical practitioner of any surgical operation in connection with the tissues of the mouth or jaws.&rdquo; I was informed that that particular phrase covered the extraction of teeth. Then it went on further to state the giving of any dental treatment in urgent dental cases.  To me, and certainly to the drafter of this amendment, it seemed that if a poor man came into a medical dispensary and was suffering, and that the alleviation of the suffering was not in the extraction of the teeth but in some other type of dental treatment, it would be regarded as an urgent case if there were either no dentist there to do it, or if there was no dentist to do it there free.  The word &ldquo;urgent&rdquo; covers that case.  It was explained to me that the word &ldquo;urgent&rdquo; was capable of such wide interpretation that it did not matter if we went the whole length, and I accepted that.  Deputy Fahy has raised the point as to a medical man being allowed to practise dental surgery. Why should anyone become a dentist   when it is going to cost less to become a surgeon?  In addition to that, there is an annual fee in the case of a dentist, whereas the medical man only pays one fee.  Are we to turn back and say that for the future we do not want any dentists, that we only want medical men, and that some of them will specialise in dentistry?  As far as making payments are concerned, it costs more at the moment to become a qualified dentist than to become a qualified medical man. 
     
      
       Question. 
     
     
      
       It is a fact. Then, counter to that, the medical course lasts a year longer.  There is more or less a balance in the calculation of those who are desirous of sending their sons to dental work as to whether they should let them become medical practitioners or whether they will be content to allow them to specialise in dentistry at a greater cost to themselves. There is a further small point. A fee would have to be paid annually in the case of dental practitioners, whereas the medical man only pays a single fee.  He is done with his registration after paying one fee, but the dentist has to pay a fee each year.  Of course, that matter could be met by an amendment.  Any registered medical practitioner who wished to hold himself out for the full practice of dentistry must register himself on the dental register and pay a fee annually.  It could be done in that way if that were considered a good thing. 
     
     I think Deputy White has met the point as to the poor man.  Generally an urgent case will be sent to the District Hospital, and there the patient could be attended by a dentist, and, if not by a dentist, by a registered medical practitioner, the case on the face of it being an urgent dental case. It is a matter for the House to decide. It is simply a matter of argument to find out what is the best thing to do in the circumstances.  The second section was designed to meet the point put to me by the medical representatives and agreed to by the dental representatives. Medical men wanted to be allowed to extract teeth and give dental treatment by drugs in certain cases.  The dentists had no objection   to medical practitioners having that power.  On the other hand, the medical men said they had no desire to enter into full dental practice and the dentists said they would object to medical men entering into such practice. The amendment was designed to meet the case put up.  It has not yet been proved that it fails to meet the case. 
     The simpler thing is to accept the amendment, but I think there will have to be other reactions touching on such points as insisting on the medical men desiring to practise dentistry, registering and paying dental fees. 
     
      
       There are a few matters which I would like to mention to the Minister.  As regards the specialisation of a dentist, I would like to say that a man may specialise in matters affecting the eye, but that in no way debars any medical practitioners from practising on and treating the eye. Then we must consider cases where there are no local dentists.  There may be great inconvenience there.  Our attitude is that we ask to be left in our present position.  This Bill is circumscribing the practice of the medical practitioner in a way that no existing Dentists Bill has done. If the Minister thinks it is not advisable to send a patient to the dispensary doctor, then the patient can only have recourse to the local blacksmith with his sparking irons and tongs. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say how many hospitals there are in the 26 counties such as were referred to by Deputy White?  What would be the radius covered by each hospital? I think the Minister indicated the right line when he suggested accepting the amendment and introducing a further amendment on Report requiring any doctor who wished to follow dentistry as a means of livelihood to put himself on the dental register and pay the fees. The great majority of doctors, I am convinced from what I have heard, do not want to practise dentistry at all. 
     
     
      
       In any county hospital, even if there is not a dentist attached, the medical officer can requisition a dentist to do any necessary operation as regards the teeth, and the ambulance   can be sent out for the patient if necessary. 
     
     
      
       A distance of perhaps twenty or forty miles? 
     
     
      
       I would like to remind the Minister that a fully registered medical practitioner could, on applying to the Royal College of Surgeons, get a modified examination if he desired to enter on the dental register and take up dental practice.  His knowledge of anatomy and his general hospital work would be accepted if he were desirous of seeking a dental licence.  The Minister mentioned that some alteration would have to be made in that connection if, later on, medical men were desirous of taking up dental practice. A medical man already possesses three-fourths of the qualifications required in connection with dentistry. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister prepared to accept the amendment?  One amendment will include the other, because one practically depends upon the other. 
     
     
      
       Would the two points of view be met if the words &ldquo;urgent dental cases&rdquo; were omitted? Then there would be the position indicated by the Minister, debarring medical practitioners from the full practice of dentistry until they had registered. 
     
     
      
       I do not know that I get the point.  If the phrase &ldquo;in urgent dental cases&rdquo; is to be dropped, then the position is that the sub-section will read: &ldquo;The provisions of the foregoing sub-section shall not operate to prohibit... (b) the performance by a registered medical practitioner of any surgical operation in connection with the tissues of the mouth or jaws, or the giving by a registered medical practitioner of any dental treatment, advice or attendance.&rdquo; I think that is the same as to say that a registered medical practitioner shall be enabled to practise dentistry.  It is the same as saying the registered medical man can do all dentistry. 
     
     
      
       I would urge the Minister to accept the amendment.   I do not think what has been suggested by Deputy de Valera makes any improvement. 
     
     
      
       I think it is the same thing but more complicated. 
     
     
      
       Is Deputy Craig suggesting that we drop the last line of sub-section (2) (a)? 
     
     
      
       I appeal to the Minister to accept the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Let the amendment be accepted for the time being and I can then see if it is necessary to put down for discussion on the Report Stage amendments to the amended section with a view to making some difference as between a specialised dental practitioner and the medical man who wishes to do dentistry. There are very few Deputies, particularly medical Deputies, who will go the full length suggested by Deputy Hennessy. He says this Bill is circumscribing the area of our medical practitioners. I have had it from medical men that 99 out of 100 never did any dental cases except the extraction of teeth and the giving of treatment by drugs in urgent cases.  If Deputy Dr. Hennessy's point is to be taken in, that statement made to me is entirely wrong.  It is, that all medical men want to assert a right over all dental practice.  I did not understand from anybody but Deputy Dr. Hennessy that that was so. 
     
     
      
       I would suggest to the Minister that if he wants to get authoritative opinion on medical matters, he should always consult the body representing the profession.  He has failed to do that&mdash;I am sure through no fault of his own&mdash;and hence the trouble. 
     
     
      
       I feel rather shy in intervening amongst experts, but my concern is to preserve the facilities hitherto provided for the poor.  A considerable number of persons are not able to pay fees and cannot go ten or twenty miles without considerable inconvenience. I ask, no matter what the views of the medical men are, that the facilities for the poor shall not be curtailed. 
     
     
     
      
       I propose to accept amendment No. 40 and also No. 41, which is consequential, and to have inserted in sub-section (a) a proviso to the effect that a registered medical practitioner who holds himself out for full practice in dentistry shall register himself on the ordinary dental register. 
       Amendments 40 and 41 put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 43, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 44, 45 and 46 and the First Schedule stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECOND SCHEDULE. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Dail to pass the Second Schedule on the basis that, having passed it without discussion, I will ask to have the Bill put down for Report to-morrow&mdash;it will not be taken to-morrow&mdash;and, prior to the Report Stage, I will have a motion put down recommitting the Bill to a Special Committee, with particular reference to the Second Schedule. 
     
     
      
       Will the recommittal of the Second Schedule with the proviso, with reference to persons who will be allowed to have their names on the register after passing an examination, permit the discussion of cases where it is not suggested to have a second examination?  I think the reference should be wider. 
     
     
      
       There is no doubt that the recommittal of the Second Schedule simpliciter does confine you to persons passing a special examination.  If it is desired to go outside that, the Minister can, before tomorrow, find a suitable form of words to do so. 
     
     
      
       I agree that it is desirable to have it widened. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Second Schedule and Title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Progress ordered to be reported. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Bill reported with amendments. 
     
     
        Report Stage ordered for Thursday, November 10th. 
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - FINANCIAL MOTION (NO. 3) (RESUMED). 
     &ldquo;That it is expedient to amend the law relating to Customs and Inland Revenue (including Excise) and to make further provision in connection with Finance.&rdquo;&mdash;(Minister for Finance.) 
     
      
       So far as I have followed the debate on this question, the point at issue is, I think, whether, by a system of tariffs and prohibition of imports, the economic policy of this country is going to be changed so that we are to become, instead of an agricultural country, a country of manufacturers of textiles and other goods.  As a free trader, I disagree in toto with the theories of the Fianna Fail Party and also, as a free trader, I disagree with the practice of the Government Party&mdash;I will not call it a policy, as they do not appear to have an economic policy, but they have many malpractices.  I also find myself in disagreement with the next largest Party, the Labour Party, because I think they are largely responsible for having forced the Government into a policy of what is called &ldquo;selective tariffs.&rdquo; We had a long debate the other day on unemployment, and during the course of that debate, Deputy Little, I think, gave us a long extract from a primer on international finance. I do not know why a member of that particular Party has been reading primers on international matters, because that Party do not want to have any communication with people outside. I think it would be a very excellent thing for members of this House if somebody would read a primer on economics or distribute copies amongst Deputies who were going to talk on that subject.  I take one particular in stance.  It has been stated by the Minister for Finance that the yield from the tax on boots is something like £272,000, and that that is the amount of money which the purchasers of boots have to pay in consequence of the tariff.  That statement has not been   made by him alone, but it has been generally admitted by every speaker who touched on the point.  It is quite a fallacious statement. 
     
     
      
       I said, as a matter of fact, that we recognised that that was about the amount of revenue which a threepenny tax on tea would give us, and that we reduced the tax on tea at the same time as the boot tariff was imposed so that no extra taxation was collected from the people. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I am not talking about tea, but a tariff on boots.  The statement has been made that the only difference to the purchasers of boots is this £272,000.  That is wrong, and I think I will be able to show by rather simple figures that it is not alone the amount the revenue gains by the tariff that a purchaser has to pay, but he has to pay in addition to that a profit to two people.  Take a pair of imported boots that cost £1.  On that £1 3/- is put on at once when the boots reach this country.  Therefore, that pair of boots costs the wholesaler £1 3s.  The wholesaler is entitled to a profit when he is selling to a retailer.  I will put that profit down at, say, 10 per cent., which is not excessive.  That would make the wholesaler's profit amount to 2/4, and the selling price of the wholesaler would be £1 5s. 4d.  The ordinary retail profit of people who sell boots and articles like that is about 33? per cent. That percentage on £1 5s. 4d. brings the cost of the pair of boots to the purchaser at £1 13s. 9d.  Take a pair of boots which cost £1 and on which there is no tariff.  The wholesaler's 10 per cent. profit would bring the price to £1 2s.  The retailer's profit on the £1 2s. would be 7/4, so that the purchaser pays £1 9s. 4d., the difference in the price of the two pairs of boots being 4/5.  Instead of paying 3/- in the £ the purchaser has to pay 4/5.  Consequently the Minister for Finance is quite wrong when he says that the total amount paid extra by the purchasers of the boots is £272,000.  It is as much as half that again.  The manufacturers of boots in this country are not so philanthropic   that they do not, in calculating their prices, take into consideration that boots are protected, and they would get a little bit extra profit as a consequence.  There is no question about that.  I think the Minister for Finance will admit that the cost of boots has gone up, and I think the figures relating to home manufacture and imports will prove that.  As the quality of boots has gone down three pairs are required now where two would have done before. 
     
     Assuming that the Irish manufacturers take advantage, as they can do, of the 3/- tariff and put it on his costs, he could still sell a pair of boots at 2/1 less to the purchaser.  Supposing the boot is the same as the English boot sold at £1, and that the Irish manufacturer charged £1 3s., there is the profit to the wholesaler of 7/8, and when the 33? per cent. profit is added to that, the price to the purchaser is £1 10s. 8d., and with the tariff on the manufacturer has the advantage of 3/1.  It is quite understandable that when that position of affairs is here the Irish manufacturer sees that by putting on the extra 3/- which the tariff allows him to do, he can undersell the foreign article by 3/1.  That is one aspect of the question.  I was rather surprised the other day to hear the President make a case&mdash;and I do not think he was very serious about it, as he was fishing in the Opposition waters and was throwing an odd fly for them to catch&mdash;that the Irish farmer who did not buy stocks and shares, and did not drink or use tobacco, paid no taxes whatever.  Then he went on to say that if we wore Irish boots&mdash;I think he forgot clothes&mdash;the farmer still pays no tax.  Any man buying Irish boots is paying the 3/- tax, if not more, and the same applies to Irish clothes.  There is no question but that every tax is passed on to the consumer.  Now we come to the cost of living.  Every one of these tariffs increases the cost of living.  At present the farmer's produce is as low as the pre-war value, if not a shade lower, and for everything he buys he is paying not alone a higher rate but double in some cases.  I think it was Deputy Morrissey who said that the farmer should be the last person to talk about tariffs, for he bought less than   anybody else.  That is a most extraordinary statement.  The farmer is supposed to be an individual who neither drinks nor smokes, and practically does not wear clothes, and evidently he does not wash his face and use any tariffed soap. 
     From what we heard on the Unemployment Bill perhaps Deputy Morrissey was right in jumping to that conclusion. Suppose we change from an agricultural to an industrial country, I would like to know from those who are trying to get every article not only tariffed but prohibited from coming in, who are to be the customers of all the factories and industries that are to be established under the system they advocate? Are they going to live by taking in each other's washing?  As far as I understand, the only incentive to manufacturers, whether of soap, candles or tobacco, is to provide for the agricultural population, which is three-fourths of the whole population.  Yet we are told if we all flock into the towns and go into industries this country will be prosperous&mdash;prosperous, as I say, by taking in each other's washing and taking people off the lands.  Deputy de Valera was taunted the other evening with having no policy, although he said he had a clear-cut policy.  It was the Minister for Industry and Commerce, I think, who quoted him largely, and who said he could see no clear-cut policy from Fianna Fail.  Perhaps I did not read the extracts which were quoted from Deputy de Valera's speech on the unemployment question, or at least I did not stress the parts read by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, but I certainly saw a very clearly defined economic policy in Deputy de Valera's speech.  He said his first position in this matter was that a person in this country, to use his own terms, &ldquo;enmeshed in modern society,&rdquo; should have the rights as if they were in a savage state; in other words, that we have no right in modern society to take the savage instinct out of it.  The second position was, he argued, that we should provide all the food necessary.  With that I quite agree.  He went on to say he was not quite clear that we could provide all the clothing required, but that we could go to near to providing 50 per cent.  As to providing shelter, he   had doubts about timber, but he thought that we could get a substitute in the country which would enable us to leave out the question of timber, and consequently that we could build our own houses.  Food, clothing and shelter &mdash;that is what I might call the primer of economics; we begin with that.  But he developed that a little further, and having satisfied himself that we could have food, clothing and shelter, and that we would take means to see that the little bit of savage that is in us remains in us, and that we have all the rights a savage has, he went on to say that we should establish our economic policy so that, in five years' time, we could be completely isolated.  His own economic policy is to isolate us at once.  But allowing him five years, in five years' time we were to establish our own economic policy, as if we were going to be isolated. 
     I wonder what would happen in the meantime?  What would the agriculturalists be doing if there was to be no export trade at the end of five years? Of course, the first thing that would happen would be that all the breeding animals would be sold out of the country.  The second would be that all the boys and girls who were not wanted on the land, and saw no prospects in it, would also leave.  Under these economic conditions I could visualise in five years' time, or perhaps a little afterwards, a period when you would see a man going out with a stone axe, slaying a wild boar and bartering it with a man who had a lamb skin that he could use as a loin-cloth to cover his waist.  That is a very high social ambition. These are the class of economics that I call economics of the Stone Age, and I do not want any Stone Age economics in this country. 
     The Minister for Industry and Commerce quoted Deputy de Valera as saying that it was the primary duty of agriculture to provide food for the people.  That is quite true, but the Minister did not accept the word &ldquo;agriculture&rdquo;; he said &ldquo;we will substitute the word `farmers' for it.&rdquo; I do not know why he should substitute the word &ldquo;farmers&rdquo; for &ldquo;agriculture,&rdquo; because in reality I think that is what is happening all along, and that is what makes us lose sight of the importance   of agriculture, because as far as my experience goes, the farmers have been the butt of this House, have been sneered at from all sides, simply because they are farmers. 
     
      
       Misrepresentatives of the farmers&mdash;the ranchers. 
     
     
      
       Excuse me.  There were more people sneering at them than yourselves, although you did your part. 
     
     
      
       We have twenty-three farmers here. 
     
     
      
       In order to score a point the Minister substituted the word &ldquo;farmers,&rdquo; and he asked how the farmers were to be paid for supplying the food.  Deputy Flinn interrupted by saying that they would be paid by goods.  Of course that is quite right, and that exactly follows out my idea as to what the condition of affairs would be if the Stone Age economics were to come.  We would have internal barter. We cannot have external barter, because that is heresy so far as Fianna Fail is concerned, and it goes to show that this internal barter is part and parcel of the Stone Age economics which Deputy de Valera wants to put on the country. To give another little illustration of the relative importance, so far as the Government and other Parties in this House are concerned, of agriculture and industry, I will give one or two examples.  In drafting his amendment to the motion on Unemployment the Minister for Industry and Commerce was very careful to put &ldquo;industry&rdquo; first and &ldquo;agriculture&rdquo; second, although he was working agriculture for all it was worth on that occasion.  But it was &ldquo;industry&mdash;agriculture&rdquo;; it was not &ldquo;agriculture&mdash;industry.&rdquo; 
     
     I hold that agriculture is our principal industry, and that agriculture in all cases should come first, but it does not.  We were discussing questions arising out of tariffs on beads and margarine, tariffs on the food of the people and on the piety of the people.  The total revenue from rosary beads was something like £8,000, and from margarine something like £200,000 odd.  But what I want to point out is this, that   here we are, after two days' debate&mdash;we had a long debate on the first resolution and we have another to-day, which will probably be prolonged for some time&mdash; these things were of such outstanding importance to the State that the time of the representatives of the State must be taken up for days discussing taxes on the food and on the piety of the people. I had a few questions down touching matters of a little more importance, such as the little pork trade that this country is going in for and of which it has the monopoly across the water, where it has no competitor.  This trade was worth £4,000,000 in six months.  I asked why it was that the industry was not organised by the Government in such a way as would facilitate farmers to get this pork on the English market in proper condition.  I asked why the Government did not provide crates, which are the proper means for sending it, and I asked some other questions, but I was told by the Minister for Lands and Agriculture that it did not matter.  Four million pounds does not matter, but £8,000 for the bead industry is of so much importance that we are kept here discussing it. 
     A scheme was financed with a paltry £15,000 to provide loans for machinery, to enable farmers to purchase machinery if they had not the full amount of money necessary.  These were not free grants; they were loans for three years.  The farmers had to pay one-third of the money down and the rest in three instalments, and on top of that had to pay interest at the rate of 61⁄2 per cent.  It was no gift to the farmers; there was nothing for nothing there.  But when that fund ran out the Minister for Lands and Agriculture did not come to the House and say: &ldquo;Here is a most important thing for the harvest of the country. We want a supplementary loan.&rdquo; There was not a word about that.  It was let peter out, and there was not a penny from August to enable agriculturalists to get loans for potato diggers or any other agricultural implements which they required for the harvest.  These are matters affecting millions of money and the very foundations of the State, but we are told that they do not matter, that margarine and beads are the things that matter in Ireland to-day.  We will   have to change that policy.  President Cosgrave the other day told Deputies on these benches that their policy was economically a heretical one, and at the end of his speech he said: &ldquo;We have taxed fifty-five per cent. of the stuff coming into this country which is taxable.&rdquo; So that he is a self-admitted fifty-five per cent. heretic.  I am a fifty-five per cent. heretic and I am boasting of it.  I want to make President Cosgrave and others, if they have any regard for this country, a hundred per cent. free traders and let the Stone Age economists paddle their own canoe in future. 
     There is another matter which may not come within the scope of this debate, but having regard to the irrelevancies of the debates during the last fortnight or so, I think it may not be out of place to refer to it now.  I saw in this morning's paper that the fluke was rampant again.  Some Ministers may not like to hear the word &ldquo;fluke,&rdquo; because we know what happened in 1924-5, when the fluke was killing the cattle all over the country, and when it laid the foundation of the present poverty-stricken condition of the farmers. But the fluke is with us to-day. Are we going to have three days debate on the fluke and on how the farmers should be compensated for their losses, just as we have had a debate on margarine and beads?  I think this is a matter that we should be discussing to-day instead of the question of putting 3d. a pound on margarine.  Take a parallel case; suppose one of the industries that have been bolstered up by the Trade Loan Act&mdash;and I do not object to the Trade Loan Act, or to helping industries by subsidies or otherwise if we can do it&mdash;but suppose one of these industries was blown down by a storm and all the machinery destroyed the Trade Loan Act would immediately indemnify the owners and new machinery would be bought.  We have financed money-making machines, but there is not a penny to restore the farmer.  The farmer's machinery is not hand made; it is the cow, the pig and the hen. 
     When the farmer loses his cows, his pigs and his hens there is no fund to help him to re-stock.  That is more important than dealing with beads and   margarine, and I hope provision will be made immediately to deal with it. That is more important even than unemployment, and I hope that a Committee will be set up to see that a fund is established to provide against losses by fluke, and that it will not be left dormant until next year or the year after when we have wakened up to the fact that there are neither pigs, cattle nor poultry in the country.  The condition of agriculture is, I think, amply reflected in this House.  The fostering of agriculture as a policy by the Government is also exemplified by the dwindling representation of the agricultural classes.  They are in a state of despair, and it is shown on these Benches.  The farmers' representatives, or if you like to call them the Farmers' Union representatives, who are here are absorbed into the Government. I do not know whether they are going to carry out their agricultural policy or not, or whether their presence will have a beneficial effect on governmental policy.  If we believe that the farmer is the man who is keeping the bread and butter in our mouths, as I believe, and if we regard him and his industry in that light, we would not have the land of this country water-logged, the banks of the streams and rivers falling in and silting them up, thus destroying land that should be reclaimed and brought into cultivation. Drainage was discussed at great length and is a set-off to the business we are discussing now&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy would prove the relevancy between drainage and tariffs. 
     
     
      
       We are discussing economics, and that, I believe, brings it within the scope of this debate.  The reclamation of land of this country from its water-logged condition from the economic point of view is of importance. The Minister for Finance stated the other day that so far no economic drainage scheme had been presented.  I do not agree with him in his ideas of economic drainage schemes.  The Minister instanced a case where £2,000 would be spent on providing a drainage scheme which would provide benefit to the extent of £500. 
     
     
     
      
       I do not want to interrupt the Deputy, but I do not see the relevancy between drainage schemes and tariffs.  It will not put the Deputy in order to repeat the word economics in every second sentence.  The Deputy will have to come to the motion and show where the relevancy lies. 
     
     
      
       I will do so.  The question of tariffs is one that affects the farmers very materially.  It is the farmers who have to pay the tariffs, and if they have, they are entitled to have drainage done on their land in order to enable them to pay the tariffs. 
     
     
      
       That is another matter&mdash;what the farmers are entitled to under the drainage schemes.  That is outside the motion we are considering, and is the law.  The Deputy is referring to drainage schemes, and I cannot allow him. 
     
     
      
       I thought you did not grasp&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy a farmer? 
     
     
      
       He is a Deputy and that is good enongh for me. 
     
     
      
       This question of tariffs is a vital one.  I do not want to strain the patience of the House to try and bring in anything that would be out of order.  We are discussing tariffs, and while Deputies are laughing to-day I think they might have much better laughed yesterday and other days on the unemployment question with regard to the want of relevancy in the speeches.  We are now discussing an economic question that affects agriculturists, who are 75 per cent. of the community. They must get the means of paying these tariffs that we are going to impose, and the only way to enable them to do so is to provide them with something extra.  How is it going to be done?  By reclaiming the land that is not now in cultivation.  If there must be tariffs, give the agriculturists the means of paying for them.  How is it going to be done?  Certainly not with rosary beads.  With an elaborate drainage scheme, you can assist the industry by getting Irish planks, wheelbarrows,   Irish picks, Irish spades, and drags, and putting them into the hands of the small farmer to clean and drain his water-logged land.  Will that merely reclaim the land?  The fact is that the land would be dry, the stock would be healthy, the people would be healthy, the harvest would be earlier, crops would be free from disease and the land would be free from fluke and hoose.  If that work were done first, and if tariffs were left aside the economic condition of this country would be much better than it is at present.  The other day I stood up as a free trader, and I was backed by Deputy Cole.  He did not like to deal with beads, but he dealt with the margarine question.  I think there is a body of silent Deputies here who are free traders, and the sooner they make their voices heard the better for the farmer before what is called the tariff ramp is allowed to continue.  I can assure Deputies that otherwise the farming industry will be lost, and there will be nothing to put tariffs on. 
     
     
      
       I never knew before that O'Hanlon was an old Anglo-Saxon name, but I am afraid that henceforward Deputy O'Hanlon will be under the stigma of being, if not in name, if not at heart, an Englishman.  I notice for some time that anyone who has anything to say about farmers, and certainly anyone who has a good word to say for free trade, is immediately suspect of being under English influence. For my part, I hesitate to call myself either a free trader or a protectionist. 
     
     
      
       Call yourself an Anglo-Celt. 
     
     
      
       There were heroes, you remember, before Agamemnon, and there were protectionists and tariff reformers even before Deputy Sean Lemass.  It is now a quarter of a century, or rather more, since I first heard in another place and in another country, a long drawn out tariff reform controversy, and, as sometimes happens when one becomes too well, acquainted with the subject, I am afraid it has left me a deep and profound sceptic.  I find it impossible to see either in protection or in free trade   a pure milk gospel.  I am left with the simple conviction that in these matters every herring must hang by its own tail. 
       I think it was Deputy O'Kelly who told us that the debate has hitherto been somewhat academic, and presently he hoped to have an opportunity of inviting the Dail to come down to tin tacks.  I was delighted to hear that, and I have not the slightest doubt that nowhere was that declaration more welcome than on the Ministerial and Government Benches.  That is exactly what we desire. 
       As a matter of fact, I believe that as we approach the direct consideration of the subject, the closer we get to it the more we shall find, in point of fact, that there is very little difference dividing us.  I heard a speech yesterday from a representative of my own County of Tirconaill&mdash;Deputy Carney&mdash;and, so far as I remember, apart perhaps from some political frills which we all put in sometimes, I do not think there was anything in that speech which I could not immediately adopt as my own.  I find nothing whatever to disagree with in it.  At present there are certain very marked differences between Ministers and their critics.  I suggest that the difference really comes to this in the main: that the Ministers are men who have had practical experience of the difficulties of these problems, and that their critics speak in all sincerity, with great passion, great eagerness, and a great desire to do good to their country, but not having that experience they necessarily speak&mdash;I hope they will not be offended if I say so&mdash; somewhat as I remember people speaking some forty odd years ago in my school debating society.  They have, as I understand it, two main theses; first of all, that these English influences which they suspect to exist here, must be got rid of; secondly, that you must put a good thumping tariff upon everything that can be produced in this country, or, alternatively, that you must put an embargo upon all such goods with a permit where necessary to allow a certain quantity of such goods to come in. I understand that to be their programme&mdash;that is their cure-all. 
     
     There is nothing easier in the world   than to suggest a high tariff, and to show that if you put on a tariff or if you put on an embargo, whichever may seem the more suitable, you will be able to give a certain amount of employment&mdash;to secure the employment at present given, or to add to it.  I think that is true.  But the proof of the pudding is in the eating.  If that is all you have got to do, then I suggest that it seems to prove a little bit too much.  There are countries which cannot be suspected either of being hide-bound by old-fashioned economic ideas or subject to British influences. If it were true that you have got nothing to do but to clap on a high tariff in order to produce prosperity in a country and put an end to unemployment, then it must follow that in every independent country where these old doctrines do not obtain and where English influences are not to be suspected, there could be no such thing as poverty or want of employment.  I ask Deputies to consider whether that is in accordance with the facts as we know them at present. 
     There is a great deal more to think about than the mere question of what the effect will be on any particular trade when putting on a particular tariff.  You have to think of the effect not merely on the manufacturer and the workmen employed in that trade, but also of the effect on the manufacturers and workmen employed in all sorts of other trades.  You have to remember that what is the finished product of one trade is the raw material of the next.  You will find that rather in unexpected ways.  It is obvious that the finished product of the tannery is the raw material of the boot trade.  It is equally true, as Deputy O'Hanlon pointed out, that the boots which the farmer wears in following his plough are in a certain measure part of the raw material of his industry.  You have got to think not only of the tannery, but of the bootmaker and of the farmer. You have to go a step further.  You have got to think again how far you are going to carry it.  It is suggested that there should be a tax upon imported flour.  I can see many advantages in such a tax.  But if you put a tax on imported flour, are you going to put a tax on imported bread?  From   the speech of Deputy de Valera I rather gathered not.  I understood he did not propose to put a tax upon foodstuffs. 
     Just to illustrate the difficulties in the matter, I have here a letter which I received during the debate from a firm in my constituency in which they complain they are being put out of business by reason of the fact that certain bakeries in the Six Counties were sending bread into the Free State, were cutting prices by 50 per cent. and putting them and their men practically out of employment.  They ask that a tariff of 33? per cent. should be put on to protect the bakers in the Free State. They say that if that is done they could employ so many men.  That is probably true, but obviously you cannot consider that without also considering, as Deputy O'Hanlon has pointed out, that the people of the areas at present being served will in fact be paying considerably more for their bread.  That may not be a sufficient reason for refusing to put on a tariff&mdash;I do not say it is.  At any rate, it is considerations of this sort which seem to be continually lost sight of and which have surely to be borne in mind. 
     I think this debate has shown how useful the coming in of the Fianna Fail Party has been.  We are even now getting down to tin tacks.  There have been some remarkable admissions in this debate.  I think that the Fianna Fail Front Bench will admit that it is not enough merely to tack on a tax and think no more about it.  I think it was Deputy O'Kelly who admitted that you must have some form of judicial committee or commission to examine all the bearings of each proposal.  If that is so, really the only question that remains is whether the present Tariff Commission is the best possible.  That seems to me a very fair matter for argument.  The Minister for Finance has said that up to the present there has been no difficulty in getting sufficient time for attention to the various applications, but if at any time it appeared there was any such difficulty he would take immediate steps to remove it and see that time was given.  So far as the debate has proceeded, unless there are new proposals, it appears to   me that the Government's policy holds the field.  I am personally convinced that as the Fianna Fail Party learn responsibility, as it will one day learn it&mdash;I hope they will one day learn it in Government and in administration&mdash;I am convinced that as in a great many other things, when they have the burden of administration and of responsibility upon them, whatever may be said now, whatever may be said in the country from time to time, whatever books may say, or whatever theories they may have, they will be driven by the brute facts of life to follow very closely upon the footsteps of a detested and an abhorred Government. 
     
      
       I do not propose at the present stage to deal in detail with the question of tariffs.  I am in complete accord with the party on these benches that a proper system of protection would bring about much needed prosperity in the country and would give employment to an increased population and benefits to the working classes.  I have tried to follow the speeches made by Deputies and the points made by Ministers on the Government Benches.  I have tried to find out what their outlook was and I find again here just as in the case of the debate on unemployment they have no set or defined policy.  Each Minister speaks what he thinks and as a previous Deputy rightly said each Minister is promptly contradicted by a succeeding Minister from his own benches.  Perhaps it would be well if I mentioned a few of the items to which I refer and in order to do so I should like to draw the minds of Deputies back to the debate on unemployment. 
     
     On that occasion the Minister for Industry and Commerce developed his arguments as much as he could against Deputies on these benches.  He tried to show that we were objecting to the introduction of foreign capital into this country and he tried to show also how he was in complete accord with the desire that foreign capital should come in for the development of industry. Yet, the Minister for Finance spoke with regard to tariffs and said he was reluctant to put on severe tariffs to protect industries for fear that the result would be to bring in foreign   capital.  Here you have two of the most responsible Ministers on the Government Bench in absolute contradiction to each other.  We on these benches have given the matter of tariffs a good deal of consideration and we never said that we wanted to put on a tariff on everything that can be made automatically as high as possible.  What we say is we believe a tariff policy would protect this country.  But we also say, at the outset, that a tariff to be imposed must be examined from all angles and points of view and not only must it be examined by members of our party and by members of the House but that an independent Tariff Commission should be set up not bound to any single party or body in this House which should examine the question purely and simply as part of their life in this country. Reference has also been made to the suggestion we made with regard to the present Tariff Commission.  We pointed out, and I believe the House sympathises with us, that it took nine months to hatch out, as Deputy Corry declared, a tariff on rosary beads and margarine.  We do not know, at present, whether they are a protectionist party or a free trade party. 
     On the one hand it is pointed out by Deputy O'Hanlon we are in terrific danger because we preach perfection; but, as he pointed out also, the President takes it upon himself to pat his Party on the back by saying to them: &ldquo;We have already tariffed fifty-five per cent. of the commodities coming in,&rdquo; and from the trend of the general discussion it looked as if they were out for a further advance in protection. 
     Deputy Lemass, when referring to the tariff on boots, sought to point out that the tariff of fifteen per cent. was not sufficient as regards protection for that industry in this country, arising out of information received from the boot industry in England.  Yet it is sought to turn Deputy Lemass's remarks in that regard as if he were asking for a tariff of forty per cent.  He said no such thing; he simply pointed out that the tariff was not a proper one and did not arise from the setting up of a Tariff Commission, but was put on hastily without any due consideration of the views of the trade or the industry.  The Minister for Finance   gave the secret away.  He speaks with the mind of the Minister for Finance. He sees on the one hand expenditure and on the other hand he wants to see revenue.  When he considers the advisability and possibility of increasing a tariff on boots for the purpose of bringing about extra industry he tells the House that they are going to put an extra burden on the shoulders of the community in the shape of loss of revenue.  His whole consideration is in reference to this £300,000 he receives in revenue, and we must not interfere with that for fear we would lose revenue. Has he ever considered the advisability or possibility of reducing Government extravagance in expenditure and bringing about a saving of £300,000 by that means?  He does not consider the fact that if you make sufficient boots and shoes here to save £300,000 you would be giving employment for the production of one million pounds worth of boots.  I do not say it could be done automatically, but eventually when manufacturing one million pounds worth of boots the benefit to the taxpayer would result from employment being given, whereas at present people who should be engaged in the industry are drawing outdoor relief and receiving other benefits from the State which cost the taxpayers money. 
     Deputy O'Hanlon spoke about the Stone Age economics as put to the House from these Benches.  He gave us a picture of a man running about the country with a stone axe after a wild boar if our policy were followed and adopted.  Might I point out to him that at the present time there are people running about with collection boxes for the unemployed, who probably would be glad to meet a wild boar to be able to get food from it.  He also objected to our policy on the grounds, as he stated, that it would mean an increased cost to the farmer, but Deputy Heffernan, who is supposed to be the leader of the Farmers' Party&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       He is not the leader of the Farmers' Party now, as there is no Farmers' Party. 
     
     
     
      
       I apologise.  At the recent general election he said he was the leader of the Farmers' Party, and claimed to be a farmer.  He told us that what he is concerned with is to bring about better prices for what the farmer has to sell.  He forgot to tell us that if the farmer gets a better price for his produce the cost of living will automatically go up for the person who has to buy the farmer's produce.  He wants to have it his way, but does not want to have it the other way.  The Minister for Finance made a rather strange remark. During the debate he was asked a question as to why it was that he did not consider a certain class of business, and his answer was that it was only a small industry which did not require any consideration.  He will consider a tariff only on that industry or that particular commodity on which at the present time there is a big importation, because as soon as a tariff is imposed he sees a big increase in revenue. 
       I would like the Minister to inquire into the condition of a very small industry that exists in the country at the present time.  It is an industry which is engaged in the manufacture of coffin mountings.  In spite of the huge toll of emigration from the country there still appears to be quite a large number of burials.  From investigations that I have made myself I find that if a tariff were imposed on the importation of coffin mounting materials an industry which employs at the present time from 20 to 30 hands in Dublin city alone, not to speak of Cork, could guarantee employment to between 300 and 400 people.  With that industry goes a foundry.  That is a concern that has been in existence in Dublin for 80 years.  I understand those associated with it are in sympathy with the tariff that I mention.  If protection were given for the manufacture of coffin mounting materials this firm could make handles for the coffins and employ a goodly number of men.  These are small industries, and if you protect them you will not be up against the argument that you are going to increase the cost of living.  I suggest you should help to develop some of these small industries first, bit by bit.  Afterwards you can put your mind to the development of the bigger industries. 
     
     
        The Minister for Lands and Agriculture stated that it would be a terrible thing if we were to consider applying tariffs to goods which amount to £15,000,000 a year in a period of three to five years.  He forgets that in a single day the Government of which he is a Minister applies a tariff on goods the importation of which amounts to £10,000,000.  With regard to the Tariff Commission, I sought before to develop a point that we brought out on that We suggested that the members of the Tariff Commission were not competent as a result of their display and the time spent in bringing about a tariff on the small items they dealt with.  I find now that the Tariff Commission is a sort of handicap.  I do not want to suggest that the members who compose the Commission are anything but the finest and highest types of men.  I do know this, that where a member of the Civil Service owes his appointment to the Executive Council, he holds it at the will and pleasure of the Executive Council.  I submit that as a result of that, that where you have a Tariff Commission composed, if not wholly but partly, of such individuals, that they are bound to reflect the mind of the existing Executive Council in the results that they bring about with regard to their propositions.  I find, further, that if the present Government really intended to consider the protection of industry at home it would be reflected throughout all the Departments they control.  Take the Stationery Office. One of the members of the Tariff Commission is in charge of that office, and yet that civil servant admits that in the years 1925/26 only one per cent. of the paper purchased by that Department was of Irish manufacture. 
     
      
       Did he tell you what percentage of it was made in Ireland? 
     
     
      
       I could give further particulars on that.  I believe the Deputy who has just spoken is a member of the Committee where we got that information.  In 1925/26 the Saggart Mills were open and they could have been given a little more encouragement. Further, a boodbinding industry exists in this country.  There are many bookbinders   idle at the present time, and yet portion of the bookbinding for that Department is brought in from across the Channel.  I submit that the present Executive Council has not given serious consideration to the support of industry. At the present time the Commissioners who have taken over the office of the Dublin Corporation are purchasing materials in England which hitherto were purchased in Dublin from the firm of Ross and Walpole, as a result of which that firm, which originally employed from 300 to 400 men on a certain line of work, now only employs three men to keep the machinery greased.  I say, as regards goods that can be made in this country, and where the spending of public money is concerned, that at least they should be given a certain amount of preference. That would help to keep people from becoming unemployed. 
       Deputy Heffernan spoke of the farmer as being a man with the farmer's mind, and who thought of nothing else but the farming industry and the benefit it would bring him.  He suggested that Deputy Lemass and myself, in our particular business, were not patriotic when it came to business, that we were out to make the best we could.  I agree, but I say this, that a man in business in this country must of necessity and unconsciously be patriotic in his outlook.  He wants to find the biggest market, as near as he possibly can, for his particular line of goods, and hopes to see a bigger population here than there is at present. Instead of a declining population he would like to see as much employment as possible; he would like to see a greater number of consumers and have less trouble in getting business.  Therefore, I submit to Deputy Heffernan that the farmer is unconsciously as patriotic in his outlook as any other business man. 
     
     I must again introduce the Shannon scheme.  What hardship would there have been if the Minister for Industry and Commerce, when putting into operation the Shannon scheme, had considered two points, first, the Shannon scheme becoming an economic danger, and at the same time the possibility, with the opening up of the Shannon scheme, of starting an electrical   industry in this country?  At the time the Shannon scheme was started, his Department should have set out to see if certain items in conjunction with electricity could not have been made in this country.  If the Minister desires, I can enumerate a few items which can easily be made here.  If a tariff had been imposed on them, it would not have caused great hardship to people.  I submit, when the Shannon scheme comes into being, it will be an economic danger from this point of view.  You will have flowing out of this country millions of pounds for the purchase of material in conjunction with that scheme.  One of the basic arguments in favour of the scheme, the saving in the cost of coal, will become very small in comparison with the amount of money going out to purchase equipment for that scheme.  Even to-day something should be done with regard to that.  We should see if we cannot possibly attract the opening up of an industry in connection with commodities used for the Shannon scheme. 
     I have tried to prove that, first of all, the present Tariff Commission is not capable of dealing with the situation. Secondly, I believe the present Executive Council has not attempted to reflect, if it has that particular outlook, the outlook of supporting home industries, and of having a progressive tariff policy for its own Departments.  I suggest to Deputies that they should find out how many articles, capable of being purchased here by Government Departments, are purchased outside the country. 
     
      
       While not in agreement with the Government in their previous tariff policy, I believe they are proceeding on right lines by the method of selective tariffs, in taking industry by industry and examining each case on its merits.  I think Deputy O'Hanlon fell into error when he suggested this resolution was put down for discussion as the result of the proposed tariff on rosary beads and margarine. 
     
     I take it the motion was put down by the Minister to act as a peg upon which to hang a discussion on the whole question of tariffs, and I think the Minister was right in so doing, because   it will obviate a good deal of discussion in the very near future, when other matters come before this House dealing with the fiscal policy of the State.  I want to state my own position, and I believe it is the position of the Labour Party, in connection with the whole subject of tariffs.  I declare myself, and that declaration is shared by every member of our Party, that, subject to provision being made (1) for transmitting benefits which may be derived from a protective tariff to the workers engaged in the industries affected and (2) for preventing the growth of profit-seeking monopolies, trusts and combines in Saorstat Eireann, we are in favour of tariffs. Whilst committing myself to a tariff on certain commodities, I may remark that I am not a whole-hog protectionist, but I believe in examining industry by industry and treating each case on its merits.  I quite appreciate the dangers of high tariffs, and the opinions I hold are shared by many industrialists, some of whom are about to seek protection for the commodities they manufacture.  If we have a highly-tariffed commodity, I can quite perceive the attraction for monopolies and trusts outside the Saorstat to come into this country.  Unfortunately, we, in the manufacture of some commodities, have not the tradition behind us that the people across the Channel and foreigners have.  I see the danger, and I am sure that danger must have been anticipated and seen by the Tariff Commission when they put on a tariff on boots to the extent only of fifteen per cent. 
     Let us consider for a moment, what would have occurred if that tariff had been higher.  Put on a tariff of forty or fifty per cent., and you make that industry attractive for foreigners, who by virtue of being millionaire combines would be able to come into the Saorstat, and, with their highly organised industry and the long tradition of the boot industry behind them, would be able to undersell our own local manufacturers. There are, I know, very marked differences between many tariff reformers as to the extent of the tariff; whilst they may agree, generally speaking, that a tariff is necessary, they are   not always in agreement as to the extent of the tariff.  I think, so far, at any rate, that the Department concerned has been wise in not acceding to the requests of some for very high tariffs.  There is one phase of the question of tariffs which I think has not been touched on so far, the question of dumping, sending into this country commodities to be sold under the cost of production.  Anyone who knows anything about mass production, whether in bootmaking, printing or any other industry, knows that, say, after the first thousand pairs of boots, a succeeding one thousand pairs of boots can be manufactured more cheaply.  Consequently, manufacturers who can turn out sixty or seventy thousand pairs in a given time can undersell the manufacturer who can turn out only twenty thousand.  That is, to students of economics, a very elementary statement. 
     There is an industry with which I am concerned, namely, the woollen industry, and, if ever there was a justification for seeking a tariff on commodities, it is in the case of the woollen industry so far as the Saorstat is concerned. Up to about 1920 we had the sum of £296,789 paid out in wages.  At that time, there were 2,813 hands employed in the Saorstat.  There are, roughly, about eleven hundred operatives at work to-day in these mills.  So far as the important mills in Douglas are concerned they are at present working at less than half time.  A very important mill, the name of which should be familiar in this country, and throughout the world, the Blarney Tweed Mills, has been running short time for a considerable period. 
     The manufacturers state that under the conditions which this House can give, which the Tariff Commission can give&mdash;and the Tariff Commission is the instrument of this House&mdash;they can produce all the woollens that this country requires, and they can sell them at an economic price.  There are, of course, such industries as body building for motor cars, and other portions of the motor car which, at the moment, are crying out for protection. There is again a phase of this question which I have not heard touched on in the House, namely, the fact that some of these motor buses are dumped into   the country, as already explained, at a price under the cost of production. That dumping has been brought about by the cut-throat policy of competition amongst bus companies competing with each other at the other side of the Channel.  When one bus company succeeds in crushing out the competing company, the result is that the cars of the company which is going under as a result of this competition, are dumped into this country.  As I have already stated, I am not a whole hogger on this question of tariffs, but I do hope that as a result of this discussion something will evolve that will mean increased employment, or conversely decreased unemployment, for those who have been engaged in the industries to which I have referred. 
     There is another industry in the country which is suffering very severely and which, up to the present at any rate, has not made application to the Tariff Commission for a tariff.  That is the printing industry.  The printing industry is suffering from competition, not alone from Great Britain, where competition is conducted on something like fair and equitable lines, but from Belgium, Holland, France, Sweden and other foreign countries.  Even without a tariff, but with a considerable strengthening of the Merchandise Marks Act, much of this printing would not get into the country, at least much of the class of printing to which I refer would not get into circulation here.  I want to refer particularly to prayer-books and such religious literature, most of which bears on the front page the name of an Irish publisher, but which bears, at the same time, an imprint in letters of an almost invisible type showing that the work was printed by some foreign printer.  The type is so small that it is almost invisible. At times this really to me appears profane when I see such Scriptural quotations on these books as &ldquo;Suffer the little children to come unto Me,&rdquo; printed in Germany.  These are some of the Scriptural quotations in those books which, from time to time, are imported into this highly Catholic and civilised country. 
     As I have already said, I do hope that something will evolve from this discussion, something in the nature of   protection for the industries to which I have referred.  I do not share the fears that some of the Deputies on my right-hand side, particularly the representatives, or the one-time representatives, of the now happily defunct Farmers' Party, appear to suffer from, namely, that if these commodities to which I have referred are tariffed, the farmers will be so burdened with taxation that they will, in fact, get out of business altogether.  I do not, on this occasion, want to contribute anything further to the discussion, except to express the hope that some good will evolve out of what has taken place here. 
     
      
       Dealing with this matter from the farmers' point of view, I want to say that I have been very much interested in the debate.  I was struck by the significance of the speeches so far that while they refer again and again with anxiety to the possibility of tariffs being injurious to farmers, the whole trend of the discussion was such as would lead one to believe that the position of the farmer was that of normal.  Nothing could be more misleading.  We are dealing with economics in this House, and it is fairly and very often stated that the economic situation of the country is represented by the farmer and by the position of the farmer.  We are dealing with a state of things economically, that from the farmers' standpoint, as well as from the national standpoint, constitutes a really very dangerous position.  When men come forward to discuss, possibly with a redress for these desperate conditions, I think there should be some more stress laid upon the actual conditions than has been laid.  Tariffs, to my mind, are necessary to the farmers' existence. 
     
     I was very much struck by the attitude taken up by Deputy Heffernan, who claims to speak as a farmers' representative. He said that the time had come when those who were interested in farmers must stick their heels into the ground and resist any further efforts at having tariffs hoisted on their backs.  From that we ought to assume that tariffs are injurious to the farmers.  The facts, to my mind, are in opposition to this.  If we examine the   conditions of France and America we will find that both these countries are highly tariffed and the farmers there are in a prosperous condition.  Take the condition of the farmers in England and in the Saorstat.  They are in a state of bankruptcy.  England is an industrial country with wonderful resources in money and is materially wealthy.  Notwithstanding that fact, she is unable to save her farmers from the consequences that free trade has brought on her. 
     If England possessed the richest gold mines in the world she would not possess wealth as great as she possesses in her deposits of coal mines and with her huge mineral industries, her cotton factories, her ship-yards, and her banking institutions.  All these require free trade for their development.  In this country we have none of these.  We are depending on agriculture, and the state of conditions that has made free trade possible for England and that enables her consequently to allow thousands of her farms to go derelict does not exist here.  In England thousands of farms have become derelict, and they are unable to sell them. But the English people have wealth enough to allow those farmers to go out of business.  The Saorstat is in a different position, and we here must secure that our industries are preserved by applying tariffs. 
     Deputy Heffernan yesterday laid special stress upon the fact that this was an agricultural country and he said that in the matter of protection we would have to bear in mind the economic condition of the country.  He said that to produce goods here would cost us more, that the workers here are inexperienced and that we could not compete with the highly developed industries in England where the operatives were trained and that in the future it would be necessary for us to train our workers.  If the people of this country are to shy at the efforts of developing their industries because of the difficulty of training operatives I do not think that we will ever go very far.  Deputy Heffernan referred to the great position in England in the matter of her industries and he told us that coal and iron did not exist in this country.  Well,   now, I can tell him again he is wrong. I come from the County Leitrim where we have coal deposits of a fairly large character.  Side by side with the deposits of coal are the iron deposits. Our mountains in Leitrim contain very rich deposits of iron.  At present there are coal mines being worked and some years ago this iron mine was being worked and the factory turning out the iron and other metal was in full blast. A brother-in-law of Deputy Major Bryan Cooper recently told me in conversation that his father who was a large landowner in that part of the country had a survey made of some of his estate including those mountains in Leitrim.  The engineer he brought there was a competent engineer, all the way from South Africa.  The result of his investigations proved that deposits of iron of a very high standard and deposits of lead, silver, and gold existed to a very great extent.  So struck was his father with the report that he sent a sample of the iron to a manufacturer in England.  The manufacturer, a friend of his, reported to him that the sample showed a very high percentage of iron, much higher than had been used in his factory.  Then his father said to him with a view to business: &ldquo;What about developing this iron here in my own capacity or probably with some other assistance?&rdquo; and the English manufacturer said to him: &ldquo;You have all the possibilities, but there is this point: that if you start your factory you will be closed down in six months, for, if no other firm in the business will undertake it, I will undertake to close you down.&rdquo; The factory was never started.  So much for our coal and iron deposits.  They are very evident to a great extent in County Leitrim. 
     What are the patent facts with regard to agriculture?  We have in this country something like 27,000 square miles of land.  Some doubt the fertility of the land, and they speak of it as comparatively poor land.  Very recently some farmers from this country went to Denmark, and when they saw the soil there they expressed surprise at the conditions under which Danish farmers produced such crops and made so much out of their land.  We very often read in the shop windows and in advertisements   of the great butter that is sent from New Zealand produced from cows fed on the finest pastures in the world. Very recently we had a few experts over here from New Zealand, and they stated that they never realised how beautiful and how rich pasturage could appear until they saw the pastures of Munster. 
     Notwithstanding that we have all these great possibilities in our soil, we have comparatively the smallest population to that area in any part of the civilised world.  So much is that so that we have at present gone below the verge of security of 100 people to the square mile.  Must there not be some reason or explanation due there?  The explanation, to my mind&mdash;and it is the only explanation that anyone who has not a biased outlook on the situation can come to&mdash;is this: while we are exporting annually something to the extent of £19,000,000&mdash;I think that was the amount last year&mdash;we can never in this world hope to be anything more than in poverty.  When we export our money we must necessarily send our people after it, and, with a falling population, is there any hope that the reduced population can go on bearing the strain, paying the extraordinary taxation that this country is made to bear?  With a population something less than half the population of London or New York, we are bearing an overhead charge of extraordinary weight.  While we export £19,000,000 for produce to other countries, do we realise that it represents an average of £7 per head of the population, including men, women and children, those in lunatic asylums, workhouses and jails, fit and unfit?  Assume for a moment that some conqueror came along and enforced a payment of £19,000,000 from the 3,000,000 of people in the Saorstat. How would we regard it?  What action would we take and how would we denounce such plunderers?  Yet, of our own free will and choice, we are exporting that amount of money from our people and leaving them, in consequence, hungry. 
     Some time ago it used to be stated that, when the people were forced to leave the country, they were making way for bullocks.  I wonder will those   physicians who diagnosed our disease as suitable to their own outlook explain how it is that, with the decrease of our human population, our bullock population is also decreasing.  That is a problem I would like them to tackle.  They say the tariffs will mean increased prices.  That is wrong.  If the farmers get a chance of producing the requirements of the whole State, they are capable of doing it many times over.  The experience of the big war proved that. When foreign stuffs came in under very great stress and in very limited quantities, the farmer proved himself to be very energetic and very able in the management of his farm, and he successfully supplied the people with food mainly raised from the farm. 
     The farmer also was capable of exporting a good deal of his farm produce during that same period.  What was done then can be done now.  The only thing the farmer requires is that something in the way of a price commensurate with the cost of production of crops should be given to him.  The moment that is offered you will find him back at work, and the land at present growing grass, and productive to the least extent, will once more be tilled, employment will be given for many of the present unemployed, there will be fewer hungry in the country, and food of the right sort will be available for all.  Tell the farmer that he has, at least, the protection of his home market; give him an assurance that it is his, and he will rise to the occasion. 
     It is again stated that wheat is a product that it is futile to attempt to grow in this country.  I come from a county which contains minerals to a very great extent.  To most people who know anything of the conditions of the country, it is one of the poorest, if not actually the poorest, counties in the West of Ireland.  I have here a sample of wheat grown this year in that part of the country.  The Minister for Agriculture may have it if he feels like examining it, or any other Deputy interested may have it.  I will give you figures dealing with the cost of production of wheat in that area.  It will help Deputies to form an opinion as to whether we may or may not be able to grow wheat successfully in the Saorstat. The species grown was Canadian   Red Marble.  It was sown rather late, and saved in a rather unfavourable harvest.  The area was half an acre, and there was one cwt. of seed put down, at 2/3 per stone, a total cost of 18/-.  The ploughing cost 7/6, the sowing and harrowing 5/-, the cutting 30/-, the threshing and cleaning 30/-, and the rent and rates came to 10/-, making a total of £5 0s. 6d.  The value of the crop was as follows:&mdash;12 cwt. of straw at 4/- per cwt, £2 8s.; 10 cwt. of grain at 12/-, £6, making a total of £8 8s.  That shows a profit. 
     
      
       Where would you get 4/- a cwt. for straw? 
     
     
      
       For thatching purposes it is easily obtained.  Now, that is a return taken from one of the poorest soils in the whole Saorstat, and the people who state that wheat cannot be grown in this country are stating an untruth. 
     
     They are misleading the people by merely stating what has been repeated again and again by firms whose object is to retain free trade so that their ships may be employed in transporting produce from the fertile plains, which we hear so much about, in New Zealand, Canada, and the United States: If I had any hopes that any effort would be made by the Government to deal thoroughly with tariffs, I would say that, first of all, our main industry, namely, agriculture, should be given the benefit of them.  I am, and I was, entirely opposed to a tariff being put on boots or other products until our main industry has been made safe through the medium of protection. Farming should first be soundly established by a system of tariffs or subsidies, preferably tariffs, and our aim then should be to develop agriculture to the extent that farmers would be able to increase production and finish their products before putting them on the market.  In that way you will gradually make it possible to develop other industries.  If the farmer has a secured price for his labour he will be able to finish his stock here and have them slaughtered in this country rather than export them as stores.  The result would be that if we exported dead   meat those engaged in the abattoirs would find increased employment, and the hides and skins would be available for tanneries.  When such industries had been built up a tax could be put on boots, but when you tax boots now you put a burthen on the farmers and farming is taxed at the wrong end. 
     Any hopes I had that the Government was going to adopt a policy of tariffs were doomed by what I heard in the debate.  President Cosgrave stated that he was frankly protectionist, but since the Government Party brought into their ranks Deputy Cooper, Deputy O'Hanlon, Deputy Gorey, and others whose attitude on these matters is well known, I have lost all hopes of President Cosgrave carrying into effect his frankly protectionist policy, or even a policy of selective protection.  It may be ridiculous that Deputy Heffernan and a few other Deputies can retard what is the expressed view of the country, but that is so.  With President Cosgrave's Party in the hands of these few men, one of whom, Deputy Heffernan, expressed the hope that they would dig their heels in the ground and stand against even President Cosgrave's mild tariffs, I see little prospect of tariffs being instituted during the lifetime of the present Government. 
     
      
       I think it is time, as there has been a long innings on the Opposition Benches, that we should examine some of the propositions which the Fianna Fail Deputies have put before us for consideration. Deputy Lemass told us yesterday, in resounding periods, that every country in the world was protecting its industries, that industrial pre-eminence was brought to England, Germany, the United States of America, and that in the magic word protection lay the pearl of prosperity and the cure for the economic ills that would restore the fallen fortunes of this country. Let us ask the question of Deputies on the opposite Benches: was it protection that created the great industries in England? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
     
      
       I will tell, with the permission of Deputy Lemass, what did create the industries of England. If there is one page in the history of the English people that deserves the consideration of this House, it is that page dealing with the English social revolution from 1815 to 1914.  Any man who graduates through Trinity College, if he takes a course of economics, has to deal with that particular phase of English life and English industry.  In common with others, I had to go through that particular training, and I was brought closely into touch with the question which Deputy Lemass has laid before this House.  At that particular time, I may remind the House, England was highly protected.  William Cobbett had been appealing for the repeal of the corn laws.  Cobbett was born in an English farmhouse, bred at the tail of the plough, with a smock on his back, practically from birth.  He strove under protection for twenty years to get possession of his holding, he saved farthings and halfpennies from his scanty earnings.  He had to do without his dinner.  He declared that England contained the most miserable people that ever trod the earth.  He also said that there must be a spirit of independence infused into the workers of England or else there could be no hope for the country.  Cobbett founded the Fourth Estate, and the cry was raised, &ldquo;Liberty or Death.&rdquo; In 1827 the first glimmerings of free trade into the policy of England began.  After a struggle of ten years the corn laws were repealed, and, instead of being protectionist, England became a free trade country.  What was the result?  It turned agricultural England into a great industrial country. 
     
     
      
       I think it would be more relevant if the Deputy quoted Cobbett on the Coronation Oath, which a Deputy on the Government Benches defended. 
     
     
      
       I am the sole judge of relevancy.  The Deputy is quite in order. 
     
     
      
       I pointed out at the beginning that I intended to deal with the arguments put forward from the opposite side of the House, and if   I am out of order the whole arguments put forward by Fianna Fail Deputies are completely out of order.  I was pointing out that after ten years of struggle in England, free trade was established, with the result that in thirty-three years there was an increase in income of twenty-six million pounds per annum, her population rose from ten to forty-one millions, and her production was increased ten-fold. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had read the history of England prior to 1815 he would have learned the manner in which the power and prosperity of England had been developed from the stage they were in then.  If power in Ireland was as great as it was in England in 1815, and if Ireland owned a great mercantile marine such as England, I would be glad to listen to the arguments on free trade. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the arguments I have laid before the House have been one bit affected by the interposition of Deputy Lemass.  The fact remains that England, up to that period, was clearly a protectionist country, and that from the time she ceased to be protectionist she increased her income by £26,000,000 per annum, her population rose from 10,000,000, to 41,000,000, and her production increased ten-fold.  The great Lord Shaftesbury exclaimed: &ldquo;What a nation this is! What materials for happiness and power!&rdquo; Let us get down to the bedrock of facts; protection did not create the great industries of England.  They sprang into existence under the influence of free trade. When Deputies on the opposite Benches are anxious to misquote historical facts I think it is the duty of Deputies on this side to see that they cannot carry that out. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy mention the industries that developed under free trade? 
     
     
      
       I am dealing with a large subject in a short space of time, and I think before I have finished I will have dealt very effectively with Deputy Lemass.  I wonder does the Fianna Fail Party ever realise the great economic truth that the economic importance and internal prosperity of smaller countries   is measured practically and relatively by the importance of its foreign trade? I think it is time for the Fianna Fail Deputies to realise the truth of this economic proposition.  I would wish to point out, despite the assertions of Deputy Lemass, that there are free trade countries in Europe, and that every country is not hastening to protection. We have free trade prosperous Belgium, and free trade prosperous Holland.  It was through free trade that England became the workshop of the world.  Its prosperity grew through free trade.  I would also remind the House that tariffs are only one factor in the prosperity of any country.  Fianna Fail would have us believe that it is a universal panacea for the redress of all economic evils under which we suffer. 
     
     
      
       No, only one. 
     
     
      
       I suggest from the arguments put forward that is the only interpretation people of commonsense can put on the point of view expressed by Fianna Fail.  I suggest if that policy is followed to its logical conclusion there can be nothing but the greatest disaster before the country. We have been delivered curtain lectures about protection in America, and how it has worked.  The Deputy who has sat down has told us that the farmers of America are exceedingly prosperous. I contradict that.  They are almost in as bad a condition as the farmers in Ireland, and a Deputy on my right says they are worse.  When America is represented to us as the model on which we should frame an economic policy to rescue the country from its depression, I would say that there is no analogy between a huge continent like America and a tiny island like Ireland.  There are 48 States in America some of which are larger than the whole area of France.  Do Deputies opposite realise when they claim all these merits for protection in America that in America there is a huge market and there exists a complete system of free trade?  The Americans are all right for dumping their goods here, but when they have that huge market behind them they can afford to do so.  The population of this country is only a shade over 3,000,000, and we are asked to follow a policy   similar to that of the United States, where there is a huge home market.  It is the first duty of every country to protect its home market.  Where you have small markets you must exercise the greatest care.  As I have already pointed out, in the case of smaller countries the external trade of the country should be maintained.  I was wondering when Deputy Lemass was holding forth to our admiration all the great countries of the world why he did not tell us something about Australia. I wonder was the omission accidental or deliberate?  It has been proved that protection has been a complete and absolute failure in Australia. 
       Australia taxed machinery and chemicals, and placed a duty of £3 per ton on bark.  It even protected labour, and piece work was abolished.  Taxation in Australia rose from £954,000 to £3,914,000.  Seven years ago a new Tariff Act intensified the degree of protection then existing.  In 1921 the Industries Preservation Act was passed to protect home manufacturers from the competition of Germany and other countries whose currency had depreciated. The cost of production rose, capital became unnecessarily high, home goods offered no advantage over foreign, and export trade became well-nigh impossible. A Tariff Board was set up to examine the effects of tariffs upon primary production and the cost of living.  It consisted of one Government nominee, one representative of primary producers and two business men.  The report has now been furnished, and it is a damning indictment of the whole system of protection.  The report states that tariffs instead of improving home industries have resulted in stagnation, that they have increased the cost of production, and that they have increased the cost of living.  Deputies on the opposite side, like innocent lambs, tell us that tariffs will not raise the cost of living.  I had an experience that, perhaps, no Deputy on Fianna Fail side had, of passing through in 1906 the whole campaign waged in England on the question of tariffs. 
     
     I learned something about it at first hand.  Deputy Lemass is still a young man and when he has a little more experience, as he has already been told   from these benches, his views on tariff matters, and the short cut to prosperity that appears to be the policy of his Party, will, no doubt, be considerably altered.  Germany has also been held up to us as a guide as to what has been done through methods of protection.  I am now analysing only the arguments that have been put forward from the opposite side.  Any man who has ever made a study of the economic policies of European countries must admit that the policy of Germany has been always frankly opportunist.  When the period of tariffs prevailed Germany started a tariff policy.  When the era of free trade returned, Germany stood wholly by free trade.  To-day, a system exists in Germany which is one of the most mixed systems in any country in Western Europe.  Why will not Deputies on the opposite side realise facts before they attempt to ram them down our necks without examination? 
     I think it was Deputy O'Kelly who asked us to get back to the doctrine of Griffith.  I say that we are following that doctrine at the present time. Arthur Griffith speaking of protection said, &ldquo;Protection does not mean the exclusion of foreign competition.  It does not mean that we should pay a higher profit to the Irish manufacturers but that we should not stand by and see them crushed.&rdquo; I hear a lot of &ldquo;hear, hears&rdquo; to that.  What is the policy of the Government?  The policy of the Government is not to bolster up inefficiency or to refuse help to the efficient Irish manufacturers.  The policy of Deputies on the opposite side ranges from full-blooded protection to prohibition. In other words it is the antithesis of the policy we support.  It means simply that, however inefficient and however incapable, however uneconomic, a proposition may be, provided it belonged to this country it is going to be bolstered up by full-blooded protection or, if necessary, by prohibition. 
     We have been told that we should have a tariff on flour.  If anybody who listened to the analysis of that particular subject by the Minister for Industry and Commerce could then hold on to such a theory, all that can be said is that the economic salvation of the country is not safe in his hands.  The Minister pointed out that a tariff on   flour means an extra £300,000 on the cost of bread in this country.  He pointed out that a tariff would mean the possible employment of 700 people, but on the other hand, the likely unemployment of 3,000.  These are the remedies that are propounded for the prosperity of this nation.  I wonder would Deputy Lemass, who is a Dublin man like myself, come down with me to the North Wall, and tell the workers there that £86,000 that they receive in wages is going to be swept away by this policy of the prohibition on flour. I wonder what answer the Deputy would get. 
     
      
       I would not tell them that.  The wheat would still be coming in. 
     
     
      
       I suggest to the House that the transport workers made it clear and distinct that they do not stand for a tariff on flour.  They appeared before the 1923 Commission and declared against it.  Another Deputy reminded us about the imports of barley.  What was the evidence given by maltsters before the 1923 Commission? At that Commission the maltsters stated that a duty on barley would cripple their industry, which depended on brewers and distillers, whose trade was mainly export.  They said that imports of barley were necessary, and that a duty would cause the brewers to erect their plants outside Ireland.  That is another means of solving the economic depression put forward by the Deputies on the opposite benches. 
     
     
      
       Did it ruin them in 1919? 
     
     
      
       If there was an election in the South City to-morrow I would have no hesitation in going on the hustings up to Guinness's brewery, in Deputy Lemass's constituency, and telling the workers there what his policy was, and I feel sure that when the result was announced Deputy Lemass would not occupy quite so high a position as he did on the last poll.  I challenge contradiction by any of the economists on the opposite benches of this statement: that there is only one thing that justifies the imposition of a tariff.  A tariff can only   be justified where it can be shown to the nation as a whole that we gain more by it than we lose. 
       Deputy O'Kelly advocated increased tillage.  He said: &ldquo;Grow your own wheat; do as you did before.&rdquo; I asked him &ldquo;Can you grow it economically?&rdquo; and he said &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; Let us face the economic facts.  We cannot produce wheat economically.  France is a grower of wheat.  Her soil is more suitable for the cultivation of wheat than the soil of Ireland.  Yet every bushel of wheat France produces is produced at a loss.  I should hope, if the Fianna Fail Party ever obtained the reins of Government, whatever policy they may adopt&mdash;and I will give them credit for being perfectly sincere in their efforts to alleviate the disabilities under which the country is now suffering&mdash;that they will, at least, consider and profit by the fortunes and misfortunes of other countries.  It appears to me that the Fianna Fail Party wants to work against the laws of economics and against the laws of nature.  I wonder if any of the economists who bring their primer into this House to read, have read or heard of the economic law called the Law of Comparative Returns.  The Law of Comparative Returns means that if by the exchange of one product you can buy another product more cheaply, then you are obtaining that product by exchange and barter and not by purchase.  For the benefit of some Deputies whose economic heresies led me to believe that they have never heard of that law I took the trouble of explaining it, and I would point out that the Channel Islands&mdash;a fact that may not be known to the Fianna Fail economists&mdash;can grow wheat cheaper than any country in the world, of course recognising their limitation as to area. Do they grow wheat or do they buy wheat? 
     
     
      
       Are they protected? 
     
     
      
       That point does not arise.  I am dealing now with an economic law.  Do they grow wheat or do they buy wheat?  They buy wheat, simply because they can obtain it cheaper by bartering fruit, which they can grow in such abundance. 
     
     
     
      
       We do not grow fruit. 
     
     
      
       It appears to me that we will grow nothing under Fianna Fail.  We will be going against the laws of nature, against the wishes of the farmer, and against the inclination of the business man, and we are told that the country is behind Fianna Fail. Once the policy that they advocate is made clear to the people&mdash;and it will be the duty of Deputies on these benches to make that policy clear&mdash; there will be a complete change in the election results of the future.  I will say one word now as a plain, practical business man, who knows a little from experience of the actions and reactions of tariffs upon this country.  The Party to which I belong has levied a tax upon furniture.  I do not know what number of hands have gained increased employment by the levying of that tax, but I can state that it means that every business man engaged in the furniture trade needs fresh capital for the carrying on of his business. 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       I will explain why.  Formerly the people in the furniture trade had four, five, or even ten millions of capital placed at their disposal by English manufacturers, with lengthy periods for repayment, so that they could repay almost as they pleased.  Now, if an English manufacturer offers a man engaged in the furniture trade here £300 or £400 worth of furniture, that man says: &ldquo;I cannot afford to buy it.  Before I put that furniture into the warerooms I have to take out £100 cash.&rdquo; That is one of the actions and reactions that arise under tariffs.  The opposite side of the House appears to think that tariffs are simply a short-cut to prosperity, but the men who have to deal with actual facts as they exist know that if there is one question more complicated, more difficult, than another, it is the question of the imposition of tariffs and the changing of the economic policy of the country. 
     
     I would remind Deputies opposite that Irish industries are not young and, therefore, that the infant industry argument, which many tariff reformers   are so fond of promulgating, does not apply to them.  The Fiscal Commission of 1923 stated that the decline of Irish industries was due, firstly, to a lack of modern methods; secondly, to defective transport, and thirdly, to the absence of industrial power.  The Government has made great efforts to remedy that third essential through the creation of industry in the country by embarking upon the Shannon scheme.  I suggest that it is up to the Irish manufacturers to co-operate and to do their share in restoring to this country some of the prosperity that it has lost.  That can be done by the adoption of modern methods, by the adoption of up-to-date machinery, by a system of costings, by putting their shoulders to the wheel, and not by relying upon a whole-hog policy of protection or prohibition. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       It is quite evident that there is a very sharp difference of opinion between the two principal Parties in the House upon the question of tariff reform and free trade.  I do not propose to continue the argument on those lines because I do not know enough about the matter, but I think we are all agreed that where we have industries which are capable of producing an article or articles as cheaply and as well as imported articles in face of fair competition, they should be protected.  Some years ago there was a large distilling trade in the country.  I would like to know where that distilling trade is now?  At least three or four distilleries have been put out of action within the last five or six years, and I think that is largely due to the fact that Scotch whiskey is allowed into the country to compete with the Irish product.  The distilling trade must have given a great deal of employment and it must have used a considerable quantity of home-grown grain.  From what I can recollect I do not think that the Minister for Finance is very sympathetic towards the distilling trade, but perhaps he would consider the possibility of keeping that old-established industry at least on its legs.  There is another industry which employed   labour on a very large scale, and that is the fertiliser industry.  I am told that about 100,000 tons of fertilisers are used in the Free State each year, and of this between 30,000 and 40,000 tons are imported, or, as a Deputy said a few moments ago, dumped into the country.  One factory in Dublin, the Ballybough factory, has already been shut down, and I am told that unless some help is given to this industry, other works will also be closed.  The fertilisers that come here from Belgium and Holland are really the surplus products of those countries, and they can be sent in here at very much under what they cost to produce.  There is another industry which I would like to speak of, and that is the soda-water industry. I know for a fact that we are capable of producing all the soda-water and other mineral waters, like lemonade and ginger beer, that are consumed in the Free State.  There is a tax on soda-water, but there is no preference given to Irish products&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is.  There is actually a tariff, that is, the excise duty and the customs duty, and not equal at all, and there is protection in that way. 
     
     
      
       If there is a preferential duty against foreign soda-water I am afraid that it cannot be sufficient, because we do not make Perrier or Apollinaris Water here.  I am not referring to those; I am referring to soda-water and lemonade.  The Government have been very good in fostering other industries, without very much success, I am afraid.  I allude to the bottle works in Ringsend.  I think the Government guaranteed about £60,000 that was put into that industry. These bottle works are only capable of producing a certain class of bottle. 
     
     I do not think it is fair that users of bottles in this country should be taxed for the white bottles and other things of that sort, which cannot be produced at Ringsend.  I am also told that ordinary wine bottles in London cost about 19/- a gross, and here they cost 31/- a gross.  Yet I am told that this company is going into liquidation, or is in liquidation. I do not know a great deal about the subject of free trade or tariff   reform, but I would ask the Government to consider sympathetically the keeping together of the few industries that we have which formerly were successful. 
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE. 
     
      
       On a point of privilege.  Deputy Briscoe has made a statement with regard to certain items of information which he believed he had got from the Controller of the Stationery Office.  He stated that the information had been recently given, and when he was challenged by another Deputy it emerged that it had been given before a particular Committee. There may be something more in this than meets the eye.  What was that Committee, and what was the date of it? 
     
     
      
       The Public Accounts Committee. 
     
     
      
       Of this year? 
     
     
      
       Of 1925-6. 
     
     
      
       Is it the published report of the Public Accounts Committee of 1925? 
     
     
      
       The Report is published already. 
     
     
      
       It is the published report of 1925-6? 
     
     
      
       I have received a published copy of it.  The Minister, to a certain extent, possibly, is correct in stating that this is in connection with the Committee of Public Accounts, of which copies of the evidence taken have already been published.  I do admit that the copies I have received are confidential, but, at the same time, I wish to draw attention to the fact that while this Committee of Public Accounts is sitting the appointment of Deputy Davin as Chairman of that Committee was made public and was not considered as any secret.  The fact remains that in this debate I felt quite in order in stating what I did to show clearly with regard to the matter under debate that the Executive Council were not reflecting a proper atmosphere in their Departments in allowing industries to be closed down that could keep Irishmen in this country. 
     
     
     
      
       This is a matter of privilege.  The Deputy has admitted that he has quoted from the proof of the evidence which is marked confidential&mdash;that is what it comes to. 
     
     
      
       Which will eventually be published. 
     
     
      
       I thought Deputy Briscoe's first answer was that he quoted from the published report of the Committee for 1925/26. 
     
     
      
       It is the Public Accounts Committee sitting on work that should have been finished some time back. 
     
     
      
       Of which the Deputy is a member. 
     
     
      
       I misunderstood the Deputy.  Was he quoting from the proceedings of the Public Accounts Committee which is actually now sitting, and of which he is a member? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       That is a most improper proceeding&mdash;that is quite out of order, because when the Public Accounts Committee meets, its proceedings are circulated only to members and to the proper officers of the House, and are confidential until the Committee reaches the point at which it makes a report.  It makes that report to the House, and an order is made for the report and the minutes of evidence to be printed.  When they have been printed, then, of course, they become public documents, like all documents laid on the Table.  But in the interval I think it would be quite wrong, and contrary to the spirit of the whole work of the Public Accounts Committee, to quote from them.  I am sure the Deputy did not appreciate that. 
     
     
      
       If I have committed an indiscretion in quoting that particular item of that particular Committee, I beg to apologise to the House, and I assure you that I had no intention of divulging anything of the administration of the department which would have any effect upon its administration. 
     
     
     
      
       That is quite satisfactory. 
     
     
      
       I wish to apologise. 
     
     
      
       I should like to carry it a little further.  I am not at all failing to accept what the Deputy has said, but the Deputy has, in fact, made a wrong quotation.  The Deputy has given what is incorrect evidence.  I do not know whether it is published wrongly or not, because I have not seen the proof, but I do know that the facts are contrary to what the Deputy said. Am I at liberty to disclose the true facts to-morrow in answer to what Deputy Briscoe said? 
     
     
      
       I am under the disadvantage of not having heard what Deputy Briscoe said.  If the Deputy made a statement relevant to the tariff debate, and the Minister has what he conceives to be the correct statement, of course he can give it. There is no doubt about that.  I think Deputy Briscoe's statement in connection with the matter is quite satisfactory, and settles the point of privilege. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of some reference made here to an application now before the Tariff Commission on behalf of the vehicle builders of the Free State, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce to the situation created by the operation of Section 3 of the Railways Road Motor Service Act.  As the Minister is possibly aware in virtue of that Act the railway companies after Saturday next cannot operate or give financial support to other concerns in operating certain bus services on the roads.  The Act also provides that the Minister should notify other interests operating services on the same roads that on a certain day he will consider the application from the railway companies for permission to continue the operation.  The effect of that has been this: that in order to establish a claim to operate buses on certain routes, the private interests which hitherto have been competing with the railway companies have amalgamated and we understand they are preparing to dump in here an enormous number of buses in order to substantiate their claim to put   them on these routes and to work them. The railway companies are retaliating in like measure and one can see that the effect of the conditions precipitated by this inquiry which is to be held on Saturday next is that even if the vehicle builders do succeed in their application and do secure a tariff that operation of that tariff at the earlier stages, and the benefits that would be derived from that tariff at the earlier period, will be nullified. What I am at this stage going to suggest to the Minister is whether he will take the facts as I have stated them into consideration, and decide&mdash;I am not certain what his powers are and what the powers of the Tariff Commission may be in the matter, but the situation I suggest, is serious enough almost for him to take arbitrary action&mdash;to prohibit pending the hearing of the application of the vehicle builders and the decision of the Tariff Commission upon that application, the importation of motor buses into the country.  I admit that is drastic action, but if the industry is to be preserved and it is most important that it should be, some such action will have to be taken.  At the present moment I understand there is involved in this particular industry Irish capital amounting to something like £500,000.  At the moment there are 1,700 men employed, and the men unemployed or on short time at the present time number 2,500.  In view of the fact that the vehicle builders were relying upon securing a large percentage of the orders consequent upon the development of the bus services in this country, I think it would be very undesirable and regrettable indeed if by the mechanical operation of this Act, the effects of the tariff in their case, were, as I said, going to be nullified, and that the vehicle building industry was going to lose what was a splendid opportunity to enable it to get to its feet again. 
     
     
      
       Will Deputy MacEntee allow me for a moment to intervene with one remark?  It will be necessary to take the Report Stage of the operative resolutions dealing with margarine and rosary beads to-morrow, so that they may not cease to have effect. I want to give notice, therefore, that they will be taken to-morrow, and if   this debate cannot be finished early to-morrow it might be necessary to interrupt it in order to take the Report Stage of these two resolutions. 
       Ordered: That Resolutions 1 and 2 come to in the Committee on the 20th October be reported. 
       Progress reported.  The Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - FINANCIAL RESOLUTIONS. 
     
        Resolutions Nos. 1 and 2 reported from the Committee on Finance on this day. 
     Ordered: That the Resolutions be considered to-morrow. 
     The Dail adjourned at 8.30 p.m. until Thursday, 10th November. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - RATHMULLAN PIER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he has received representations as to the urgent need for certain improvements to a Pier at Rathmullan, Tirconaill, and whether. in view of the importance of this place as a centre of the fishing industry and otherwise, he will endeavour to have the works carried out as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       From surveys which I have caused to be made at Rathmullan, I find that a suitable extension to the pier will cost £10,000, and I am exploring the possibilities of securing funds to enable the work to be carried out. 
     
   
 