 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SAILORS AND SOLDIERS IRISH LAND TRUST. 
     
      
       asked the President if his attention has been drawn to a booklet published by Major H. Lefroy, P.C., entitled &ldquo;History of Sailors and Soldiers Irish Land Trust, 1915-1925&rdquo;; if he is aware that it is stated by Major Lefroy that £1,500,000 was promised by the British Government to complete the building of houses in Ireland, and that the Trust accepted the sum of £1,250,000, which was later increased by £50,000; that Major Lefroy further states that when the Treaty came into force the British Government curtailed the number of houses to be provided to an arbitrary number of 3,600 odd for all Ireland, and, if having regard to this, he will make representations to the British Government with a view to having the balance stated to be due made available. 
     
     
      
       My attention has been drawn to the publication referred to.  I understand that the sum of £200,000, which is the difference between the sums mentioned in the question, represented liabilities which had been incurred on 1st January, 1924, when the Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust commenced to function.  The number of houses to be provided under the Irish Land (Provision for Sailors and Soldiers) Act, 1919, had been fixed at 3,672 before the Treaty. 
     
     
      
       In view of the statement made by Major Lefroy that there are £200,000 still owing, and in view   of the fact that a number of foundations of soldiers' houses have been laid in very many parts of the country and no effort made to continue them in the past few years, will the President see that something is done to have the houses built that foundations were laid for? 
     
     
      
       It is not part of my responsibility.  The Irish Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust is the body responsible.  They are not under my jurisdiction and I have no authority or power over them. 
     
     
      
       Will the President take steps to contradict the statement that it was after the signing of the Treaty that this change took place whereby the Trust refused to spend the original sum on housing? 
     
     
      
       It may have been after the signing of the Treaty that the function of providing the houses devolved upon a body which was not responsible to the Government of this country, but other than that there is no responsibility&mdash;it is not a responsibility of mine or of the Government. 
     
     
      
       Was the Trust in existence at the signing of the Treaty? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - VACANCY ON GENERAL PRISONS BOARD. 
     
      
       asked the President if it is intended to fill the vacancy on the General Prisons Board created by the retirement of the medical member of that Board by the appointment thereto of a medical inspector of the Department of Local Government and Public Health, and, if so, whether this new appointee will be possessed of equal authority with other members of the Board and will be in a position to exercise the same influence on prison administration as heretofore; and, further, if the Minister has received an expression of opinion from the Irish Medical Association that a humane and modern prison system can only be secured by giving full influence   to the medical point of view in regard to the treatment of prisoners and the control of prisons. 
     
     
      
       It has been decided not to fill the vacancy on the General Prisons Board which was caused by the retirement of the Medical Member of that Board.  The duties formerly carried out by that member will in future be performed by a Medical Inspector of the Department of Local Government and Public Health, who will act merely in an advisory capacity to the Board.  I have received from the Irish Medical Association an expression of opinion that a humane and modern prison system can only be secured by giving full influence to the medical point of view in regard to the treatment of prisoners and the control of prisons.  I am satisfied that this object will be fully achieved by the arrangements which have now been made. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - APPLICATIONS FOR RETIREMENT UNDER THE TREATY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state:&mdash;(a) the number of applications for retirement under Article 10 of the Treaty now pending, and how many from each State Department; (b) how many applications were lodged during the years 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926 and 1927, respectively; and how many of these were disposed of by the Civil Service Compensation Committee; (c) how many applications have been received since 3rd May last, and from what Departments; (d) what steps (if any) are being taken to facilitate applicants desirous of retiring under Article 10 of the Treaty, and if any arrangement has been made or any date fixed for the resumption of the sittings of the Civil Service Compensation Committee, of which no sitting has been held since June, 1924, when the Hon. Mr. Justice Wylie resigned the Chairmanship thereof. 
     
     
      
       As regards (a) of the Deputy's question, the following are the number of applications for retirement under Article 10 of the Treaty from   each State Department which are now pending:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Department 
             of Finance 
             26 
           
         
         
           
             ,, 
             Agriculture 
             27 
           
           
             ,, 
             Education 
             18 
           
           
             ,, 
             Industry and Commerce 
             12 
           
           
             ,, 
             Justice 
             73 
           
           
             ,, 
             Local Government 
             23 
           
           
             ,, 
             Fisheries 
             1 
           
           
             ,, 
             Defence 
             1 
           
           
             ,, 
             Posts and Telegraphs 
             219 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             Total&mdash;400 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     As regards (b) of the Deputy's question, the applications lodged in each of the years named are as follows:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1922 
             896 
           
         
         
           
             1923 
             711 
           
           
             1924 
             185 
           
           
             1925 
             114 
           
           
             1926 
             121 
           
           
             1927 
             39 
           
           
             
             
             Total&mdash;2,066 
           
           
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     Of this number 1,366 were disposed of by the Civil Service Committee. The remainder is made up of the 400 cases now awaiting decision; applications passed departmentally which had already been ruled in principle by decisions of the Committee; applications withdrawn and a number of cases of compulsory retirement where the compensation had to be dealt with by the Department of Finance pending a final judgment in the Wigg and Cochrane action. 
     (c) Twenty-one applications have been received since the 3rd May last from the following Departments:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Department 
             of Finance 
             3 
           
         
         
           
             ,, 
             Local Government 
             3 
           
           
             ,, 
             Posts and Telegraphs 
             12 
           
           
             ,, 
             Industry and Commerce 
             2 
           
           
             ,, 
             Justice 
             1 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             Total&mdash;21 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     With reference to (d) of the Deputy's question, as indicated in replies already given on the 7th instant, to previous questions on this subject, the action to be taken following on the judgment in the Wigg and Cochrane case is at present under consideration and there will be no   avoidable delay in coming to decisions on the many and important questions which arise. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BRITISH EX-SERVICE MEN IN THE CIVIL SERVICE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what are the Government's intentions with regard to British ex-Servicemen at present employed as temporary clerks in the Free State Civil Service who have years of service and were handed over to the Free State on transfer of Government, and were not eligible to sit for the recent limited examination confined to ex-National Army men. 
     
     
      
       All temporary clerks irrespective of their class of origin who have failed to pass the limited competitions specially provided for their benefit will be retained in their temporary capacity so long as their services may be required.  It is not the intention to afford to the officials referred to in the question or to any other categories of temporary clerks any further special facilities for entry to the permanent service. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WATERFORD MARGARINE FACTORY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Waterford Margarine Factory, which employed 80 hands, has been closed since January, and if he will take steps to expedite the findings of the Tariff Commission on the question of the imposition of a tariff on imported margarine. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. As regards the second part, I cannot undertake to bring pressure to bear upon the Commissioners, who are required by the Act under which they function to make a very full investigation and report in connection with each application.  In the present case, however, I understand that their investigations are complete, and that they are now considering their recommendation. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. DONEGAL BOUNDARY ROAD. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what steps have been taken by his Department to have the road at Pettigo approved for the passage of motors and non-dutiable goods. 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy is probably aware, the approval of any road for the conveyance of traffic across the frontier is a matter of arrangement with the British Commissioners of Customs and Excise.  Representations were made to them in May last with a view to the approval of the roads from Kesh to Pettigo and from Belleek to Pettigo for non-dutiable goods and motor vehicles.  Their reply has not yet been received. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister communicate with Deputy Myles when the reply is received? 
     
     
      
       I would not undertake that.  It would depend on the nature of the reply. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IMPORTS OF FOREIGN BACON. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that there is a large quantity of foreign bacon coming into the Saorstat at the present time; if it is in fact being sold at very low prices to the detriment of the Irish-produced article; if a quantity of it is being sold as Irish, and if he would consider the advisability of compelling traders to label all bacon which they offer in their shops, prominently, with the country of origin so displayed that the consumer can readily see what he is purchasing. 
     
     
      
       The imports of bacon for the first six months of the present year are considerably less than in the corresponding period last year, the figures being 214,000 and 175,000 cwt. respectively and the values £1,111,000 and £856,000.  Imported bacon is generally inferior in quality to the home-produced article and sold at lower prices. If the Deputy considers that the home-produced article should be protected   from this competition it is open to him to recommend those engaged in the bacon industry to apply to the Tariff Commission. 
       As stated by the Minister for Lands and Agriculture in reply to Deputy Baxter on the 23rd February last, investigation shows that as a rule, trade descriptions within the meaning of the Merchandise Marks Acts are not applied to imported bacon.  There is at present no power to compel retailers or others in the Saorstat to give any indication of the country of origin of imported bacon.  The matter has been receiving attention for some time past, and I am considering the inclusion of provisions dealing with the question in a Bill to amend the Merchandise Marks Acts which is under discussion with other Departments that would be concerned. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MAINTENANCE OF THE CURRAGH BOUNDARY ROADS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he has yet received any reply to the special representations made to the British War Department respecting the agreement made in the years 1893 and 1894 between that Department and the Grand Jury of the County Kildare, to maintain the Lurrig Lane and Curragh eastern boundary roads, and, if so, whether he can now state the terms of the agreement. 
     
     
      
       The Agreement has not yet been received from the British War Department, from which a letter has been received under date 23rd June, stating that the record documents in their possession &ldquo;are being carefully examined with a view to obtaining all the information available relative to these roads, and that the result will be communicated as early as possible.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SOLDIER'S CLAIM TO MARRIAGE ALLOWANCE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will state the reasons for refusing to pay Separation   Allowance to the wife of Volunteer Robert Harrison (No. 65664), D Company, 3rd Battalion, Gough Barracks, Curragh Camp; whether he is aware that, on request, in November, 1926, marriage and baby's birth certificates were forwarded to the Secretary, Pay Office, Portobello Barracks, who replied, stating that separation allowance would be paid on re-attestation after his two years' service; that on re-attestation, about last May, a further application was made without result, and whether he will have inquiries made with a view to payment. 
     
     
      
       Marriage allowance has not been paid to Mrs. Harrison because, until the 19th May last, her husband was ineligible for inclusion on the Marriage Allowance Register for his Unit, for the reason that he had not completed the two years' continuous military service prescribed by the Regulations before the allowance may be issued. 
       The Regulations also prescribe that the allowance will be paid only in respect of a fixed percentage of the privates in an infantry battalion.  The number of men in Private Harrison's unit in respect of whom the allowance has already been issued, since and prior to the 19th May, completed the quota allowed for that unit.  When the number on the register will have fallen below the percentage prescribed, Mrs. Harrison's claim will receive due consideration. She was so informed on the 10th ultimo. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM FOR DISABLEMENT BENEFIT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether, in the case of Miss Kate Halpin, of Ballinvullen, Newcastlewest, Member No. 91799 of the Insurance Section of the A.O.H., he has examined the expert evidence forthcoming (and now supplied to him) since the disallowance of this claim for disablement benefit by the Insurance Commission in 1923; and, if so, whether in the light now shed upon the case by such fresh evidence, the Minister can announce any measures to give effect to recognition of the bona fides of the claim. 
     
     
     
      
       The appeal of Miss Kate Halpin against the decision of her approved society to discontinue payment of benefit to her as from the 16th April, 1922, was heard on the 16th May, 1923, and the referees appointed by the Insurance Commissioners to hear the appeal, having considered all the evidence, found and awarded that the appellant was not incapable of work and was therefore not entitled to benefit during the period from 16th April, 1922, to 16th May, 1923.  Under Section 67 (4), read with Section 81 (15) of the National Insurance Act, 1911, the decision given by the referees is final and conclusive and in the circumstances the matter cannot be reopened. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT IN CO. KILDARE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will, in order to relieve some of the unemployment and destitution prevailing in Newbridge, instruct the Roads Board to proceed immediately with the work of widening the Liffey bridge on the Naas-Kildare trunk road. 
     
     
      
       It is not possible to place further commitments on the Road Fund at present.  As stated in reply to a question from the Deputy on the subject on the 11th May last this bridge will have first consideration when the next allocation from the fund is being made to County Kildare. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister give instructions to the Chief Engineer of the Roads Board and the County Surveyor to have plans, specifications and estimates drawn up so that there will be no delay when the money is available? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I will see that everything will be in order. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE ANNUAL REGISTER OF ELECTORS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public   Health whether he is aware that the date fixed by Section 8 of the Electoral Act, 1923, for the coming into force of the Annual Register of Electors is most unsuitable, and whether, in view of the County Council Elections taking place next year, he intends to introduce legislation to alter the date from the 1st of June to the 1st April, or other suitable date. 
     
     
      
       On the information before me I am not satisfied that a more appropriate date could be fixed for the coming into force of the Register, and accordingly legislation of the nature proposed is not intended. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - VESTING OF CO. MAYO ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state why the Palmer Estate, in County Mayo, which was purchased by the Congested Districts Board, about fourteen years since, is not yet vested in the tenants, who are still paying interest in lieu of rent, and whether he can now give a date on or before which it will be vested in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       Although the offer of the late Congested Districts Board for the Palmer estate (County Mayo) was accepted as far back as 1911, it was not vested in them until March, 1923.  Of the 1,918 tenants on this estate, 1,095 occupied holdings under £7 Poor Law Valuation, and as there were only 32 acres of untenanted arable land purchased with the estate, it has proved a difficult matter to deal with the estate in a satisfactory manner. Agreements have been signed for the purchase of 191 holdings, and of these 99 have been vested in the purchasers. The vesting of the remainder will take place as soon as practicable. Arrangements are being made for the issue of some further 200 purchase agreements for signature by the tenants. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF CO. KILDARE LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture what progress has been made, since the 11th   May, 1927, by the Land Commission in the acquisition of the lands of Kilbelan, near Newbridge, County Kildare, containing about 173 acres, held by Mr. Patrick Bobbett, for division amongst the local congests whose names have been furnished to the Department. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have the question of the compulsory acquisition of these lands under consideration. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture what progress has been made since the 28th April, 1927, by the Land Commission in the acquisition of one hundred and seventy-one acres of untenanted lands held by Mr. James Lyons in the townland of Castlesize, electoral division of Bodenstown, Co. Kildare, for the relief of the congest-applicants in the district, a partial list of whom (49 in number) has been furnished to the Department. 
     
     
      
       An inspector has been directed to report as to the suitability of the lands of Castlesize containing 171a. 9r. 29p. for acquisition under the Land Act, 1923. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture what progress has been made since the 30th March, 1926, by the Land Commission in the acquisition of the lands in the townlands of Pluckerstown, Kilmoney, Feighcullen, Keelogues, Cannonstown, Bonaghmore, Boston, Cloncumber, Tullylost, and Boherkill, in the Rathangan-Allen area, Co. Kildare, a list of which was forwarded to the Department on the 1st April. 1925, and whether he will explain the reasons for the delay in acquiring those lands. 
     
     
      
       Inquiries have been made as to the occupiers of lands in the townlands mentioned and it has been found that practically all the lands are held subject to land purchase annuities.  Proceedings are at present in course for the purchase of portion of the lands of Feighcullen and Kilmoney on the Gishford Estate. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE OF LIMERICK LANDS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that in the case of the Davies Estate, near Shanagolden, £400 was lodged by the vendor a considerable time ago, and that £950 of the agreed purchase money was retained, making a total of £1,350, for drainage and embankment works, and that the lands of various holders remain waterlogged; and whether any works have in fact been carried out by means of such fund in furtherance of the purpose of same. 
     
     
      
       A sum of £400 has been lodged with the Land Commission by the vendors of this estate for repair of embankments and sluices and clearing of drains and the vendors have agreed to the retention of a sum of £950 to provide a trust fund on allocation of the purchase money of the tenanted land.  The Land Commission expect to be in a position to advance the purchase money at an early date and lodge it in court for allocation and meanwhile the work is being carried on with the money available. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EXPERIMENTAL WIRELESS RECEIVING SETS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs what special privileges or rights attach to an experimental wireless receiving licence as compared with the ordinary receiving licence, and whether he is prepared to consider the reduction of the fee charged for an experimental licence from £1 to the rate charged for an ordinary licence. 
     
     
      
       Before the establishment of the Broadcasting Services licences were granted for the use of wireless receiving apparatus for experimental purposes to persons who desired to carry on experiments with a definite object in view and who possessed the requisite scientific qualifications. At that time and for some time afterwards it was necessary for the Department of Posts and Telegraphs   to know the location of receiving stations designed to pick up telegraph signals as well as broadcast telephony, and to exercise special supervision over such stations. 
       From the technical point of view the maintenance of a distinction between experimental and ordinary receiving stations is no longer a matter of much importance, and the question of regarding the ordinary licence, the fee for which is 10s. a year, as covering the use of any form of receiving set is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - CORK HARBOUR BILL, 1927. 
     Report from the Examiner of Private Bills, that in the case of the application   for leave to introduce the Cork Harbour Bill, 1927, the Standing Orders have been complied with. 
     Ordered: That the Bill be referred to the Joint Committee on Standing Orders. 
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - MINISTER FOR JUSTICE AND MINISTER FOR EXTERNAL AFFAIRS. 
     
      
       I have to announce that pursuant to my nomination, assented to by the Dail, the Governor-General has appointed me to be Minister for Justice and Minister for External Affairs. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - APPROPRIATION BILL, 1927&mdash;SECOND AND FINAL STAGES. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Ordered: That the remaining stages of the Appropriation Bill, 1927, be taken to-day.  (Mr. Blythe). 
     Bill passed through Committee without amendment and ordered to be reported. 
     Question proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now received for final consideration.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I would like to know if matters of local and general importance can be raised on this Bill now.  I would like to know what is the intention. 
     
     
      
       What point does the Deputy wish to raise? 
     
     
      
       In connection with the appointment of county medical officers of health. 
     
     
      
       I think the Second Stage would have been the appropriate time, but it is a question whether the Minister for Local Government and Public Health is prepared to deal with the matter now or in some other way another time. 
     
     
     
      
       From my point of view it strikes me that this is one of the many items that would ordinarily arise on the Local Government Estimates, and is not really of very great importance when compared with other items that may also arise.  I would suggest that this matter should be regarded as such, and that any discussion would take place in the ordinary way, when an opportunity that has been promised will be given in the autumn.  In the meantime I do not know that there is any matter specially pressing with the Department of Local Government and Public Health in connection with county medical officers that would make it a question that could not wait for discussion until the autumn. 
     
     
      
       My point is that this is a matter of urgency, because steps are being taken by the Department of Local Government to enforce its Orders in regard to the appointment of county medical officers of health.  If we do not raise the question now it will be too late to raise it at a later stage when an opportunity will be given. The Local Government Department may have taken steps in the meantime which will affect local boards. 
     
     
      
       I was going to suggest that if there is any particular point, the matter can be raised some day before the Dail adjourns on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       That will suit me. 
     
     
      
       The most important point to be considered in connection with the appointment of county medical officers of health is that the ratepayers will not be able to pay them. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       This Bill is a Money Bill for the purposes of Article 35 of the Constitution. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - INTRODUCTION OF BILLS WITHOUT NOTICE. 
     
     
      
       The President desires to introduce certain Bills of which notice was only given to-day. 
     
     
      
       I want to raise a question as to the advisability of introducing a Constitution Amendment Bill without having given notice.  It seems to me to be stretching too far, indeed, the leniency that has usually been accorded the introduction of special Bills without notice.  There is a considerable difference between the introduction of a Bill to amend the Constitution and the introduction of ordinary legislation. I do not know what the proposals of the President are with regard to discussion on the First Stage, but I want to say at the beginning that I shall oppose the Bill to amend the Constitution. I think it would be better that notice should be given of its introduction, before it is even granted a First Reading. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - PUBLIC SAFETY BILL, 1927&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce a Bill entitled 
       &ldquo;An Act to make further and better provision for the maintenance and preservation of the State and the public safety.&rdquo; 
       Leave granted. 
       Bill read a First Time. 
       Second Stage ordered for Tuesday. July 26th. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - ELECTORAL (AMENDMENT) (No. 2) BILL, 1927&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I move for permission to introduce a Bill entitled 
     
     &ldquo;An Act to require candidates for election to Dail Eireann or Seanad Eireann to make before nomination a declaration on oath of intention to take their seats therein and to take the oath required by Article 17 of the Constitution to be taken by members of the Oireachtas and to prescribe a time within which members of the   Oireachtas shall take the said oath after election and to make provision for the failure of a member of the Oireachtas so to take such oath.&rdquo; 
     Leave granted. 
     Bill read a First Time. 
     Second Stage ordered for Tuesday, July 26th. 
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT No. 6) BILL, 1927&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       Before moving for leave to introduce the Constitution (Amendment No. 6) Bill, 1927, I would say that I am to a large extent consulting the convenience of the House in asking for permission to introduce this Bill without notice.  It would be open to me to move, at the conclusion of the business to-day, that the House adjourn until three o'clock to-morrow, having given notice to-day of my intention to move for permission to-morrow to introduce this Bill.  That, I understand, would not meet with the convenience of many Deputies, and it was with a view to meeting their convenience as far as was possible that I put this Bill down for consideration to-day.  I would ask the House to give the requisite permission to introduce this Bill in the light of these circumstances, that it meets with the convenience of many more members than the other course would, and that no more information would be available to Deputies at three o'clock to-morrow than is available to-day. I therefore move for permission to introduce a Bill entitled 
       &ldquo;An Act to amend the Constitution by confining the rights of demanding the suspension of a Bill conferred on members of the Oireachtas by Article 47 to those members who have taken the Oath pursuant to Article 17 and by deleting the provisions relating to the initiation by the people of proposals for laws or constitutional amendments.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Does the President intend to make any statement explanatory of the purposes and the connection between one of these Bills and another, if any? 
     
     
     
      
       I would prefer to deal with the matter on Second Reading rather than on a motion asking for permission to introduce the Bill.  I think that that would be more in conformity with the procedure that has been adopted here from the beginning, and it might enable Deputies to take part in the discussion with more knowledge of the subject they are asked to consider, having read the measure. 
     
     
      
       I shall not persist in opposition to the First Reading, but will content myself with saying that the practice, or even if it is the initiation of a new practice, of considering Constitutional amendments so lightly as to have First Readings without any preliminary consideration or discussion, is one that should be avoided.  As far as I can form an opinion as to the contents of the Bill from its Title, I give notice that I shall oppose it as vigorously as I can. 
       Leave granted.  Bill read a First Time.  Second Stage ordered for Tuesday, July 26th. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - DEPENDENTS OF LATE VICE-PRESIDENT. 
     
      
       I desire to give notice of my intention to introduce proposals next week providing for the widow and children of the late Vice-President. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
     
      
       I should like to say a few words&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On what? 
     
     
      
       With regard to Local Government administration. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has given no notice of that.  We will have to take it next Tuesday. 
     
     
      
       I understood that I had given notice to raise on the adjournment to-day this matter of the county medical officers of health. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had told me at any time to-day that he wanted to raise this matter this evening, it could have been arranged. It was decided not to raise it on the Appropriation Bill, and my understanding was that it was to be raised at some future date on the adjournment.  I think that that would be by far the simplest procedure to adopt, because the Minister for Local Government would have notice, and a better discussion would be ensured. 
     
     
      
       We agree to that. 
       The Dail adjourned at 3.35 p.m. until 3 p.m. on Tuesday, July 26th. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TELEGRAPHIC FACILITIES IN DUN LAOGHAIRE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether he is aware that on numerous occasions telegrams addressed to Mr. D. G. Adams, Kharbin, Dun Laoghaire, have been returned to the senders as insufficiently addressed, and whether it is the case that letters similarly addressed to Mr. Adams are considered to be sufficiently addressed, and whether other residents of the same district have their telegrams delivered, although the address is no fuller, and whether he can state if any cost is entailed to the public in the returning of these telegrams, and, if so, the amount. 
     
     
      
       The matter referred to in the first portion of the question was dealt with at length in letters&mdash; copies attached&mdash;sent to the Deputy on the 5th and 18th March, 1926. 
       With regard to the latter part of the question, my Department is not at present aware of any recent instance in which a telegram for a resident at Dun Laoghaire, bearing the name of a house simply without the name of a road or street, has been delivered as a matter of course.  When this matter came under notice in the early part of last year, instructions were issued to the effect that telegrams arriving at Dun Laoghaire, bearing only the addressee's name and the name of a house, should be treated as insufficiently addressed after due warning had been given to the addressee of the inadequacy of the address. 
     
     
        When a telegram is treated as undeliverable, the office which accepted the message notifies the sender accordingly in the event of his address appearing on the original form, or, failing that, if he is known at the accepting office.  In such cases no cost is involved to the senders in connection with the advice of non-delivery. 
     [COPY.] 
     Aire Puist agus Telegrafa. 
     Sraid Muirbhthean, 
     Baile Atha Cliath. 
     5 Marta, 1926. 
     A Chara, 
     With reference to your letter of the 27th ultimo relative to telegrams for Mr. D. G. Adams, of Kharbin, 34a York Road, Dun Laoghaire, I find that it recently came under notice that telegrams intended for him were being addressed simply &ldquo;Adams, Kharbin, Kingstown,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Adams, Kharbin, Dun Laoghaire.&rdquo; 
     The regulations as indicated at page 205 (pages 197-198 in current issue) of &ldquo;Eoluidhe an Phuist&rdquo; (&ldquo;Post Office Guide&rdquo;) require that the address of a telegram should be sufficiently full to enable it to be delivered without difficulty and without reference to directories or other sources of information or without depending on the personal knowledge of the officer who deals with it.  (An address which might be sufficient for a letter is not necessarily sufficient for a telegram by reason of the fact that letters and telegrams are dealt with under different conditions.) 
     Mr. Adams was accordingly informed on the 29th December last that the addresses mentioned were insufficient and he was requested to advise his correspondents of his full address for telegrams.  In a further letter of the 22nd January last he was notified that from the 1st February any telegrams received with the irregular abbreviated addresses referred to would be treated as insufficiently addressed.  Mr.   Adams was, therefore, afforded a reasonable time to communicate in the matter with his correspondents, but in the circumstances I have now given instructions that telegrams bearing the abbreviated addresses in question should be delivered up to the 31st instant. 
     If, as stated, other residents in York Road receive telegrams addressed only to the name of the house, the practice is irregular and steps will be taken to put an end to it. 
     Mr. Adams has been informed that if he wishes to use an abbreviated telegraphic address he can do so by paying the usual registration fee of £2 a year. 
     I may add that I have read the official file on the subject and I do not consider Mr. Adams' attack on the Service justifiable.  To enable his own demand for prompt delivery of telegrams to be complied with, it is essential that the messages bear a full address, or an abbreviated address that has been registered. Mr. Adams, indeed, has had the benefit of using an abbreviated address for a long number of years without paying a fee.  His own complaints to Headquarters brought the irregularity to light. 
     Mise le meas, 
     (Sd.) J. J. Walsh. 
     Aire Puist agus Telegrafa. 
     Major Bryan R. Cooper, T.D. 
     [COPY.] 
     Aire Puist agus Telegrafa, 
     Sraid Muirbhthean, 
     Baile Atha Cliath, 
     19 Marta, 1926. 
     A Chara, 
     With reference to your letter of the 12th instant, arising out of earlier correspondence respecting telegrams for Mr. D. G. Adams of Dun Laoghaire, I have to explain, by way of illustration of the fact that letters and telegrams are dealt with under different conditions, that postmen have a wider knowledge of local streets, roads and houses than either   telegraph messengers or the indoor staff in the Telegraph Instrument Room.  Moreover, postmen in sorting and preparing mails for local delivery are on duty simultaneously and work in the same room, so that if an address which is inadequate or which is unfamiliar comes under the notice of one postman he is in a position to call it out, and thus get assistance in the matter from the others. 
     Telegrams are prepared and enveloped in the Telegraph Instrument Room for delivery, and if the address of a telegram is inadequate it is not always practicable to seek assistance in that connection in the Letter Sorting Room.  The postmen are frequently away from the Post Office for long periods during the day, being out either in the delivery or collection of letters or off duty, and it might therefore happen that a postman would not be available to give the necessary direction when required. 
     It will thus be understood that while letters and telegrams should as a matter of course bear a proper address, it is much more important that the regulations on the subject should be complied with in the case of telegrams. 
     I have to add that in treating telegrams with an unregistered abbreviated address as undeliverable, the Post Office does not act in an arbitrary manner, and that such a course is taken only after the addressee has had a due warning in advance of the insufficiency of the address and has failed to heed the warning. 
     Mise le meas, 
     (Sd.) J. J. WALSH, 
     Aire Puist agus Telegrafa. 
     Major Bryan Cooper, T.D. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CONGESTION IN CO. MAYO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parish of Kilcommon, Hollymount, County Mayo, and if he will state the cause of the delay by the Land Commission in taking over the Lehinch   grazing ranch, held by Messrs. McCarton Brothers, Hollymount, for the purpose of relieving congestion in that parish. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings were instituted under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for the acquisition of the lands of Lehinch Demesne and Hollymount Demesne, held by Patrick McCarton, at Hollymount, and these lands were published in  Iris Oifigiuil  in a Provisional List of Lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, will become vested in the Land Commission on the Appointed Day.  The owners appealed against the acquisition of the lands, and negotiations are in progress with a view to acquiring these lands by means of an exchange for lands situated elsewhere. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - GRAZING RANCHES IN SOUTH MAYO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what steps have been taken by the Land Commission to acquire compulsorily for the relief of congestion the grazing ranches in South Mayo, held by the following, namely:&mdash;A. K. Algie, Togher, Hollymount; James Cowan, Knockroe, Claremorris; George H. Acton, Welchpool, Belcarra; Mrs. Grehan, Carnacon, Claremorris; John McEllin, Brownhall and Brize, and the Lambert Castlemagaret demesnes, and if he will expedite the acquisition of those lands. 
     
     
      
       A proposal for the purchase of 50a. 2r. 25p. of the lands of Cuillare, on the estate of Mrs. Grehan, has been accepted. 
       The question of acquisition of the other lands referred to in the question is under consideration. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parish of Aghamore, County Mayo, and if he will state if any steps are being taken by the Land Commission to acquire the grazing ranches, held by Mrs. Nora Waldron and Mrs. Lavin, for the purpose of providing economic holdings for tenants whose valuations are under £5. 
     
     
     
      
       The holding of Mrs. Waldron comprises 75a. 0r. 29p. in the townland of Coolnaha North, and is subject to a Land Purchase Annuity. The Land Commission are making inquiries as regards them.  The holding of Mrs. Lavin cannot be identified from the particulars furnished as the subject of proceedings under the Land Purchase Acts. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will now state what steps are being taken by the Land Commission to relieve the acute congestion existing in the townlands of Ballykinave, Meelickbeg, Meelickmore and Tootagh; if, and when, the large grazing ranch held by Mr. Martin Curran will be acquired under the Land Act, 1923, and, if he is aware that those lands were inspected four times during the past two years. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings have been instituted under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for the acquisition of the lands of Ballykinave containing 452a 3r. 10p. or thereabouts, in the occupation of Martin Curran.  These lands are subject to the payment of a Land Purchase Annuity and they have been published in the  Iris Oifigiuil  in a Provisional List of Lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, will become vested in the Land Commission on the Appointed Day. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what steps, if any, have been taken by the Land Commission to acquire the lands known as Begley's Farm, on the Domville Estate, Lisnolan, Manulla, County Mayo, for the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission on the 12th instant, obtained an order for the resumption of the holding of John Begley, in the townland of Lisnolan, on the estate of Sir C. M. Domville, County Mayo. 
     
   
 