 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 2 a clog. 
   
   
     NEW DEPUTIES TAKE THEIR SEATS. 
     The Clerk reported that the following Deputies had complied with the provisions of Article 17 of the Constitution: 
     Frank Aiken. 
     Neil Blaney. 
     Gerald Boland. 
     Patrick Boland. 
     Daniel Buckley. 
     Frank Carney. 
     Frank Carty. 
     Mrs. Tom Kathleen Clarke. 
     James Colbert. 
     Dan Corkery. 
     Martin John Corry. 
     Timothy Crowley. 
     Thomas Derrig. 
     Eamon de Valera. 
     Frank Fahy. 
     Andrew Fogarty. 
     Sean French. 
     Sean Hayes. 
     Samuel Holt. 
     Patrick Houlihan. 
     Michael Joseph Kennedy. 
     Mark Killelea. 
     Michael Kilroy. 
     Sean F. Lemass. 
     Patrick John Little. 
     Patrick McCarvill. 
     Thomas McEllistrim. 
     Sean MacEntee. 
     Seamus Moore. 
     Eugene Mullen. 
     Tom Mullins. 
     Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. 
     Sean T. O'Kelly. 
     William O'Leary. 
     Matthew O'Reilly. 
     Thomas O'Reilly. 
     Thomas P. Powell. 
     Patrick J. Ruttledge. 
     James Ryan. 
     Patrick Smith. 
     John Tubridy. 
     Thomas Tynan. 
     James Victory. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TIRCONAILL MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS. 
     
     
      
       asked the President whether a Selection Board has been appointed by the Local Appointments Commission to select maternity and other nurses for appointment to the County Home, District Hospitals and Dispensary areas in Tirconaill, and, if so, if he will state the names, addresses and number of persons comprising this Board; also, whether similar Selection Boards have been established in other counties, and if he will state the reasons for the creation of such Boards. 
     
     
      
       It is the practice of the Local Appointments Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 of the Local Authorities (Officers and Employees) Act, 1926, to convene Boards of Selection to interview candidates for maternity and other nursing posts, and positions generally, where the merits and suitability of the applicants cannot be, or can only partially be, assessed by means of the competitive system of examination provided for in Section 7 of that Act.  Such Boards have met in connection with vacancies of this kind in Tirconaill and other counties, and their reports have been of substantial assistance to the Commissioners in determining the best qualified candidate for a particular office.  The personnel of these Boards varies and care is taken to ensure that they include persons of technical or professional qualifications allied to the post under consideration.  Membership of a Selection Board is purely honorary, and it is not desirable to furnish the names and addresses of those who have so generously given their services for this purpose. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EX-NATIONAL ARMY MEN AND PUBLIC POSTS. 
     
      
       asked the President whether it is the intention of the Government to remove now or in the near future the preference given to ex-National Army men when filling positions   in Government departments, and also to remove the same preference in so far as it affects employment by local authorities under relief grants. 
     
     
      
       The position as regards the employment of ex-Army men under Government departments is not identical, as one might infer from the Deputy's question, with that relating to the employment of such men in State-aided works carried out under local authorities.  In the latter case the rule governing employment while providing for a preference for ex-Army men admits also of the employment of non ex-Army men and, as a matter of fact, the number in the latter category actually employed is many times the larger.  There does not seem to be any sufficient reason for altering the existing rules governing such employment. In the case of subordinate staffs in Government departments recruitment is confined to ex-Army men.  The question whether there should be any modification of this regulation is one which has been under consideration for some time, but no decision has yet been reached. 
     
     
      
       Will the President agree that the system of giving preference to ex-National Army men in employment in Government departments and under local authorities, where State-aided grants are in operation, tends to give a political colour to such employment, inasmuch as only those with certain political leanings are employed?  Will the President consider it advisable to remove this political preference, as it is looked upon as such in the country, and thus give greater facilities for improved conditions within the service? 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative and, as regards the second part, I would prefer to get notice of it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CIVIL SERVANTS AND ARTICLE X. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware (a) that civil servants, claimants under Article X of the Treaty, are being detained beyond the statutory two years period of notice,   and that such detention is calculated to commit the State to substantial further liability; (b) that each such claimant claims compensation for such detention, as well as a right to compensation for loss suffered by non-release; (c) that each such claimant, irrespective of salary or wages which he may at present receive, claims compensation from the date of the expiration of the statutory period of two years; (d) that numbers of claimants in anticipation of their right to be compensated and released have declined promotion, whilst many other claimants have not been considered for promotion, and are being retained beyond the two years of notice in subordinate capacities; and whether, in view of the foregoing, immediate steps will be taken to effect the release from office of such civil servants. 
     
     
      
       I can only refer the Deputy to the reply given by me to the question addressed to me by Deputy Anthony on the 28th ultimo on this subject. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRANSFERRED CIVIL SERVANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that a number of transferred civil servants gave the six months' notice required under Section 2 (b) and (c) of the 8th Schedule of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, of their intention to retire more than two years ago, and they have in many cases incurred expenses, such as paying house rents in other places for houses to live in after retirement, and expenses upon arrangements to emigrate, such as passports, visas, steamship arrangements, in the belief that they would be released within two years from the date of their notices under Section 2 (c) of Schedule VIII., and whether, in view of the hardships and losses occasioned by the failure to obtain their release, the Minister will take steps to effect the immediate release of these men and the computation of their compensation; and whether allowances will be made by him for the losses sustained by reason of the fact that Clause 2 (c) of Schedule VIII. has not been adhered to. 
     
     
     
      
       I can only refer the Deputy to the reply given by me to the question addressed to me by Deputy Anthony on the 28th ultimo on this subject. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUTY FOR WIRELESS SETS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the duty charged on wireless receiving sets is charged on the invoice price, and whether, in view of the fact that this invoice price includes the cost of packing and also of transport, he will direct the Revenue Commissioners to make such arrangements as will ensure that the duty is charged on the cost of the set alone. 
     
     
      
       Under Section 8 (7) of the Finance Act, 1926, the value of an article for the purpose of assessment of the duty imposed by the section on wireless telegraphy apparatus is defined as the price which an importer would give for the article if delivered, freight and insurance paid, in bond at the place of importation.  The Revenue Commissioners are advised that the value required is ordinarily the price which would be paid on a bona fide purchase at the ship's side in this country, and the cost of packing and transport is, therefore, properly included. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister consider the desirability of amending the Act, if and when the occasion should offer? 
     
     
      
       No, because it would place the assessment of the duty on wireless receiving apparatus on a different basis to that of other customs duties. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INQUIRY INTO STATE EXPENDITURE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance how many meetings of the Special Committee which is inquiring into State expenditure have been held; whether the Minister will also say whether it is intended to invite expert evidence to assist the Committee in making recommendations on the larger questions of policy and departmental expenditure generally. 
     
     
     
      
       Owing to the election and to post-election events, with which the Deputy is familiar, it has not been possible to appoint a Minister to act as permanent Chairman of the Committee on Economy in Government Expenditure. On this account only two meetings of the Committee have so far been held.  In the course of their inquiry and prior to submitting recommendations the Committee will invite evidence from the heads of departments and the higher officials responsible for the administration of the various services. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WITHDRAWAL OF PERMISSION TO CROSS BORDER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state why the permission given to Mr. Michael McGovern, hotel proprietor, of Garrison, to cross the Border at Belleek into Saorstat Eireann, in his private motor car, was summarily withdrawn about the 1st day of June last. 
     
     
      
       In September, 1925, Mr. McGovern was granted the privilege of temporarily importing the motor car in question into Saorstat Eireann without payment of duty under the Motor Cars (Temporary Importation) Regulations, 1916 and 1921.  This privilege lapsed when the Motor Cars (Temporary Importation) Regulations, 1926, came into force, and in May last Mr. McGovern applied for similar privileges under the new Regulations, declaring in his application that the purpose for which he intended to enter Saorstat Eireann was to visit friends.  Pending completion of the usual formalities Mr. McGovern was allowed to cross the frontier on the pass originally issued to him.  On 2nd June he entered Saorstat Eireann at Cloghore with two passengers, guests at his hotel, one of whom stated that payment for the drive would be made to Mr. McGovern in due course.  Under the Regulations motor vehicles imported in such circumstances which are not registered as hackney vehicles with the proper authority in Northern Ireland can only be admitted on payment of duty.  Mr. McGovern's car is not   so registered, and in view of the use made of the vehicle his pass was retained. 
     
     
      
       If the passenger who was in Mr. McGovern's car makes a statement on oath that he did not pay his fare but was Mr. McGovern's guest, would that satisfy the Minister? 
     
     
      
       That would be a matter for consideration, and I think he should produce whatever evidence he can to the Revenue Commissioners. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOREIGN SHIPPING COMPANIES AND TAXES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether all or any of the foreign shipping companies or combines (registered or unregistered) using Saorstat ports, and having business premises, offices, stores, wharfage accommodation and other necessary facilities on long leases from Port or other Authorities in the Saorstat, pay Income Tax (Property, Profits, etc.), Corporation Profits Tax, or other tax or revenue to the Saorstat. and, if so, to what extent. 
     
     
      
       Foreign shipowners having business premises, etc., in the Saorstat are assessed to income tax in the ordinary course on the profits arising from the trade carried on by them in the Saorstat, and where the shipowner is a limited liability company its Saorstat profits would normally be chargeable to corporation profits tax if of sufficient amount.  Income tax, Schedule A (Property Tax) is payable on all premises in the Saorstat liable to such tax, whether the lessee or owner is a foreigner or not.  Companies controlled in Great Britain or Northern Ireland, and individuals resident in Great Britain or Northern Ireland, but not resident in the Saorstat are, of course, entitled to claim exemption from Saorstat income tax (all schedules) in accordance with the reciprocal agreement of the 14th April, 1926, in respect of double income tax (Finance Act, 1926, First Schedule). 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE SCHEMES IN COUNTY WESTMEATH. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance when it is expected to carry out any of the drainage schemes in County Westmeath which have been approved of by the County Council, and if he will state what is the present position of such schemes, and if he will expedite their development. 
     
     
      
       I am forwarding to the Deputy a statement showing in detail the present position of the petitions for schemes under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, received from the Westmeath County Council.  Every effort will be made by the Commissioners of Public Works to expedite these schemes. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what progress has been made with reference to the Riverstown (County Westmeath) drainage scheme, and when it is expected that this very necessary scheme will be put into operation. 
     
     
      
       The investigations of the Riverstown (County Westmeath) drainage petition has now reached the stage that a scheme for submission to the occupiers of lands affected is under preparation by the Commissioners of Public Works, and is almost completed. There have been protracted negotiations with the owner of a mill affected, which are not yet concluded.  The Commissioners hope, however, to be in a position to submit the scheme to the occupiers of lands to be benefited for their views during the coming autumn. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BALLINAMORE AND BALLYCONNELL CANAL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state what the results of the inspection by the engineers of the Board of Works on the Ballinamore and Ballyconnell Canal have been, and whether, as a result of these investigations, it is proposed to carry out any drainage improvements on this canal this season. 
     
     
      
       The Board of Works engineer has just completed his inspection   of the Ballinamore and Ballyconnell Canal, but has not yet submitted his report.  In the circumstances, and in view of the procedure necessary under the Arterial Drainage Acts it is unlikely that any works of drainage improvement can be undertaken this year in connection with this canal. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary say when the report will be available? 
     
     
      
       I should say in about a month. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEITRIM AND SLIGO DRAINAGE SCHEMES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state when the Board of Works purpose commencing operations on schemes approved by the county councils under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, in the Counties of Leitrim and Sligo. 
     
     
      
       No scheme for either county has yet reached the stage at which it can be submitted to the landholders to vote on.  The Commissioners of Public Works are in communication with the County Councils of Sligo and Leitrim as regards their making contributions towards the cost of one scheme in each of these counties.  Pending the receipt of their replies further progress cannot be made in these cases. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GOVERNMENT FARM, LUSK. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Government Farm, Lusk, County Dublin, is being advertised in the Press by the Commissioners of Public Works as being to Let on lease; whether this farm consists of over 160 acres; whether he is aware that there are in the neighbourhood of this farm a number of small holdings, and whether before accepting any offer of a lease he will offer the farm to the Irish Land Commission either for the enlargement of uneconomic holdings or the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is   aware that the Commissioners of Public Works are advertising in the Press the letting on lease of the Government Farm at Lusk, County Dublin, that this farm is situate in close proximity to the most congested districts of County Dublin, where the people are among the most hardworking and expert intensive agriculturists in the world, and that in 1925, when these lands were offered for grazing, these congests made an offer to take the lands for tillage; whether he will consider withdrawing the advertisement in its present form and either transfer the lands to the Land Commission for sub-division among these congests or offer the lands on lease in suitable lots to the congests at an economic rent. 
     
     
      
       This land is particularly suitable for stud farm purposes, and therefore not specially suitable for division among tillage farmers.  Also, there would be difficulty in disposing of it in that way owing to Article 11 of the Constitution.  But any suitable offers from farmers or associations of farmers will be considered with other offers. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that if these lands were the property of a private individual the Land Commission could compel him to surrender them, and will the Parliamentary Secretary consider the desirability of setting an example to private individuals on the part of the State? 
     
     
      
       Under the State Lands Act we are empowered to grant leases only for ninety-nine years.  The Land Commission has not power to acquire leases other than freehold leases. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary state whether he has power to transfer these lands for the relief of congestion, or does an external power exercise authority over them so that the Government could not interfere? 
     
     
      
       Under the State Lands Act that possibly could be amended, but I do not know that it could be amended to suit the Deputy.  This farm is, as I have said, particularly suitable for stud farm purposes, and if we were   to divide it and let it we would get a much less remunerative price for it than we would get if we let it as a holding. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this land has been let for grazing for some time, and that, two years ago, congests in the neighbourhood were refused when they offered a fair rent for tillage purposes? Is the Parliamentary Secretary further aware that this great site for a stud farm is let to a local man at a figure&mdash;&mdash;? 
     
     
      
       I am aware that a local association of farmers, headed, I think, by the Deputy, offered £4 an acre, but that was not considered a sufficiently high price. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that they offered £4 an Irish acre and that land is being let in County Dublin at 30/- an acre?  The farmers in County Dublin are not putting the valuation on land that people in the Land Commission, who know nothing about land, are putting on it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UTILISATION OF AERODROMES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the buildings, with lands attached, of Collinstown, Gormanstown and Tallaght Aerodromes, are at present in use, and, if not, if he will state for what purpose it is intended to utilise them; whether, if suitable for factory purposes, any steps have been or are being taken by his Department to bring these buildings and lands under the notice of those likely to be interested in acquiring such for industrial purposes. 
     
     
      
       These three cases are in different stages of procedure; at Gormanstown the buildings are still occupied for military purposes; at Collinstown they have ceased to be occupied for military purposes, and we have already brought them under the notice of the local authorities, and we are considering bringing them under the notice of other possible lessees; at Tallaght the buildings ceased to be occupied for military purposes some   time ago; a portion of them was let to the Urney Chocolate Company in 1924, and we are in treaty with the South Dublin Rural District Council to let another part.  Agricultural lands not required for military purposes are let for grazing. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FREIGHTS ON SAORSTAT EXPORTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that the foreign shipping combines using Saorstat ports have recently considerably increased freights on exports of Saorstat produce (notably cattle and other animals to British markets), while at the same time freights from Canada and the Argentine to British ports have been considerably reduced; whether he has investigated the cause of these extra impositions against shippers of Saorstat produce, or made any representation to these shipping monopolies for their removal; whether, as these abnormal rates seriously jeopardise the interests of Saorstat producers in British markets, he will take the necessary legislative action to protect the interests affected. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that following an increase in the British railway rates, and solely on this account, cross-Channel through rates were increased as from the 1st March, 1927.  I have no information regarding the rates from Canada and the Argentine to British ports.  The whole subject has received attention, and I am endeavouring to arrange a conference between the representatives of the livestock trade and the cross-Channel steamship companies to discuss the freights charged by the companies.  No Government department has any jurisdiction over the rates charged by independent steamship companies.  To introduce legislation taking such powers would be a step requiring very serious consideration and would be a matter of great difficulty.  So far as Saorstat railway rates are concerned the Railways Act, 1924, provides safeguards for traders through the medium of the Railway Tribunal. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE CLAIM (CO. KILDARE). 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the reasons for refusal to pay Unemployment Insurance Benefit to Robert Plummer, Mooretown, Donedea, Co. Kildare, Serial No. 3641, Newbridge Branch Office, who lodged a claim on the 7th April, 1927. 
     
     
      
       Robert Plummer, Mooretown, Donedea, made a claim for unemployment insurance benefit on the 7th April, 1927.  The claim was referred to the Court of Referees by the Insurance Officer, and was duly considered by the Court in the presence of the claimant. The Court recommended that the claim be disallowed, on the ground that the applicant was not unable to obtain suitable employment.  With this recommendation the Insurance Officer agreed, and accordingly disallowed the claim under Section 7 (1) (iii) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920.  Mr. Plummer was notified of the Court's decision on the 29th July, 1927. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the employment offered to Mr. Plummer was unsuitable, and, on account of that, will the Minister ask for a reconsideration of the claim? 
     
     
      
       If in a particular case the claimant is not satisfied with what the Court of Referees and the Insurance Officer decided, there is a further appeal open to him.  That appeal has not been lodged. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LIVE STOCK PRICES AND FREIGHTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that prices of live stock are now down to the 1913 level, and that freights on live stock are over twice what they were in 1913, and if he can take any steps to remedy this serious position in the live stock trade. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that railway rates for live stock are approximately 100 per cent. over the 1913 figures, but I am informed it is   not possible for the companies to base their rates on the present prices obtainable for live stock, owing to the great increase in railway working expenses. The Railway Tribunal will shortly be fixing the standard charges applicable to the Great Southern Railways Company, and, in accordance with the terms of the Railways Act, 1924, representatives of the live stock trade will have an opportunity of making their case before the Tribunal.  I would particularly direct the Deputy's attention to Section 53 (2) of the Railways Act, which provides:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Railway Tribunal when fixing charges in pursuance of the provisions of this section shall have regard to the means which in their opinion are best calculated to ensure the maximum development and extension in the public interest of the carriage by railway of merchandise and of passengers and their luggage, and shall accordingly ascertain as far as may be practicable the effect which the existing charges, or any of them, have had upon the merchandise or passenger traffic to which they are applicable, and, in particular, whether the application of such charges has tended or, if continued, would be likely to tend towards the increase or diminution of the said traffic.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the booked through rate is higher than the booked locally and rebooked rates, and will he do anything to lower the rates, for, if he cannot, it will be disastrous for farmers and exporters in our largest industry?  If the Minister cannot see his way to lower the rates the country will have nothing to go on. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot make a speech now. 
     
     
      
       I seldom make a speech.  I am only trying to ask a question. 
     
     
      
       I allowed the Deputy to make a speech because he does not often make one, but he cannot proceed further with it now. 
     
     
     
      
       The reply to the Deputy's question is that I have no power over railway rates.  This House decided that no Minister should have power over such rates, and a tribunal was set up to deal with it. 
     
     
      
       Is it not time somebody had power to deal with it? 
     
     
      
       There is power in somebody, and the particular tribunal was established by an Act of this House, and it is for traders to make their case before it.  That tribunal should be given a chance before it is condemned. 
     
     
      
       We are tired of making our case.  It is all &ldquo;Wait and See.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOREIGN SHIPPING COMPANIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the number of foreign shipping companies or combines using Saorstat ports and having business premises, offices, stores, wharfage accommodation and other necessary facilities on long leases from Port or other Authorities in the Saorstat; whether all or any of these shipping companies or combines are registered in the Saorstat, or have any of their vessels been registered in the Saorstat, and, if not registered, whether he will introduce legislation requiring these shipping companies or combines and their vessels using Saorstat ports to become registered in the Saorstat; whether he can state the value of trade (approximately, if not accurately) carried between British and Saorstat ports by those shipping combines from 1914 to 1916, inclusive. 
     
     
      
       The London, Midland and Scottish Railway Company; the British and Irish Steam Packet Company, and the City of Cork Steam Packet Company, having their principal places of business in Great Britain, have also business premises, offices, stores and wharfage accommodation at ports in An Saorstat.  I am not in a position to state the periods of the leases held by these Companies or whether the properties held by them   have been bought or leased from Ports or other public Authorities.  All the vessels belonging to these companies and trading to ports in An Saorstat are registered at ports in this country. 
       Five other steamship companies, having their principal places of business outside and engaged in the &ldquo;home trade&rdquo; with Irish ports, have business premises, offices, stores and wharfage accommodation at Saorstat ports.  None of the vessels belonging to these companies is registered in this country.  In addition to these five, two steamship companies which are registered and have their principal places of business in the Saorstat have recently come under the control of one of the companies whose head offices are situated in Great Britain.  Of the vessels owned by these two companies, some only are registered in the Saorstat.  Several foreign shipping companies engaged in the trans-Atlantic trade and in the foreign trade have also premises and facilities at Irish ports, but none of the vessels belonging to these companies is registered at a port in An Saorstat.  It is not proposed to introduce legislation requiring shipping companies using Saorstat ports to be registered here or to have their vessels registered here.  The original returns from which the statistics of Irish external trade for the years 1914 to 1916, inclusive, were compiled showed only the total quantities of the different classes of goods imported and exported at each of the ports in Ireland.  Separate particulars were not given for imports or exports carried by the respective shipping companies or combines, nor were particulars available to distinguish trade with British ports from trade with other foreign ports.  Accordingly, it is not possible to state, even approximately, the value of the trade between British and Saorstat ports carried by certain shipping companies during the period referred to. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state why it is not proposed to get boats trading with Saorstat ports on the register? 
     
     
      
       That is a different question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IRISH SHIPPING COMPANIES. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether his attention has been called to the recent Press announcement that five Irish shipping companies have been registered in England and that the registered address of those companies is 6 Spring Gardens, London, S.W.; that the companies referred to are: (1) City of Cork Steam Packet Company, Ltd., present capital £280,000 in £2 shares; (2) Michael Murphy, Ltd. (to take over the business of the Steamship Proprietors, owned by M. Murphy, at Dublin, Cardiff, Swansea, and elsewhere), nominal capital £10,000 in £10 shares; (3) British and Irish Steam Packet Company, Ltd., nominal capital £3,000,000, £1 shares (half ordinary shares, half preference); (4) Dublin General Steam Shipping Company, Ltd., nominal capital £50,000 in £10 shares; and (5) Dundalk and Newry Steam Packet Company, Ltd., nominal capital £70,500 in £5 shares, and whether he can state if any or all of those companies have yet registered their companies and their vessels in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that a Press announcement on the lines indicated in the Deputy's question recently appeared, but I have no official knowledge of companies registered in England.  All the vessels belonging to the British and Irish Steam Packet Company and the City of Cork Steam Packet Company are registered at ports in An Saorstat.  Some of the vessels owned by Michael Murphy, Ltd., and the Dundalk and Newry Steam Packet Company are registered at ports in An Saorstat and some are registered at ports in Great Britain.  The Dublin General Steam Shipping Company is not shown in Lloyd's register as owning any vessels. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY ACCOUNTS (COUNTY WEXFORD). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that application for payment for goods supplied by Mr. R. Rackard, Killanne, Co. Wexford, to troops of the 13th and 14th Units operating from Brigade Headquarters,   Enniscorthy, in October, 1922. has been made, and the amount of £3 4s. 11d. has not yet been paid; if he will state if there is any reason for the non-payment, and if not, whether he will take steps to expedite the settlement of the account. 
     
     
      
       There does not appear to be any record in my Department of the receipt of a claim from Mr. Rackard of Killanne, Co. Wexford.  If, however, the Deputy will furnish me with the names of the individuals to whom the goods were supplied, the nature of the goods, and the authority on which they were supplied, I will have the claim investigated with the least possible delay. 
     
     
      
       I can supply the Minister with the bill.  Is that good enough? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LADY PUPIL TEACHERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education (a) if he will state if lady Pupil Teachers, under the new system, will be called to training as a result of the Intermediate Leaving Certificate Examination, 1928, to the exclusion of all others; (b) whether he considers that those who were Pupil Teachers under the old system, and were not called to training as a result of the Easter Scholarship Examination, 1927, and who passed the Intermediate Leaving Certificate Examination with Honours in 1927, have a special claim on the Department in the matter of being called up for training, or whether the Department will give them an opportunity of competing at the Intermediate Leaving Certificate Examination, 1928, for places in the Training Colleges; and (c) if, in view of the fact that Pupil Teachers will fill the majority of places in the Training Colleges, will the Minister state the probable number of vacancies to be filled by lady candidates as a result of the Easter Scholarship Examination, 1928, so that the education of a number of children may not be directed towards the filling of vacancies which do not, in reality, exist. 
     
     
      
       (a) Pupil Teachers appointed under the new scheme who, at the termination of their Pupil   Teacher service, pass the Leaving Certificate Examination in the prescribed course and fulfil other conditions required by the regulations take priority over Easter Scholarship candidates in regard to admission to Training Colleges. These Pupil Teachers are appointed in Secondary Schools. 
       (b) Pupil Teachers under the old scheme were appointed in Primary Schools and the course of study for them was that for the Easter Scholarship Examination.  Under this scheme only persons who obtained places as a result of the competitive examination at Easter could be admitted to training.  It is not possible under the regulations to allow these students to sit for the Leaving Certificate Examination for the purpose of being admitted to training. 
       (c) It is not possible to state the number of places in the Training Colleges for Catholic girls likely to be available for Easter Scholarship candidates in 1928, as this will be largely determined by the number of Pupil Teachers who pass the leaving certificate examination in that year and otherwise qualify.  Unless the number of vacancies in Training Colleges for Catholic girls is increased, it is possible that not more than thirty vacancies in these Training Colleges will be available in 1928 for Easter Scholarship candidates. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRAFFIC ON AVENUE AT FAIRVIEW. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that (1) Windsor Avenue, Fairview (which avenue is only fifteen feet wide), hitherto a select residential cul de sac enjoying for an unbroken period of over forty years a right of one way traffic only, has been turned into an ordinary through two-way thoroughfare for heavy vehicular traffic, by the removal of a wall at the Croydon Park end; (2) that as a result of such increase of traffic serious damage to property has accrued, the walls of some houses have been cracked and fissured, and others have begun to sink; (3) that an appeal to the City Commissioners resulting in the erection   of a signpost inscribed &ldquo;no heavy traffic,&rdquo; has not had the desired effect, and whether he will state (a) by what statutory authority the wall has been removed; (b) if the present two-way vehicular traffic is to be permanently maintained, and (c) if not, will the wall be restored to its original position, or what action will be taken to prevent this traffic. 
     
     
      
       In connection with the recent Housing Scheme of the Dublin Borough Commissioners at Croydon Park, the avenue referred to by the Deputy has been extended, and for this reason the wall at the end of the original avenue was removed.  The traffic in Windsor Avenue was not at any time a one-way traffic, the avenue having been a cul de sac. 
       I am not aware that serious damage has been done to property in Windsor Avenue by the opening up of this thoroughfare, but I understand that the City Commissioners, with the cooperation of the Garda Siochana, have taken steps to prevent heavy vehicular traffic in Windsor Avenue.  Most of the heavy vehicular traffic in this district was due to the activities of the various building contractors on the housing scheme, but these have now practically ceased. 
       The wall referred to by the Deputy was removed by the Commissioners in exercise of their powers under the Housing of the Working Classes (Ireland) Acts, the Dublin Improvements Acts and the Public Health Acts.  The Commissioners propose to continue to allow two-way traffic on the avenue. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TIRCONAILL OFFICIALS' OVERTIME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that reconstruction work was done after hours during the past two years by an official or officials of the Tirconaill County Council, for which a sum was passed for payment at a meeting of the Finance Committee of the Council on the 28th July, 1927, and, if so, if he can state the nature of the work done, and whether the payment of same has   been approved by his Department, and if he can also state whether the said sum will be chargeable to the rates of the county. 
     
     
      
       The Council's offices were destroyed by fire in February, 1925, and, no doubt, the reconstruction of official records involved additional labour on the part of the Council's staff. 
       No proposal for special payment in respect of such work has so far been submitted.  If such a proposal is received full inquiry as to the extent of the work involved will be made before the decision of the Department is given. 
       There is no source other than the county rates from which such expenditure could be met. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state whether a resolution was adopted by the Council authorising this work to be undertaken? 
     
     
      
       I have no information with regard to that. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister make inquiries? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy thinks it important.  The matter will be gone into if any request for special payment arises. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILDARE INSURANCE BENEFIT CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will have inquiries made as to the reasons for refusal to pay National Health (Maternity) Insurance benefit to Mr. Andrew Lettice, of Doctor's Lane, Maynooth, County Kildare (member's Registered No. 117113) by the Ancient Order of Hibernians Insurance Section, Division 1209, 1 Mountjoy Square, Dublin. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Andrew Lettice ceased to be insurably employed on the 31st January, 1926, and, as he was not entitled to the benefits of the Prolongation of Insurance Act, 1921, not having had 80 contributions to his credit for the two contribution years ended on the 4th July, 1920, he ceased to be an insured member of the Ancient   Order of Hibernians Insurance Section at the termination of his &ldquo;free year's&rdquo; insurance on the 31st January, 1927. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REDUCTION OF OLD AGE PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the reasons for reducing the old age pension from 10/- to 9/- in the case of John Byrne (Pension Register No. B.20401805) of Blackrath, Curragh Camp, County Kildare, and whether he will reconsider increasing the pension to 10/-, as Mr. Byrne is over 82 years of age. 
     
     
      
       Inquiries are being made in this case, and a communication will be sent to the Deputy as soon as possible. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LIMERICK COUNTY COUNCIL FINANCES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health (a) what was the total deficit in the finances of the Limerick County Council (including outstanding liabilities of all sorts, whether booked at the time or since discovered) as at 31st March, 1925; (b) what is the amount of expenditure on roads in excess of legal limits ascertained during the five years ending on such date; (c) what were the amounts included for levy in the rates for repayment of Local Loans during the said five years, and the amounts remitted by the Repaying Bodies in respect of such loans during the same time respectively; (d) what is the total of deductions made at one time or another by the Central Government from grants payable to Limerick County in respect of defaults in repayment of local loans since 1920. 
     
     
      
       (a) I would refer the Deputy to my answer of the 5th July. 
       (b) and (c) I would refer the Deputy to the copy of the Inspector's Report, which has been supplied to him, which contains the information sought. 
       (d) £56,161 18s. 3d. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health   (a) whether he is aware that the Expenditure and Receipts of the Limerick County Council for the five years 1920-25 are shown by the Inspector presiding over the recent Sworn Inquiry in his Report as £1,536,711 and £1,283,211 respectively; (b) what are the figures for Expenditure and Receipts for the same period producing the difference of £142,078 quoted by the Minister in his answer on 5th July last to a question on this subject; (c) whether either of the above results has been certified as correct by the auditor; and (d) in what manner has the actual established difference for such period been dealt with or disposed of, or now stands to be dealt with or disposed of. 
     
     
      
       The answers are as follows: (a) Yes; (b) Expenditure £1,650,375, Receipts £1,508,297; (c) No; (d) I have no information. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the answer to sub-head (c), can the Minister say up to what date was the last public audit?  May I suggest that it was last March three years? 
     
     
      
       I am not able to say the date of the last audit.  The auditor has certain statutory duties&mdash; he audits the half-yearly accounts of receipts and expenditure.  It is not his business to certify as correct the results of any special arithmetical problems. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LIVE STOCK SCHEMES IN CAVAN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state what further steps have been taken by his Department to have applied to Cavan the live stock schemes which are in operation in the areas scheduled as the congested districts. 
     
     
      
       The funds voted for special live stock and other schemes for the statutory congested districts cannot be applied to County Cavan, which is not a scheduled congested area. The live stock schemes in County Cavan are administered through the County Committee of Agriculture, and under these schemes considerable developments   have taken place in the last few years.  For example, the number of premium bulls in the county in 1925 and 1926 were, respectively, 22 and 28, while this year the number is 36.  The number of premium boars has similarly increased from 17 and 35 respectively in 1925 and 1926 to 39 this season.  I understand that the County Committee of Agriculture are initiating a sheep-breeding scheme this year, and it is probable that a number of rams will be located in the poorer areas.  The needs of farmers in County Cavan can be adequately met by a further extension of the existing schemes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WATER SUPPLY FOR KINSALE PIER AND FISHING STATIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that the Kinsale Harbour Commissioners, relying on the support promised by him to a deputation which awaited on him last February to urge the Government to make a grant of one-third of the cost of providing an adequate water supply to the pier and fishing stations at Kinsale, have, in co-operation with the Kinsale Urban District Council, actually carried out the work; whether the Minister is further aware that the need for this water supply was urgent, in view of the fact that steam fishing vessels operating from Kinsale were compelled to go periodically to Cork for water for their boilers, and that herring curers were without an adequate supply of water for their operations on the quay of Kinsale; whether he is further aware that the funds of the Kinsale Harbour Commissioners are inadequate to meet the cost of the work which must fall on them if a State contribution is not forthcoming; and whether, in view of these facts, he is prepared to approach the Minister for Finance in order to secure a favourable revision of his decision declining to approve of a State grant for this very necessary work in developing the fishing industry of Kinsale. 
     
     
      
       I am aware of the facts as stated in the Deputy's question, and I am making further representations to the Department of Finance on the subject of a State grant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RETURN OF DEPOSIT TO STRAFFAN FARMING SOCIETY. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state when the deposit placed by the Straffan (Co. Kildare) Co-operative Farming Society in the hands of the Land Bank to facilitate a loan will be returned to the Society. 
     
     
      
       The security deposit lodged with the National Land Bank by the Straffan Co-operative Farming Society, Ltd., in connection with the purchase of the lands amounts to £884, which sum was transferred to the Land Commission and invested as provided by Section 53 of the Land Act, 1923. 
       Section 45 of the Land Act, 1927, authorities the Land Commission to refund this deposit to the original contributors or to persons claiming through them, and it is anticipated that instructions and forms of application for such refund will be forwarded to the Secretary of the Society at an early date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF ROSCOMMON FARMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that certain persons became Bank Guarantors for a considerable sum of money some years ago for the purchase of lands known as the Bredagh and Carrowkeel farms (Co. Roscommon), in the vicinity of Dysart, Ballinasloe; that these lands have not been for some years past in the possession of the Bank Guarantors, and that the persons enjoying possession are not making a reasonable attempt to meet the Guarantors' liabilities, and whether, as the Land Commission agreed to take over those lands for division, as far back as the 1st of February, 1925, the Minister will state why the completion of the sale and the division of the land is held up since that time, while the bank interest is mounting up against the Guarantors, who have no say in the management of the farms. 
     
     
      
       It appears that in 1904 a Committee purchased the lands of Bredagh and Carrowkeel, subject to   an apportioned annual fee-farm rent of £151.  The Bank of Ireland lent the purchase money on mortgage.  In 1920 another body of persons known as the &ldquo;Bredagh Claimants&rdquo; dispossessed the &ldquo;Old Trustees&rdquo; and laid claim to the lands before the Dail Eireann Land Settlement Commission Court.  This Court directed that a valuer should ascertain the persons best entitled to benefit by the division of the lands, and should fix the price of each allotment, upon payment of which the &ldquo;Old Trustees&rdquo; were to convey the lands to the selected allottees. 
       By a later judgment the Court ordered the &ldquo;Old Trustees&rdquo; to convey the lands to the Bredagh Claimants on payment by the latter of £1,450, out of which sum the &ldquo;Old Trustees&rdquo; were to pay off the bank mortgage.  In January.  1922, after further proceedings, it was ordered and declared that the lands were held by the &ldquo;Old Trustees&rdquo; in trust to relieve congestion in the parishes of Dysart and Ballyforan, for the benefit of the poor in these parishes, and the case was referred to the Land Department to settle a scheme for administration of the Trust. 
       Eventually Mr. Justice Wylie directed, in July, 1925, in connection with the proceedings under the Dail Eireann Courts (Winding-Up) Act, that proceedings be stayed pending the acquisition and distribution of the lands by the Land Commission; and he gave liberty to the parties in the &ldquo;winding-up&rdquo; proceedings to make such application on the allocation of the purchase money in the Land Commission Court as they might be respectively advised.  In January, 1925, the Land Commission gazetted the lands for acquisition, and in February, 1926, the Judicial Commissioner affirmed the price fixed by the Land Commission at £4,344. 
       It appears, however, that the &ldquo;Bredagh Claimants&rdquo; mentioned above are in possession of the lands, and more than £400 is due for income tax since 1920.  The poor rates for period ending 31st March last were obtained by seizure. 
     
     A scheme for the distribution of the lands has received the approval of the Commissioners and could be put into   operation if the arrears of income tax were discharged. 
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary say why is the matter being held up? 
     
     
      
       The owners have got their remedy if they care to avail of Section 6 of the Finance Act, 1927, by making application for relief to the Minister for Finance. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM OF SKIBBEREEN EVICTED TENANT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that Miss Julia Cotter, High Street, Skibbereen, who is a daughter of the late Mr. Jeremiah Cotter, of Lisaree, Aughadown, Skibbereen, who was evicted from his farm of thirty acres on the estate of the late Mr. John R. Beecher over thirty years ago, claims as the representative of a bona fide evicted tenant that she be reinstated in her original holding or receive in its stead another holding during the division of lands now taking place; and whether this claim will be inquired into and satisfactorily reported on in favour of the applicant. 
     
     
      
       The application of Miss Julia Cotter claiming as the representative of an evicted tenant to be allotted a parcel of land under Section 31 of the Land Act, 1923, has been noted for consideration. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISTRIBUTION OF MEATH ESTATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he will state the intentions of the Land Commission regarding the distribution of the estate of McVeigh.  Roadanstown, County Meath, and whether it is the intention of the Land Commission to have the undivided portion of the said estate allotted to local applicants, and, if not, whether he will state why not. 
     
     
      
       The total area of untenanted land acquired on this estate is 727a. Or. 30p.  Of this 334a. Or. 12p. has been divided amongst local applicants, and residue 381a. Or. 18p. is being utilised to provide suitable exchanges for migrants from congested areas whose   lands are urgently needed for the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary say if all the lands referred to in the question have been allotted or if a large proportion is lying derelict? 
     
     
      
       I understand all the lands have been allotted. 
     
     
      
       Since when? 
     
     
      
       That is my information. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether all the lands on the estate of Aylmer, County Kildare, have yet been allotted, and whether the application of Mr. R.A.J. Manning, County Meath, representative of a tenant evicted from said estate, for a holding thereon has received any consideration by the Land Commission and with what result. 
     
     
      
       An application was received in December, 1924, on behalf of Mr. R.A. Manning for reinstatement on a holding in the townland of Curraghbrack, on the estate of Miss Aylmer at Donadea, formerly occupied by his father.  These lands have not been acquired by the Land Commission, but if and when they are acquired Manning's application will be considered. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Parliamentary Secretary if there is a possibility of the Land Commission acquiring the lands? 
     
     
      
       Negotiations are proceeding for the acquisition of the lands. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - APPOINTED DAY UNDER LAND ACT, 1923. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is prepared to take steps to declare the Appointed Day under Section 70 of the Land Act, 1923, so that tenant purchasers may thereby become entitled to the full reduction in their rentals which the terms of the Act allow them. 
     
     
      
       Estates are dealt with by the Land Commission in their order of priority, as determined by the dates on which the prescribed schedules of particulars are lodged, and the Appointed   Day is fixed in respect of each estate according as the various matters arising on the sale of the estate are disposed of.  The appointed day has already been fixed in respect of 389 tenanted estates, comprising 1,066 holdings, representing a purchase money of £541,821.  The provisions of Section 2 of the Land Act, 1927, permitting the outstanding compounded arrears of rent to be added to the purchase money will enable the &ldquo;appointed day&rdquo; to be declared for a very considerable number of additional holdings at an early date.  The work is being proceeded with as expeditiously as the nature and complexity of the matters involved permit. 
     
     
      
       Inasmuch as delay in furnishing returns is not due to the tenants, does the Parliamentary Secretary not think it an injustice that the tenants should be deprived of the full benefits of the Act, through no fault of their own, and will he take action to relieve that disability, even if it is necessary to introduce legislation? 
     
     
      
       I agree the delay in the returns is not due to the tenants. There is frequently delay on the part of the landlords, and the tenants have no power to force the landlords to send in the returns quickly. 
     
     
      
       If there is delay on the part of the landlords, is it not possible to take action to relieve the tenants, in view of the fact that the delay is not through any fault of theirs? 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state if it is not the custom of the Land Commission to wait until all the arrears on each estate are paid off, so that they can vest the whole estate, and whether a considerable amount of vesting could not be done if the vesting was done by farms on the estates, and not by whole estates? Will the Land Commission take steps to have arrangements of that kind carried out? 
     
     
      
       That is really a different question altogether. 
     
     
      
       It arises out of the main question. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy knows the answer already. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF PLUNKETSTOWN (KILDARE) FARM. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that Mr. Michael Lyons, of Plunketstown, Castledermot, County Kildare, offered his above-mentioned farm of 108 statute acres to the Land Commission more than eighteen months ago for division among uneconomic holders; that matters were progressing satisfactorily until lately, when he was notified that the Land Commission would not make any bid, and can the Minister state the reason for such action on the part of the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Marraghbeg, Moatavanny and Plunketstown, containing 108 acres, or thereabouts, held by Michael Lyons, were offered for sale to the Land Commission, but as these lands were purchased under the Land Acts and are subject to payment of a land purchase annuity, and are not otherwise suitable for the purposes of the Land Commission, it was decided to take no further action towards their acquisition under the Land Purchase Acts. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AT FAIRVIEW. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that representations have been made to the Garda authorities by the residents of Windsor Avenue with regard to two-way heavy vehicular traffic, due to the removal of a wall at the Croydon Park end, resulting in serious damage to house property in the avenue, and to ask what steps, if any, have been taken by the Garda authorities to prohibit this heavy vehicular traffic. 
     
     
      
       No representations have been made to the Garda Siochana in the Dublin Metropolitan Division as to damage to house property in Windsor Avenue resulting from heavy motor traffic.  I understand that this avenue is not at present used to any serious extent by heavy vehicles. 
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that two-ton and four-ton lorries are using this avenue frequently?  I can bear personal testimony to that fact myself. 
     
     
     
      
       Only to this extent, that they are being used, at present, in connection with building operations, but directly the building operations are concluded the avenue will not further be used for heavy traffic. 
     
     
      
       I beg to assure the President that the vehicles I refer to are not used in connection with the building in the Croydon Park area. 
     
   
   
     QUESTION ON THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
       
     
     
      
       I beg to give notice that I will raise the subject referred to in question 14 on the adjournment. 
     
   
   
     MESSAGE FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       Message from the Seanad:&mdash;&ldquo;That Seanad Eireann has passed the Public Safety Bill, 1927, without amendment; and the Electoral Amendment No. 2 Bill without amendment, and has made the following order:&mdash;That a Joint Committee, consisting of five members of Dail Eireann and five members of Seanad Eireann, be set up to advise and assist An Ceann Comhairle and An Cathaoirleach in the direction and control of the Oireachtas Restaurant.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     OFFICIAL REPORTS&mdash;DEPUTY'S PERSONAL EXPLANATION. 
     
      
       During the discussions on the Electoral Amendment No. 2 Bill, on July the 28th, I made a certain statement in reference to the Official Reports, in which I suggested that certain words uttered by Ministers may be deleted from the Official Report before it is issued.  I further made the statement, based upon memory, &ldquo;that a speech made by a Minister was altered before it was circulated to Deputies.  I believe it was the result of a correction made by the Minister.&rdquo; These statements were made following my memory of a certain incident that took place in 1925.  There was a discussion in the House, and a Deputy made a request to the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs in respect to a certain matter.  The Minister for Posts and Telegraphs uttered certain words which were heard by Deputies and reported in the daily papers next morning. 
     
     These words did not appear in the Official Report, and my statement was based upon my memory of that incident. But I have been assured, and I accept the assurance unreservedly, that as a matter of fact the Official Reporters did not treat these words of the Minister as words directed to the House, but as a sotto voce interjection.  Such   interjections are not uncommon, and according to the practice and instruction given to you, sir, to the Official Reporters, such utterances are not reported by them and do not appear in the script.  Consequently it is out of the question to say that the Minister interfered, or made any suggestion, or gave any direction, that these words should be taken out of the Official Report. 
     I therefore quite unreservedly withdraw the suggestion that the Minister in question interfered in any way with the Official Report, or that the Official Reporters, by direction or suggestion from any Minister or Deputy, made any alteration in the Report. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BILLS. - DUBLIN PORT AND DOCKS (BRIDGE) BILL, 1927. 
     
      
       The Joint Committee on Standing Orders relative to Private Business report that they have nominated the following Deputies to serve on the Joint Committee to which the Dublin Port and Docks (Bridge) Bill, 1927, has been referred by both Houses, viz.:&mdash;H. Law, M. Keyes, H. Garahan. 
       In pursuance of Standing Order 61, of the Standing Orders relative to Private Business, An Cathaoirleach and An Ceann Comhairle have appointed Deputy Thrift to be Chairman of the Joint Committee. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE&mdash;VOTE No. 52 (DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE). 
     
      
       I do not propose to take item No. 3 on the Order Paper to-day. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the President whether the Executive Council intends to take any immediate action, in view of the change in the composition of the Dail? 
     
     
      
       I do not understand the meaning of that question. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister, by notice at the last meeting, arranged that Vote No. 52, which is a Vote proposing to give to the Department of Agriculture certain moneys, should be taken to-day. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       It appears that that is not to be proceeded with. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know whether the President would give the Dail an opportunity to-day of raising the question of confidence in the Ministry. 
     
     
      
       I understood that the Deputy was to have given notice of that yesterday, but I have not heard that he did. 
     
     
      
       Probably you, sir, will inform the President and the House whether it would be in order to give twenty-four hours' notice of a motion of that nature. 
     
     
      
       I think that twenty-four hours' notice, or anything less than full notice, unless by agreement, of a motion for a vote of no confidence would not be in order. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister for Finance, before proceeding with Vote 52, consider the advisability of appointing a Commission to inquire into this whole transaction, which is the most fishy transaction, in my opinion, that was ever perpetrated by a Government in any country? 
     
     
      
       There is another transaction to be settled first. 
     
     
      
       It is not a laughing matter. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot raise it until we come to it. 
     
     
      
       I will raise it when we come to it, and then they will not laugh. 
     
     
      
       I desire to give formal notice that on the motion for the adjournment, which, I understand, was   to be for a long period, I shall move that the House do meet again on Tuesday next, and that there will then be presented to the House, for consideration on that day, a vote of no confidence in the present Executive Council. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had asked me to meet on Tuesday I would have been perfectly agreeable to do so, and it was my intention to move that the House adjourn until Tuesday.  If the Deputy had followed out the correct practice he would have given notice of the motion.  Surely I am not to be asked to assist him in a matter which he ought to know quite well himself. 
     
     
      
       Is the President agreeable to take on Tuesday a motion, of which notice has now been given, for a vote of no confidence? 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       I hope the terms of the motion will be in our hands as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       I suppose, sir, I am not to be taken as agreeing to that motion. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - CURRENCY BILL, 1927&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       Before we go into Committee on the amendments, would the Minister state his intention with regard to them? 
     
     
      
       I intend, without any enthusiasm, to recommend the Dail to accept all the Seanad amendments. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister consider the advisability of circulating the evidence given before the Banking Commission before this big proposition of the new currency embodied in this Bill is proceeded with? 
     
     
      
       The Currency Bill has passed through all its stages in the Dail and Seanad.  It has been amended in the Seanad; we have to consider the amendments made in the Seanad, and the question that the Deputy raises is one that I think does   not now arise.  It is a question which might have been raised on the Second Reading of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       Yes, but you hurried it. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will perhaps take my assurance that I did not hurry it. 
     
     
      
       Your Party did. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will have to relieve himself of the impression that my Party has been a party to any such transaction. 
     
     
      
       Well, your ex-Party. 
       The Dail went into Committee. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in Amendment No. 1:&mdash; 
       Section 2.  Before the word &ldquo;issued&rdquo; in line 28 the words &ldquo;heretofore or hereafter&rdquo; inserted. 
       This is an amendment to the Definition Clause.  The object of it is to ensure that it will cover not merely British Government Securities issued at the date of the passing of the Currency Bill, but similar securities issued in the future. 
     
     
      
       I think that this might be the best opportunity for me to say that I do not propose to resist the Minister's motion to accept the amendments to this Bill passed by the Seanad.  It will be remembered that on the Second Reading of the Bill here I expressed certain views to the effect that for a considerable measure of this kind it might be the least opportune time to introduce changes into the currency when the country was not in a flourishing industrial or commercial state, but that the promise that, through the enactment of the Bill, there would come into the Exchequer a sum of approximately, £300,000 a year, was sufficient to warrant me in supporting the Bill, which did not, in my view, raise any very big question of principle. Statements have been made with authority that the sum of £300,000 a year might well be obtained without having to go through the whole process   of establishing a Currency Commission, and if that could be done, within the working out of the Bill when it becomes an Act, without having to put into effect all its various provisions, it might be a very wise and judicious course to pursue.  I do not know whether it is practicable&mdash;but I think it probably is practicable&mdash;to ensure to the State by the operation of certain sections of this Bill the enhancement of the Exchequer by the sum of £300,000 a year, while still leaving in abeyance the proposals with regard to the Currency Commission. 
     
     
      
       I understood that the Deputy was making himself clear with regard to the amendments, but he must realise that it would be impossible now to allow a debate which would be only suitable for Second Reading.  The Deputy will realise that, I think. 
     
     
      
       I rather wanted to avoid having to use the occasion of the passing of a number of these amendments to get a considered statement. I have finished all I want to say, but I am putting that as an indication of my views on this matter. 
     
     
      
       I am strongly of opinion that the Deputy does not understand the Bill at all, having regard to the statement we have just heard. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 2:&mdash; 
       Section 2.  Before the word &ldquo;carrying,&rdquo; in line 33, the words &ldquo;for the time being&rdquo; inserted. 
       This is practically a drafting amendment. It is to ensure that the Commission shall not continue to hold securities which might have had a guarantee at some time but which guarantee had been withdrawn through the lapse of time or for some other reason. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 3:&mdash; 
     
     Section 24, sub-section (3).  After the word &ldquo;nominate&rdquo; in line 29 the   following words inserted: &ldquo;after consultation with each of the shareholding banks and with each of the ordinary Commissioners.&rdquo; 
     This is to ensure, in case the first, Chairman has to be nominated by the Minister for Finance, that before he nominates him the Minister shall consult with the shareholding banks and with the ordinary members of the Currency Commission. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments 4 and 5:&mdash; 
       Section 26, sub-section (2).  After the word &ldquo;Commissioner&rdquo; in line 55 the words &ldquo;who is not in the permanent service of the State&rdquo; inserted. 
       Section 26, sub-section (2).  The words &ldquo;or any other person willing to act&rdquo; deleted in lines 55-6. 
       These two amendments stand together.  When the Bill went to the Seanad the Commission might appoint any person whom they regarded as suitable temporarily to act as Chairman. As it comes back it provides that they shall appoint one of the Commissioners other than that ordinary Commissioner who may be a permanent civil servant. 
     
     
      
       As we have not an opportunity of going into this Bill now, coming as it does at the eve of the proceedings, so to speak, as a lone Deputy, I will oppose this amendment.  I can assure the President that I know a little about the Bill, and a little about finance, and I know that we are not benefiting to the extent of £300,000 yearly, because we are purchasing £20,000,000 worth of British securities to do what we can do without purchasing any British securities.  We are cementing a financial Act of Union, tying a load around the neck of this country that nothing can break in the future.  As one Deputy who understands a little about the Bill, I will oppose this amendment, as it is the only thing I can do at this stage.  Perhaps, if I had been able to follow the Bill from the beginning, I might see that this amendment was quite harmless in itself, but the only opposition I can offer at   the present time is to oppose the amendment. I know that evidence was given before the Banking Commission from the national standpoint that never saw the light of day.  I think Deputies who represent the country, and who have to pay for the cost of the evidence, should see it, and the country should see it, before we become reunited financially to &ldquo;John Bull.&rdquo;  In 1920 £9,000,000 worth of bullion was brought down to the quays and shipped to England. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy ought to talk on this amendment. 
     
     
      
       I oppose the amendment. 
       Question put and declared carried. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to force a division or to waste the time of the House, but I want it to be recorded that I opposed the amendment, and a time will come when my opposition will be vindicated. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can be recorded as opposing the amendment. 
       Section 29.  The section deleted, and the following new section substituted therefor:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;29.&mdash;(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain in such manner and form as it thinks proper such office or branch in London as it considers to be necessary or expedient for the performance of such of the functions of the Commission as are required by this Act to be performed or can in the opinion of the Commission be most conveniently performed in London. 
       (2) The Commission may, at any time and for such time as it thinks fit, in lieu of establishing or of maintaining (as the case may be) such office or branch as is mentioned in the foregoing sub-section employ a Bank having an office in London to be the agent in London of the Commission and to perform as such agent for the Commission such of the functions of the Commission as are required by this Act to be performed or can in the opinion of the Commission be most conveniently performed in London. 
     
     
        (3) The office or branch or the agency (as the case may be) for the time being maintained in London by the Commission under this section is in this Act referred to as the London Agency.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 6. 
       This is really a re-drafting of the section of the original Bill, the only consequence being to make it clear that the Commission, if it so chooses, may appoint a bank to act as its London agency.  It is still open to the Commission to establish an office of its own. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Section 32, sub-section (1). The words &ldquo;make and subscribe a declaration&rdquo; deleted in line 12, and the words &ldquo;take and subscribe an oath&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       Section 32, sub-section (1).  The word &ldquo;declare&rdquo; deleted in line 14, and the word &ldquo;swear&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       Section 32, sub-section (2).  The word &ldquo;declaration&rdquo; deleted in line 22, and the word &ldquo;oath&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       Section 32, sub-section (3).  The word &ldquo;declaration&rdquo; deleted in line 26, and the word &ldquo;oath&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments No. 7, 8, 9 and 10. 
       These amendments stand together. As the Bill went to the Seanad members of the Commission had to make a statutory declaration of secrecy.  The amendments provide for an oath of secrecy.  In the case of banks, I understand that an oath is taken. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Section 37, sub-section (1).  All from and including the word &ldquo;and&rdquo; in line 34 deleted down to and including the word &ldquo;business&rdquo; in line 36. 
       Section 37, sub-section (2).  A new sub-section inserted before the sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     (2) The Commission may require any bank which is mentioned in the   Third Schedule to this Act or which though not so mentioned is for the time being a shareholding bank or any bank which holds a controlling interest in or in which a controlling interest is held by any such bank to afford the Chairman or a permanent officer of the Commission specially authorised in that behalf in writing by the Chairman such access to the books and records of the bank to which such requisition is made as the Commission may consider necessary or desirable for the due discharge of its functions under this Act. 
     Section 37, sub-section (2).  The word &ldquo;or&rdquo; deleted in line 41 where it first occurs and the following words substituted therefor: &ldquo;lawfully required of him by the Commission under this section and every bank which fails within the time limited in that behalf by the Commission.&rdquo; 
     Section 37, sub-section (3).  The word &ldquo;banker&rdquo; deleted in line 47 and the word &ldquo;bank&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     Section 37, sub-section (3).  The word &ldquo;banker&rdquo; deleted in line 53 and the word &ldquo;bank&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments No. 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. These amendments stand together.  As the Bill went to the Seanad the Commission was enabled to require information from any person carrying on business as a banker, whether in connection with other business or not, and the Commission was authorised to have the books of that firm or bank inspected by its Chairman, or by a permanent officer delegated for that purpose. The effect of the amendment is that these powers remain in full in regard to shareholding banks or existing joint stock banks and any bank that may become hereafter a shareholding bank, and any bank in which a shareholding bank holds a controlling interest.  But in regard to a private bank, or other firm carrying on banking in conjunction with other business, the power of inspection is taken away and there remains only power to require information, but not power to inspect books.   For the purpose of the Bill it is only necessary to have this power of inspection in the case of a bank that will have bank notes. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Section 40, sub-section (3).  The word &ldquo;an&rdquo; deleted in line 30, and the words &ldquo;a permanent&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       Section 52, sub-section (3).  The word &ldquo;an&rdquo; deleted in line 5 and the words &ldquo;a permanent&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments 16 and 17.  These amendments provide that the inspection shall be carried out only by a permanent officer of the Commission, and not as might previously have been the case, by someone brought in ad hoc. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 18:&mdash; 
       Section 53, sub-section (4).  After the word &ldquo;existing&rdquo; in line 55 the following words inserted: &ldquo;and other assets and liabilities of the shareholding banks.&rdquo; 
       As the Bill went to the Seanad it was provided in fixing the maximum limit of note issue the Commission should have regard to the liquid sound advances of the banks to persons in Saorstat Eireann, and to such other matters as they considered relevant.  The amendment inserts certain words which will make the section read &ldquo;that they shall have regard to the liquid sound advances and other assets and liabilities of the shareholding banks and such other matters as they consider relevant.&rdquo; Really, I do not think it adds anything to the Bill.  I only makes more explicit what was explicit in the Bill as it left the Dail. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 19:&mdash; 
       Section 53, sub-section (5).  The words &ldquo;unanimous vote&rdquo; deleted in line 2 and the words &ldquo;a vote of not less than five of its members&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
     
        This amendment provides, where the legal tender note issue exceeds £6,000,000 and the Commission is issuing consolidated bank notes in excess of £6,000,000 it may do so by a vote of not less than five of its members. As the Bill went to the Seanad the Commission could do so only by a majority vote.  I think this sufficiently safeguards the position.  It is possible that the three banking members would, without very much necessity for convincing them, be in favour of an extension of the consolidated note issue in these circumstances.  If we had left it as it was, that it might be extended by a majority vote, it would mean that they would have to get only one other person on the Commission to join with them.  As the amendment stands they would have to get two other members, and I think that would be sufficient. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     Section 53, sub-section (6).  After the word &ldquo;half-year&rdquo; in line 12 the following words inserted: &ldquo;together with the average amount of gold coins which are for the time being legal tender under this Act in Saorstat Eireann for unlimited amounts estimated by the Commission to have been in circulation or held by bankers in Saorstat Eireann during such half-year.&rdquo; 
     Section 53, sub-section (6).  After the word &ldquo;of&rdquo; in line 15 the words &ldquo;the aggregate of&rdquo; inserted. 
     Section 53, sub-section (6).  After word &ldquo;amount&rdquo; deleted in line 15 and the word &ldquo;amounts&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments 20, 21 and 22. 
     
     As the Bill went to the Seanad it provided, where the issue of legal tender notes fell below £4,000,000, the Commission might reduce the consolidated note issue to a sum not exceeding £1,000,000 more than the issue of legal tender notes.  It was pointed out in the Seanad that if the circulation of gold were restored, there might be practically no legal tender notes in circulation, and that consequently the consolidated note issue might be automatically   wiped out.  I do not think that situation is at all likely to arise.  I do not think the circulation of gold is going to be restored for a very long time or that it would be profitable or advantageous in any way to restore the circulation of gold.  But in case at some future time any other changes were made in the currency system and that gold came into circulation, it is well to provide that the £4,000,000 is to be calculated, not with reference to legal tender notes alone, but with reference to legal tender notes and the gold coin estimated to be in circulation. 
     
      
       Has the Minister considered what amount of currency is necessary per head of the population to carry on the business of this State in a flourishing condition? 
     
     
      
       That will vary from time to time, but the estimate of the Banking Commission was that the requirements of the country would be met by the provision of six millions of legal tender notes and six millions of consolidated bank notes, making twelve millions in all.  If there were improved trade conditions the requirements might be greater.  On the other hand, if the trade conditions got worse, a sum less than twelve millions might suffice. 
     
     
      
       Is the House to understand that twelve millions of currency would be sufficient to carry on the business of the country?  We are told we will get more if trade demands it. I submit that trade can never demand it until you have sufficient currency.  It is plenty of currency that will give you an increased trade.  It was when currency was inflated in the war years that we had plenty of trade, and we had no unemployment.  We have unemployment now because we have a deflation in currency.  As regards the point of deflation, I doubt if it has yet come down to twelve millions.  I speak subject to correction, but I think it is somewhere about eighteen or nineteen millions.  If currency in this country is reduced to twelve millions we are going to have more unemployment. 
     
     The key of the whole situation is handed over to the Bank of England by this Bill.  The man unemployed, the   farmer who is going down, the manufacturer and the trader who are going down, are going down because England controls our money, and this is giving England a grip over our currency.  The Minister for Finance tells us that twelve millions of currency would be enough to carry on the trade of this country.  I say it would not, and it is a full reason, if there were no other, why this Bill should not be rushed through until this House, now complete, has had time to go into the matter.  There is no use in bringing forward motions to relieve unemployment; there is no use in talking about bulls and boars in Cavan, and there is no use in talking about live stock schemes if we have not sufficient currency and the control of currency.  The whole scheme of national progress depends on this Bill, and if you put it through and give the control to England, then you may as well give up possession of this House to England. 
     
      
       There is no limit of twelve millions in the Bill.  The Bill provides for a degree of elasticity in regard to the issue of bank notes and currency matters generally which did not exist before.  There is no such thing as a maximum limit to the legal tender notes mentioned anywhere in the Bill.  The only thing is there can be no issue of consolidated bank notes in excess of six millions for the first two years, unless the issue of legal tender notes first exceeds six millions.  I could not argue now, without the permission of the Chair, the question of inflation or deflation.  I can only say that whatever stimulating effects there are in inflation, they are temporary, and work themselves out. 
     
     
      
       I would like if we could get a day when the Minister could argue the matter of currency. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments 20, 21 and 22&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. Amendment 23: 
       Section 53, sub-section (7).  After the word &ldquo;existing&rdquo; in line 29 the following words inserted: &ldquo;and other assets and liabilities of the Shareholding Banks.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee   agree with the Seanad in this amendment.  It is similar to amendment 18. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment 24.&mdash;Section 55.  The word &ldquo;extraordinary&rdquo; deleted in line 34. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment.  It is a drafting amendment.  It is considered the word &ldquo;extraordinary&rdquo; in the section added nothing to the sense and did possibly make for some confusion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment 25.&mdash;Section 58, sub-section (3).  After the word &ldquo;Commission&rdquo; in line 13 the words &ldquo;by general regulation or particular direction&rdquo; inserted. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment.  It provides that an arrangement for the issue by banks of consolidated notes other than their own may be made by particular direction or general regulation.  That was not clear in the Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment 26.&mdash;Section 60, sub-section (3).  After the word &ldquo;authorise&rdquo; in line 7 the words &ldquo;by general regulation or particular direction&rdquo; inserted. 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment, which is consequential upon amendment 25. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendment 27.&mdash;Section 60, sub-section (3).  The following words added at the end of the sub-section: &ldquo;and the Commission shall make regulations under this sub-section for the purpose of enabling reasonable facilities to be given by banks to persons about to travel out of Saorstat Eireann for obtaining bank notes other than consolidated bank notes.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment.  It is an amendment which I did not think was at all necessary,   but there is no objection to it.  It provides that the Commission not only may but shall make regulations for the purpose of enabling reasonable facilities to be given by banks to persons who desire to travel outside Saorstat Eireann for obtaining notes other than consolidated bank notes.  The general principle is that banks are prohibited from paying out in notes other than their own.  People travelling may desire to have, say, Bank of England notes. The Commission, under the Bill as it left the Dail, had full power to make regulations so that people would be able to get from banks notes which they might require.  This makes it mandatory on the Commission to make necessary regulations in that respect. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       AMENDMENT 28. 
       Section 61, sub-section (3).  Paragraph (d) deleted and a new paragraph substituted therefor as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(d) British Government securities maturing within twelve months.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in this amendment.  It is an amendment which I opposed in the Seanad.  If it is accepted here it may afterwards call for some further legislative action.  It provides that when the Currency Commission holds British securities against notes it shall only hold British securities maturing within twelve months&mdash; that is, practically Treasury bills.  As the Bill left the Dail the Commission might get securities with any maturity or securities which were not redeemable at all.  In the Seanad members spoke about the losses likely to be sustained owing to a fall in the value of Consols.  They pointed out great capital losses were sustained by great numbers of banks, and one could conceive a similar depreciation of existing securities occurring.  On the other hand, there is no doubt if the Commission is tied to investment in short-dated securities the income will be less than it would be otherwise.  The matter will not be, I think, of very serious consequence for two or three years at any   rate, because in the early days I think the Commission will most probably pursue a cautious line and will purchase short-dated securities.  If, after a year or two, it is thought better to remove the restriction, it will be possible to do it in a very short Bill.  I am not much in favour of the amendment, but it was very strongly pressed from almost all Parties in the Seanad.  I recommend the Committee to agree with it. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Amendments 29 to 33:&mdash; 
       Section 65, sub-section (1).  After the word &ldquo;issue&rdquo; in line 28 and within the bracket the words &ldquo;or by way of special excess&rdquo; inserted. 
       Section 65, sub-section (1).  After the word &ldquo;issue&rdquo; in line 35 and within the bracket the words &ldquo;or by way of special excess&rdquo; inserted. 
       Section 65, sub-section (1).  Before paragraph (d) a new paragraph inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       (d) if any consolidated bank notes were during such half-year outstanding with such bank by way of special excess, a sum calculated at the rate of three per cent. per annum on the amount of consolidated bank notes so outstanding from day to day with such bank during such half-year, and. 
       Section 65, sub-section (2).  The following words added at the end of the sub-section: &ldquo;save in so far (if at all) as the same is determined by the Commission under this section to be outstanding by way of special excess.&rdquo; 
       Section 65, sub-section (3).  A new sub-section inserted before the sub-section, as follows:&mdash; 
     
     (3) Whenever the quota of a Shareholding Bank is reduced under Part VI. of this Act the Commission in its discretion may, where the circumstances appear to it so to warrant, determine that during any specified period ending not more than six months after such reduction of such quota a specified portion (not exceeding the amount by which such quota is so reduced) of the amount   of consolidated bank notes outstanding otherwise than on an extraordinary issue with such bank in excess of the amount permitted by or under this Act to be so outstanding shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to be outstanding by way of special excess. 
     
      
       I move: That the Committee agree with the Seanad in those amendments.  They all stand together.  The effect of them is that if the quota of bank notes that may be issued by any particular bank is reduced, the Commission may make arrangements during six months to treat them as being issued by way of special excess rather than by way of extraordinary issue.  If they stood out as being extraordinary issue the bank which had them out would have to pay interest during the first month at 5 per cent., the second month at 51⁄2 per cent., and the third month at 6 per cent.  If for any reason through the contraction of the total amount of consolidated note issue or through a very serious reduction in the quota of a particular bank, perhaps through a new bank coming in amongst shareholding Banks, there would be great hardship on a bank having to pay the high rate of interest while it was reducing its notes in circulation to the quota, provision is made to enable the Commission to regard certain notes over a period not exceeding six months as being issued not by way of extraordinary issue but by way of excess.  The notes issued by way of excess will pay tax at the rate of 3 per cent. instead of 5 per cent.  I think it is unobjectionable, and it is the sort of section that will probably never be operative, because I cannot imagine such drastic reduction in the quota of any particular bank as some Senators seemed to think. 
     
     
      
       Ni misde dhom a ra na fuil mo chairde agus me fhein sasta leis an mbille seo no leis an leasu.  Ni raibh am againn go dti seo dul isteach sa cheist ach is doigh linn nach i seo an tslighe is coir chun i shocru.  Ba mhaith linn fhios a bheith ag gach einne na fhuilimid i bfhabhar an Bhille seo ach nilimid ag dul 'na choinne anois.  Nuair a bheidh uain   againn rachaidh me fhein agus mo chairde isteach 'sa cheist.  Ni maith linn bheith ceangailte ag an mbille seo na ag na leas-ruin ata os ar gcoin. 
     
     
      
       Nil agam le ra ach gur chuamair isteach sa cheist seo go curamach, agus go bhfuaireamair comhairle o sna daoine is fearr agus is mo eolas 'na taobh.  Beidir na fuil an ceart acu-san, ach creidimi£ fein go bhfuil.  Nilim-se ag ra go socruionn an Bille seo an cheist ar fad. Nuair a bheidh se tamall i bhfeidhm gheobhfar dearmhad anso is ansud ann, beidir, agus ma gheibhtear is furuiste na dearmhadai sin do cheartu. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Agreement with amendments reported. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in their agreement with these amendments&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Message to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - VOTE No. 52&mdash;DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 
     
      
       I am not moving this Vote to-day. 
     
     
      
       Can the President give the House any indication as to what his intentions are with regard to this Vote or can he say if it is his intention to move it at a later date? 
     
     
      
       That depends upon circumstances of which notice has been given to-day.  If the conclusion of these circumstances is that it is my responsibility to move this Vote I will give early notice on the matter. 
     
     
      
       When will it be brought before the House&mdash;can the House be informed when Vote 52 will be brought before it? 
     
     
      
       There is a prior question which I understood the Deputy was interested in. 
     
     
      
       No; I thought that was the question. 
     
     
      
       No, the prior question is to be decided first.  Whoever   is President of the Executive Council after the discussion of which we have been given notice to-day will be the person to whom that query ought be addressed. 
     
     
      
       Well, the first is a far more interesting and important question than the second. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - ADJOURNMENT DEBATE&mdash;LETTING OF GOVERNMENT FARM AT LUSK. 
     
      
       The motion for the adjournment is automatic; that is, that the Dail stands adjourned until next Tuesday at three o'clock. 
     
     
      
       My question on the adjournment is in relation to the farm in the hands of the Government.  That farm is situated at Lusk.  It was, heretofore, used as a remount farm by the British military.  It has been used, or, as I might say, abused by the Government, even if it is a fine site for a stud farm. 
       The Parliamentary Secretary for Lands referred us to Article 11 of the Constitution, which limits the powers apparently vested in the Dail and in this Government, to let this land for a term exceeding ninety-nine years.  I think it is information to us to hear that there is a farm in the County Dublin that this Government cannot lease for a longer term than ninety-nine years.  I wonder if that little farm at Lusk is painted red on the map? 
     
     The subject matter of my question, this farm, is situated between the villages of Lusk and Rush.  In Rush there is a population of 2,500 people, living upon what at one time was drifting sand.  They are little land holders with holdings running from half an acre to seven or eight acres.  He is a big farmer in Rush who owns seven or eight acres.  There are no people in the world more industrious or who turn more out of the soil than the small farmers of Rush.  These people came on this land two years ago and offered to take this farm at £3 an Irish acre. That offer was refused.  I wonder if the Parliamentary Secretary has been advised by Clanricarde or his successors that the rent that was offered by these   people was too low?  I wonder was he advised that the rent of £3 an Irish acre for this land in County Dublin, offered by these hard-working people, was too low?  I would like to know if the Government, who had the same land tilled afterwards and who grew some corn on it, but left the corn there to rot, made £3 an Irish acre out of it?  I do not know whether this Dail has the powers or not&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Let us has the powers. 
     
     
      
       Well, then, I hope that the appropriate Department will exercise those powers and transfer this land to the Land Commission for sub-division amongst these men.  These men are not importees into that place. They are not men who have given up big ranches elsewhere and come here to a ranch in Dublin.  They are natives of the County Dublin.  They know how to carry on agriculture, and to carry it on scientifically.  This Article deals with the public utility of land.  I submit that this land could not be better used than by giving it to men who can cultivate it, and who know how to cultivate it.  I suggest that the Parliamentary Secretary should take the appropriate action to stop this land being let, aye, even for a stud farm.  It is not a hunting ranch we want in County Dublin.  We want homes for the people. The people in Lusk want to work this farm.  There are plenty of ranches owned by gentlemen in the County of Dublin who patronise the hunt.  Let them turn their farms into stud farms. I think I am right in stating that the mansion attached to these lands is such that to make it a stud farm would cost as much as to build new stables. 
     
     I strongly urge that this land be taken over by the Land Commission.  I want to draw particular attention to the last sentence in my question, namely, that it be let to them at an economic rent and not at £5 per Irish acre, the price at which land was offered to cottiers and smallholders in the parish of Finglas by the Land Commission as a gift for a cow-park.  We want it at an economic rent, and as the Government is the owner it should, I suggest, set an example by letting the   land at an economic rent.  I hope that the Government will not take their headline from the Clanricardes and their agents, and the Dunravens, who man the Land Commission at the present time. 
     
      
       I share with Deputy Belton the disability of not being a native of the County Dublin but, speaking on behalf of the natives of the County Dublin, I should like to say&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy say that I am not a native of the County Dublin? 
     
     
      
       I thought the Deputy boasted a little while ago of coming from the County Longford? 
     
     
      
       Let us hear about Lusk. 
     
     
      
       At any rate, I want to speak on this occasion on behalf of the natives of Rush and Lusk district, in the County Dublin.  I do not associate myself with all of Deputy Belton's arguments, but I do think that very little has been done for this district, in which there are a large number of holdings of barely economic size.  I believe there was one estate in that district that the Land Commission proposed to acquire compulsorily.  The owner of the estate offered land in County Cavan, with the result that the Cavan land was taken and that the Dublin land was not made available for the people living in the locality whose holdings required to be enlarged.  I will give the Parliamentary Secretary the name of the estate if he wishes to have it.  I believe that if this farm at Lusk was the property of a private owner it would have been compulsorily acquired under the Land Act.  Why the State should be immune from the burdens that are placed on private owners I cannot see.  With all deference to the quotation that the Parliamentary Secretary made from the State Lands Act, I do not think that such land is exempt from the operations of the Land Act of 1923, and I think it would be open to the Land Commission to come in on this land and take it, since it is in the market, since nobody will be dispossessed and since nobody will be injured.   Surely a beginning should be made there.  I do not want to reinforce my case by repeating it, and am anxious to leave the Parliamentary Secretary ample time to reply.  I say it is a case for further inquiry, and for the taking of no action at present.  It would be wrong, I think, to let this land on a long lease without regard to any amendment that may be made in the State Lands Act, and without regard to the provisions of the Land Act of 1923. 
     
     
      
       Deputies have put two questions to me for answer: (1) What are our powers as regards the taking over of this property; and (2) if we have the power, is it advisable or expedient to take it over?  Deputy Belton is very far at sea in suggesting that the reason why the Land Commission is not taking over these lands is because they are prevented by some extraneous power.  These lands were formerly vested in the British Government, but after the Treaty they passed to the Government of Saorstat Eireann and are now under the control of the Oireachtas.  The Oireachtas, for its own protection, passed Article 11 of the Constitution, which limits the power of the Government in alienating land to a period of 99 years.  It is open to the Dail and the Oireachtas to change at any time that Article of the Constitution without adverting to any outside power.  This Dail has absolute authority over that.  It can change that Article of the Constitution any time it likes, but until that is done the Land Commission has not the power to take over the land. 
     
     Assuming that that Article will be altered and that some Government with Deputy Belton's point of view is in control in this House, then the question will arise as to whether it is expedient or not to do so.  The policy pursued by the present Government is to get the best price available for the property of the State when it is rented.  This property as I say was formerly let as a stud-farm.  The most valuable parts of the holdings consisted of buildings and a considerable amount of money has been laid out in making the property suitable for a stud-farm.  If the property is cut up into small holdings, it will mean that these buildings will   probably go to waste.  That is a very serious result for any Government to contemplate.  At the moment the whole question hangs on Article 11 of the Constitution, and until that is changed there is no good in discussing the question any further. 
     
      
       Are we to understand that at the moment the Land Commission has not power to acquire those lands or that the Department has not power to transfer these lands to the Land Commission because of Article 11 of the Constitution? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  The position is that I cannot transfer them for more than 99 years, and the Land Commission cannot take a less interest than a freehold interest in land. 
     
     
      
       I presume that that implies that the farm cannot be subdivided? You take the position that the policy is not to do anything with the property that may destroy the amenities of it? 
     
     
      
       The point is that the Land Commission cannot take a lesser interest than a freehold interest.  We cannot give them a freehold interest and therefore the Land Commission cannot touch the lands at all. 
     
     
      
       Then the position is that this Article must be altered before the Land Commission can do anything? 
     
     
      
       That is right. 
     
     
      
       And the same applies to similar farms&mdash;the Collinstown Aerodrome farm and the farm at Tallaght and Baldonnel? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask by way of supplementary question is it proposed that the appropriate department will take the action necessary to make these lands available for sub-division among uneconomic holders and landless men? 
     
     
      
       I think that the other very important question will have to be decided before that question will be in in order. 
     
     
      
       Which other question? 
     
     
     
      
       As to who will be on these Benches in control of these departments. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary say, in view of the fact that we have had so many amendments to the Constitution, whether it is possible   or impossible to have Article 11 amended to meet this particular case? 
     
     
      
       That is not a question for me to answer. 
       The Dail adjourned at 3.40 p.m. to Tuesday, 16th August, at 3 p.m. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF GALWAY AND MAYO ESTATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the following estates have been acquired by the Land Commission with a view to division: Mrs. Mary Strachan estate, Tuam; Hessian and Fitzpatrick estate, Frenchgrove, Annefield, Hollymount; if not, are any steps being taken to have them so acquired; if so, what is the present position of the matter. 
     
     
      
       The estate of Mary Strachan comprises freehold lands in the townland of Blackacre, also lands situate in Killaloonty and other townlands, subject to Land Purchase Annuity; the owner was requested on 7th June last to lodge particulars under Section 40 of the Land Act, 1923, of the lands to which the Act applies; these particulars have not yet been furnished. A reminder has been issued.  The lands of Ticooly (Carr), Luganagh, Killeen, were purchased by Patrick Hessian under the Land Purchase Acts in connection with the sale of the estate of Lord Clonbrock to the tenants under the Land Act, 1903.  The Land Commission have taken proceedings for the acquisition of the lands under Section 24 of the Land Act, 1923, and issued an offer for the purchase of the lands which has not been accepted.  The price of the lands will now, in default of agreement, be fixed and published. 
     
     The holding of Nora Hessian, Thos. Hessian, and Thos. M. Murphy, in the townlands of Callow, Cartrondoogan, Liscune Upper and Loughaclerybeg, of William Hessian in the townland of Callow, and John Hessian in the townlands of Callow, Lecarrow, Mactully, all situate on the estate of O'Neal   Segrave (S 1936), County Galway, will be retained under Section 28 (6) (d) of the Land Act, 1923, and resumption proceedings will be instituted in respect of these three holdings. 
     Lands of Annefield, County Mayo.&mdash; The owner of these lands holds other lands at Greaghans.  He has recently accepted lands in County Dublin as an exchange for the Greaghan lands. 
     Lands of Hollymount Demesne.&mdash; Proceedings were instituted under the provisions of the Irish Land Act, 1903, for the acquisition of the lands of Lehinch Demesne and Hollymount Demesne, County Mayo, which are subject to Land Purchase Annuity, and these lands were published in &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; in a provisional list of lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, would become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day.  The owners appealed against the acquisition of the lands and negotiations are in progress with a view to acquiring these lands by means of an exchange for lands situate elsewhere. 
     No proceedings in respect of lands of Frenchgrove can be identified. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - COMMUTATION OF OFFICER'S PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether Mr. E.J. Confrey, of 1 Sussex Street, Dun Laoghaire, formerly a lieutenant in the National Army, has applied to commute a portion of his pension in order to meet expenses caused by his severe illness, and whether he is prepared to agree to such commutation. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Confrey made application for the commutation of portion of the pension granted to him under the Army Pensions Act, 1923. As the Act makes no provision for the total or partial commutation of these pensions, I am unable to accede to his application. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - MAIN ROADS IN COBH URBAN AREA. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that the order transferring the main roads Cobh Urban Area to Cork County   Council for maintenance purposes has resulted in imposing a very serious financial burden on the Cobh urban ratepayers; that for the financial years 1926-27 the rate struck by the urban authority to meet the County Council demand for this particular service was 1/2 in the pound, or £1,350 approximately, while the amount expended on the service was £700, showing a loss to the urban rates of £650 or 6d. in the pound on the urban valuation; whether in the interests of economy as well as efficiency in this urban area the Minister will nullify the order and allow the urban authority to carry on this particular service. 
     
     
      
       The Order transferring the main roads in Cobh to the County Council was made in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Act, 1925, which provides that the expenses of maintaining main roads in the county (including urban districts) shall be raised equally over the whole of such county (including urban districts).  The area of chargeability remains the same whether the main roads in an urban district are maintained directly by the Urban District Council or by the   County Council.  It is unlikely that a lesser charge would fall upon the urban district if the roads are maintained directly by the Urban District Council. 
       I will make enquiries as to the financial consequences of the Order transferring the maintenance of main roads in the Cobh Urban District to the Cork County Council, and will communicate further with the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - RATES IN COUNTY TIPPERARY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health to state (1) the total amount of rates levied in Tipperary South Riding and Tipperary North Riding for all local purposes in the years 1913, 1914, 1917, 1919, 1921, 1923, and 1926; (2) the total amount of rates levied in each of those administrative counties in the same years on agricultural lands, and (3) the total amount of grants from Government sources in regard to the above administrative counties for the same years for all local purposes. 
     
     
      
       The following figures have been obtained from the Secretaries of the Councils concerned: Rates levied and Government Grants received during period 1914-1926:&mdash; 
       COUNTY TIPPERARY, NORTH RIDING. 
       RATES LEVIED 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             YEAR 
             On Land 
             On other hereditaments 
             Grants received. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             1913/14 
             27,125 
             0 
             7 
             8,179 
             3 
             10 
             28,252 
             16 
             11 
           
           
             1914/15 
             30,140 
             17 
             6 
             8,729 
             6 
             2 
             31,105 
             12 
             6 
           
           
             1917/18 
             38,082 
             14 
             0 
             10,287 
             15 
             9 
             31,125 
             19 
             0 
           
           
             1919/20 
             53,682 
             2 
             0 
             13,198 
             19 
             2 
             28,916 
             13 
             4 
           
           
             1921/22 
             122,088 
             13 
             1 
             19,065 
             7 
             0 
             4,390 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             1923/24 
             48,939 
             18 
             10 
             15,700 
             13 
             3 
             43,483 
             3 
             6 
           
           
             1926/27 
             50,774 
             19 
             8 
             15,217 
             1 
             4 
             65,124 
             14 
             3 
           
         
       
     
     COUNTY TIPPERARY, SOUTH RIDING. 
     RATES LEVIED 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             YEAR 
             On Land 
             On other hereditaments 
             Grants received 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             1913/14 
             34,419 
             10 
             8 
             10,628 
             12 
             11 
             43,835 
             11 
             7 
           
           
             1914/15 
             42,865 
             2 
             7 
             12,131 
             2 
             0 
             41,773 
             19 
             9 
           
           
             1917/18 
             42,853 
             15 
             1 
             12,115 
             11 
             4 
             45,279 
             3 
             1 
           
           
             1919/20 
             69,504 
             13 
             5 
             16,836 
             0 
             4 
             42,591 
             4 
             5 
           
           
             1921/22 
             189,010 
             1 
             9 
             37,689 
             8 
             5 
             2,460 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             1923/24 
             108,220 
             15 
             7 
             23,389 
             2 
             0 
             59,283 
             7 
             4 
           
           
             1926/27 
             70,564 
             0 
             2 
             20,021 
             5 
             0 
             116,838 
             5 
             2 
           
         
       
     
   
 