 
 
 
   
     
     
   
   
     TUARASGABHAIL O'N gCLEIREACH. 
     
      
       I gcoliona Buan-Ordu a 3 de Bhuan-Orduithe Dhail Eireann, ta orm a thuairisciu gur dhineas, ar an 23adh la de Bhealtaine, 1927, agus direach tar eis curtha amach Furogra an data san ag gairm an Oireachtas chun teacht le cheile i mBaile Atha Cliath Deardaoin, an 23adh la de Mheitheamh, 1927, gur dhineas mo riteacha do chur amach, do reir na bhforalacha ina thaobh san ata san Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923, do sna Dailcheanntracha so a leanas chun na gCeann Comhrimh ata ainmnithe anso sios:&mdash; 
       In compliance with Standing Order No. 3 of the Standing Orders of Dail Eireann, I have to report that on the 23rd day of May, 1927, immediately upon the issue of the Proclamation of that date summoning the Oireachtas to meet at Dublin on Thursday, the 23rd day of June, 1927, I issued my writs, pursuant to the relative provisions of the Electoral Act, 1923, for the following Constituencies to the Returning Officers named hereunder:&mdash; 
       Dailcheanntracha Buirge (Borough Constituencies). 
       Buirg Chorcaighe (Cork Borough)&mdash; Francis Hanrahan. 
       Baile Atha Cliath Thuaidh (Dublin North), Baile Atha Cliath Theas (Dublin South)&mdash;Lorcan G. Sherlock. 
       Dailcheanntracha Contae (County Constituencies). 
       Ceatharloch-Chill Choinnigh (Carlow-Kilkenny)&mdash;John C. Murphy. 
       An Cabhan (Cavan) &mdash; Martin Tierney. 
       An Clar (Clare)&mdash;Philip J. McQuaid. 
       Corcaigh Thuaidh (North Cork), Corcaigh Thiar (West Cork), Corcaigh Thoir (East Cork)&mdash;Charles T. Kennedy. 
       Dun na nGali (Donegal)&mdash;Hugh Crawford Cochrane. 
       Baile Atha Cliath (Dublin)&mdash; William McA. McCracken. 
       Gaillimh (Galway)&mdash;Raoul Joyce. 
       Ciarrai (Kerry)&mdash;Redmond Roche. 
       Cill Dara (Kildare)&mdash;Charles Daly. 
       Liathdruim - Shligeach (Leitrim&mdash; Sligo)&mdash;Seamus de Burca. 
       Laoighis-O bhFailghe (Leix-Offaly) &mdash;Joseph N. McClure. 
       Luimneach (Limerick)&mdash;Thomas J. Prendergast. 
       Longphort-Iarmhidhe (Longford-Westmeath)&mdash;William R. Fetherstonhaugh. 
       Lubhaidh (Louth)&mdash;John J. Russell. 
       Muigheo Thuaidh (North Mayo), Muigheo Theas (South Mayo)&mdash;Austin Crean. 
       An Mhidhe (Meath)&mdash;George H. Lowry. 
       Muineachan (Monaghan)&mdash;William Harvey Swan. 
       Roscomain (Roscommon)&mdash;Charles C. Dignan. 
       Tiobrad Arann (Tipperary)&mdash;John W. Buggy. 
       Portlairge (Waterford)&mdash;Matthew P. Devereux. 
       Loch Garman (Wexford)&mdash;John N. Scallan. 
       Cill Mantain (Wicklow)&mdash;William Toomey. 
       Priomh-scoileanna (Universities). 
       Priomh-scoil Bhaile Atha Cliath (Dublin University)&mdash;Matthew W. J. Fry. 
       Priomh-scoil Naisiunta na hEireann (The National University of Ireland)&mdash; Dr. Alexander Anderson. 
       Siad so a leanas ainmneacha na dTeachtai a toghadh chun fonamh sa Dail, mar aon le hainmneacha na nDailcheanntar gur toghadh ina gcoir iad:&mdash; 
     
     The following are the names of the   Deputies returned to serve in the Dail, together with the names of the Constituencies for which they have been elected:&mdash; 
     Buirg Chorcaighe (Cork Borough)&mdash; James Joseph Walsh, Richard Anthony, Sean French, John Horgan, Barry M. Egan. 
     Buirg Bhaile Atha Cliath Thuaidh (Dublin Borough North)&mdash;Alfred Byrne, John Joseph Byrne, Mrs. Tom Kathleen Clarke, Mrs. Margaret Collins O'Driscoll, Denis Cullen, Richard Mulcahy, Sean T. O'Kelly, Oscar Traynor. 
     Buirg Bhaile Atha Cliath Theas (Dublin Borough South)&mdash;James Walter Beckett, Constance Georgina de Markievicz, Peadar Sean Doyle, Myles Keogh, Thomas Lawlor, Sean F. Lemass, Vincent Rice. 
     Ceatharloch-Chill Choinnigh (Carlow-Kilkenny)&mdash;William T. Cosgrave, Edward Doyle, Thomas Derrig, Denis John Gorey, Richard Holohan. 
     An Cabhan (Cavan)&mdash;John F. O'Hanlon, John J. O'Reilly, Patrick Smith, Patrick F. Baxter. 
     An Clar (Clare)&mdash;Eamon de Valera, Thomas Falvey, Patrick Michael Kelly, Patrick Houlihan, Patrick Hogan. 
     Corcaigh Thuaidh (North Cork)&mdash;Dan Corkery, Daniel Vaughan, Timothy Quill. 
     Corcaigh Thiar (West Cork)&mdash;Timothy Joseph Murphy, Tom Mullins, Timothy Sheehy, Timothy Joseph O'Donovan, Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
     Corcaigh Thoir (East Cork)&mdash;Michael Joseph Hennessy, John Daly, Martin John Corry, David Rice Kent, David Leo O'Gorman. 
     Dun na nGall (Donegal)&mdash;James Sproule Myles, Daniel McMenamin, John White, Neil Blaney, Frank Carney, Eugene Doherty, Hugh Alexander Law, Michael Og McFadden. 
     Contae Bhaile Atha Cliath (Dublin County)&mdash;Kevin O'Higgins, Bryan Ricco Cooper, Patrick Belton, Desmond Fitzgerald, John Good, Thomas Johnson, Sean MacEntee, Bartholomew O'Connor. 
     Gaillimh (Galway)&mdash;Patrick Hogan,   Mark Killelea, Frank Fahy, Sean Brodrick, Martin McDonogh, William Duffy, John Tubridy, Thomas P. Powell, Gilbert Lynch. 
     Ciarrai (Kerry)&mdash;Finian Lynch, Austin Stack, John Marcus O'Sullivan, James Crowley, William O'Leary, Thomas McEllistrim, Thomas O'Reilly. 
     Cill Dara (Kildare)&mdash;Daniel Buckley, Hugh Colohan, George Wolfe. 
     Liathdruim-Shligeach (Leitrim-Sligo) Martin Roddy, Frank Carty, James N. Dolan, John Hennigan, Michael Carter, Samuel Holt, John Jinks. 
     Laoighis-O bhFailghe (Leix-Offaly)&mdash; William Davin, James Dwyer, Patrick Boland, John F. Gill, Thomas Tynan. 
     Luimneach (Limerick) &mdash; Timothy Crowley, George Cecil Bennett, James Colbert, Michael Keyes Richard O'Connell, Gilbert Hewson, Patrick Clancy. 
     Longphort-Iarmhidhe (Longford-Westmeath)&mdash;Patrick W. Shaw, James Victory, Henry Broderick, Hugh Garahan, Michael Joseph Kennedy. 
     Lubhaidh (Louth)&mdash;James Coburn, Frank Aiken, James E. Murphy. 
     Muigheo Thuaidh (North Mayo)&mdash; Michael Davis, Patrick J. Ruttledge, Mark Henry, John Anthony Madden. 
     Muigheo Theas (South Mayo)&mdash; Thomas J. O'Connell, Martin Ml. Nally, James Fitzgerald-Kenney, Michael Kilroy, Eugene Mullen. 
     An Mhidhe (Meath)&mdash;Edmund John Duggan, Matthew O'Reilly, David Hall. 
     Muinechan (Monaghan) &mdash; Ernest Blythe, Alexander Haslett, Patrick McCarvill. 
     Roscomain (Roscommon) &mdash; Gerald Boland, Michael Brennan, Martin Conlon, Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. 
     Tiobrad Arann (Tipperary)&mdash;Daniel Morrissey, Seamus A. Bourke. Michael R. Heffernan, William O'Brien, Andrew Fogarty, Sean Hayes, John J. Hassett. 
     Portlairge (Waterford) &mdash; William Archer Redmond, Vincent Joseph White, Patrick John Little, Caitlin Brugha. 
     Loch Garman (Wexford)&mdash;Richard Corish, James Ryan, Michael   Doyle, John Keating, James Shannon. 
     Cill Mantain (Wicklow) &mdash; James Everett, Seamus Moore, Dermot Gun O'Mahony. 
     Priomh-scoil Bhaile Atha Cliath (Dublin University)&mdash;William Edward Thrift, Sir James Craig, Ernest Henry Alton. 
     Priomh-scoil Naisiunta na hEireann (the National University of Ireland) &mdash; Patrick McGilligan, Arthur Edward Clery. 
     De bhua Airtiogall 21 den Bhunreacht tuigtar Micheal O hAodha do bheith tofa mar dhuine de sna baill do Dhail-cheanntar Phriomh-scoile Phriomh-scoile Naisiunta na hEireann. 
     By virtue of Article 21 of the Constitution, Michael Hayes has been deemed to have been elected as one of the members for the University Constituency of the National University of Ireland. 
     Ag seo leanas ainmneacha na dTeachtai ata tar eis foralacha Airtiogail 17 den Bhunreacht do choliona: 
     The following are the names of Deputies who have complied with the provisions of Article 17 of the Constitution:&mdash; 
     Ernest Henry Alton, Richard Anthony, Patrick Baxter, James Walter Beckett, George Cecil Bennett, Ernest Blythe, Seamus A. Bourke, Michael Brennan, Henry Broderick, Sean Brodrick, Alfred Byrne, John Joseph Byrne, Michael Carter, Patrick Clancy, James Coburn, Margaret Collins O'Driscoll, Hugh Colohan, Martin Conlon, Bryan Ricco Cooper, Richard Corish, William T. Cosgrave, Sir James Craig, James Crowley, Denis Cullen, John Daly, William Davin, Michael Davis, Eugene Doherty, James N. Dolan, Edward Doyle, Michael Doyle, Peadar Sean Doyle, William Duffy, Edmund John Duggan, James Dwyer, Barry M. Egan, James Everett, Thomas Falvey, Desmond Fitzgerald, James Fitzgerald-Kenney, Hugh Garahan, John F. Gill, John Good, Denis John Gorey, David Hall, Alexander Haslett, John J. Hassett, Michael Hayes, Michael R. Heffernan, Michael Joseph Hennessy, John Hennigan, Mark Henry, Gilbert Hewson, Patrick   Hogan (Clare), Patrick Hogan (Galway), Richard Holohan, John Horgan, John Jinks, Thomas Johnson, John Keating, Patrick Michael Kelly, Myles Keogh, Michael Keyes, Hugh Alexander Law, Thomas Lawlor, Finian Lynch, Gilbert Lynch, Martin McDonogh, Michael Og McFadden, Patrick McGilligan, Daniel McMenamin, Daniel Morrissey, Richard Mulcahy, James E. Murphy, Timothy Joseph Murphy, James Sproule Myles, Martin Ml. Nally, William O'Brien, Richard O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Connell, Bartholomew O'Connor, Timothy Joseph O'Donovan, David Leo O'Gorman. John F. O'Hanlon, Kevin O'Higgins, Dermot Gun O'Mahony, John J. O'Reilly, John Marcus O'Sullivan, Timothy Quill, William Archer Redmond, Vincent Rice, Martin Roddy, James Shannon, Patrick W. Shaw, Timothy Sheehy, William Edward Thrift, Daniel Vaughan, James Joseph Walsh, John White, Vincent Joseph White, George Wolfe, Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
     I gcoliona Buan-Ordu a 4 taim tar eis coipeanna de sna riteacha toghachain agus de sna freagrai a scriobhadh ortha do leaga ar Bhord na Dala. 
     In compliance with Standing Order No. 4, I have laid upon the Table of the Dail copies of the writs of election and the returns endorsed thereon. 
   
   
     ELECTION OF CEANN COMHAIRLE. 
     
      
       &rsquo;Se an chead ghno ata le deanamh ag an nDail anois na Ceann Comhairle do thogha. 
       The next business is the Election of Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       This is the third occasion during the space of five years that I have had the honour to put before the Dail the nomination of Deputy Micheal O hAodha as Ceann Comhairle.  I feel a very great personal satisfaction in nominating Deputy Micheal O hAodha.  Whatever other differences we may have had&mdash; and time does not appear to have diminished them&mdash;I believe those of us who had the honour of being Deputies in the last Dail and in the preceding Dala, are unanimous in the view that   the Deputy I am proposing gave entire satisfaction.  The Ceann Comhairle is the custodian of the rights of Deputies. He has been a faithful custodian of these rights.  The office of Ceann Comhairle has become, during his tenure, one of the institutions of the State.  Worthily filled by great ability, the duties discharged with exquisite tact, courtesy and patience, no man could desire to act with greater satisfaction to every Deputy of the Dail.  It is a very great personal pleasure to me to put before the Dail the nomination of Deputy Micheal O hAodha as Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       I have the greatest pleasure in seconding the motion just moved.  It is only five weeks ago since I said from these benches all that I think is necessary to commend Deputy Michael Hayes to re-election to the office of Ceann Comhairle.  It is quite unnecessary to repeat the words of praise and satisfaction, with which every Deputy in the last Dail agreed, regarding the ability, judgment, tact, courtesy and absolute fairness to all parties of Deputy Hayes while in the Chair.  I trust there will be a unanimous vote in favour of the election of Deputy Michael Hayes to the office of Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       I desire to express my assent to the proposition of the President.  The dignity with which the Chair was filled by Deputy Hayes in the last Dail made an excellent impression on Deputies of all parties.  Deputy Hayes discharged his duties in a manner which would do credit to a legislative assembly in any country in the world. 
     
     
      
       I should like to support the proposition for the re-election of the Ceann Comhairle of the last Dail.  As an individual member of that Dail, I can truthfully say that nothing could have been more fair or more dignified than the conduct of Deputy Hayes as Chairman of that assembly.  It is with great pleasure that I support the election of Deputy Hayes. 
     
     
      
       As one who did   not speak at the close of the proceedings of the last Dail, I should like to say that I am in hearty agreement with all that has been said regarding the Ceann Comhairle of that Dail.  I think it is extremely fortunate for this State that a Chairman such as Deputy Hayes was available at this particular period. To the many good qualities which Deputy Hayes possesses, and which have been referred to by other Deputies, I would add his possession of a sense of humour. 
     
     
      
       As a Deputy who ploughed a very lonely furrow in the last Dail, I have great pleasure in supporting the re-election of Deputy Michael Hayes.  I can assure new Deputies that I received nothing but the greatest courtesy and fair play from the Ceann Comhairle of the last Dail. 
       Question put: That Deputy Michael Hayes be elected and do now take the Chair of the Dail as Ceann Comhairle. Agreed. 
       
         Whereupon the Deputies present rose in their places and remained standing while the Ceann Comhairle proceeded-to the Dais. 
       
       Standing beside the chair, the Ceann Comhairle addressing the Dail said:&mdash; 
       Taim ana-bhuidheach don Dail mar gheall ar me thogha aris mar Cheann Comhairle.  Tuigim cad e mar onoir e. Nil agam ie ra ach go ndeanfad mo dhicheall san aimisir ata le teacht chun gach einni bhaineas leis an ard-oifig seo do dheanamh mar ba cheart. 
       I appreciate greatly the honour which has been conferred on me by the Dail in again electing me unanimously to this Chair.  I have only to say that I will do my best in the future to carry out the duties of the office. 
     
   
   
     NOMINATION OF PRESIDENT OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL. 
     
      
       The next business is the nomination of President of the Executive Council. 
     
     
      
       I desire to move: &ldquo;That Deputy William T. Cosgrave be nominated President of the Executive Council.&rdquo; 
     
     
     
      
       I desire to second the nomination of Deputy Cosgrave. 
     
     
      
       In normal circumstances, I should not think it necessary to intervene at this stage, but in the present case the circumstances are abnormal.  Hitherto the position in regard to the nomination of the President of the Executive Council has been simple and straightforward.  One party commanded a majority of the Dail and, obviously, it was the duty of that party to accept the responsibilities of office. That is not the case to-day.  To-day, here is no single party in the House which of itself forms a majority of the House. 
       In considering the present situation we must have regard to the manner in which it came about.  For five years the Party which I have the honour to lead has borne the responsibilities of Government.  In that capacity we have been subjected to much criticism, inside and outside the House.  We have had to contend with many difficult problems; we have had to take unpopular decisions in the national interest.  I do not intend to make any comment on criticism outside this Assembly previous to the elections, and I do not complain of the criticism which we have had to meet here in the House.  I am confining myself to a simple statement of facts.  The facts are that there was scarcely any member of this House outside the Government Party who did not, at one time or another, find something on which to disagree with our policy.  They were, of course, perfectly within their rights. 
     
     We have just completed a strenuous election campaign, in which the rights and wrongs of the last five years of Government activity were exhaustively canvassed.  I mean no offence, and I hope no offence will be taken, when I state that there is not a single Opposition Party in this House which has not denounced my Government from every platform in measured or unmeasured terms.  The majority of those candidates who were independent of party alignment joined in the general enunciation.  We were variously described as an incompetent Government, an autocratic Government, an impudent   Government, an extravagant Government. The electorate were rather vigorously requested to throw us out of office. 
     It is an elementary constitutional principle that there must be a government. I do not believe that there is any member of this Dail, nor was there any Deputy in the previous Dail who failed to realise this fundamental principle. I should be guilty of disrespect to the House if I thought otherwise. The inevitable conclusion is that when a consensus of the Opposition in the previous Dail invited the people of Saorstat Eireann to cast out the existing Government, they should have visualised a successor to that Government. What kind of succeeding government did they visualise? 
     It is perhaps worth recalling that in no case did any of these constitutional parties in the Opposition put up a sufficient number of candidates to enable it, even if all its candidates were returned, to form a government by itself. Each of the parties made certain promises as to what its policy would be if it came into power, if its candidates were returned, but I must be forgiven for pointing out that they all took good care that they could not command a majority in the House.  We are, therefore, forced to the irresistible conclusion that in the event of the electorate accepting their invitation to destroy my Government they visualised a Coalition Government.  By what means, or upon what basis, that Coalition could be formed&mdash;how, or in what measure, their somewhat conflicting views and promises could be reconciled is for them&mdash;not for me&mdash;to say. 
     They have succeeded in their first objective. As a result of the combined attacks and promises, the party which formed the Government has been reduced in numbers from 57 to 46.  We are still the largest individual Party in the State, but we are no longer in a majority.  I think every member in this House will admit that in the past we have never shirked our responsibilities. We may have been right or wrong in our decisions, but, right or wrong, we faced the making of decisions, and once made we carried them out.  Some of the most onerous of the   decisions we took were taken, solely for the purpose of vindicating the right of the majority to rule.  The majority in this House has now passed from us. We have no intention or desire to hamper those who have secured it in the exercise of their rights. 
     I do not know whether the leaders of other Parties in the House have been able to come to an arrangement which will enable them to nominate a President who will be ensured of sufficient support to carry on a government. If they have they will doubtless make their nomination.  I have no desire to make their position difficult, and if they feel that they have not had a sufficient opportunity of composing their differences and arriving at accommodation then they should be given that opportunity, and I shall certainly be quite agreeable to any reasonable adjournment they may ask for the purpose. 
     If they should find, as the result of their discussions, or if they have already concluded, that they cannot so compose their differences, then I realise that, in the situation thus created, there is no sound alternative but that I, as the leader of the largest Party in the House, should accept nomination, and I shall not shirk that responsibility. I want it to be quite clear that I do not seek office, and that I shall accept office only if the Opposition Parties are unable, or unwilling, to do so, and then upon very definite understandings. 
     Ministerial office is a high honour, but it is neither easy nor profitable. It was not without a very grave sense of personal responsibility that I persuaded certain of my colleagues to sacrifice the last five years&mdash;vital years in the career of the majority of them&mdash; to the work of national administration, and it is with no easy mind that I shall invite them to prolong their period of absence from business or professional careers. 
     If I am to accept and continue in office it will be only on the very clearest understanding that I shall receive sufficient support in this House to carry out my programme.  There is no necessity for me to elaborate that programme now&mdash;I have stated it up   and down the country and it is well known.  I cannot be too specific in impressing upon Deputies that I have no intention of accepting office in the mere capacity of a super-policeman to maintain law and order while allowing the country to drift along economically, nationally and internationally. Nor do I intend to allow myself to be placed in the position of endeavouring to carry out the policies of others should a majority here agree to disagree with me in any matter of vital importance.  I would not stultify myself or my colleagues or my supporters by taking office under such conditions, and I do not interpret the results of the elections, bearing in mind the extent to which every item of our programme was adopted by one or more of the other parties, as indicating a popular desire for the abandonment of that programme in any particular. 
     It is only fair, too, that I should make it quite clear that if I accept office I have no intention of tampering in any way with the Treaty or with the provisions of the Constitution which derive from it.  There has been so much loose thinking and loose talk and misleading propaganda about Article 17 of the Constitution that I think it desirable to re-state the position. It is this: that as long as the Treaty remains neither this House nor any other assembly can remove the obligation which the Treaty imposes upon elected representatives of subscribing to the Oath prescribed in Article 4 of the Treaty. 
     The Irish people, through their representatives, can denounce the Treaty.  They cannot alter it except by agreement with Great Britain, ratified by legislation on both sides, but until it is either denounced or altered the Oath must remain, because the international obligations of any country override its internal laws. 
     We have neither sought nor received any mandate for the denunciation of the Treaty, and we do not intend to take any steps in the matter.  Nor have we sought any mandate for its alteration. The Party which asked for that mandate did not obtain it, notwithstanding the fact that they enshrined   their request in a bower of rosy promises. They dangled before the people visions of bread and work for all, smaller taxes, no Land Commission annuities, no emigration, no partition. Now they have taken up the position that unless some other Party saves their faces in the matter of the difference between the Oath in the Treaty and the oath which their leader himself drafted, with an annual tribute to His Majesty super-imposed, they cannot put their promises to the test of performance.  We have no intention of imperilling our good relations with Great Britain to secure a dishonest saving of faces, or to acquiesce in a national deception.  I use the words &ldquo;a national deception&rdquo; in the most deliberate way, because that Party, and in particular its leader, concentrated upon one manifestation of the international position of this State as defined by the Treaty, and consistently abstained from telling the public what attitude they propose to adopt on the various manifestations which remain in the Treaty even if it were possible to remove the Oath.  The only indication of their attitude which has been given since the elections is a return to the word Republican, from which it would seem as if the national deception was indeed premeditated. 
     The policy of making promises whose fulfilment is contingent on your opponent doing something which you feel he cannot and will not do does not appeal to me as a policy of high public morality.  It seems to me to be a policy of cowardice, and neither I nor any of my colleagues are prepared to countenance cowardice or to facilitate deception. The fact is that Fianna Fail are not being kept out of the Dail by the Oath; they are sheltering behind this subterfuge because they know that their fantastic promises cannot be fulfilled. 
     
      
       In the opening stages of the proceedings to-day the Clerk read a return of the persons elected at the recent elections to serve as Deputies in this House.  I did not notice in that return any reference to Party allegiance or even to the promises made in the course of the election.   A proclamation was read calling for an election, and a return was submitted of those who have been elected. It is for the Deputies in this House to indicate by their votes exactly what their will is in respect to Party allegiance, in respect to the election of President and in respect to any other matter that comes before the House. Newspaper comments, even Party returns, are not sufficient to indicate what is the view of any Deputy who is returned, and I propose to take a vote of the House on this question of the nomination of Deputy William T. Cosgrave as President of the Executive Council.  In making his statement, Deputy Cosgrave, if I may so use the term, has told us something about the views of himself and his colleagues in respect to a Party which is not in the House. 
       I propose to say a word or two as to why I think that Deputy Cosgrave should not be re-elected as President. I pass over what I think should be an obvious omission as to whether there is a vacancy in that office.  I have not had any intimation and the House had not any intimation that President Cosgrave had resigned his office as President. But a motion has been put to the House that he should be re-elected, or perhaps, I might say, confirmed in his present office.  Before the elections, on many occasions in the House, we, from these benches, have opposed the Government measures, criticised the Government on innumerable occasions, too, laying particular stress on what we conceive to be their failure to respond to the needs of the people in respect of social and economic matters.  We refuse to be drawn into a controversy which assumes that the question of the taking of the Oath to the Constitution is a matter which the people have decided, or even a matter upon which they have expressed very strong views. We take that as a matter of very subordinate interest, and we are not going to be diverted by controversies outside from dealing with matters which we have been elected to deal with, and, if possible, force upon the public attention. 
     
     We fought our election campaign and we criticised the Government mainly   because of its failure to deal adequately, even to deal seriously, with the problems of poverty and the problems of unemployment, and with the problems that arise out of poverty and unemployment. We found from the beginning almost of the last Dail, from the beginning of the office of the Ministers, that in so far as the working elements of the community, the wage-earning elements, were concerned, the policy of the Government was a policy of reduction of the standard of living, a reduction of wages, a reduction of comforts, and a removal and declining of the social and ameliorative enactments which had been handed over to us by the Treaty Agreement; that the attitude that has been consistently adopted in regard to wages, and in regard to the ameliorative measures affecting the poor, has been one of a consistent reduction of the standard of living for the poor people.  That began with the Government's term of office, and it ended with the opposition of the Ministry to a fair wages clause in the Electricity Supply Bill.  There has been a consistent attempt to deny the common people all the rights which had been won, and to deny them a place in the sun.  And it is because of the electioneering assertions on the part of the Government that they are to be judged by their record, that they intend to pursue a similar policy, that we oppose the re-election of Deputy William T. Cosgrave and the re-election of every member of his Party unless there is a complete reversal of their social policy.  The President has spoken of the reconciliation of Party leaders' differences.  It needs no word from me &mdash;I would assume certainly no word from me to anyone who has any idea at all of the position of the Labour Party &mdash;that there has been no word suggesting an alliance, coalition or conference respecting future governments in this country. 
     I have referred to the general policy in the matters of social legislation as to which we contend that the Government has failed, because of a wrong attitude of mind towards these problems. It perhaps is not necessary to do more than touch upon it for the purpose of reminding the Deputies, and   especially new Deputies, of the position. We had in the early stages the reduction of the old age pensions, and the promise that when the money would be available the earliest opportunity would be taken to restore to the old age pensioners their cut.  That has been refused, and the promise not fulfilled. We had the decision of the Government to set up a low wage standard, a starvation wage standard, on the Shannon scheme; we had a document issued from the Government offices to the local authorities instructing them to reduce wages, and the consistent policy adopted since the issue of that circular following out that original intention.  We have had the passing, in spite of opposition from our Benches, of a Bill which in two years' time will make the landlords free to extract any rent they like from their tenants.  We had the disavowal of responsibility on the part of the Government for finding work for unemployed men.  We had the refusal, time after time, of the Government to deal with any revision of the unemployment insurance scheme which would ensure to workmen who are unemployed a continuance of their unemployment insurance. We have had the administration of home assistance so tightened that literally thousands of people, who have been deprived of unemployment benefits, have since been deprived of home assistance and are absolutely on the verge of starvation in the city and the country. 
     These are matters which make it imperative upon this Party to oppose the re-election of the head of a Government which has declared itself as intending to continue this policy. In addition to that, we have the recent change of mind in regard to a very much less immediately important question&mdash;the decision of the Government to introduce legislation which is to deprive minorities of representation in this House.  If there were no other questions than those I have indicated to show the state of mind of the Government, the manner in which they come to the House asking for support and their refusal to recognise the fact that the country has   expressed a verdict upon their conduct, would be sufficient reason for opposing the re-election of Deputy W. T. Cosgrave as President of the Executive Council. 
     
      
       The proposition before the House, moved by Deputy Murphy and seconded by Deputy Doyle, that Deputy Liam T. Mac Cosgair be re-elected as President of the Executive Council, has been opposed by Deputy Johnson and his Party.  The President, speaking to the proposition, has given the House the impression that he is only going to accept re-election on certain specific conditions.  Deputy Johnson retorts that he is going to divide the House on the proposition as to whether we shall agree to the re-election of the President. One must ask, how much jockeying for position is there going on amongst the Parties?  On behalf of my Party, I say that we feel the position to-day is such that the people expect the best services every Deputy can give to the country, irrespective of class or party.  The Cumann na nGaedheal Party are the biggest Party in the House.  They have made a proposition. My Party do not find themselves in a position to oppose that proposition. Deputy Johnson has not moved any amendment and he has not indicated what is his alternative.  I would be slow to believe that Deputy Johnson's was a negative policy, and yet what does he offer? 
     
     If there is a division our votes will be cast for the re-election of Deputy Liam T. MacCosgair as President.  But let me make it quite clear on behalf of my Party that we are not going to acquiesce in the demand of Deputy Liam T. MacCosgair that everything and every measure which he may bring forward in this House, if he is re-elected, must have our unfailing support. Since the Farmers' Party came into existence, though small in numbers, its members have from the very beginning done what they considered best in the interests of the country. Members of the Party have made sacrifices for what they considered were the best interests of the country.  Members   of the Farmers' Party here will always do what they consider best in the country's interests.  In the past we have done unpopular things because we believed them right.  We have said unpopular things down the country because we considered they were right. Our work in the future in this Dail will be always founded on the belief that what we are doing is the best thing for the country. 
     We will vote for the re-election of Deputy MacCosgair.  Deputy Johnson has not moved an amendment; he has not put forward an alternative.  In supporting the re-election of Deputy MacCosgair we cannot, because we know not what he may do, tell him that he is always going to have our support.  He will have our support when we consider his policy right, but we must oppose him if we consider his policy wrong. 
     
      
       I think it is an admitted fact that the first essential to the carrying on of the affairs of the State is a government, and there is no Party in the Dail at the moment in a position to, of itself, command a majority of this House.  That being so, I take it that it is the primary duty of the largest Party in the House to take the initial steps to form a Government. Now, neither myself nor those for whom I speak are in the position either to form a Government or, indeed, to nominate anyone for the position of President. 
     
     When Deputy Johnson moved a direct negative to the proposition that the largest Party should be asked to carry on the public affairs of the State, I was expecting something in the nature of an alternative or a substitute from him.  On the contrary, his proposition amounts to nothing but a direct negative.  If Deputy Johnson were prepared, as the leader of the second largest Party in the House, to bring forward a suggestion in the nature of a substitute for the proposal made from the Government benches, then his proposition would be worth considering; but as it is, it is nothing but a mere policy of negation.  I am in a similar position to Deputy Johnson and the members of the Labour Party, inasmuch as I have had occasion, and   have taken advantage of it, to criticise the Government both inside and outside the Dail in regard to their conduct of the affairs of this State during the period of their term of office. 
     
      
       Mostly outside. 
     
     
      
       But I am not in a position now to propose an alternative Government.  Like the Deputy, I have not had any conferences or consultations with other Parties on the matter, and in the absence of a declaration from Deputy Cosgrave as to what his full programme and policy is to be, I certainly cannot support the proposal to re-elect him by voting for him.  On the other hand, I would like to make my position clear in this respect, that no matter what Government is formed I can give an assurance for myself and my colleagues that we will be prepared to support that Government in the maintenance of the peace and order of this State and in the carrying on of the public services of the State.  Now Deputy Cosgrave has said that he is not satisfied with such an assurance from any quarter of the House, but I am not prepared personally, nor is my Party, to go any further in this direction. We claim that though we will support whatever Government is brought into existence in the carrying on of the public work of this State through the public services, we must be entitled to reserve our judgment and our right of criticism and of opposition to anything in the nature of future legislation or methods of administration.  I do not think that is asking too much.  I think that when a number of Deputies state that as they are not in a position themselves to from a Government they would be prepared to support any Government in the direction I have indicated, that is all that can be reasonably demanded of them, and as far as I am concerned I cannot vote for the direct negative proposition, as proposed by Deputy Johnson, because that would mean no Government at all. 
     
     
      
       No, there is an alternative. 
     
     
      
       If there is an alternative then let Deputy Johnson propose it.  In the circumstances he   has not done so, and, therefore, while reserving a right of future criticism or opposition to any future policy or programme brought forward by the Government, I can at least assure whatever Government takes the place of the late one that as far as in me and my Party lies we shall assist that Government in the maintenance of peace and order and in the carrying on of the public services of the State. 
     
     
      
       I rise with diffidence, because all those who have spoken before me have spoken on behalf of organised Parties, and I do not know whether the voice of an individual ought to be heard, but as all those organised Parties appear to disagree, as some are going to voite for Deputy Murphy's motion, some against, and as some are neither going to vote for nor against, I feel a little more argument is needed on this question, and I ask the Dail to confront the situation in which we are placed. The last Dail did not complete its work.  It left over three matters of some importance to be decided by this Dail, and the most important is the voting of the financial supplies needed for the present year.  The last Dail gave a Vote on Account which will expire about the 1st August.  After that date there cannot constitutionally be made any issues for public services. The old age pensioners will come to the Post Office and find there is no money there.  The Garda Siochana and the Army will find there is no pay, and the works on the Barrow drainage will have to be stopped unless provision is made by this Dail to meet that situation, and in order to make that provision we must have a Government, and, to my mind, it appears to be more convenient to have the Government that drafted those Estimates rather than any other government, because they are in the best position to defend and justify them. 
     
     The same is true of two Bills outstanding. The Dentists Bill is not, perhaps, a very technical matter.  The other Bill, the Currency Bill, is intensely technical.  I must say I would feel sympathy for the Labour Minister for Finance, whoever he may be, who   had to pilot that Bill through the Seanad against the serried phalanx of bank directors.  I do not see how any Minister for Finance, whether in the Labour Party, National Party, or Farmers' Party can acquaint himself with all the technicalities of the Bill within the necessary time; so we must clean up the mess that has been left. I am glad I converted the Labour Party; it is quite true that the Cumann na nGaedheal are responsible for this situation.  I do not attempt to disguise that.  I am very glad that Deputy Murphy and Deputy Peadar Doyle have faced their responsibilities in this matter, and I would deprecate the suggestion of the President, because I think he is still the President until another is appointed, that we should adjourn.  The continuance of this situation of uncertainty would be most injurious to the country's credit and to the welfare of the country as a whole. It would be injurious to the morale of the Garda and the Army.  No one would know where he was.  Everyone would hesitate to undertake fresh obligations or to give fresh employment.  Let us face things now.  The country has placed the responsibility on our shoulders, and we should face it. 
     As to the future, the President says that the Government's programme is well known.  I studied the pamphlet setting out the President's programme. It was a modest one.  It promised two Bills: one providing long term loans for municipalities and public bodies for the purpose of drainage and water supply.  I hope that Bill is going on. It is not contentious and will get support in every quarter of the Dail.  It makes for employment and development. I do not think the President, if he is elected, will find any difficulty in getting that Bill through.  The other Bill was one for the reform of the electoral system.  Deputy Johnson interpreted that as a Bill for the abolition of proportional representation.  I do not think the President is committed to that.  Can any one of us having come through the election lay his hands on his heart and swear that the electoral system is perfect?  I think I can get general agreement in the belief that   most constituencies are too large.  I think it is conceivable to reform the electoral system without making the Bill contentious and still provide representation for minorities. 
     The only other point I will touch on with some diffidence, because I am afraid it may embarrass Deputy Gorey, is that there was a very vague and uncertain pronouncement with regard to tariffs.  The procedure in that direction has been simplified by the appointment of the Tariff Commission.  So far as I have been able to observe the workings of the Tariff Commission, that body is acting in a judicial sense, hearing both sides of the question amply and fully. 
     I would be much slower to oppose a tariff endorsed by the Tariff Commission than one that came out of the brain of the Minister for Finance.  In that direction, provided the Government are prepared to stand by their own creation of a Tariff Commission, I do not see any contentious issue arising on that. That is all their programme.  There were other definite pronouncements made by the President in his policy speech.  I do not see any crisis arising in this Dail.  I do not see any difficulty for Parties&mdash;other than the Labour Party, who have their own remedies and doctrines and who preached them fairly and consistently throughout the elections, and probably the mistake the Government made was in underrating the force and consistency with which they preached from&mdash;endorsing the Government's programme.  Let us get that done, and then, if at all possible, let us get a holiday.  Then let the Government draw up their programme and put it before the Dail. My criticism of the Government is not envenomed on any of these questions. My main criticism of the Government, made in a speech delivered in the neighbourhood of Ballsbridge, was that they were apt to rush their fences.  Like all horses, however, that rush their fences, they stumbled a little, but they can recover, and horses generally do better the next time.  In the hope that the Government will be slightly more responsive to public opinion and to the opinion of the Dail, I am prepared to vote for their continuance in office. 
     
     
      
       We have had speeches on the motion from the leader of the Labour Party, the leader of the Farmers' Party, the leader of the National League Party, and also from Deputy Major Cooper, and it is significant that in none of these four statements has what was, after all, the main point, the backbone, of the President's statement, been touched upon, namely, that a number of Parties in the recent electoral struggle went before the electorate, dangling before them very alluring spectacular programmes which were to be put into effect when, and if, they were returned to office.  None of these Parties put forward a sufficient number of candidates to secure a majority in the Dail which would put them in a position to carry out these alluring and constructive programmes&mdash;work for all, taxation halved, expenditure doubled, no Land Commission annuities, no partition, and so on. 
       It seems to me a little cynical, building a little too much on Lincoln's statement that you can fool some of the people all the time, for a Party putting forward thirty or forty candidates in the country to speak of the wonderful things it was going to do when it was returned to office.  Let us leave on one side 57 Independents, and let us, with a sigh of relief, leave on one side Clann Eireann, and there remain 30 National League candidates, approximately 40 Farmer candidates and 40 Labour candidates.  Thirty is not a majority of this Dail, nor 40, nor yet 46.  None of these Parties was looking for a majority in the Dail, no one of these Parties was taking the risk, if I may put it that way, of having a majority in the Dail. The only Party taking that risk was the Party to which I belong, and one other Party which is not yet represented here. 
     
     We have had many lectures in the last fortnight as to what we should and should not do in the parliamentary situation created by the recent elections. We have had them from the Press and other quarters.  We were told that it would be a monstrously irresponsible thing for President Cosgrave to refuse to form a government and. if he did so refuse, he should be   hounded out of the public life of the country.  We have had that lecture from people who did not support the Government in the elections, and who did not vote for the Government, and who gave their second, third, and fourth preferences elsewhere.  Now, when the responsibility of Government is refused by all other Parties, both individually and collectively, the responsibility seems to revert to the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, despite the fact that it is a mathematical minority of the Dail.  We are not shirking that responsibility, but we do think that the people should learn from this position a constitutional lesson, learn for future guidance that it is a cynical thing, a fundamentally deceptive thing, for a Party to dangle spectacular programmes before it while not seeking a majority in Parliament by which to put these programmes into operation. 
     If the charge of cynical deception is to be denied, then you get to that point when you are forced to conclude that these Parties were thinking in terms of coalition, that when inviting the electorate to throw out this Government they were not looking themselves for a majority, that at least they were thinking in terms of coalition.  But we have no great evidence of constructive thought of that kind.  We have here an admission of collective bankruptcy from the Opposition Parties, disclaiming any idea that they could, or would, form a government.  We heard within the last few days that if this Party steadfastly refused to form a government, then, no doubt, a government would be formed, but only an ad hoc government to advise a dissolution. I do not know that many people are anxious for another General Election. I am not, until I have a rest, but we are face to face with the fact that all the people who were inviting the electorate to throw out this Government are now protesting vehemently that there is no responsibility on them, either alone or with others, to find a government for the State. 
     Deputy Johnson cannot vote for the motion because he has certain economic grievances, because he thinks that we did nothing to deal with the social and economic evils pressing on the people,   because we did nothing to relieve unemployment, and so on.  We thought that we had done quite a lot.  In fact, our own opinion is that, within the limits of our resources, we have done as much as men could do in the time, in the period of three or three and a half years, of comparative peace that we enjoyed. 
     Deputy Johnson safeguarded himself with the word &ldquo;adequate.&rdquo;  It can always be said of a Government that it has not adequately dealt with certain perennial social evils.  It is a safe thing to say.  But in four years we have built in this State 14,000 houses.  That gave some employment.  Here in Dublin city and suburbs there were more houses built in the five years between 1922 and 1927 than were built in the thirty years between 1890 and 1921. By the imposition of tariffs additional employment was given to 10,000 persons. In the industries assisted and stimulated by the Trade Loans Guarantee Act additional employment was given to 1,700 persons.  Presumably, the 10,000 acres of beet that were grown last year in the counties round about Carlow, and the 15,000 acres of beet that are there to-day, gave some employment.  The harnessing of the Shannon is giving employment.  I am prepared to hear a taunt about the wage there, but it gave employment. The draining of the Barrow is giving employment, and the arterial drainage that is being carried out throughout the country is giving employment.  The intensive activity on the roads of the country is giving employment. 
     We have not been able to work miracles.  We were careful to disclaim before the electorate any capacity in working miracles.  We told them we could only get money out of their pockets and that we thought that within the limits of our resources we had done as much as men could do by legislation and administration to deal with the social evils that we found in our midst, and that they should guard themselves against any idea that if we were returned to office we would work miracles in the future any more than in the past.  That was too modest.  It compared badly with the alluring programmes   that were being dangled before the people by the minority Parties who were not taking the risk of having the responsibility of Government. 
     Deputy Johnson has told us to-day that the people should know the Labour Party better than to think that any word had escaped them tending in the direction of an alliance, a coalition or conference respecting the future government of this State.  Very good. What then did the Labour Party mean when challenging this Government in the country, when inviting the electorate to throw it out, and when refraining from running a sufficient number of candidates to secure a majority in the Dail?  They will not ally; they will not coalesce; they will not confer; they stand alone, as Deputy Morrissey said in Tipperary.  Very good&mdash;they stand alone.  But they invited the electorate to throw out this Government. What Government was the electorate to throw in?  Not them&mdash;they were not looking for a majority. 
     
      
       We got more than the Government expected. 
     
     
      
       Just two short of what the Deputy expected himself. 
     
     
      
       We went nearer to it than the Minister went to his majority. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson is against the motion&mdash;he is against the motion, with no alternative.  He is against the motion on principle.  What the principle is I do not know.  I have no doubt Deputy Johnson knows. Deputy Redmond is neither for nor against the motion.  He is in a condition of philosophic doubt.  It may be right or it may be wrong, but one must not expect Deputy Redmond to say whether it is right or wrong&mdash;he will wait and see.  Very good.  Deputy Cooper's contribution to the discussion was to say that &ldquo;We will do to clear up the mess.&rdquo;  We have cleared up some messes, and we are prepared to do that in the future as in the past, but I trust that the President's statement has made our position perfectly clear.  We are not taking office as super-policemen.  We are not   taking office simply to keep the ring and allow the country to drift.  We are taking office to go ahead with our programme, and if, and when, a majority of this Dail agrees to disagree with our programme, then no doubt they will be prepared to take up the responsibility which they have now disclaimed or which they are now imposing on this Party.  The alternative to that is a General Election. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The alternative to another Government than this being found within the Dail is a General Election. 
     
     
      
       An alternative to the Government. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Baxter used one phrase which I would like to touch on.  He said there was jockeying for position.  I trust it is clear that there is one Party in this Dail not jockeying for position.  This motion that is now before the Dail will be withdrawn if there is any person in the Dail who is prepared to form a Government and can show a reasonable prospect of securing sufficient support to do that.  Deputies will need to think that over.  It was not in any flippancy that the offer of an adjournment was made.  We do seriously think that the combination of Parties which challenged this Party in the country and which succeeded in reducing this Party to a position of being a mathematical minority in the Dail might well consider whether they could not sink certain differences, find certain points of policy in common on which they could build a programme and form a Government.  They are certainly most cordially invited to do that.  We are prepared to be an intelligent and sympathetic opposition.  We will be the more sympathetic because we have been on the inside and know the difficulties. We will not talk either in the Dail or outside of it about halving taxation and doubling expenditure, because we happen to know it cannot be done.  We will be as gentle as lambs. 
     
     
      
       Impossible! 
     
     
     
      
       Helpful, sympathetic, constructive criticism is what a government could expect from this Party in those circumstances, and it is a little disappointing to see this acknowledged bankruptcy of our opponents who were so eloquent in the country some fortnight or three weeks ago.  All the fine promises have faded out.  The Party that was to end Partition the Party that was to halve taxation, the Party that was to have every man sitting down under his own vine trees smoking a pipe of Irish-grown tobacco are not here to-day. 
     
     
      
       That is what we were told when you got us this liberty. 
     
     
      
       I think the position is clear to the Dail, and I think that gradually the position will become clear to the country.  We are prepared to go ahead&mdash;to go ahead with our policy, not with the policy of any other person or any other Party, and we will go ahead until such time as a majority of this Dail thinks fit to disagree with us. 
     
     
      
       While I am a member of this House I intend to support&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order: Is it the procedure of this House that we are to have applause from the gallery when a Minister is speaking, and when he sits down, having concluded his speech?  I think there should be some question as to the rights of individuals in the gallery applauding Ministers. It has occurred here, and there should be some question about it. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy is aware, as all Deputies are aware, that there should be no applause from the gallery.  But I think there is nothing in the point that applause in the gallery is allowed in the case of a Minister and not allowed in the case of other persons.  If I could accomplish it, I would prevent any applause in the gallery. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister was interrupted from the gallery the interrupter would be speedily removed.  I think, also, when the Minister is applauded from the gallery that the applauder should be removed. 
     
     
     
      
       While I am a member of this House and have the honour to represent the City of Dublin, I will support every line of the Treaty and every line in the Constitution.  But when Deputy Cosgrave stands up and uses words like this&mdash;&ldquo;If I am to accept office it will be only on a definite understanding that I must receive sufficient support to carry out my programme&rdquo;&mdash;it must be remembered that Deputies in this House are not aware of his programme.  What I want to know is, if I support the motion to elect Deputy Cosgrave as President of the Executive Council, does it mean that I am pledging myself to support his programme?  (Labour Deputies&mdash;&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;)  Does it mean that I am supporting Deputy Cosgrave in his speeches and those of the members of his Party, that Proportional Representation must go?  Does it mean that the conditions of the unemployed are to remain?  Does it mean that the wives and children of the unemployed in the slums in Dublin to-day are to remain hungry?  If that is so, I cannot support the motion before the House. Does it mean, also, that Irish industries are to starve because of the dumping of foreign goods into this country?  I shall support the Government at all times in whatever I think is good.  I shall oppose the Government, as I did many times in the past, in anything I think is bad, and many bad things were introduced into this House in the past by a big majority in spite of opposition and criticism from every section of the House, including members of the President's own Party, who were ignored. 
     
     Am I to be asked to give a vote to-day that would pledge me to support the Government in something that has not been stated?  Do members of the House realise the meaning of the President's words&mdash;that he will only accept office on condition that he receives sufficient support to carry out his programme?  Is the blind voting to go on which has gone on in this House for the past four years?  Are new members going to accept the policy that the first vote they will give will be to pledge their support to something that they know nothing about?  I would   ask the President to be more clear, to think of the country, and not to think of Deputy Cosgrave.  The country wants stability; the unemployed are looking for work, their families are looking for bread and butter.  I know it.  No matter what the Government did in the past in the way of road work and housing, I know that in the slums of Dublin and in some good districts in Dublin there are children hungry.  I cannot bring that home strongly enough to the Government and Deputies.  I can produce names, and I have got the permission of the people to produce their names, whose children have almost died of starvation in this city, and I take this, the earliest, opportunity of drawing the Government's attention to these conditions in Dublin. I am aware that in various parts of the country the conditions are just as bad. Other Deputies have brought to the notice of the Government the conditions of the unemployed, and no matter what the Government did in the days gone by, it is up to them now, to see that the citizens of this country and their children must be supported, no matter who feeds them.  They must not be allowed to die of starvation in a Christian country.  I ask the President first of all to think of the country and of all the hungry women and children, and to put that consideration first before he thinks of himself or his Party. 
     
      
       Perhaps it might be thought presumptions of a raw recruit, who knows very little about the procedure of the House, and still less about the election of a President, to intervene in this debate.  I happen to belong to what I may call the awkward squad of the House sitting on the Independent benches, where probably none of us could keep step one with another. Nevertheless, I think that before the motion is put to a division&mdash;I sincerely hope it will not be.  put to a division&mdash; it is necessary for us, not so much to consider the personnel of the Government in the future or who the President will be, as to have regard, exactly, to what has been the result of the General Election.  Now, while it has been said that certain people will support the Government and certain people   will not support them, I must preface my remarks by saying that a motion in support of the existing President will have my support.  But I do say, not simply because I was elected here as an Independent, that it is not necessary for a man contesting an election to have sufficient money and sufficient candidates at his back to form a Government. That, to my mind, is the most silly argument that has been put forward as a reason why nobody has a right to speak but the largest Party in the House. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       I am only an isolated person, but I know sufficient about the people of my own constituency to know exactly why they put me here.  If I understand their mentality I was put here to be a brake on the Government.  The Government, in the past four years, have used a big majority, to my mind, mercilessly, on the people.  The net result of the election is not so much to put the Government out of office as to clip their wings, so that in future they will be more mindful of the opinions of the people and the representatives they send here, than they have been in the past. 
     
     Let me say, in passing, that it was a very extraordinary feature of the General Election that the two largest Parties in the country were the two Parties that, by their propaganda, were advertising one another.  The Government Party, during the election campaign, told us that the only alternative was the men outside; the men outside said the only alternative was the Cumann na nGaedheal Party: that we, the people sitting on these Benches, had no right to be put up for election at all, and certainly had no right to sit here.  That is the logical conclusion that one must draw from these statements: that there should be only one side in this House and no Opposition. As I said earlier, I am going to support the motion for the re-election of Deputy Cosgrave in the office of President, and I think I am on safe ground in doing so, because the balance of power in the House is such that we will be in a position to control legislation in the future: we can see that there   is not too much of it put on the people without consultation with them.  I think, if all of us take that lesson to ourselves, that we need not have the slightest fear as to who is going to form the Government, because we can see that whoever is put in harness will have due regard to the will of the people as expressed through their representatives in this House. 
     
      
       In the Provisional Government the Minister for Justice had charge of the Constitution Bill. Enshrined in that Constitution is the principle of proportional representation. Surely the Minister and those who supported him must have known when proposing to carry through the system of proportional representation that it undoubtedly meant the election of small groups; that different interests would be represented by small groups in this House, and that the system was a break-away from the traditional Party system as known in Great Britain.  The Minister must have known that, under proportional representation, no Party could expect the huge majorities that were the fashion under the Party system as known in Great Britain.  The Minister comes to us to-day and would have the Dail and the country imagine that something in the nature of a calamity has happened because his Party, or some other Party, has not been returned in a majority of the whole membership of the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Or a Coalition? 
     
     
      
       I do not know exactly what that interruption is intended to imply, but it would seem, as Deputy O'Hanlon has stated following the Minister's reasoning, that no Party had the right to put up candidates unless it was able to put up a sufficient number to carry at least 77 seats.  As Deputy O'Hanlon has stated, that is an absolutely foolish and impossible proposition.  Deputy Johnson has been taunted with not making an alternative proposal.  He has given his reasons here, as they have been given by our Party through the country, for our opposition to the present Government. If we were to take the statement   of the Minister for Justice and follow his argument to its logical conclusion, it would mean that this House was so absolutely bankrupt that six or seven other men could not be found within the House to carry on the government of the country in place of the six or seven men who have been carrying it on for the past four or five years.  It would show that this Dail was bankrupt if that were the case. 
       Reference has been made to the fact that people have been shirking their responsibilities.  The Labour Party will not shirk its responsibilities.  It has never shirked its responsibilities in the past.  It is not going to shirk them now.  We have indicated what our attitude is.  We have given our reasons for our opposition to the election of Deputy Cosgrave as President.  It is for the House now to decide by vote what it will do, whether it will elect Deputy Cosgrave as President or refuse to elect him.  If it elects him, well and good; and I would like to say this in reference to what Deputy Byrne said, that I think it is not unreasonable for Deputy Cosgrave to say that he will carry on only so long as he gets support. It is not necessary for him to lay that down beforehand; it is quite obvious; there is no reason to reiterate it and there is no need to object to it. But if the motion before the House is defeated, it would be for the House to face its responsibilities, and in doing so the Labour Party will not shirk its responsibilities any more than it has ever shirked them before. 
     
     
      
       I think, in view of the proposal put forward by Labour,   that it is not fair that the House should be asked to vote before Labour offers its alternative.  To my mind, it would be blind voting if Labour does not offer us its alternative.  I want to take exception to some of the President's remarks. He said that the Government was attacked by every Party and by every Independent candidate going up, and that the people were asked to show their confidence. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       He did not. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry.  I took that as what he said.  But in any case, he made the statement that the depleted numbers on the Government Benches to-day are due to the wild promises made by other Parties throughout the country during the Election. I say that the depleted numbers on the Government Benches to-day are due to the bungling of the Government organisation itself, absolutely and entirely, and I believe that the men on the Government Benches know that better than anyone else. 
     
     
      
       The men not on the Government Benches know it. 
     
     
      
       I say that in order to clear the air the Labour Party ought to offer us their alternative before we are asked to vote.  So far as I can see, there is no alternative but to vote for Deputy Cosgrave.  Personally, I do not want one, but I think in fairness to the House the Labour Party should give us their alternative. 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 68; Nil, 22. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Ernest Henry Alton. Patrick Baxter. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Michael Carter. Mrs. Margaret Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlon. Bryan Ricco Cooper.
 Denis John Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Gilbert Hewson. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. James Sproule Myles. 
             Sir James Craig. James Crowley. John Daly. Michael Davis. Eugene Doherty. James N. Dolan. Michael Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Thomas Falvey. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. Hugh Garahan.
 Martin Ml. Nally. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. David Leo O'Gorman. John F. O'Hanlon. Kevin O'Higgins. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy. William Edward Thrift. Daniel Vaughan. James Joseph Walsh. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Richard Anthony. Henry Broderick. Patrick Clancy. Hugh Colohan. Richard Corish. Denis Cullen. William Davin. Edward Doyle. James Everett. John F. Gill. David Hall. 
             Patrick Hogan (Clare). Thomas Johnson. Michael Keyes. Thomas Lawlor. Gilbert Lynch. Daniel Morrissey. Timothy Joseph Murphy. William O'Brien. Thomas J. O'Connell. Timothy Quill. James Shannon. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta.  Deputies Duggan and O'Connor; Nil: Deputies Morrissey and T. O'Connell. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     
      
       Where is the sham Opposition now? 
     
     
      
       Where is the Redmondite Party? 
     
     
      
       Before I move the adjournment, I should like to acknowledge this vote of the House and to say that, with the help of God, I shall discharge the duties of the office to the best of my ability.  I move: &ldquo;That the House adjourn until 6 o'clock.&rdquo;  I hope at that time to be able to inform the House of the names of the Ministers that I intend to put before it for assent. 
       Sitting suspended at 4.55 and resumed at 6 o'clock, 
     
     
      
       in the Chair. 
     
   
   
     NOMINATION OF MINISTERS, MEMBERS OF EXECUTIVE COUNCIL. 
     
      
       My nomination as President of the Executive Council has been approved by the Governor-General. I now beg to submit formally, for the assent of the Dail, the names of the Deputies whom I am proposing as Members of the Executive Council.  I would like to preface my remarks by saying that I am submitting a list of ten Ministers, nine and myself.  I am amalgamating two Ministries.  It is my intention to bring forward legislation on the resumption after the adjournment, when it is proposed to set up another Ministry &mdash;a Ministry for Works&mdash;which would include the administration of the Board of Works, the Stationery Office and   Supplies.  I move that the Dail assent to the nomination of the following Deputies as Ministers, members of the Executive Council in charge of the Departments named hereunder: 
       Deputy Kevin O'Higgins, Vice-President, Minister for Justice and Minister for External Affairs. 
       Deputy Ernest Blythe, Minister for Finance. 
       Deputy Desmond Fitzgerald, Minister for Defence. 
       Deputy Patrick McGilligan, Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
       Deputy Professor John M. O'Sullivan, Minister for Education. 
       Deputy Patrick Hogan, Minister for Lands and Agriculture. 
       Deputy Finian Lynch, Minister for Fisheries. 
       Deputy Richard Mulcahy, Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
       Deputy J.J. Walsh, Minister for Posts and Telegraphs. 
       It is my intention also to introduce a Bill which would take the administration of the Land Commission from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture, and place it under the Minister for Fisheries, as I have already announced. I am asking Deputy Burke to act as Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Finance.  It would be my intention, after the introduction of the measure I have mentioned, to ask the assent of the Dail to the new Ministry, but that will not arise until November. All these nominations are for the Executive Council.  The Executive Council will then consist of ten Ministers. I formally move these nominations. 
     
     
      
       On a point of procedure, is it the intention to have each nomination dealt with separately, or to have the nominations dealt with en bloc?  Are we to vote on the nomination of each Minister or to take the whole lot en bloc? 
     
     
      
       The nominations are for the Executive Council and must be assented to en bloc. 
     
     
     
      
       I want to raise an objection to the appointment of the Minister for Industry and Commerce on the grounds that the administration of his Department has not, to say the least of it, been what it should have been in the lifetime of the last Dail. From the declaration made by the President this afternoon, we may, I think, safely assume that the same practice will operate in the future, that there will be the same want of sympathy with the unemployed, with those employed on the Shannon scheme, and with the question of the extension of unemployment insurance that there has been in the past.  There are to-day in this country anything from 50,000 to 80,000 unemployed.  I want to state that in my opinion no serious attempt has been made by that Department to deal with the question of unemployment or to provide a remedy for it. 
       I suppose we may assume, if the policy is to be the same, as we are told it is to be, that no serious attempt will be made to remedy the unemployment-evil. We contend, notwithstanding the statement which was made by the Minister for Industry and Commerce in the last Dail, that it is the duty of this Government, or any Government that will be functioning in this country, to provide work for the people, and that if they fail to provide work it is their duty to provide maintenance. 
     
     The Government have failed to do either one or the other.  There was a good deal of talk during the election campaign about the unemployment problem.  There was a good deal of foolish talk about it by persons who knew very little about it.  There was a great deal of talk about the dole, and usually we found that some candidates in their election addresses stated that one of their first duties, if elected, would be to abolish the dole and find remunerative employment for those who are unemployed.  It is, perhaps, no harm to mention for the information of some of the old Deputies, and perhaps of all of the new Deputies, that there is no such thing as a dole in the Free State.  Men and women who are unemployed only receive unemployment benefit in accordance with the number of stamps which they have to their credit.   As soon as these stamps are exhausted the unemployed person has either to beg from door to door or try to obtain outdoor relief from the County Home. We say that men who are willing to work, and who are anxious to work, should not be reduced to that position. 
     We say that a government which look upon that position, as apparently the present Government do, as being a normal situation have failed in their fundamental duty to a large body of citizens.  The Department of Industry and Commerce have, as I have said, during the past four years, shown a complete want of sympathy, a complete want of any desire, apparently, to deal with that situation seriously.  There is a good deal of talk about oaths, and a number of matters that are supposed to be of major importance, but to us the greatest and most important question confronting the country to-day is what is going to be done with the 50,000, 60,000 or 70,000 or 80,000 unemployed. We do not say that the Government can settle the unemployment question with a wave of their hands. We know that they cannot, but we do say that they ought to show a desire to deal with it, and we think this House is entitled to have an expression of opinion from the President, or somebody on the Government benches, as to whether there is to be any departure from their old policy of dealing with the unemployment problem.  We want to know whether they are satisfied that the normal state of affairs in this country is to be represented by 50,000 or 60,000, or 70,000 or 80,000 unemployed. I mention these figures because we do not know the exact number of unemployed, and the Minister or his Department does not know the exact number. 
     
      
       We have given it. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not given the exact number of unemployed. He stated in this House that he did not know and could not find out the exact number.  It may be 40,000 or it may be 80,000.  The Minister can give us the figures for those who register for unemployment benefit, but anyone who knows anything about the unemployment   problem knows quite well, and the Minister knows quite well, that they represent only a number, perhaps only a comparatively small number, of unemployed. 
       That number may represent 80 per cent. of the unemployed or it may represent only 40 per cent.  We are in the position that we do not know, but we do know, that notwithstanding the sugar beet factory, the Barrow drainage scheme, and emigration to the extent of 30,000 per year, there are from 50,000 to 80,000 unemployed.  We have heard very often, and we heard a good deal about it during the election, that 18 new factories have been started in the country and that they have given a good deal of employment, but we have not been given the other side of the picture and told how many factories have been closed down and how many people have been driven out of employment.  We would like to know that.  The fact remains that, notwithstanding the amount of employment given by the starting of new factories, and by the increased work which has been given on the roads, and the reduction in population caused by the tide of emigration, there is no appreciable reduction, as far as we can see, in the number of unemployed from one month to another, or from one year to another.  I say that in itself is a condemnation of the policy of the Department of Industry and Commerce.  It shows that no serious attempt has been made to deal with the problem. 
     
     Without trying to exaggerate in any way, I put it that if the Ministers learned nothing else during the election campaign they learned there is a deal more poverty, and even starvation, than many members of the House or the Government may have realised.  By virtue of our position we are, perhaps, brought more in touch with it than members of the other Parties.  It is not a problem out of which anyone with a sense of decency would like to make political capital.  It is bad enough in actual fact without exaggerating it.  So far as we are concerned, this is the most important Department of all, and I think we are entitled to know whether the policy of that Department for the next five years is to be the same as it has   been in the past five years, and whether any real sincere attempt is to be made to relieve unemployment.  If not, I am going to vote against the nomination of the President for the office of Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
     
      
       I would like to have the situation made clear in regard to the proposal of the President. Am I to understand that it is proposed that permanently the Minister for Justice should also be the Minister for External Affairs?  Is it the intention of the President to introduce legislation to make that permanent, or am I to take it that it is only a temporary expedient, and that at a later stage we will have a new Minister for External Affairs, and that, in fact later, instead of having a Ministry less, we will have an additional Ministry?  As I am not clear on this point, I would like to have information on it before we go any further. 
     
     
      
       I desire to support the protest of Deputy Morrissey against the appointment of Deputy McGilligan as Minister for Industry and Commerce.  I also wish to emphasise the figures that Deputy Morrissey gave with regard to unemployment. We are all aware that the official figures published from time to time by the Labour Exchanges do not really represent the actual amount of unemployment that exists in the country. These figures simply represent the numbers that register day by day and those who are drawing unemployment benefit.  We are also aware that when the unemployed people cease to draw benefit they automatically go off the roll of the Labour Exchanges.  The figure of 60,000 unemployed has been mentioned.  I would go further than Deputy Morrissey and say that those affected by unemployment number, roughly, about 200,000. 
     
     It was stated by the President to-day that during the last 312 or 4 years building operations on a large scale have taken place in the Saorstat.  It was stated in Cork during the elections, and in fact all over Munster, that a very large number of houses had been   built.  The Government Party took the credit for having most of them built. I tell the Dail that the amount of money allocated by the British Government for the burning of Cork City Hall was devoted to the building of houses in the city.  The credit for those houses was taken by the Government Party. When computing the number of houses built in the Free State and the amount of money spent in building, it is necessary to subtract the amount contributed by the British Government as compensation for the burning of Cork City Hall.  In addition, houses built for British ex-service men out of British funds have been included in the figures given for the Free State. 
     Towards the close of the last Dail a motion was put down by Deputy O'Donovan asking that the case for flax cultivation should be considered.  On reading that motion I find that Deputy O'Donovan did not ask for a tariff or a subsidy, but that the case for flax should be considered.  In Cork we have the only flax factory in the Free State. It is fully equipped with machinery, and the men and women operatives are highly skilled, yet Deputy O'Donovan's motion was turned down.  These amongst other reasons urge me to support Deputy Morrissey in the protest he has made against the appointment of Deputy McGilligan. 
     
      
       Might I now have the information that I asked for? 
     
     
      
       I intimated that I would deal with the whole matter at the end of the discussion. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Heffernan has asked a question. 
     
     
      
       I think that is a question of law.  I do not know that any necessity arises to introduce legislation to deal with the matter.  I could certainly combine four Ministries out of the eleven if I was disposed, and it would not be necessary to introduce legislation to deal with it. 
     
     
      
       I want to have the situation made perfectly clear. The President is combining certain Ministries.  He states that it is his intention to introduce legislation to   establish a new Ministry.  I want to know if it is the intention of the President permanently to maintain a combination of Ministries as he has announced? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       His decision is going to affect my attitude and the attitude of our Party towards the nominations made to-day.  Are we to understand there is to be a reduction in the number of Ministries, or actually an increase at a future date?  According to the statement made by the President, I understand it is his intention to increase the number of Ministries, rather than reduce them, at a future date. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I want to refer briefly to another aspect of the unemployment policy of the Government, which would go to show that there is a complete lack of sympathy or consideration for the position of the unemployed.  In many cases that come before me&mdash;and I think the same applies to other Deputies on these Benches&mdash;I find that the machinery of the Government Department responsible for dealing with the claims of those who become unemployed does not work in the effective way that one would expect.  In several cases, I find that a number of men throughout the country are being compelled to pay unemployment insurance contributions, the money being deducted from their wages and their cards stamped, but when they become unemployed and apply for benefit they are told they are not eligible because they possess small holdings with valuations of 2 or 3.  I want to know why these people should be compelled to pay unemployment insurance contributions and have their cards stamped, seeing that when they look for benefit they do not get credit even for the stamps on the cards.  I protest emphatically against that policy being pursued by the Department, and I say that the Minister should alter the regulation or the law that compels men to pay for unemployment insurance, when they will not get credit for the payments   they make.  Deputies were asked in the past not to put down too many questions on the Order Paper concerning claims for unemployment benefit and other matters, because of the expense incurred by the State in having to get replies within a period of 48 hours. 
       I have had reason to protest to the Minister on account of failure to reply to communications addressed to his Department within a reasonable time. These communications requested information as to whether or not he was prepared to sanction payment of unemployment insurance benefit to men who had made application.  I have addressed queries to the Minister's Department, and I have invariably found that unless these communications were repeated there was hardly any likelihood of receiving a written reply within a period of about a month.  If we put questions in the House, the replies will cost from ? to 3/- in telegraphic expenses, but we will get the reply within forty-eight hours.  As against that, we cannot get a reply, as I have explained, within a month if we address a communication to the Department. Those two matters show that there is complete lack of consideration for the position of the unemployed. I hope these matters of detailed administration will be righted in the future, and that the State will be saved money in providing us with answers through the medium of the House by the institution of a more effective system of dealing with correspondence in the Department of Industry and Commerce. 
     
     
      
       I want to take the earliest opportunity of protesting against the proposal foreshadowed in the President's statement as regards the division of Ministries&mdash; the taking of lands from the Department of Agriculture and the giving of them to the Department of Fisheries. In the course of the campaign in the West recently, I was through every village in South Mayo.  If there were two Departments which were criticised and about which I heard frequent complaints, they were the Department of Fisheries and the Department of Lands.   Everybody who has had any experience of the West knows that the Land Commission has bungled matters very seriously there.  In many cases land distribution has been a farce in the West.  Land has been held there by the Land Commission for the past fourteen or fifteen years, while people have been forced to exist on uneconomic holdings adjoining these undivided lands. All over the constituency of South Mayo &mdash;and what is true of South Mayo is true of Galway and the West generally&mdash;there are serious complaints about the bungling of the Land Commission. The complaints with regard to the Fisheries Department are almost equally numerous.  Now the suggestion is that the Department of Lands is to be taken from the Ministry of Agriculture and handed over to the Ministry of Fisheries.  Something might be said for the change if the Department of Fisheries had made a great success of its own job during the past four or five years.  If that were so it might be justified in taking on another job, but anybody who knows the Western seaboard knows that this Department has been anything but a success.  It has not taken the steps it should have taken to develop the fishing industry. Now, in addition to that great task of developing the fishing industry, it is proposed to superimpose upon it the task of the division of land.  I take the earliest opportunity of protesting against that proposal. 
     
     I had hoped to hear from the President some statement as to his proposals in regard to the regions known as the Gaeltacht.  Nothing has been said as to that question.  In the course of one speech in the election campaign, the President suggested that his intention was to create a special department for the Gaeltacht.  The President, in his announcement now, did not make any reference to that matter.  I suppose it is again a case of forgetting the poorer areas of the country.  In Connacht the complaint is general that that province &mdash;the poorest of the provinces&mdash;was forgotten by the last administration. At the very outset of the career of the new administration we have an indication of the same thing.  One of the   Deputies now proposed for membership of the Executive Council was Chairman of a Commission which inquired into the problem of the West. Every Deputy knows that the western area has a special problem of its own. In the report of the Commission which I have alluded to, the statement is made that &ldquo;the withdrawal of the Congested Districts Board and the placing in the hands of the ordinary Government departments of matters previously dealt with specially by this Board has been a serious drawback in many ways to the districts concerned.&rdquo;  The old British Administration recognised that the West had a special problem of its own.  They set up a special Board and gave it extra-legal powers to deal with this particular problem.  One of the first things that the Irish Administration did was to abolish the Congested Districts Board and merge the work in that of the Land Commission.  We have now a statement by a Commission set up by the Government that that was a mistake and proved a drawback in many ways to the districts concerned. Despite that, no attempt has been made during the past twelve months to put into operation the findings of the Gaeltacht Commission.  Neither is any suggestion now made with regard to that question.  The only proposal made is one which is bound to be retrograde &mdash;the merging of two Departments which had to do specially with those districts.  I do not believe that that plan will be a success. 
     Mention has been made of unemployment. The Deputy proposed as Minister for Industry and Commerce states that he knows the number of unemployed people.  I wonder does he include in his computation the number of people who have to go from the West of Ireland to other countries for employment&mdash;the number of migratory labourers.  I protest against the proposal of the President to merge these two Departments, and I protest against his omission to deal with the setting up of a Ministry, as foreshadowed by him some time ago, to deal with the special problems which exist in the West. 
     
      
       The point made by   Deputy O'Connell with regard to the transfer of the Department of Lands to the Department of Fisheries requires explanation.  I should like to hear the justification for this change.  I am not going to comment on the competency of the Minister who is to take up this work, but I think we should have some justification for the change. As regards the point raised by Deputy Heffernan, the President has not made the position clear.  We compliment him from these benches on the amalgamation of two Ministries.  One Minister is now to do the work formerly discharged by two Ministers.  I think that proposal will meet with general approval. On the other hand, the President informs us that he intends later to introduce legislation for the formation of a Ministry to take charge of public works.  We have, I think, eleven Ministers at present.  Are we going to have another?  The President tells us that he could so amalgamate Ministries that one man would do the work of three or four men.  We view with dissatisfaction any proposal to establish another Ministry, which would mean an additional salary.  I am aware that the work to be carried out in connection with the Drainage Acts will be onerous in the future, but I do not understand why a Deputy in the position of Parliamentary Secretary would be any less capable of discharging that work than he would be if raised to the position of Minister. 
     
     I do not think that the office requires to be raised to that position and dignity in order that the work would be effectively done.  If we are to give support to the proposal that the names submitted to fill the offices which the President has named will have our approval, let it not be taken that we are giving support to the proposition that at a future time another Ministry is to be set up.  The President is not proposing that now, I hope.  If he is, he cannot have our support.  When the time comes, we will deal with that. We think there is no necessity to set up another Ministry even though it was the intention of the President that that Ministry might be filled by the man already doing the work of Minister and acting as Minister.  The position   is that the office is being created, and when you create an office it is difficult and unsatisfactory to abolish it. 
     With regard to the names submitted, we have no desire to make unfavourable comments on the Deputies who are to fill the positions as Ministers.  We might, in the case of some of them. But we recognise that we will have, at a later stage, an opportunity of making complaints against the methods of administration which undoubtedly we must come up against in the course of our work here. 
     
      
       I rise to enter my protest against the reappointment of the Minister for Fisheries.  It is suggested by the President that not only is he to be the Minister for Fisheries, but also that he is to be Minister for Lands.  On behalf of those for whom I speak, I must register my protest against his appointment.  He has been an utter and absolute failure as Minister for Fisheries.  It would be improper at this moment to go farther into this matter, because the appointment of these Ministers is of an urgent nature owing to the peculiar constitutional circumstances that arise. But I must here take this opportunity of registering my protest against the conduct and the abject failure of the Minister for Fisheries in his office. There will be other occasions for dealing with this matter, but so far as the fishermen of the Irish coast are concerned, it is their unanimous opinion that if there has been any Minister in the past that has been a failure, it is the Minister for Fisheries.  I rise to enter my protest against his reappointment as Minister. 
     
     
      
       I hope that the new Ministers will pay attention to the criticism passed here this evening.  In particular I would ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce to pay attention to the views put forward by the Deputies on these benches.  We all know that, in many cases, unemployment benefit has been kept back for a considerable time from people in dire want, and this is all through the sloth of his Department in dealing with the matter.  I will pass from that now and hope that the Minister will be a little   more amenable to the representations made from these benches in such matters. 
       With regard to the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Finance, I now understand that that office is to be turned into a Ministry of Works. I would like the Parliamentary Secretary to consider the question of raising the wages on the River Barrow scheme to at least that paid on the Shannon scheme&mdash;32/- a week&mdash;and also that these men would come under the scope of the Unemployment Insurance Act. When these men are thrown out of employment for short periods of two or three weeks they cannot get any unemployment benefit.  That is a great hardship.  I think that in dealing with a scheme of that magnitude, the workers ought receive some consideration. The Department ought not try to take all the sweat and blood out of them in order to cheapen the scheme. We all know these men are standing up to their knees in water in all weather and still they are paid only 30/- a week and are not entitled to unemployment benefit.  They receive none of the benefits of that Act.  I hope the Parliamentary Secretary will consider that favourably and raise the wages to 32/- a week.  It is not so very much.  It is a moderate demand from these benches and I think it should be met.  With regard to the Department of Lands, I would ask that in the future no migrants should be placed on the lands of North Kildare until the people in Kildare first receive their portion. 
     
     
      
       What about Deputy O'Connell's point? 
     
     
      
       Do you agree with Deputy T. O'Connell on that point? 
     
     
      
       I do not.  I say to Deputy O'Connell, let him keep his migrants in his own county. 
     
     
      
       Another split. 
     
     
      
       I am speaking now to the Minister, and I hope that he will put a stop to the planting of these men in Kildare until Kildare men are first satisfied&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       Is that possible? 
     
     
      
       Now we are going to have a new Minister for Local Government, and while I cannot say many fine things of the last Minister, still I am prepared to say that in some cases he did his best. 
     
     
      
       For Kildare. 
     
     
      
       I want to call the Minister's attention to the system of giving out road work in large contracts to contractors who are not giving sufficient employment to local labour.  In Newbridge there are four men employed on such contracts, whereas, if the work had been given in small contracts, we would have forty or fifty men employed and have the money spent in the neighbourhood, instead of having huge profits going away across the water.  I think that is a matter that should receive careful attention from the Minister for Local Government in future.  I do not know what will be the attitude of the Minister for Defence in the future.  In my constituency there is a big military station.  I hope that the Minister's first action will not be the reduction of the number of workers there.  I am going to give fair warning that we will not have that. 
       As to the Minister for Education, I am very glad to see that he has been nominated for that position.  He is the only man in the whole bunch of them of whom everybody is in favour.  As for the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, I am sorry that my late colleague, Deputy Norton, is not here. 
     
     
      
       I think it is due to the Dail that when an amalgamation of Ministries is proposed at least a reason might be given for the suggested amalgamation.  Is the explanation that the Ministries, as formerly constituted, were incompetent to carry out their duties, or is the amalgamation for reasons of economy?  At least we are entitled to have some information to guide us as to what action we should take.  To my mind it is only reasonable to expect that information of that kind might be given us.  I was out of the House for a moment, and if I have misconstrued what was going on,   I hope I will be excused.  I do not quite understand whether the Ministers are to be taken en bloc or separately. 
     
     
      
       Together. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;The more we are together&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       We are entitled to some information from the President as to the reasons for the amalgamation. There is one system that has been set up under the Dail that, to my mind, calls for serious and earnest consideration, as it affects a good many public boards, in fact nearly all, in the Free State.  I refer to the system known as combined purchasing.  I understood, when it was first introduced, that it was introduced for reasons of economy; but from my information, instead of it being a means of providing economy in the supply of materials for public boards, on the contrary, it is more expensive. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, is this a proper subject to introduce at this stage, or are we going to listen to a series of Estimates debates?  All this can be properly thrashed out when the Estimates come up for consideration. I think it is now out of order. 
     
     
      
       It is not out of order yet. 
     
     
      
       I was saying that instead of this combined purchasing system leading to economy, on the contrary, it is leading to more expense and greater inconvenience to public bodies than if they were allowed to continue as under the old regime.  I happened to have been a member of a public body for some time, and it was our experience, for the short time the combined purchasing system was in existence, that it led to a good deal of inconvenience for public bodies, and was not at all as satisfactory as the old system.  I ask whoever is responsible and whatever Department is concerned to pay attention to the matter in order that it may be put on a more economic and satisfactory basis than that which it occupies to-day. 
     
     It is very hard for a new member like your humble servant to criticise   generally and be expected to vote for Ministers en bloc.  It would appear that at a moment's notice we are expected to launch out our opinions of how the Ministries are being conducted, and we do not get a reasonable opportunity of making due preparation. After all, in order properly to examine into the affairs of particular Departments, you must attack the heads.  That is what we have been asked to do.  We are told now that our position is that we will have to accept them in the manner in which they have been suggested.  It is a very unfair manner of doing business, and the President, in my opinion, has not treated the Assembly with reasonableness. 
     
      
       Why did you not vote? 
     
     
      
       Deputies will have an opportunity of discussing the administration of each Ministry.  We are not called upon now to debate the administration of each Ministry; we are merely called upon to say whether as a group these people are suitable to be on the Executive Council.  The President, I think, could not treat the House more reasonably than he is treating it under the Constitution. Another and a better opportunity will arise for discussing the administration of the various Departments than this particular opportunity; in fact, other and much better opportunities will arise. 
     
     
      
       I was just about to join in the chorus of requests, but now I do not know if I am in order. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy will postpone his request? 
     
     
      
       What I wanted to mention is the matter of the Awbeg drainage. Am I out of order? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid so. 
     
     
      
       I rise to oppose the appointment of Deputy Walsh as Minister for Posts and Telegraphs.  I think he has clearly demonstrated within the last few years his unfitness for the post.  As you all know, the postal charges have been doubled and the services have been halved.  In   addition to that he has imposed a tax called a statistical tax for which I think no justification can be found.  It is probable the failure in that Department may be traced to the fact that it is plain and palpable that for a considerable period he has devoted far more time to almost everything else than he has devoted to postal methods. I am confining myself, not through personal motives, to the point that he be not appointed.  As has been mentioned, there will be future occasions on which we can discuss the administration of his Department. 
     
     
      
       I am somewhat disappointed that I was not offered the Ministry of Fisheries.  I would like to ascertain from the President if, by adding Lands to the Department of Fisheries, it will mean the whole and entire administration of the Land Commission? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I would like to mention, first of all, that I have no personal animosity to any of the Deputies named to fill the different Ministries. With regard to this fusion of the Ministries of Fisheries and Lands, I would like to know is this move made in order to expedite the division of lands and hasten the vesting of lands which are purchased under the 1923 Act?  If it is done for this motive I am quite satisfied. After all, this is a thing that is engaging the attention of the whole country.  The unpurchased tenants are complaining that there is no sign of their lands being vested, and they are losing a small reduction which, at the present moment of depression, would be very valuable to them.  If this is meant to expedite the division of lands and the finishing up of land purchase under the 1923 Act, I heartily endorse it.  On the other hand, I have great fear that it is going to delay the matter because by going out of the hands of an experienced Minister and going into the hands of an inexperienced Minister, I fear it will not tend to hasten the division or vesting of lands throughout the country. 
     
     
      
       I would like to intimate   to Deputies that the motion before the House is one of assenting to names to fill certain offices.  If the Dail assents it is accepting responsibility along with the President for the fitness of these particular individuals for particular offices and, by implication, is assenting to the proposition laid down by the President as to the amalgamation of various Ministries.  Reference-has been made to the conduct of the Department of Industry and Commerce by Deputy McGilligan who, it is proposed, should continue to fill that office. 
     
     I think it is incumbent upon us, at any rate on these Benches, to oppose the motion containing that proposition. The fitness of the present Minister for-Posts and Telegraphs has also been questioned.  I think, too, this list would have been greatly improved had the name of Deputy J.J. Walsh been attached to some other Ministry than that of Posts and Telegraphs.  It is a certain fact, that nobody will dispute who has knowledge of the circumstances, that the recent administration, or perhaps one might say the administration for a long time past, of the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs has made very difficult the proper working-of his Department, and that the recent development in that Department, which has already been discussed in this House, and discussed much more fully and intimately outside, shows that there has been no confidence in the public mind in the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs in the administration of that Department.  There are very many men who have the highest admiration for the Deputy personally, and for his competence in other walks of life, but who unanimously agree that in the work of his Department he has failed, and ought to make a change.  In asking the House to assent to this general proposition en bloc we have to ask ourselves whether we are approving of those names for those offices, and by implication also whether we are approving of the proposals of the President indicated in his opening statement, the setting up of a new Ministry of Works, the amalgamation of the offices of the Ministries of Lands and Fisheries, and also of the combination under the one Minister of the two Ministries of Justice and External   Affairs.  I think the House cannot be satisfied with those various propositions. I think the President in proposing them has made a departure which was foreshadowed in including all those Ministers as members of the Executive Council.  I want to repeat what I said in an earlier discussion on this subject.  The inevitable consequence of this enlarged Executive Council is that we are going to have an inner Council of three or four persons who are going to work in and among themselves, leaving an outer fringe nominally to accept responsibility, but who will, in fact, have no active say in the decisions come to by the inner circle.  That is one of the consequences of this large Executive Council which I, for one, predict. The matter is before the House, and is one which we have either to assent to or disagree with, and I propose to ask the House not to agree. 
     
      
       The position in which Deputies are placed is a rather difficult one, because if objection is taken to any of these appointments the only alternative is to vote against the whole of them. 
     
     
      
       Or not vote at all. 
     
     
      
       Or not vote at all.  But it is a distinctly unfair position, because though one may be in favour of perhaps nine out of the ten appointments and names submitted, one may not be in favour of the remaining one, and to vote for them all commits you to expressing a view of which you are not in approval.  I must say that I am in complete agreement with the suggestion to amalgamate the Ministry of Justice with the Ministry of External Affairs, but I think that there should be some explanation given as to the reason for the proposed amalgamation of portion of the Ministry of Lands with the Ministry of Fisheries.  It was intimated some time ago, through a speech.  I think, delivered by the President, that it was the intention of his Government to set up a Ministry which would deal with what are generally known as the congested areas, and are we to take it that the transfer of the Land Commission   to the Ministry for Fisheries is now a fulfilment of that pronouncement? If so, of course, it will not be a separate Ministry.  If not, is it the President's intention to carry out what he previously expressed? 
       We are called upon now to vote, to approve or disapprove of the nomination of ten Deputies for ten different positions, and while I have nothing whatever to say against any of these Deputies in their personal capacity, I must register my protest against the proposed continuance in office of the present Minister for Posts and Telegraphs. I think it certainly would have been, to say the least of it, advisable to have tried him elsewhere, because he has not in any way shown, during the period of his office in that capacity, that he has conducted that Department in the manner in which it should have been conducted by a responsible Minister.  I do not think I would be going out of my way if I were to say that for a Minister to have made the attack that he did upon a portion of his own staff who were unable to reply to him, in the place he made the attack, was altogether improper conduct for a responsible Minister, and I do think that something ought to be done to prevent the recurrence of such a state of affairs in the future.  Now the position I am placed in is that while I have no objection to the nomination of most of those Deputies to the positions which they are called upon to fill, I have objection to some of them, and that being so, if I were to record my vote for them all I would be taken as approving of all the appointments.  I do not approve of all the appointments and therefore I cannot record my vote in favour of the appointments en bloc, and the only way, in my view, to protest against the appointment of any of them, while approving of the appointment of some of them, is to vote against the proposal in toto. 
     
     
      
       As you mentioned, sir, as the session proceeds opportunity will be afforded to Deputies for dealing with matters of administration. I do not propose to enter at any great length into the administrative   matters which have been the subject of most of the discussion, but just to touch very briefly upon them.  May I say, in answer to those Deputies who made inquiries regarding the proposal to place the Vice-President in the combined office of Minister for Justice and External Affairs, that the reason is not, as the new Deputy from Cork has suggested, that the Minister who had charge of the Department was incompetent. 
     
     
      
       I asked was it so, or was it for reasons of economy. 
     
     
      
       I presume I am entitled to answer the Deputy.  When the Deputy gets older and gets more experience he will approach matters with less prejudice and will learn to sit quietly in his place while getting an answer. If the Minister for External Affairs, Deputy Fitzgerald, who, I regret to say, is very ill at the moment, were incompetent to discharge the duties of Minister for External Affairs, I would hesitate to nominate him to the Ministry of Defence.  I thought that that would have been obvious to the Deputy, and I am sure that in a short time he will appreciate the point.  The Minister for External Affairs was a most competent Minister, and in the negotiations which took place both at Geneva and the Imperial Conference gave evidence of his ability, capacity and patriotism, and that tribute was paid to him by others as by me, by people of other countries, and I would be very sorry that it would go out from this House that there should be any question of the competence of the Minister in a matter of that kind. 
     
     It is unnecessary to introduce legislation to effect the discharge of the duties of both of these Ministries by one Deputy.  I do not know whether it is quite appreciated in the House, or outside, that for a considerable portion of the last five years Ministers of this State have worked harder and for longer hours than Ministers in any other State.  The strain has told on some of them.  It so happens that it was not my intention to have amalgamated these two Ministries, but the Vice-President, who has been one of   the most hardworked of all the Ministers, told me within the last week that as his work had lessened in his Department he thought he would be able to take on the work of the Ministry of External Affairs.  That is one more tribute, if tribute were necessary, to his anxiety to discharge the duties of his office, or any office of State, regardless of any personal inconvenience. This morning he went to bed at 2 o'clock.  That is another evidence of the fact that Ministers do not spare themselves in their work. 
     It is unnecessary to amalgamate these two Ministries so far as law is concerned. I do not anticipate any other amalgamation of offices.  I am not now asking for approval of that proposal. I am asking for the approval of the appointment of nine Ministers other than myself.  The House has already acquiesced in my appointment.  I may say that from the point of view of the Constitution they are entitled to the same support as I was.  Their policy is the same as mine.  There is no difference. There is agreement between us. There is no intention to have an inner and outer Ministry.  We have not had it at all events since I have had responsibility for the administration.  There were occasions, even while the Executive Council consisted only of seven members, when we had the benefit in council of some Extern Ministers.  From our experience during the last four years we have found that the Extern Ministry proposal was not a workable one.  I think that a close examination by any person interested in proportional representation will convince him at once that, as regards the idea underlying the Extern Ministry proposal, a Coalition Government in power could not expect support through the appointment of Extern Ministers.  That would not be the way to do it.  If there be coalition it should be in the Executive Council and not by the appointment of Extern Ministers. 
     I thought that in connection with Government policy a little more attention was paid to addresses given by the President of the Executive Council in various parts of the country, but as I find I have been wrong I will have to reiterate now what I said on many platforms.   One peculiarity of the present situation is that I am attacked from the extreme right for not adopting a certain policy and, at the same time, threatened by the left that if I adopt that policy I am going to hear more about it.  I read with infinite care the Report of the Gaelteacht Commission. The principal recommendation in connection with that report was that a special commission should be established with a paid chairman to watch administration in the Gaelteacht area.  I am stating it rather briefly and, perhaps, crudely, but that is the kernel of the proposal.  That did not commend itself to the Executive Council.  The Executive Council considered this report, and has had it examined in every department of the State, as I explained on the hustings.  Unlike others, I do not say one thing on the hustings and another thing here.  I explained on the hustings that our proposal was to set up a special Ministry. 
     What is this Ministry to do?  Mention has been made of fisheries.  The question of fisheries is to a very large extent the problem of the Gaelteacht. I admit that there are promising fisheries in Arklow and Howth, but the main fishery activity of the country is along the seaboard in the Gaelteacht area, and it is obvious, if you are to have a Ministry dealing with Gaelteacht problems, that fishing is one of the most important industries in connection with the Gaelteacht.  Deputies who read the Gaelteacht Commission's report will recollect that the Land Commission, reclamation, drainage, and so on, were dealt with at great length in that report.  I do not know whether Deputy O'Connell has disclosed to other members of his party the proposal in that report regarding the distribution of land in the Gaeltacht.  It occurred to the Executive Council that a division in the administration of the Land Commission was not desirable and that one person should have charge of it.  I may say, in answer to one of the remarks of Deputy Baxter, that for a long time the Minister for Lands and Agriculture has reported to me and other members of the Executive Council that the work of that   Ministry was far too much for him.  I think that Deputy Baxter and other Deputies will agree that a more hardworking Minister than the Minister for Lands and Agriculture would be impossible to find.  Even this new Ministry with Land Commission and Fisheries, and such other services as are to be dealt with in the Gaelteacht, will be too much for the Minister.  It will be necessary for him to ask for a Parliamentary Secretary in that connection. I should have mentioned that before.  The work of the Gaelteacht, as anybody knows who made a study of it, is a great work in itself, requiring not alone great administrative skill and continued attention, but it will have in its train, and we had better realise it now, disappointment and dissatisfaction, and occasionally a lack of patience in connection with its treatment. 
     I do not anticipate, and I have said so on platforms outside, that it is going to be solved within the next five or ten years.  My own view. as I explained five years ago at the Fountain in James's Street, is that its solution would cause disappointment even to the second generation after ours.  I presume I have made those two points clear as regards the Ministry for External Affairs and the new Ministry. 
     
      
       With regard to the new Ministry, is it a Ministry for the Gaelteacht or a Ministry which will include fisheries and lands&mdash;lands not only in the Gaelteacht but all over the State? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  It is not exclusively for the Gaelteacht.  If I left anybody under that impression I regret it.  It was not my intention.  I thought I had said, anywhere I was speaking about this, that the whole of the work of the Land Commission, and I expect and hope the work of expediting land purchase and vesting, will be improved, and that we may anticipate better results.  But I should like it to be understood that first of all we have to introduce a Bill to effect this change and to transfer the Land Commission to the Ministry of Fisheries. I could only hear an occasional word   of what Deputy McMenamin said, but I understood that his speech was mainly in condemnation of the Minister for Fisheries&mdash;I thought at one time it was the Minister for Justice, but I suppose it was the Minister for Fisheries.  I should like to say on that point that I am sure the Deputy will admit that the last four or five years in connection with fisheries were perhaps the worst four or five years within living memory, or even in a hundred years.  Some allowance ought to be made for that.  I have got returns showing the sales of fish from the Ministry, and I find a marked improvement for 1925 as against 1924, and again a marked improvement in 1926. I do say that there is room for more improvement, but some allowance must be made for the peculiar economy of that particular service.  Boats were purchased some years ago at prices then current which were regarded as normal, but which have since been shown to be abnormal, and these things are not settled rapidly.  Much the same sort of complaint might be urged in connection with the fisheries problem as has been urged, I am sure, by some agriculturists&mdash;that the Agricultural Credit Corporation which we have set up ought to have been set up some years ago.  I think the Minister disposed of that in his treatment of the matter in the Dail when he explained that when prices had reached bottom was the time when loans could be made available with some possible expectation of their return. 
       As regards the new Ministry, I thought I made it clear that proposals in that connection would not arise until November, and that I was simply giving an intimation that that was the intention. I think those of us who have been here during the last two or three years, remembering the extra work which has been entailed by reason of the passage of the Drainage Acts, will admit that a considerable addition has been made to the administration in that connection.  These matters will be dealt with not earlier than November in proposals which will be introduced in the form of legislation at that time. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the establishment of that Ministry still involve the existence of a Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Finance? 
     
     
      
       No.  If it were not for that service the Minister for Finance would not require a Parliamentary Secretary.  The difference, of course, as between the two will amount approximately to 500.  It is not a net 500.  I am one of those who believe that if there is a sufficient amount of work to be done the State should be prepared to pay for it. 
     
     
      
       Are we to take it from that that there is no intention to rearrange anything only to improve the position of the chief of the Department? 
     
     
      
       I do not think I gave any intimation of that view.  Purchases, which at present get a very small portion of the time, would require very much more attention, just the same as the extension of the activity under the Drainage Act will require more attention and more time, and I am one of those who believe that in a matter of that kind when service is rendered it ought to be paid for.  There is, of course, the Stationery Office as well, which is included in purchases. 
     
     
      
       Is it clear that the new Minister when appointed will automatically become a member of the Executive Council and increase the membership by one? 
     
     
      
       I should say so, but that is anticipating a bit.  It is not my intention, if I have any responsibility for the administration, to have any Extern Minister in future.  A good deal of the fire has been directed towards the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, and I think most of it was concerned with administration, which would more suitably form a subject for consideration on the Estimates when they are before the Dail, and I do not propose to deal with administration in connection with what I have to say as to the person whom I have nominated as Minister for Posts and Telegraphs. What I would like to draw attention to is this: that that, like other services that we took over was a very   expensive service.  We got a service fashioned on the British postal service, which deals with a more densely populated country, and the same facilities were afforded here as were afforded there.  The loss on the Post Office when we took it over in 1922 amounted to over 1,000,000.  Last year the loss was slightly over 400,000.  That, in my view, is a remarkable tribute to the administrative capacity of the person in charge of that Department.  Deputy O'Gorman will realise that in effecting those economies there must necessarily have been some restriction in services, but that this State could not afford a loss on the Post Office of 1,100,000.  It is beyond its capacity to bear it. 
       I proceed now to deal with the main charge of the serried ranks on the opposite side, and that is as regards unemployment&mdash;unemployment with its various reactions: the wages paid on the Shannon scheme, the infirmities that there are in our Unemployment Insurance scheme, and so on.  I observed that Deputy Morrissey, when dealing with this subject, neglected to give any indication of what he would propose to the Dail if he were the Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
     
     
      
       It will be time enough to tell then. 
     
     
      
       If we were on the opposite Benches there and the Deputy was here, and we had a constructive suggestion to offer to him we would say that the interests of the State were much more important than the continuance in office of any individual as a Minister. 
     
     
      
       We know what the Government said when they got constructive suggestions&mdash;they were very often flung back at us. 
     
     
      
       The position comes to this, that we have not been asked to resurrect the dole.  I understand that there have been some applications outside.  But unemployment, the economy of the country, and all these things have their relation to the wealth and to the capacity of the country to afford more employment to its people.  In looking over the election   speeches, I find very few exhortations to the public to buy Irish-manufactured goods.  There was always the sledge hammer of protection, an embargo on goods coming in, or something like that, but never a word in praise of goods manufactured in this country. 
     
     
      
       Yes, there was. 
     
     
      
       Very seldom indeed.  On one occasion ex-Deputy Hennessy was attacked on one of our platforms about the adverse trade balance by a person who I am sure would address the multitude to-morrow on the iniquities of the Minister for Industry and Commerce in not extending the Unemployment Insurance. Ex-Deputy Hennessy asked him to come on the platform and inquired where the coat he was wearing was made.  The gentleman walked away. He said he had tried on that adverse balance trick on five platforms and had not been found out before.  That is at the root of unemployment in this country.  Our goods and our manufactures must be increased; our production generally must be increased, if we are to find employment.  I asked on many platforms in the country during the last month could agriculture afford employment to a greater number of people than it was giving employment to at present, and nobody told me it could. 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       If agriculture is unable to do it we must look towards industrial activity.  And what are the things that react against the expansion of industrial activity?  Rates, taxes and all those items, and to a large extent industrial unrest.  Thank God, at any rate, after our five years we have had less industrial unrest than there has been for a long time. 
     
     
      
       What about the middlemen's profits? 
     
     
      
       I listened to the Deputy very carefully, and I would tell him that that has not been solved by any of our critics. 
     
     
      
       It has not been faced. 
     
     
     
      
       We faced it, and asked for a solution.  Do not imagine for a moment, and do not let anyone outside think that we are clinging to office.  If we are no use to the country we want to get out and to let someone else in who will be of use to the country. If there were any other government sitting here, and they wanted constructive suggestions, we would bring them along by the dozen.  We are attacked for not solving the housing problem.  Everyone knows that the work done in the last five years compares more than favourably, and is fifty per cent. more than was done in the thirty years previously. 
     
     
      
       The foundations were laid more than five years ago. 
     
     
      
       There were foundations laid for more than that which were not completed.  The fact of the matter is we had to raise the money by taxation to enable us to do this work.  What was the meaning of the raising of that money?  It presses on industry.  Why is it houses cannot be provided without taking money out of the taxpayer's pocket?  Where is the contribution from the ranks opposite towards the solution of that problem?  Is every penny's worth of useful service to be paid for in that connection?  We are paying from the public coffers, either from the municipalities or from the State, a contribution something like 150 towards the construction of every house.  Yet, we are asked, to-day, what we are doing for unemployment.  Is that an economic service and why should it not be?  Let us have a little honest talk here, now, when there is no fear of an election within the next twelve or eighteen months and let us examine our economic and political consciences to know what things there are which can contribute to greater employment throughout the country.  Let us set out to do this work and stop this unnecessary denunciation of one another here.  Surely the country is still worth working for and seeing what can be done for it. 
     
     
      
       Give the people the opportunity to work. 
     
     
     
      
       So far as this is concerned we are told on the one side by those who are described as rich people&mdash;and there are very few rich people in this country&mdash;that taxation is far too high, that rates are too high; and we are told on the other side that we should raise more money by taxation and spend it on the people.  Does not every Deputy know that the raising of money costs money, that the spending of money costs money in its spending and that the wheels of industry are much better set going from outside than through a central Government source? 
       Let us examine what has been the effect of the work done.  Deputy O'Higgins has given the House the figures.  He pointed out that there had been ten thousand employed owing to tariffs on industries; six thousand employed on the roads; six thousand employed on building houses&mdash;an average of three thousand per year for the last four years&mdash;seventeen hundred employed by reason of the Trade Loans Guarantee Act; one thousand people&mdash;nine hundred and ninety-eight to be exact&mdash;employed on reconstruction in Dublin, making a total of twenty-four thousand, to say nothing at all about the numbers employed on drainage, sugar beet, forestry or the Shannon scheme. 
     
     
      
       May I ask a question?  Does the President realise that most of the six thousand men employed on the roads are employed only for two or three months and will be unemployed for the rest of the year? 
     
     
      
       I am dealing with unemployment as it stands, and I say that for twelve months something like six thousand men were employed on the roads and will be employed possibly for the next twelve months.  I was giving these figures in reply to the statements made opposite and I was showing the necessity for conserving every penny of national wealth and getting the best value for it. 
     
     
      
       Conserving human life is more important. 
     
     
      
       Will the President give an idea of what he thinks the   number of men hungry and unemployed in the country to-day are going to do? 
     
     
      
       There is provision made in State institutions for dealing with persons who are hungry. 
     
     
      
       There is not. 
     
     
      
       How is it administered? 
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that the Ministry for Public Health has sent instructions to the public authorities not to give more than 5/- and that these authorities are subject to the Local Government Department? 
     
     
      
       As I stated a moment ago, we are attacked from the right because of the size of the taxes and the size of the rates, and from the left we are asked to insure, at considerable administrative cost, that if a man gets out of employment it should be made easy for him to come under the Act somewhere. 
     
     
      
       He has the right to live. 
     
     
      
       It may not have been put in so many words but does it not come to that in the long run? 
     
     
      
       Certainly not. 
     
     
      
       Let us take the question raised this evening to the effect that certain people having small holdings of land and getting employment in an insurable occupation and paying their contributions towards those insurable occupations should be paid unemployment benefit.  But you cannot have it every way. 
     
     
      
       They are often deprived if they have only two acres. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of that. 
     
     
      
       Is the President not aware that the relieving officers in the city are precluded from giving relief to persons who are distressed because of unemployment? 
     
     
     
      
       That is a very general question.  I would like a particular case. 
     
     
      
       I understood the President to say that there were provisions made for people so situated, and I say that there are not. 
     
     
      
       I deny that. 
     
     
      
       We can only have one Deputy speaking at a time.  The President is replying on the debate and he is entitled to reply.  If Deputies do not agree with him they must take some other opportunity of registering their disagreement.  He must be allowed to speak now. 
     
     
      
       An examination of the returns of unemployment in other countries shows that this country is one of the few in respect of which an impression was made on unemployment in 1926 as compared with 1925.  Of course, statistics are peculiar things but it is there in black and white. 
     
     
      
       Does the President suggest that the systems on which these figures are based are comparable&mdash;that the number of unemployed registered under our system is comparable to those registered under a completely different system? 
     
     
      
       I must say that my knowledge is really limited.  I have not particulars as to how these statistics are returned in the various countries, but if there is one institution in the world likely to be looked upon as in any way reliable in connection with things of that sort it ought to be the Labour Office at Geneva. 
     
     
      
       They are supplied by our own office. 
     
     
      
       They make the comparison themselves.  They do not take our comparison. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Dail is labouring under the mistaken idea that we will adjourn tonight for five years. 
     
     
      
       I had, before these innumerable interruptions began, fashioned out in my mind what I   thought would have been a fairly sensible statement, but it has been so much upset by interruptions that I am very much afraid of the bad impression that may be made on Deputies who have come into the House for the first time to-day.  Some reference was made to the wages paid on the Shannon. Now we are not on the hustings, but I can say what I said very near the Shannon works during the Election. I said that we have fixed that scale as being the scale paid to agricultural labour in that neighbourhood.  I asked: Could agriculture, which forms 75 per cent. of our wealth, afford more? Was there any farmer there listening to me who could say honestly that he could pay a higher wage than that? And it is mainly agricultural labour that is employed there.  I got no intimation, even in Deputy Morrissey's own constituency, where I believe they voted for him almost to a man, that they could afford to pay a higher wage. We did not fix it.  It is the economic conditions of the country that fix these things, and we are barely instruments in connection with that.  If the country can afford to pay more we would be delighted&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does the President mean to say that it is agricultural work?  Is it not navvies' work?  Is it not an engineering job? 
     
     
      
       The particular work they are at is not. 
     
     
      
       If I were to answer that in a highly technical way I should say yes, but that it is agricultural labour that is employed there, and giving a pretty good return for its work and well satisfied with the wages that are paid. 
     
     
      
       Will the President say that if an agricultural labourer was taken into the Civic Guards he should be paid agricultural labourers' wages? 
     
     
      
       No, I do not say that, but I do say that in an agricultural area, where agricultural labour is employed and where agricultural labourers are satisfied with the wages, I am not disturbed by the noise which   is created in connection with the objection to the wages.  I understand that one gentleman went down there and said that if his party were elected the wages would go up to 50/- a week, and I understand they did not vote for him.  They showed remarkable sense in that. 
       
         Mr. COLOHAN  and  Mr. HEFFERNAN  rose. 
     
     
      
       We can have only one Deputy at a time interrupting the President. 
     
     
      
       Will the President take the agricultural labour standard as the standard on which to base all his wages and salaries? 
     
     
      
       For agricultural work, yes. 
     
     
      
       I feel that I am not called upon to answer that.  The policy of the Government during the last five years has been to ease the costs of production, to accelerate production and to make it possible for other people to expand their industry and try to improve the business of the country The Shannon scheme is one evidence of that, and the sugar beet industry is another evidence.  It was our maximum effort during these four years.  If it has been unsatisfactory, well then, I think, the person who in his conscience believes it to be unsatisfactory should vote against this Ministry and should vote against this motion.  If, on the other hand, there is a real consideration of all the elements of the case and some advertence to the fact that for the best part of two or three or four years the business of this country was very seriously interrupted; that every possible inducement that could be given to any person with money to get out of it was given, and that the cost of that has had to be borne by us; that the restoration of order fell upon us, and that the payments consequent upon that destruction fell upon us in our generation&mdash;that with all these things such a balance sheet as we submitted during these four years is before the people.  I do not see in conscience what justification there is for a vote against those nine Deputies. 
       Question put. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided: Ta, 66; Nil, 31. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Ernest Henry Alton. Patrick Baxter. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Michael Carter. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlon. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. James Crowley. Michael Davis. Eugene Doherty. James N. Dolan. Michael Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Thomas Falvey. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. Hugh Garahan. John Denis Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. John Hennigan. 
             Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. John Jinks. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Ml. Nally. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. David Leo O'Gorman. Kevin O'Higgins. Dermot Gun. O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Vincent Rice. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy. William Edward Thrift. Daniel Vaughan. James Joseph Walsh. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Richard Anthony. Henry Broderick. Alfred Byrne. Patrick Clancy. James Coburn. Hugh Colohan. Richard Corish. Denis Cullen. William Davin. Edward Doyle. William Duffy. James Everett. John F. Gill. David Hall. Gilbert Hewson. Patrick Hogan (Clare). 
             John Horgan. Thomas Johnson. John Keating. Michael Keyes. Thomas Lawlor. Gilbert Lynch. Daniel McMenamin. Daniel Morrissey. Timothy Joseph Murphy. William O'Brien. Thomas J. O'Connell. Timothy Quill. William Archer Redmond. James Shannon. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and B. O'Connor; Nil: Deputies Morrissey and Corish. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
      
       In formally moving the adjournment of the House, I would ask the Leaders and Whips of Parties in the House to meet, with your permission, A Chinn Comhairle, in your room on Tuesday evening next at four o'clock, in order to make arrangements for setting up a Committee of Selection representative of the various parties in the House.  I hope to be able to put before the chairmen and secretaries of these parties proposals for the business of next week.  I might say, in advance, that I hope to be able to introduce the Estimates next week.  I expect that will be the principal business with the two   Bills left over&mdash;the Currency Bill and the Dentists Bill.  If the hour is convenient, I think it would facilitate matters if the Chairmen and Whips of the various parties could meet on that afternoon.  I now move the adjournment of the Dail until Wednesday next. 
     
     
      
       Can the President say whether one of these committees to be set up will be the Committee of Public Accounts, and if it is intended that the Committee of Public Accounts shall meet before the Summer Recess? 
     
     
      
       I think that question might be discussed by   leaders of parties when they meet on Tuesday and answered, if necessary, on Wednesday when the House meets. 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand the proposition is that the Dail adjourn until Wednesday and that leaders and Whips will meet on Tuesday at 4 o'clock? 
     
     
      
       Yes, and Independent members who might wish to be represented by a person or persons, as on the previous occasion, should make up their minds in the meantime as to whom they will send. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.10 till Wednesday, June 29th at 3 o'clock. 
     
   
 