 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 p.m. 
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - TORA SCRUDUIGHTHE. 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid cia'n uair a bheas se ar a chumas cuntas iomlan a thabhairt ar thoradh an scruiduighthe a bhi ann i Mi Iuil seo chuaidh thart fa choinne Foghluimtheoriri d'Oifig an Phuist san Ghaedhealtacht. 
     
     
      
       Ta na Coimisineiri um an Stat-Sheirbhis tar eis a chur in iul dom go bhfuil tora an sgruduithe sin a chur amach indiu. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - CLEACHTA NA GAEDHILGE IN OIFIGI RIALTAIS. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid cad iad na rudai ata a ndeanamh chun cleachtadh na Gaedhilge do spreagadh in Oifigi Rialtais; an gceaduightear do gach Stat-Sheirbhiseach ag a bhfuil an Ghaedhilg comh-sgribhne eadar-rannoige agus eadar-roinne do dheanamh i nGaedhilg; ma cuirtear aon bhac ar a leitheid do bheart cad fe ndear an bac san agus an ar mhaithe leis an Gaedhilg e; agus an dtabharfar ordu gan cur isteach do dheanamh ar shaor-chleachtadh na Gaedhilge i gcursai comh-scribhne eadar-rannoige agus eadar-roinne. 
     
     
      
       Ni folair do gach duine nua a thagann isteach sa Stat-Sheirbhis eolas a bheith aige ar an nGaedhilg agus ni glacfar le heinne tar eis a threimhse thastala na beidh ar a chumas an Ghaedhilg do labhairt go maith.  Ta se ar intinn agam ordu do chur amach go luath chun na Seirbhise ina luadhfar an meid eolais ar labhairt na Gaedhilge go mbeithfear ag suil a bheidh acu se ata fe thastail agus dearfar leo, agus   fos leis na hoifigigh eile ag a bhfuil an Ghaedhilg, usaid do dheanamh di ina ngnath-obair.  Ni miste dhom a ra, leis, go bhfuil ag roinnt de sna Stat-Sheirbhisigh cumann ina bhfuilid ag foghluim conus an Ghaedhilg d'usaid ina gcuid oibre.  Fe mar a tuigfar nil ag furmhor na Stat-Sheirbhiseach ata ann anois agus ni deallrathach go mbeidh aca san choiche leor-eolas ar an nGaedhilg chun co-fhreagarthas oifigiuil do dheanamh sa teangain sin, agus ce na fuil aon bhac ar usaid na Gaedhilge i gcasanna ina bhfuil si ag gach duine a dheighleadlann leis an gco-fhreagarthas is leir narbh fheidir gno do dheanamh da mba gur i nGaedhilg a scrifi chun oifigigh gan Gaedhilg. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - MOTORISTS AND BORDER ROADS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he was aware that motorists experienced great difficulty when crossing the border in knowing which roads are approved and non-approved, and whether he would take steps to have warning signs erected on all unapproved roads. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that motorists experience great difficulty when crossing the Land Frontier between the Saorstat and Northern Ireland through uncertainty as to whether any particular road is approved for trans-Frontier traffic.  A list of the approved roads is given in the Land Frontier Regulations, 1923 and 1924, and information relative to trans-Frontier traffic on such roads can be obtained from any Officer of Customs and Excise, from local members of the Gardai Siochana, or from the Revenue Commissioners. Further, special provision has been made in the Road Signs and Traffic Signals Regulations, 1926, for the erection by Councils charged with the maintenance of roads crossing the Frontier of signs indicating whether traffic is permitted to cross the Frontier on such roads.  Inquiries regarding the latter provision should be addressed to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister state that signs are being fixed? 
     
     
     
      
       There seems to be a duty on the Councils to fix such signs. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that there is a prosecution pending against a man who did not understand that it was a non-approved road? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware, and I am very sceptical as to the various excuses made by people prosecuted. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - ADMINISTRATION OF OLD AGE PENSION ACTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that grievous hardship is caused many deserving persons by the refusal to consider their application for the old age pension on the grounds that the maintenance afforded by their friends is assessed at a value which precludes them from receiving the pension, and if he will take steps to have the methods of administrating the Old Age Pension Acts investigated with a view to mitigating the hardship thus inflicted. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that it is the practice of Excise officials in considering old age pension claims to assess at a valuation the maintenance of penniless citizens who are dependent entirely upon the charity of their relatives or friends, and whether he will instruct such officials that such maintenance in future should not be taken into consideration in the case of old age pension claims. 
     
     
      
       Under Section 2 (1) (d) of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1911, account must be taken in calculating the means of any person for old age pension purposes of &ldquo;the yearly value of any benefit or privilege enjoyed by that person.&rdquo;  Where, therefore, a claimant or pensioner is in receipt of free maintenance or partially-free maintenance the value thereof must, under the law, be included in the assessment of the means. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the relatives of many of these poor people have to help to support fairly large families, and I am   afraid pension officers do not take that into account? 
     
     
      
       It is the duty of the pension officer to take into account, in estimating the value of maintenance, the number of persons that have to be maintained on the holding and the general value of that holding. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister's statement amount to this, that the pension officer takes charity into account? 
     
     
      
       I have stated what the law is, and always has been, on the subject: &ldquo;the yearly value of any benefit or privilege enjoyed by that person.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Does that yearly value represent a standard value, or does it vary in each particular case? 
     
     
      
       It varies in each particular case. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that in many cases it is altogether excessive. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that during the past month two claims came before the Waterford Old Age Pension Committee which had been rejected by the Pension Officer on the ground that the free maintenance offered by their friends was assessed at a value which precluded them from receiving the old age pension, and if the Committee, knowing the circumstances of the claimants, recommended them for a pension, and if on appeal to the Local Government Department the Pension Officer's decision was upheld, and if this method of administration is the settled practice of his Department. 
     
     
      
       From the particulars given the claims referred to cannot be identified as having been received on appeal.  As regards the concluding portion of the Question I would refer the Deputy to the provisions of Section 2 (1) (d) of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1911, in accordance with which the yearly value of any   benefit or privilege enjoyed by a person must be taken into account in calculating his means for the purposes of the Old Age Pensions Acts. 
     
     
      
       If appeals are made, will the Minister consider them sympathetically? 
     
     
      
       All appeals are sympathetically considered. 
     
     
      
       Especially where charity is taken into account in the assessment, is that sympathetic treatment? 
     
     
      
       The law is very definite, and neither a pensions officer nor a Minister can go outside the law in dealing with it. 
     
     
      
       In case a son loses his employment for a considerable period, is it not unfair that the parent's pension should be curtailed for that time?  I have a case of that kind before me. 
     
     
      
       I would want to see the particular case. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE OF AWBEG RIVER (CO. CORK). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what is the position in regard to the scheme proposed for the drainage of the Awbeg River, County Cork. 
     
     
      
       The Commissioners of Public Works have prepared a detailed drainage scheme in respect of the Awbeg River proposed drainage district.  It is hoped to have this scheme exhibited within the next fortnight in order to afford the occupiers of affected lands an opportunity of signifying their assent to or dissent from it in pursuance of Section 7 of the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE OF RIVERS CASHEN AND BRICK (KERRY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what is the position with regard to the proposed scheme for the drainage of the Rivers Cashen and Brick, Kerry, and whether any grant-in-aid of the scheme   was offered by the Government to the Kerry County Council. 
     
     
      
       On the 14th April last the Commissioners of Public Works wrote to the Kerry County Council in connection with the Brick (Cashen) proposed drainage district, inquiring whether the County Council would contribute approximately 33 per cent. of the total actual cost on the assumption that the Minister for Finance would agree to make a free grant of 50 per cent. of the cost.  The County Council in reply requested the Commissioners to investigate the possibility of formulating a cheaper scheme, and one of the Commissioners' Engineers is at present engaged on making a survey of the district for that purpose. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister tell us how soon this will be completed? 
     
     
      
       I could not. 
     
     
      
       Did the Government put a proposal before the County Council and did the County Council turn it down? 
     
     
      
       The County Council did not definitely turn it down, but they did what amounted to that in suggesting that a cheaper scheme should be prepared. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - DUNMORE AND MONIVEA DRAINAGE DISTRICTS (GALWAY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if a report has yet been furnished with regard to the Dunmore and Monivea Drainage Districts in the County of Galway, and, if so, what are the proposals of the Ministry for dealing with those areas, the inhabitants of which have for a very long time suffered serious loss and damage owing to the constant flooding of their lands. 
     
     
      
       The Dunmore Drainage District was inspected by an engineer appointed for the purpose by the Commissioners of Public Works under Section 2 (1) of the Drainage Maintenance Act, 1924.  On consideration of his report it was decided to obtain   a general report from a land valuer as to the increased value to be expected from the carrying out of restoration works in the district.  Until this further report&mdash;on which the valuer is at present engaged&mdash;is received, a decision cannot be arrived at. 
       It is not proposed at present to restore the existing Monivea Drainage Districts under the Act of 1924, because three petitions under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, were received from the Galway County Council in respect of the Abbert River and tributaries, which include the principal streams in the existing Monivea district.  The proposals have been examined and reported on by an engineer, and at present a land valuer is engaged in making a detailed valuation of the lands that would be improved if a joint scheme for the formation of a new district was proceeded with.  A decision will be arrived at as soon as possible after this report is received. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - DISTRIBUTION OF LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what steps, if any, he proposes to take in connection with the distribution of all the lands in the possession of the Saorstat military authorities, and which were formerly in the possession of the British military, particularly Moorepark and Fermoy Racecourse, containing about twelve hundred acres (1,200) of first-class arable land, in order to have such lands let to landless men who are willing to take up those lands in order to make a living, and if steps will be taken forthwith to have those lands let to local landless men. 
     
     
      
       The disposal of military lands formerly in the possession of the British War Department, in so far as they are surplus to the military requirements of the Saorstat, is being actively proceeded with.  A proposal to include the Moorepark Estate for disposal is under consideration. 
     
     The lands of Fermoy Racecourse are not the property of the Saorstat, whose rights therein are confined to the exercising of troops.  These lands, therefore, are not and have not been available   for disposal by letting or otherwise. 
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a promise was given in Dail Eireann in February, 1922, that these lands would be divided up?  What is the reason of the delay in carrying out this promise in the meantime, particularly with regard to Moorepark? 
     
     
      
       We are considering that at present. 
     
     
      
       I am very pleased to hear it. 
     
     
      
       I got the lands of Moorepark inspected.  With the permission of this House, I got agricultural inspectors from University College, Cork, and they said it was splendidly adapted for a national farm. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - INTERROGATION OF KIMMAGE RESIDENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that two members of the Criminal Investigation Department called at the place of employment of Michael James Rafferty, who resides at 48 Larkfield Avenue Road, Kimmage, and demanded that he should accompany them to their Headquarters for interrogation in connection with an attack which took place some time ago on John Murphy, of Delaford.  Templeogue, notwithstanding that the said Michael James Rafferty had already been twice arrested, interrogated, held for identification, and released after the principal witnesses had failed to identify him; will the Minister have an inquiry held into the foregoing. 
     
     
      
       Mrs. Murphy, of Delaford House, Templeogue, Co. Dublin. made a complaint to the police on the night of the 7th March last that three armed and masked men had entered her house and beaten her husband and her husband's brother, Rev. Cyril Murphy, who was home on a holiday from America.  In the course of the police investigation into the occurrence suspicion fell on Michael Rafferty, whose father occupied a yard lodge at Delaford House and was under notice to   quit from Mr. Murphy.  On the 9th March Michael Rafferty was paraded with other people before Mrs. Murphy, but she merely said that Rafferty was very like one of the assailants, and he was accordingly released.  On the 12th March Father Murphy, at his own request, was given an opportunity at an identification parade, in which Rafferty was included, of seeing whether he could identify any of the assailants, but he failed to do so. 
       As a result of information which came recently to the police it was decided that further inquiries should be made into the movements of Rafferty on the occasion of the crime.  A detective officer accordingly called at Rafferty's place of employment on the 24th ultimo and had a message conveyed to him requesting him to call at the Detective Office that evening.  Rafferty duly called between 7 and 8 p.m. and was interviewed.  He told the police all about his movements on the 7th March.  He made no complaints of any kind to the police, and the matter ended there.  I do not see that any inquiry into this whole matter could be of any avail. 
     
     
      
       Had the Garda strong reason to suspect that this man was concerned in the attack referred to? 
     
     
      
       Of course the Garda had reason or they would not have made those inquiries. 
     
     
      
       If so, will the Minister explain why it was that in the course of his interrogation it was suggested to this man, suspected of a criminal offence, that he should become a member of the Criminal Investigation of the Garda? 
     
     
      
       I should be rather surprised to hear that anything of the kind happened, but surely that does not arise out of this question.  I should be very much surprised to hear it was a fact. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - CHARGES OF ILL-TREATMENT OF PRISONERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will state whether   the findings of the Committee of Inquiry appointed to examine the charges of ill-treatment of prisoners in County Waterford in November, 1926, has been or will be published, and what compensation, if any, has been awarded the men so treated; and also, if any members of the Garda Siochana found guilty of such conduct have been retained in the service of the State. 
     
     
      
       I understand that legal proceedings have been instituted against certain members of the Garda Siochana by persons who aver that they were ill-treated while in custody on the occasion in question and that action will come on for trial in the near future.  In these circumstances I do not think it would be proper to publish the findings of the Committee or to make any statements in the matter at present. 
     
     
      
       May I take it that the findings of the inquiry will be published when this trial is over? 
     
     
      
       No; I do not think it would serve any useful purpose. 
     
     
      
       No useful purpose for the Garda? 
     
     
      
       No useful purpose to the country. 
     
     
      
       May I say that in Waterford County it is generally believed that threats of further violence were used against these men to prevent them giving evidence before the inquiry, and it is spoken of that certain men were approached and offered money to prevent them giving evidence also.  Would it not be better, in view of these things, that the results of the inquiry should be published? 
     
     
      
       I have over and over again stated that if charges are brought against members of the Garda of a criminal nature these charges should be investigated in a public court where those people making charges against the Garda could state their case. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLEGATION AGAINST GARDA. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that the party   of Garda who visited John O'Connor, Curramore, Borlinn, on August 29th last again visited him on the 31st October, this time accompanied by a Superintendent, and in the course of an interview further threatened O'Connor, and that following this the Superintendent took a statement from him, but omitted certain important relevant facts, notwithstanding O'Connor's protests, and whether, in view of this, the Minister will arrange for the taking of another statement in the presence of independent witnesses. 
     
     
      
       In connection with the Deputy's previous question inquiries were made by the local Superintendent from John O'Connor on the 29th ultimo, not on the 31st ultimo, as stated in the Deputy's question.  As I have already stated, the charges made against the police both in his original allegations to the Deputy and in his present allegations are criminal in character, and can be invesigated in the District Court only in the ordinary way. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister going to take no action whatsoever in regard to this case, where there is absolute evidence that the man was visited again by a party of Garda and threatened and forced to sign a statement?  Has the Minister no disciplinary powers that can be brought into action in a case like that? 
     
     
      
       I do not accept these facts at all. 
     
     
      
       If these facts are brought before the Minister in a sworn affidavit or that suitable public representatives that would be acceptable to him as independent witnesses take a sworn statement of these facts from the man accompanied by a Superintendent of the Garda who was there last week, would he not then consider the holding of an investigation into the matter? 
     
     
      
       If the facts are as the Deputy states then let a charge be brought against the Garda in the courts. 
     
     
      
       Will the Government pay the costs and help this poor   man to bring this case against the Garda? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy hardly knows what the procedure in the courts is.  It costs the prosecutor absolutely nothing.  He goes and makes an information before the magistrate, and nothing further is required. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - RAILWAY-WORKERS' RIGHT TO COMPENSATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware of the great hardship on a number of men belonging to the permanent way department, Sligo and Cavan Lines, Great Southern Railways, who have been transferred from their homes, some a distance of fifty miles, to take the place of men of shorter service, and whether the Minister is aware that some of these transferred men were threatened and had to return home, and thereby lose their jobs; and if he will make representation to the Railway Company to have inquiries made in these cases, with a view to having these men declared redundant and compensated for the loss of their positions, as some of these men have almost 20 years' service. 
     
     
      
       I am informed by the Great Southern Railways Company that these transfers, which are not confined to the Sligo and Cavan Sections of the Great Southern Company, arise through the Company's action in extending the length of road in charge of each gang, with the result that one man is dispensed with out of every two or three gangs.  This course is being followed in order to effect economies which are urgently needed, and does not arise as a result of amalgamation, so that the Company contends the terms of the Railways Acts do not apply. 
     
     The displaced men are being offered work wherever there is a vacancy. Every case is being dealt with sympathetically on its merits, and as far as possible hardship is avoided, but some hardship is inevitable.  I am told there have been three cases where men so   transferred received threatening letters and ceased work as a result of these letters. 
     
      
       May I ask how many men having £1,000 a year have been dismissed? 
     
     
      
       That hardly arises. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - ESTIMATE OF EMIGRATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state what is his estimate of the total number of emigrants from Ireland between the date of the Census of 1911 and that of the Census of 1926; also his estimate of the number of emigrants from the Free State in each of the following years, namely, 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925 and 1926; and if he will state the information on which his estimates are based. 
     
     
      
       The number of emigrants from all Ireland between the Censuses of 1911 and 1926 is not known. The number of emigrants from Ireland, less the number of immigrants into Ireland, during the period (or the &ldquo;net emigration&rdquo;) was 502,020.  This figure was arrived at by adding the decline in population to the number of births and deducting the number of deaths during the fifteen years.  No element of estimate attaches to this figure for net emigration. 
       No information is available with regard to emigration from Saorstat Eireann during 1922 or 1923.  During the years 1924 to 1926 exact information (compiled from statutory returns) is available with regard to emigration overseas (i.e., to countries outside Europe), not only via Cobh, but also via ports in Great Britain and Northern Ireland.  The number of emigrants from Saorstat Eireann of Saorstat nationality who sailed for overseas countries in the years 1924, 1925 and 1926 were, respectively, 19,077, 30,180, and 30,041. 
     
     With regard to emigration to Great Britain and Northern Ireland during these three years, precise information is not available.  Figures compiled from returns of the passenger movement by sea between Saorstat Eireann and Great   Britain and Northern Ireland show that in the years 1924, 1925 and 1926 the numbers of these passengers by sea out of the Saorstat exceeded the numbers of passengers inwards by 13,340, 10,060 and 15,638, respectively.  These figures include, of course, the balances outwards of overseas emigration from Saorstat Eireann through ports in Great Britain and Northern Ireland. These latter balances outwards during the three years were 5,050, 6,340, and 6,726.  Deducting these latter figures from the preceding, it will be seen that the number of emigrants from Saorstat Eireann to Great Britain and Northern Ireland by sea exeeded the number of immigrants therefrom by 8,290 in 1924, 3,720 in 1925, and 8,912 in 1926.  To complete these figures it would be necessary to know the number of passengers inwards and outwards over the land frontier of Saorstat Eireann. These figures are not available.  It would seem, however, from the foregoing that in none of the three years 1924 to 1926 did the net emigration to Great Britain from Saorstat Eireann via all routes exceed 10,000.  Adding to this figure the known net emigration overseas, it is possible to state that net emigration from Saorstat Eireann to all countries never exceeded 40,000 in any of the years 1924 to 1926. 
     Estimates depending upon the Registrar-General's totals for emigration during the years from 1911 to 1921 are not reliable.  The Registrar-General's totals, which had to be compiled under a voluntary system, greatly understated emigration for many years prior to 1921.  The statutory returns of the Board of Trade, which must be taken as reliable, show that in the nine years 1913 to 1921 the emigrants from Ireland to countries outside Europe numbered 162,584.  The corresponding figure resulting from the Registrar-General's voluntary system understated true overseas emigration from 1913 to 1921 by no less than 43 per cent. during these years. 
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAYS WORKS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that a further   batch of about sixty employees have received notice terminating their services at the Great Southern Railways Works, Inchicore; that the railway company continue to import finished parts of rolling stock requirements, notwithstanding the fact that such can be produced economically at these works, where an efficient staff of skilled men presently and for a considerable time past, are only working four days per week, and up-to-date machinery is available, and if he can ascertain from the railway company the reasons for the periodical reduction of the staff of shopmen, and whether he will take steps to prevent the closing down of the works, as the policy of the railway company would seem to indicate. 
     
     
      
       I am informed by the Great Southern Company that it has been found necessary to dispense with the services of some of their shopmen. 
       The Company state that the only finished parts they are importing are in connection with waggons which will be built at Inchicore, and the reason for their action is that these parts can be imported cheaper than they can be manufactured here. 
       I am informed that the Company has no intention of closing down Inchicore Works. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state what is the necessity for dispensing with shopmen in particular, having regard to the fact that there is a considerable amount of railway rolling stock badly in need of repair?  Further, as to the imported material is he aware that it is not confined to finished waggon parts alone, that all kinds of rolling stock requirements are being imported, and further, does he consider that it would not be more advisable if they were made here, even if there is a case from the economy point of view because the cost of the imported article is cheaper than the home-made article, because it would in the first place take a huge number of men off the unemployed list and at the same time give the Company the advantage that they have already&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy is making a speech. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;the knowledge that the work done here gives general satisfaction, and would he set up a Committee to inquire into the matter? 
     
     
      
       I am not in charge of the Great Southern Railway system, and I cannot say whether shopmen are being dispensed with more than employees of other grades and types, and I am not aware that anything except finished parts are being imported. That is the information I got from the railway company.  When questions of this type are put down to me I can do no more than pass them on.  I have no organisation to get information on these matters. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that there are too many Yorkshiremen in charge of the engineering shops on the railway? 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - TEACHING OF IRISH IN SCHOOLS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether the 2,500 existing national teachers over 45 and without any certificate in Irish were pronounced in 1924 incapable of profiting by the instruction given at the summer courses, and permitted to attend them in 1924 and 1925, only at their own expense; whether any of those teachers are now obliged to give instruction in the Irish language or rated as inefficient if unable to do so; whether any special instructions have been issued to prevent hardship being inflicted on those older teachers because of their inability to teach Irish successfully; whether any steps have been or will be taken towards providing extern teachers of Irish for those schools in which none of the staff is registered as qualified to teach the language. 
     
     
      
       National teachers over 45 years of age and without any certificate in Irish were not pronounced in 1924 incapable of profiting by the instruction given at the summer courses.  In fact, a number of such teachers who, when the Irish courses   were established, had little or no knowledge of Irish, have since, as a result of attendance at these courses and private study, obtained, some of them ordinary certificates in Irish and others both ordinary and higher certificates in Irish. 
       In 1924 and 1925, however, it was optional for teachers of 45 and over to attend the courses, and in 1926 for teachers of 46 or over to attend the courses.  The amount of money available for these courses was limited, and it was not found possible, in the circumstances, to grant to such teachers the usual allowances in aid of expenses, as it was realised that they would, as a body, not be so well able to benefit from the courses as their younger colleagues. 
       With regard to the second part of the Deputy's question, these teachers are required to give instruction in the Irish language in so far as their competency in the language enables them to do so.  The fact that they have not reached a sufficient standard of competency does not affect their rating.  The policy of the Department in this respect is based on that outlined in the programme of instruction for National Schools issued in 1922.  Furthermore, the Order of the Provisional Government of the 1st February, 1922, requiring the teaching of Irish for one hour per day referred to National Schools where there was a teacher competent to teach it.  It has, therefore, not been considered necessary to issue any special instruction regarding teachers of an advanced age who do not possess qualifications in Irish. 
       With regard to the concluding part of the Deputy's question, no steps have been taken towards providing extern teachers of Irish.  The employment in the past of extern teachers to give instruction in special subjects in National Schools did not produce such results as would tend to encourage their employment to give instruction in ordinary subjects of the school curriculum. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - UNSPENT ROAD GRANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health what is the sum of money unspent in each county as on 1st November, 1927,   out of moneys allocated to such counties by way of various road grants. 
     
     
      
       The answer is in schedule form: 
       
         NATIONAL ROAD SCHEME. 
       
       
         Summary. 
       
       First Section notified to Councils on 27th July, 1926. 
       Second Section on 7th April, 1927. 
       
         Position as at 1st November, 1927. 
       
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Authority. 
             Grant. 
             
             
             Paid up to 31/10/27. 
             
             
             Balance available on 1/11/1927. 
           
         
         
           
             Co. Councils. 
             £ 
             
             
             £ 
             
             
             £ 
           
           
             Carlow 
             13,392 
             
             
             13,392 
             
             
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Cavan 
             46,748 
             
             
             17,896 
             
             
             28,852 
           
           
             Clare 
             35,650 
             
             
             26,910 
             
             
             8,740 
           
           
             Cork 
             248,527 
             
             
             50,584 
             
             
             197,943 
           
           
             Dublin 
             89,980 
             
             
             52,900 
             
             
             37,080 
           
           
             Galway 
             53,317 
             
             
             37,189 
             
             
             16,128 
           
           
             Kerry 
             56,281 
             
             
             32,315 
             
             
             23,966 
           
           
             Kildare 
             66,056 
             
             
             49,132 
             
             
             16,924 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             87,567 
             
             
             43,953 
             
             
             43,614 
           
           
             Laoighis 
             67,832 
             
             
             19,840 
             
             
             47,992 
           
           
             Leitrim 
             29,470 
             
             
             18,528 
             
             
             10,942 
           
           
             Limerick 
             116,710 
             
             
             38,672 
             
             
             78,038 
           
           
             Longford 
             34,035 
             
             
             24,456 
             
             
             9,579 
           
           
             Louth 
             120,752 
             
             
             24,989 
             
             
             95,763 
           
           
             Mayo 
             94,280 
             
             
             22,976 
             
             
             71,304 
           
           
             Meath 
             106,205 
             
             
             28,561 
             
             
             77,644 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             56,770 
             
             
             39,361 
             
             
             17,409 
           
           
             Offaly 
             28,278 
             
             
             10,070 
             
             
             18,208 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             52,492 
             
             
             25,069 
             
             
             27,423 
           
           
             Sligo 
             50,636 
             
             
             17,500 
             
             
             33,136 
           
           
             Tipperary N. 
             60,171 
             
             
             36,570 
             
             
             23,601 
           
           
             Tipperary S. 
             78,003 (a)&nbsp; 
             
             
             33,420 
             
             
             44,583 
           
           
             Tirconaill 
             99,569 
             
             
             33,414 
             
             
             66,155 
           
           
             Waterford 
             51,831 
             
             
             41,467 
             
             
             10,364 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             56,950 
             
             
             38,815 
             
             
             18,135 
           
           
             Wexford 
             106,589 
             
             
             47,639 
             
             
             58,950 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             45,591 
             
             
             33,387 
             
             
             12,204 
           
           
             Co. Boroughs. 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Cork 
             &mdash; 
             
             
             &mdash; 
             
             
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Dublin 
             &mdash; 
             
             
             &mdash; 
             
             
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Limerick 
             18,340 (b) 
             
             
             5,000 
             
             
             13,340 
           
           
             Waterford 
             12,107 (c) 
             
             
             2,000 
             
             
             10,107 
           
           
             Total 
             1,984,129 
             
             
             866,005 
             
             
             1,118,124 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Notes.&mdash;(a)  £3,000 
             notified June, 
             1927. 
           
         
         
           
             &nbsp;(b)  £11,506 
             ,,&nbsp; ,, 
             ,, 
           
           
             &nbsp;(c)  £7,590 
             ,,&nbsp; ,, 
             ,, 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - USE OF IRISH SLATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that a number of men are being discharged from work in the slate quarries in County Cork owing to lack of work, consequent on depression in the industry,   while foreign slate is being used in large quantities by people receiving grants under the Housing (Building Facilities) Acts, and whether he will consider the advisability of adopting regulations compelling applicants for such grants to use Irish slate. 
     
     
      
       As regards the first part of this question, I have no information.  I am aware that foreign slates and imported artificial slates are being used by persons erecting houses under the Housing Acts.  Generally speaking, the Department advocates the use of Irish slates wherever possible. In the general outline specification issued by the Department preference is indicated for the use of first quality slates from the Benduff, Killaloe, Carrick-on-Suir or other approved quarries in Saorstat Eireann.  Having regard, however, to the difference in cost between first quality native slates and imported artificial slates I do not consider it desirable to compel the use of Irish slates only. 
     
     
      
       Does not the Minister consider that where the taxpayers are helping to build houses for people by contributing money, and are also contributing to home assistance funds for the maintenance of people thrown out of work, that this state of affairs calls for more action than the Minister's Department has taken? 
     
     
      
       Everything that it is possible to do to encourage the use of Irish slates is done, but when you consider that the difference between the cost of natural Irish slates and imported artificial slates in the case of an ordinary five-roomed house is about £18, the inadvisability of definitely compelling people to use Irish slates is obvious. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLOCATION OF ROAD FUND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the amounts allocated to each county in the Free State out of the Road Fund in respect of (a) national roads, (b) trunk and link roads, (c) road maintenance, during the period from 1st April, 1923, to 31st March, 1927; and, further,   showing how much of the grants for each year remained unavailed of in each county. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection to laying upon the Table a Return giving the information asked for in the Deputy's question. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - LIMERICK COUNTY COUNCIL FINANCES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state (1) whether the discrepancy between £141,000 stated by the Minister in an answer in the Dail last Session to be the difference between receipts and expenditure of the Limerick County Council, and £254,000, appearing in the same connection from the figures of the recent Sworn Inquiry, is due to part of the larger figure having been met by short term loans; and, if not, what is the key to the reconcilement of such figures; and (2) what amount may be taken as representing the actual deficit in the Council's finances as at end of March, 1925; and (3) what amount was contributed in reduction of such deficit in the rate for year 1925-26 by (a) diversion of agricultural grants towards such purpose or effect from their normal purpose of current rate reduction; (b) by levy under head of Road Expenditure for more than the actual expenditure thereon; and (4) what amount is included in the rate now struck for the year 1927-28, arising out of administration of years earlier than 1926-27; and (5) what is the explanation of the variation in the poundages ranging from 4/6 in the case of Croom Rural District down to 1/2d. (one halfpenny) in the Rural District of Newcastle West, charged under the head of Separate Charges in Table F. of present rate estimates, having regard to the large amount charged elsewhere in the same rate for repayment of local loans under Table D. of the Estimates. 
     
     
      
       As regards the first part of the question, the sum of £254,000 should be reduced by £113,400, made up of two amounts, £93,400 borrowed under L.G. (Agricultural Rates)   Act, 1924, and £20,000 loan for reconstruction of County Home and County Hospital.  The Limerick County Council might be addressed as regards the further parts of the question. 
     
     
      
       In view of the unsatisfactory state of the Limerick County Council funds, will the Minister consider the question of sending down a Commissioner to administer the area? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - DUBLIN TENEMENT HOUSES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health (a) the total number of tenement houses in Dublin condemned as unfit for habitation for (i) sanitary reasons; (ii) other reasons; how many of these are Corporation property; (c) the number of families living in these houses, and (d) the average number of persons per family. 
     
     
      
       It has been ascertained from the City Commissioners that tenement houses in Dublin have been graded into three classes.  Of these the third class represents houses which would ordinarily be condemned as unfit or unsafe and demolished if alternative accommodation could be provided for the occupying families. The total number of houses in this class is 1,826, and of these 33 are houses structurally dangerous and the remainder houses with sanitary defects which cannot economically be remedied. Nineteen of these houses are the property of the Corporation, being situate on areas acquired by them for clearance. The number of families occupying third-class tenements in Dublin is 9,535.  So far as can be ascertained, the average number of persons per family in these houses is six. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister promise the House that he will see that something will be done to remove the insanitary conditions in which these people are forced to live as a result of the excuse of economy? 
     
     
      
       The matter is one for the Dublin Corporation, and if   the Deputy will refer to the Commissioners he will find that they are very actively engaged in endeavouring to improve this state of affairs. 
     
     
      
       What does the Minister mean when he says that the matter is in the hands of the Dublin Corporation? 
     
     
      
       I mean that there are local bodies in the country&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Not in Dublin. 
     
     
      
       They have responsibilities, statutory and otherwise, and they are accustomed to shouldering their responsibilities.  Certainly no matter dealing with housing has come to the notice of the Department of Local Government in which the Commissioners in Dublin are neglecting their responsibilities in that respect. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister seriously tell the House that when his attention is drawn to the fact that 1,800 insanitary houses have been condemned by their own sanitary inspectors that is not sufficient evidence that the Commissioners are not doing their duty to the citizens of Dublin? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy appears to know nothing of the history of Dublin. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - BALTIMORE (CO. TIPPERARY) CREAMERY FACILITIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state whether it is a fact that suppliers to the Baltimore Creamery, County Tipperary, have to travel a distance of five (5) miles and over with their milk; and what steps does he intend taking to give more reasonable facilities to those people. 
     
     
      
       I presume it is the Galteemore Creamery to which the Deputy refers.  I understand that owing to the necessary closing of that Creamery for economic reasons through shortage of milk supplies, some of the suppliers have now to travel over a mile further to another Creamery, while, on the contrary, other   suppliers have now a shorter distance to travel than formerly.  It is not feasible to take action in the direction suggested in the concluding portion of the question. 
     
     
      
       Owing to the closing down of this creamery the people have to travel five or six miles to other creameries.  Is the Minister aware of that hardship on the poor people of the district, as they can now get no supply of milk?  What steps is the Minister going to take to remove that hardship? 
     
     
      
       The creamery that closed was known as the Galteemore Creamery.  I understand it closed last May.  It was not closed by any action that the Government took in connection with the purchase of the Condensed Milk Company.  It was closed because it could not get a sufficient milk supply.  It was only getting about 1,000 gallons.  I dare say the closing of the creamery was to some extent decided upon because another creamery was situate within 11⁄2 miles distance. No suppliers therefore have to go more than 11⁄2 miles further than they went before, and some of the suppliers are obviously going very much shorter distances. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister know that there is no creamery between Bansha and Galbally, a distance of 11 miles? 
     
     
      
       The other creamery is at Dungrud, which is only 11⁄2 miles from Galteemore. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - THE FLAX INDUSTRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if, owing to the brighter prospects in the flax and linen industry, he will now consider the advisability of summoning a conference of parties interested to consult with representatives from his Department with a view to the further development of this industry. 
     
     
      
       I am arranging to have steps taken for summoning a conference of the nature referred to by the Deputy. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state how soon he will be able to call this conference? 
     
     
      
       Within a week or so. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - AUGHRANE (CO. GALWAY) LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state whether it is still his intention to plant the lands of Aughrane, Ballygar, County Galway; and, if so, whether, in view of the great need for land in that locality, he will consider instead the advisability of dividing that land amongst the people. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first part of this question is in the affirmative, and to the latter portion in the negative. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - CORRANMORE (GOLEEN) SLIP. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware (a) that a road was made some years ago to the site of a proposed slip at Corranmore, Goleen; that in March, 1927, a Fisheries Inspector visited and presumably reported on the matter; and that the road is now lying derelict, and (b) when the Minister proposes to have the necessary slip constructed so as to facilitate the fishermen and also relieve local unemployment. 
     
     
      
       The position with regard to providing a boat slip at Corranmore, Goleen, is as stated in my reply to the question put by Deputy T.O Murchadha on that subject on 3rd August last. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - SEIZURE OF STEAM DRIFTER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that the Hegarty Brothers, of Killybegs, who purchased the Steam Drifter &ldquo;Laurel,&rdquo; costing £3,000, through the Department of Fisheries, paid deposits on that boat totalling £1,526, in spite of which the boat was taken from them by the Department because they failed to keep up the deposits owing to bad   fishing seasons; further, whether the Minister would consider the handing over of one of the motor boats at present in possession of the Department to these men who are now unemployed and in dire need. 
     
     
      
       The steam drifter &ldquo;Laurel&rdquo; was purchased by the Hegarty Brothers in 1919, partly by a cash payment of £1,000 and partly by means of a loan of £2,000 obtained from the Congested Districts Board. Further loans were advanced by that Board between 1920 and 1923 amounting to £1,064.  Of these loans £254 had been repaid when this Department took over the collection.  The amount repaid to my Department between 1923 and 1925 was £116.  My Department was constrained to resume possession of the &ldquo;Laurel&rdquo; in 1925 because the owners were unable to work the boat, which was in consequence deteriorating rapidly. 
       I am prepared to consider sympathetically any application the Hegarty Brothers wish to make for employment on the Department's fishing fleet. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider the question of giving them one of the motor fishing boats in the hands of the Department? 
     
     
      
       The system by which these boats are being worked is not by handing them over to any party or crew.  They are retained under the management of the Department.  The history of the Hegartys is a very good one, and their inability to pay was caused entirely by reasons beyond their own control.  Any application for them for employment is one that will be very favourably considered by the Department. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - CLONGILL (CO. MEATH) ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state if any negotiations have been entered into for purposes of division with the trustees of Clongill Estate, Castlejordan, County Meath, and if any arrangements are in progress with the bank in the case. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission issued a proposal to purchase the lands of Silloge containing 615a. 3r. 14p. on the estate of Henry T.S.J. Gerrard under the provisions of Section 36 of the Land Act, 1923, but this proposal was not accepted by the owner. 
       The question of instituting proceedings for the compulsory acquisition of these lands under the provisions of Section 24 of the Land Act, 1923, is being considered by the Commissioners. The Land Commission have had no communication with a bank in this case. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - DEMESNE LANDS, MITCHELSTOWN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if it is proposed to acquire the lands known as the Demesne Lands, Mitchelstown, and if he is aware that there are many landless men in the locality anxious to acquire parcels of land. 
     
     
      
       The question of the acquisition of the lands of Mitchelstown demesne is being considered by the Land Commission.  In the event of the lands being acquired the claims of all applicants will be considered when the lands are about to be distributed. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND ACTS TRANSACTIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will publish a report giving all particulars of all land purchase transactions under the 1923 Land Act; stating the price paid for all land purchased by the Irish Land Commission; the price at which said land was subsequently let to small tenants; also giving similar particulars under previous Land Acts for at least five years prior to 1923; also stating the average price given for land per acre under the 1903 and 1909 Land Acts; also particulars of expenditure under all improvement schemes carried out by Irish Land Commission, and average cost per house built by Irish Land Commission and old Congested Districts Board. 
     
     
      
       A report is in course of preparation by the Land Commission   giving up to the 31st March last particulars of all proceedings under the Land Act, 1923, and also of those under the previous Acts. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - KILMAINE FARMING CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state, with reference to the estate of the Kilmaine Farming Co-operative Society, County Mayo, when it is his intention to have refunded to the tenants of that estate the amount of the purchase money, viz., £6,200, advanced by them when that estate was purchased; and when it is intended to proceed with the distribution of that estate. 
     
     
      
       In the estate of the Kilmaine Co-operative Farming Society, Limited, County Mayo, the deposit of £6,250 has been lodged in the Land Commission and invested in National Loan in accordance with the terms of Section 53 of the Land Act, 1923. 
       Under the provisions of Section 45 (1) of the Land Act, 1927, the Land Commission has power to refund the deposit, or part thereof, to the original contributors or to persons claiming through them, and forms of application for such refund have been forwarded to the contributors. 
       No refund of deposit has been made, and at the present stage of the proceedings it is not possible to state when any refund will be made by the Land Commission. 
       It is anticipated that an inspector will visit the lands to prepare a scheme of division at an early date. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - IOC CIOSA. 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh an bhfuil fhios aige go bhfuair Martin Fahy (Friddane, an Tobar, Gort Inse Guaire) barantas toisc gan a chuid chiosa a ioc Mi Feabhra so caithte; gur ioc se an cios agus na costaisi, acht amhain 4/7 ar ar dhein se dearmhad; nach bhfuair se aon admhail on Sirriam acht go dtainig admhail ghlan o Coimisiun na Talmhan; agus do dtainig ceathrar baile anuas air 28-10-27 agus barantas   acu agus iad ag iarraidh £2 4s. 7d. air. Ce an fath nar cuireadh in iuil don fheirmeoir sin go cneasta go raibh 4/7 air agus gan £2 do chostas a chur air, agus an mian leis an Aire an £2 sin a thabhairt thar n-ais do. 
     
     
      
       Tathar ag feachaint isteach sa cheist seo.  Is eigin, amh, sgriobhadh chun Dligheadoir an Stait agus nuair a beidh eolas iomlan agam cuirfead an t-eolas san go dti an Teachta. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - CEARDAS AN BHAININ I dTIR CHONAILL. 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh an dtig leis eolas ar bith a thabhairt uaidh cia'n uair a bheidh Cigire na nDeantus Tuatha ag dul go Tir Chonaill leis na ceardaisi tuatha, go fior-speisialta ceardas an bhainin, d'aithbheodhadh san Chontae sin agus margadh d'fhaghail doibh. 
     
     
      
       Seachtmhain no do o shoin togadh cigire na nDeantus Tuatha do'n Roinn seo agus nuair a beidh se tar eis Coimisineiri na Stat Sheirbhise do shasamh, maidir le aos agus slainte, lionfhar an post laithreach baill. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - ARRAN (CO. MAYO) ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state when the Arran Estate, Mayo, will be vested in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       This estate was purchased by the (late) Congested Districts Board, and the Land Commission are at present dealing with it with a view to placing the tenants in a position to sign purchase agreements and have their holdings vested in them. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - KNOX (CO. MAYO) ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state when the Knox Estate, Rappa, County Mayo, will be vested in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       78 holdings out of 111 on the Knox Estate, Rappa, County Mayo, have already been vested and the   remainder will be dealt with as soon as practicable. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - TICKNEVIN (CO. KILDARE) LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state when the lands of Ticknevin, electoral division of Kilpatrick, Carbury, Co. Kildare, consisting of 400 acres, will be available for distribution amongst uneconomic holders. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy refers to the lands of Ticknevin held by Sir John P. Griffith as tenant on the estate of Ruth Derriman, the prescribed particulars of the estate have been lodged by the landlord, and the question of the resumption of the holding will be considered by the Commissioners when they are dealing with the estate. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - WYNDHAM (CO. LOUTH) ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries when he will be prepared to carry out an inspection of the estate of Lady Edith A. Wyndham, in the Co. Louth, and if he will give favourable consideration to the claim of Mr. Bernard Mathews of Roodstown, Ardee, who is anxious to purchase the cottage, which he at present occupies as sub-tenant on the above estate. 
     
     
      
       It appears Bernard Mathews is a sub-tenant of 1 rood 20 perches, held by him at a rent of £3 per annum from Patrick Gregory, a tenant on the estate of Lady Edith Wyndham which is pending for sale under the Land Act, 1923.  When the estate has been inspected the Commissioners will consider the question of this sub-tenancy. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - BAILTE CHLUAIN CHORRAIGH. 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh an raibh fhios aige, nuair a bhi bailte Chluain Chorraigh da roinnt, go raibh iarrataisi istigh ag cuid mhaith oganach sa chomharsanacht a bhi oireamhnach ar gach slighe ach na fuaireadar aon talamh, ce go bhfuair daoine airighthe o iarthar agus o dheisceart na tire oiread agus dha chead acra an duine, agus go bhfuair duine acu so teach   breagh, freisin; agus ar dineadh cas na bhfeirmeoiri beaga sa chomharsanacht do bhreithniu nuair a bhi an talamh so da roinnt. 
     
     
      
       Do dhin Coimisiun na Talmhan na tailte neathionontuithe ar estat Bharuin Chluain Chorraigh i gContae na Midhe agus i gContae Chill Dara do cheannach chun cuid acu d'usaid chun malraid gabhaltaisi do sholathar do dhaoine a haistriodh o Cheanntracha ro-thionontuithe, malraid ar thailte a bhi ag teastail go gear chun fuascailt do dheanamh ar an ro-thionontacht san. 
       Do roinneadh timpeal 600 acra ar 24 iarrthoiri as an ait agus do roinneadh 1,438 acra ar ochtar a haistriodh mar mhalraid ar 2,027 acra a bhi aca cheana. 
     
     
      
       An bhfuil a fhios ag an Aire gur daoine macanta iad so ata ar lorg talmhan, daoine a bhionn ag obair o cheann ceann na bliana ag iarraidh slighe maireachtain do bhaint amach; go bhfuil duine aca sa dar b'ainm Niochlas Buitleir agus ce nach bhuil aige ach tri acra talmhan mona, ta suas le ocht mbeithigh deag agus dha chapall ag inbhior aige ar gabhaltas a chomharsan, gur ioc se mar costas ortha anuiridh naoi bpuint dathad&mdash;cios feirme maithe? 
       Nach doigh leis an Aire go dtuillfheadh a leitheid d'fhear cuid den talamh ata i gceist agus an ndeanfaidh se rud da reir? 
     
     
      
       Ceist eile isea e sin. 
     
     
      
       Ceist eile e sin; cuir sios e mar cheist fe leith. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - STRAHAN ESTATE (TUAM). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state the result of the Irish Land Commission Inspector's Report on the Strahan Estate in Tuam. 
     
     
      
       The Inspector's report on the Strahan Estate is under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     ORAL ANSWERS. - ROTHERHAM ESTATE (CO. MEATH). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state what   steps, if any, he has taken over the lands of Newtown, Killallon, Rotheram Estate, County Meath, for division amongst landless people of that district; and, if not, does he propose to do so? 
     
     
      
       Proceedings are pending under the Act of 1923 for the acquisition of the lands of Newtown, Killallon, on the Rotheram Estate, Co. Meath.  The owner lodged an objection to their acquisition which is at present under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     NEW DEPUTY. 
     
      
       member for the County Constituency of Carlow-Kilkenny, took his seat. 
     
   
   
     LOCAL ELECTIONS BILL, 1927&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move for permission to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to amend the law relating to local elections, to postpone further the elections to certain local authorities in the County of Dublin, and to make consequential amendments in the law relating to local authorities. 
       Leave granted. 
       Second Stage ordered for Friday, November 11th. 
     
   
   
     ARTERIAL DRAINAGE (MINOR SCHEMES) BILL, 1927&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I desire to move for the discharge of the order for Second Reading, and for an order for the withdrawal of the Bill.  I desire to withdraw the Bill in order that provision might be inserted for the giving of a Government grant to these minor drainage schemes.  The Bill, as presented, does not contain that provision. 
       Order for the Second Reading discharged. Bill withdrawn. 
     
   
   
     DAIRY PRODUCE (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1927&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     Bill put through Committee without amendment. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. Bill reported without amendment.  Report Stage ordered for Wednesday, November 9th.  Notice given that the Final Stage would be moved for on that day. 
   
   
     FINANCIAL MOTIONS BY THE MINISTER FOR FINANCE (NO. 3). - IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That it is expedient to amend the law relating to Customs and Inland Revenue (including Excise) and to make further provision in connection with Finance. 
     
     
        This motion is not an operative one. As I have already said, it is a motion that is proposed when we have other motions before the Dail proposing Customs and Excise duties, and it is put down for the purpose of enabling a wider discussion to take place than it might be possible to have on one of the motions proposing a tax.  I might say, in reference to this particular motion, that the policy that has been pursued by the Government in regard to tariffs is a policy of caution.  There are many ways by which industries may be promoted, and those methods have been used.  I need hardly refer to them on the present occasion.  There is the provision of additional credit facilities, there is the provision of technical information about markets outside, and other assistance of that nature.  Deputies on the opposite side of the House have suggested that some scheme of prohibition and licence of imports would be a more satisfactory way of assisting the industries of this country than any system of tariffs.  I do not find it possible to agree with that.  It may be that, in certain circumstances, a prohibition would be a satisfactory way of helping a particular industry, just as a subsidy may be a more satisfactory way of helping another particular industry.  We have ourselves adopted the subsidy method of establishing the sugar beet industry.  We did that because it was not possible to get such an industry established by means of the imposition of tariffs.  It would have been necessary to put such a high tax on sugar as would have caused grave hardship to large numbers of people.  We did not desire to have the beet sugar industry spring up behind the protection of a tariff.  The tariff required to get the industry started would be so high that we had to fall back on the subsidy method. But we believe that a subsidy is not as satisfactory as a tariff, for this reason: When you impose a tariff you require merely to set up the administrative machinery necessary for collecting the tax.  When it is the case of a subsidy you have the expenses of collecting the taxes, and you have also to set up machinery for the inspection and supervision that are necessary, in order   to have the subsidy paid, so that the administrative expenses are doubled. The administrative expenses of either collecting revenue or expending revenue are, after all, considerable.  Generally, we think the subsidy method is not as good as the imposition of a tariff. 
     With regard to prohibition, it seems to me that a general system of prohibition would be almost unworkable unless the State were actually entering into industry themselves.  So long as the State is not actively entering into industry on a somewhat large scale, I do not know how prohibition could work.  Undoubtedly we have found prohibitions being imposed in war time, and other tariffs that were not purely economic, that were, in fact, only partially economic and that had little or nothing to do with the actual creation of industries in the country that was imposing them. They were imposed for the purpose of saving shipping tonnage or something like that.  If you have prohibition the effect in some ways is the same as that of prohibitive tariffs.  Let us look at what the effects of a prohibitive tariff are.  If such a tariff is imposed it will mean undoubtedly that a great number of people will rush into setting up factories to manufacture the article on which the prohibitive tariff is imposed. If, for instance, you had a tariff of 200 per cent. on boots, boot factories would spring up all over the country.  People would rush in to get sites and put up factory buildings; they would adapt existing buildings and instal machinery.  A great number of those factories would undoubtedly be inefficient. They would, as I have said, in some cases, be in existing buildings in which the industry could never be carried on on an economic basis.  They would be perhaps in towns far away from transport and where labour would be difficult to obtain and where that kind of industry could never be carried on.  High prices would probably be paid for sites and perhaps high prices for machinery.  All sorts of machinery would be obtained in a hurry to get the industry going and to get the share of the profitable markets.  Skilled employees would have to be brought into the country at perhaps a very high rate of wages and the industry would have to burden itself with special housing   expenses in respect of them.  And then there will be no need to settle down to the work of organising the whole factory as well as it could be organised. There would be profits for anybody who turned out any sort of a boot at almost any price, and it would be a task of the greatest possible difficulty to get down to an economic basis afterwards.  There would be appeals for the factory that was badly designed, badly situated and labouring under every sort of a difficulty not to take away the protection of a tariff from it for the reason that it would fall to pieces or that people would be thrown out of employment. The net result of it would be that the country at large would be bearing an enormous cost and paying an enormous price because of the inefficiency of those conducting the industry. 
     It should be borne in mind that tariffs in general do tend to increase the cost of living.  You may select individual tariffs that have not that effect at all, but in general tariffs cause an actual increase in the cost of living and become a heavy burden on the people as they begin to operate.  I have seen a good deal of ill-informed and unthinking criticism of the boot tariff duties in the newspapers.  The boot tariff is not at present throwing any great burden on the people of the country simply because so far it has only been to a limited extent successful, but as it becomes successful a point will be reached where it will throw a substantial burden on the people.  Let us assume, for the sake of argument, and it is proximate enough, that 15 per cent of the value of the boots used in the country would be about £300,000, and let us assume further that in the course of three or four years the tariff has been so successful that practically all the boots used in the country are manufactured here, and we will get a position where that particular tax will bring in no revenue to the Exchequer. When we imposed the boot tax we reckoned that it would bring in revenue, for some time at any rate, equivalent to 3d. in the pound on tea. When we imposed a boot tax we lowered the tax on tea by 3d. in the pound, and eventually abolished it.  If the boot tax reached the point that I   indicated and that we would get no revenue from it, the £250,000 to £300,000 which it was bringing in would have to be brought in from some other sources and the people of the country at that point would be buying their boots at approximately 15 per cent. more than they would have to pay if there was no boot tax.  As a matter of fact it is just possible for manufacturers of boots to sell their goods with the advantage of the 15 per cent., but in a few years, even although more factories were started, it might certainly be taken that they would sell their goods at approximately 15 per cent. over the British price if the 15 per cent. value of boots used is £300,000. It will mean that the consumers of the country as a whole will be paying £300,000 of a subsidy in an indirect way to the boot industry. 
     I do not know exactly how many employees would be required to supply the whole of the boot requirements of the country, but probably it would be between 7,500 and 10,000.  If the number be 10,000, which, I think, is on the high side, then the country would be paying a subsidy of £30 a year in respect of every man, woman and child employed in the boot industry.  It might well be that in time efficiency would be increased here and that still further factories would be put up. Competition would arise and the manufacturers would be able to lower their prices to something like the level that would obtain if we had no tax, and the burden on the consumer would decrease. I think, to take that particular tax as an example&mdash;and it will apply to most taxes&mdash;the tariff as it becomes successful imposes a burden on the people, and that burden will only be got rid of when competition and increased efficiency in the industry enable the manufacturers to sell at less than the margin of advantage that the tariff gives them.  Prohibition would mean that when the industry became successful the burden would be far heavier. 
     If our tariff on boots is 15 per cent., and that 15 per cent. suffices to give the Irish boot manufacturer control of the market, then the utmost subsidy that the people of the country at any time will have to pay the industry will be   £300,000.  If we make it 45 per cent., then, instead of £300,000, it will be £900,000, or nearly £1,000,000.  There is no doubt that if you give a subsidy so that plenty of money can be made by inefficient methods the factories will be carried on in an inefficient way.  They will be more recklessly organised, recklessly constructed and recklessly machined, if you like, in such a way that they will have to charge very high prices, and it will be a very long time indeed before it is possible to get them to come down. 
     It is not possible, unless we want to set up a tremendous amount of supervisory machinery, to control prices or profits.  You cannot control prices, because you must fix your prices at a figure that will enable the less efficient factories to carry on.  You cannot have one price for an article by one factory and a different price for an identical article by another factory.  If you fix prices at all you will have to fix them at rates that will be far too high to enable the more efficient factories to carry on.  You cannot control profits because you cannot limit profits.  Profits can be disposed of in all sorts of ways.  Relatives can be employed at excessive salaries although they have got no work to do.  You can really do nothing except to allow people in an industry which is over protected to make enormous profits out of the ordinary consumers.  Prohibition would have all the defects of a prohibitive tariff, and additional defects, because during the period when you could not, at any price, produce enough of the article required in the country, you would have to license certain firms in the country to import specific quantities. You would have to have expensive machinery for determining who was to be licensed to import the article and what quantities they were to be licensed to import.  You would have charges of corruption and favouritism which would tend to shake confidence in the administration of the Government.  Generally, it seems to me that the proposal to prohibit goods and to license the importation of certain quantities can come only from people who have not tried to see how it could be worked, but who have only seized at   it as an idea and have not troubled to spend the time necessary to examine it. 
     A good number of tariffs have been imposed.  Some of them were imposed in a mechanical and almost automatic way; for instance, the protection which has caused the cigarette factories to be put up here.  There was a differential tax in Great Britain between manufactured and unmanufactured tobacco.  In our first financial year, 1923, we simply took over the existing British tariff, with the result that cigarettes became a protected article here, and before very long a certain number of cigarette factories were set up.  In that case the protection and employment which have been given have cost the people nothing.  The article is supplied at an identical price.  You will sometimes find it possible to get employment given by means of protection without any cost to the consumer.  That will be generally where some big trust will come in from outside and manufacture the standard article at practically a standard price.  We then imposed tariffs in 1924 on such articles as candles, boots and shoes, glass bottles and soap.  The most important of them was the tariff on boots and shoes.  Deputies who look for very speedy results from tariffs will very often be disappointed. I understand that a new soap factory is now being put up to supply the greater portion of the requirements of the Saorstat by home manufacture, but the tariff was actually imposed in April, 1924. 
     
      
       Will the Minister give the name of that factory? 
     
     
      
       I do not think that arises.  The results are slow for this reason: Sometimes firms have doubts as to whether a tariff will last; as to what the effect of it generally is going to be, and whether they will be able to get over it or not.  If we have any very rash policy in regard to tariffs, if we seem to be forging ahead with excessive rapidity, the doubts people will entertain will be greater.  They will wonder whether the tariffs that are arousing a good deal of opposition and are very controversial will be maintained. Even when a firm has made up its mind that a tariff will be maintained, a good deal of time will intervene   before there is employment given. Sites have to be got; the owners of a factory will have to determine in what town or locality it is going to carry on. If owners fix on a certain town, a site has to be got.  If they want a site at a reasonable price time will have to be taken in order to permit negotiations to be carried on.  Plans will have to be drawn up for the factory.  Intelligent people will not use an existing building for a factory, because if it is ill-adapted there can never be good supervision or efficiency.  Plans will have to be approved and contracts given.  Perhaps special arrangements may have to be made about getting skilled hands. Quite a lot of time will elapse, and anybody who expects that at any sort of a reasonable rate we will get rapid results from a tariff is very likely to be disappointed. 
     
     In 1925 we imposed further tariffs, including one on wearing apparel, which is the biggest we have imposed. It is a tariff of 15 per cent., but it covers a great range of manufactures. We also imposed tariffs on bedsteads and furniture.  Then in 1926 a rather unimportant tariff on oatmeal was imposed. We imposed the first tariff without having investigated the circumstances of the industries concerned to any great extent.  We felt these were industries in respect of which, tariffs having been claimed, it was necessary to make an experiment.  We felt we might argue about the merits of tariffs and the effects of tariffs for a long time and get very little further, and we came to the conclusion that it was necessary to impose certain tariffs to let everybody concerned see the various effects of tariffs, and so imposed the tariffs I have indicated.  We found then people who were in any sort of difficulty in any industry came along with an application for a tariff.  Their way to get over every trouble was to apply for a tariff and push the burden of the difficulties on to the general public. Applications have been made to us in respect of tariffs for certain industries which have been and are able to get along quite well without tariffs.  When we refused a tariff in one particular case that I have in mind, the people managing the industry sat   down to face the problems themselves, to cheapen production and to improve their methods.  They have been able to maintain and improve their position. 
     As long as no special machinery such as the Tariff Commission existed we felt the position was going to be that anybody who was losing the market and encountering difficulties would say he had so many employees last year and he had so many to-day and that he would have to have a tariff.  We did not favour putting on tariffs in that way, and so we decided to set up the Tariff Commission.  After the first year we had made a better attempt to investigate the conditions of the industries which were tariffed, but those investigations were rather informal, and it was not possible to elicit all the facts and get the views of those who might be in opposition to the tariff.  By the setting up of a Tariff Commission we were able to have something in the nature of judicial procedure.  We provided that those who wanted the tariff would make their case and those who opposed could make the case against. It was urged on us that we should have business men, people interested in industry, on the Tariff Commission; but we decided that much better results would be got by a Commission composed of Civil Servants, people who were not either doctrinaire free traders or doctrinaire protectionists, people who would look at each case on the merits and who would present an unbiased report so far as it is humanly possible to have an unbiased report on any matter which is controversial. 
     The Civil Servants who were appointed on the Tariff Commission have other duties, but the work of the Tariff Commission has not so far been hindered by that change, because it is natural that the business for the Tariff Commission only matures comparatively slowly.  I indicated the other day that a certain number of applicants who had the fee fixed took four months before they paid the fee.  The result was that the business did not arise very rapidly for the Tariff Commission.  It has more business now than it has had, and perhaps that business will increase. If the business increases, we will make arrangements which will ensure that no application will be delayed by   reason of a member of the Commission having to attend to other business.  We will either put different individuals on the Tariff Commission, or we will relieve those actually on it of the duties which might prevent them giving it their attention.  The applications for a tariff that have actually been referred to the Commission are:&mdash;margarine, rosary beads, flour, woollens, worsteds, coach and motor bodies, down-quilts, fish barrels, maize products, sole, insole and harness leather, cement, glass bottles and picture frames.  I have already referred to the applications in respect of margarine and rosary beads. The application for a tariff on flour was referred to the Commission on the 13th March.  The fee was paid on the 22nd March.  Public sittings to hear evidence were held on the 7th, 8th and 12th April; 2nd, 3rd and 15th June; and, in camera, sittings to hear confidential evidence were held on the 1st, 2nd and 29th June.  The dates of the hearing had to be spread over fairly lengthy periods because important witnesses were not always available, and applications had to be made for postponements to enable them to be heard. 
     The Commission, in addition to having sittings to hear evidence in public, and private sittings to consider evidence of a confidential kind, visited the premises of the Dublin Port Milling Company, The Merchant Warehousing Company and the mills at Bagenalstown and Carlow, and the mills at Liverpool and Birkenhead.  I dealt with the application for a tariff on coach and motor bodies the other day. Although the case was referred to the Commission on 31st January the fee was only paid by the applicants on the 23rd August.  In respect of the application for down-quilts, I find that that was referred to the Commission on the 26th February but the detailed case by the applicants was only delivered on the 17th October, so that the Deputies will see that whatever delay took place in that case was due entirely to the applicants, because it was not possible to fix the fee and it was not possible to have any arrangements made for a public sitting until the detailed case was made by the applicants and submitted. 
     The application in respect of fish barrels   was referred to the Commission on the 7th March.  The detailed case was only delivered to the Commission on the 4th October.  In the remaining five cases, maize products, sole, insole and harness leather, cement, glass bottles and picture frames, the details of the cases have not yet been submitted. 
     I do not want to say that the amount of time that has been taken up by the American Tariff Commission would be reasonable in our case.  But the time that is generally taken for the hearing and the consideration of applications in America is very much longer than any time that is taken here.  For instance, in America the application for a tariff on fabric gloves, or an adjustment, took two years and five months.  Another in respect of paint-brush handles took three years and six months; one in respect of sewn straw hats took two years and five months.  Sugar, which apparently was hustled, took one year and four months.  Certainly it would not be possible for an application to be considered and dealt with by the Tariff Commission in any reasonable sort of way in less than three or four months anyway.  The first stage in an application for a tariff is made to the Minister for Finance.  There is consideration in the Department of Finance as to the representative character of the applicants. If one small manufacturer applied for a tariff for an industry in which he is engaged that application would not be considered.  That is, unless it is an industry of some importance in which there are a number of manufacturers, it will not be considered. We have to ensure that the people who put forward an application do substantially represent the industry. The inquiry into these would take a few days, at any rate, in the ordinary course.  The application is then referred to the Tariff Commission.  The Commission requests the applicants to submit their lists of witnesses and a statement of evidence in writing. When that has been submitted to me the importance and the intricacy of the case can be estimated.  A fee is then fixed.  When the fee has been paid by the applicants a notice is published in the &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; and in the daily press announcing the application and inviting persons likely to be   affected to give evidence.  An interval for the inspection of the documents that have been lodged by the applicants must be given to the interested persons. 
     Then there is the hearing of the case.  There may be heard counter-evidence and there will probably be the need of inspection of premises here and elsewhere, and if we are not simply to impose tariffs blindly, without any idea as to whether the particular tariff would be suitable and effective or whether the circumstances of the industry necessitated a tariff or whether the industry could ever be moderately and efficiently carried on here, we must carry out investigations such as the Tariff Commission is carrying out and a reasonable amount of time must elapse.  I can state confidently that, so far, there has been no delay on the part of the Tariff Commission in considering and dealing with any application.  A great number of applications I have no doubt will be submitted and the line that must be taken in regard to them will vary, just as the line that we have taken in regard to the various industries which we have tariffed has varied, in certain cases where we felt that a high tariff was necessary.  It was very high for instance in the case of furniture. 
     In the case of margarine, it is proposed to put on what is practically a prohibitive tariff because we believe that in these circumstances the case necessitates the conservation of the market to the home manufacturers.  In the other case we are putting on a much lower tariff.  In general, our view is that a tariff to be imposed should be the lowest tariff that will lead to the building up of an industry.  We do not feel that it is desirable to have an industry built up too hastily.  We believe that better results will accrue in the long run by building up an industry slowly. I have indicated already that I prefer an industry to be controlled by people living here, citizens of this country, rather than having it built up by people from outside.  One of the effects of a very high tariff, if it is not to be ruinous to the country, is that people will come in from outside.  From every point of view, I think, it is most desirable that an industry should be built   up gradually and that a tariff, such as it is, will have to be carefully and efficiently conducted right through if it is to be successful.  I think it is no objection to a customs tax, imposed for tariff purposes, that it brings in revenue. Revenue is not a primary consideration, but if it brings in revenue it enables a remission of taxes to be given in other directions and imposes no additional burden on the people.  In proposing this resolution I think that is all I have to say by way of outlining the attitude of the Government towards tariffs and the policy which we have pursued. 
     
      
       I find that it will be a matter of very considerable difficulty to discuss the resolution which appears on the Order Paper.  It is so vaguely worded, frankly, I find difficulty in understanding it.  However, as it appears to be the intention of the Minister that the House should debate the matter of tariffs and protection in any form, the House will find that Deputies on these benches are not adverse to doing so, because, as we have stated before, we are convinced that it is only in a policy of adequate protection there lies any hope for the industrial future of this country.  The Minister for Finance has given us some indication as to what the policy of the Government is.  He has told us that their policy is one of caution, of hastening slowly, and I must congratulate him and his Government on the tenacity with which they have adhered to their policy.  They have hastened so slowly that it is practically impossible to detect them moving at all.  At least, it was impossible until recently to do so, but with the changes in the political situation that have developed since there has been some indication that the Ministry are beginning to move in this matter.  I would like to remind the Government and the Minister for Finance that although the Government are moving very slowly in this matter the industries of the country, its wealth, its skilled workers and its manhood are going, and going rapidly. 
     
     The manhood of Ireland are clearing out practically as fast as ships can carry them, and we consider that the situation which exists in this country is one that calls for decisive action, and   not merely for the cautious, timid policy which, so far at any rate, has got us nowhere.  The Minister, however, has given us no indication, or, at best, a very vague one, as to how the Government visualize the future of Ireland. Do they see Ireland in the near or distant future as a protected country, a country with its industries developed, providing employment in the towns for that portion of the population which cannot find employment in agriculture?  Do they intend to continue the policy which, apparently, they have been following up to this, the policy that was criticised recently by Deputy Flinn, of concentrating all their energies on selling the products of our agricultural industry to one customer, the British artisan?  It takes no great ability to see that the inevitable result of that policy will be that the population of Ireland will decrease to a number necessary to look after the agricultural industry. 
     If, however, we believe that there is an industrial future for this country, and that it can be made self-supplying, self-contained, and self-reliant, we have to develop its industrial arm and see that everything required by the Irish people that can be made in this country is made here.  In order to ensure that that will come about, it is necessary that we should adopt a policy of protection.  We have heard talk about high-brow economics and economic heresies, but it was a policy of protection that brought England to a position of industrial pre-eminence.  It was a policy of protection which half a century ago brought Germany from a third-rate power to a position in which she was able to challenge the industrial pre-eminence of England.  It was a policy of protection that built up the great wealth of the United States.  Every country in the world whose statesmen realise their duty to the people who elected them is at present protecting the industries native to its soil, and in no case do we hear talk about economic heresies.  In every case, in fact, that policy seems to be producing proper results. 
     The question of tariffs in general could be discussed here practically interminably, and when we would be finished discussing it we would find that the views of a number of Deputies   would remain unchanged and that our time would be wasted.  The Government have given indication that they are prepared to move, even though slowly, in the matter of tariffs, and that under certain circumstances, at any rate, they would be prepared to impose the necessary protection required by any trade.  There is no doubt, I think, that the vast bulk of opinion in the country is demanding a protective policy.  I admit you will not notice that fact by reading the daily newspapers, and Deputies should realise that the daily Press of this country is composed of organs of free trade which represent free trade interests.  They make the bulk of their revenue by advertising English products sold here.  The tide of opinion throughout the country which is demanding adequate protection for industry is growing.  Obviously, from the changed attitude of the Ministry, it is growing, but I would like to convince Deputies that it is not economic heresy.  It is not merely an idea which some of the Deputies who sit on these benches got and did not adequately consider, as the Minister said.  I would quote from the annual report of the Dublin Industrial Association for last year, a copy of which was, I think, sent to each Deputy.  It says: 
     &ldquo;The view of your Council is that only protection in one form or another will bring about an improvement. In some cases protection must take the form of prohibition of imports to be effective.  In others, tariffs, bounties or subsidies will meet the case; but in our considered opinion, Irish industries producing for a necessarily restricted home market, subjected to high taxation, high transport charges, and the unrestricted influx of goods from more highly industrialised countries whose industries are protected in their own home market, cannot possibly hold their own unless fostered by the State.&rdquo; 
     In the  Irish Independent , the other day, there was a report of a speech made by Mr. F.M. Summerfield, President of the Publicity Club, in which he said:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Where they had, as in the case of foodstuffs, a big domestic market which could be supplied by homemade   goods, granted the home manufacturer had time to get going, the Government should give that degree of protection as to enable the manufacturers to get along.&rdquo; 
     On the same occasion, Mr. Lamb, Director of Messrs. Lamb Bros., jam manufacturers, said:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;When an Irish-made article is protected the home manufacturer is enabled to increase his output and decrease his prices.  At the same time it is hoped that he will make a little money and thus be able to put more capital into his business.  Other people too will want to put capital into his business, and the drain of money to be invested which leaves this country annually will gradually begin to stay at home.&rdquo; 
     The present position in relation to tariffs has been briefly outlined by the Minister, but, as is only natural, he has endeavoured to give the rosiest complexion possible to the position.  He dealt with boots.  In the first instance, he did not tell us that the inadequate tariff which was placed on boots was a failure, in so far as that it did not in any way stop the tide of these imported articles.  It decreased slightly the value of the articles imported.  There was a slight drop in the total value of the importation of boots of from £1,900,000 in 1924 to £1,790,000 in 1926, but I think I am correct in stating that the actual number of boots imported did not decrease in the same proportion. In connection with that, I would like to draw the attention of the Deputies to a report made by Mr. O'Carroll, the principal executive officer of the Dublin Technical Education section, who, with Mr. P.T. Healy, Chief Clerk, visited in connection with technical education the various boot-manufacturing centres in England.  This is their report:&mdash;&ldquo;The views of these manufacturers coincided in holding that there would be no advantage under present conditions in inaugurating branches of their industrial work in Dublin or Ireland, that the existing tariff of 15 per cent. formed no obstacle to the sale of English-made boots in Ireland, and that nothing less than 40 per cent. would have any effect on them.&rdquo;  One-third of the total export of English boots go   to Ireland, and all the chief English manufacturers have sales branches in Ireland.  Even the one Dublin boot manufacturer is largely an agent for British boots.  The tariff of 15 per cent. on boots brought in a very considerable revenue to the Government, but it did not in any way protect the home market for the home producer.  You have the views of the English manufacturers themselves, that nothing less than 40 per cent. would induce them to come in.  We hold certain views about the advisability of inducing English manufacturers to come in, but if nothing less than 40 per cent. would induce them to do so then nothing less than 40 per cent. would make it a paying proposition for the investment of Irish capital in boot-manufacturing here. 
     The same applies to some extent to wearing apparel.  The tax of 15 per cent. on wearing apparel was inadequate, and it had but a very slight effect on the tide of imported products. The value of these imported products decreased from £5,500,000 to £4,400,000, and it brought in a revenue last year of less than £661,000 to the Government. The stuff is still coming in, and the Irish manufacturers are still unable to get a grip of the home market which would enable them to develop their trade, because of the grip which the English manufacturers hold on the Irish market, and it is a grip which is largely sentimental.  We hear talk about concentrating on material programmes, but behind this is the fact that sentimental considerations are very considerable.  There would be no necessity for tariffs, or protection of any kind, if we could ensure that every Irishman in Ireland would first of all demand Irish products and see that he got them.  A number of the importing firms have got a grip not so much on the sentiment of the consumers as on the sentiment of the retailers.  A trade connection built up by a shopkeeper with a manufacturer's agent over a lifetime is not easily broken.  If the shopkeeper can sell products to his customers even though there is slight increase in price of the manufacture he will continue to deal with the manufacturer's agent with whom he has dealt all his life.  Until we can make   it uneconomic for the retailer to do that he will not seriously take stock of the situation.  Tariffs which have been imposed on some articles have proved to be effective, particularly the tariffs on candles, blankets and bedsteads. The value and the quantity of these articles imported have, consequent on the tariff, decreased very considerably, and it is probably only a question of time until their importation ceases altogether. I would like further to deal with the argument of the Minister against what he thought our policy was, that is prohibition under licence only as against tariffs.  Now, as Deputy Flinn said, we believe in any and every form of protection.  It is obvious that the conditions in every trade will have to be examined separately, and the form of protection which is best suited to each, whether it be prohibition or tariff or subsidy. 
     Take the case of the two articles we discussed a fortnight ago&mdash;rosary beads and margarine.  With regard to rosary beads, it is a fact that a large number of these are imported for sentimental reasons.  Prohibition in that case obviously would be an unsound proposition.  A high tariff, such as that imposed, was sufficient, and persons who wished to purchase imported beads for sentimental reasons could do so at the higher price.  But in the case of margarine a different proposition arises.  A tariff of 3d. per lb. on margarine must do one of two things.  It must either act as prohibition and cut out foreign margarine altogether, or it must allow an inferior sort of margarine in at a higher price.  It must be obvious in that case that the best course to take would be to see that the Irish manufacturers of margarine can supply all the country's requirements, and that we should not allow in any of these imported articles.  The same would apply to several industries which I will mention when I deal with the Tariff Commission.  The Tariff Commission was set up by virtue of an Act which gave them power to hear applications for tariffs, and to report to the Ministry under various headings in connection with trade.  Three civil servants were appointed to be members of the Commission: Messrs. McElligott,   Secretary to the Department of Finance; Professor Whelehan, Controller of the Stationery Office; and Dr. Hinchcliff, Agricultural Director of the Department of Lands and Agriculture. These are important officials of the Government, holding important administrative posts which, if they were doing their duty, should occupy all their time.  The Tariff Commission has been in existence for a long time, and the net result of its labours is the recommendations to impose tariffs on margarine and rosary beads.  We have been told that various other trades have applied for tariffs.  We know that the flour millers did. and they were fortunate in that their case was heard at a number of sittings by the Commissioners.  The woollen manufacturers were less fortunate. They have not been heard at all. 
     
      
       Their own fault. 
     
     
      
       Well, the woollen manufacturers I have heard speak on the subject are not convinced of that. The Minister instanced the case of the motor body makers, and said that there was a delay of four months in the making of the application and the payment of the fee.  I may be incorrectly informed, but I certainly have been informed that the reason for the delay in paying the fee was because those who were taking the initiative in the application for a tariff could not convince their fellow-manufacturers that the Tariff Commission was a serious proposition, and they were unable to get them to subscribe the £100 fee.  It is only since recent political changes have taken place that these people have become convinced that it will be possible to make the Tariff Commission move, and the fee has now been paid. 
     
     In the case of flour, I believe that the Irish mills working at full capacity can produce something like 80 per cent. of the flour requirements of the country.  When we are discussing the relative advantages of prohibition and tariffs, I think that as a general line we should state that wherever the imported article is a foodstuff, or necessary for the life of the people, prohibition should be given preference to tariffs, because it will then be possible to allow in, tax free, whatever the   country requires in excess of what the home manufacturers can produce.  The quantity thus allowed in would be sold at the normal price, and as such would be in competition with the products of Irish manufacturers.  If there was any tendency to profiteer on the part of manufacturers here, the licence could be operated to permit a greater volume of the article to be imported and thus force down the price again. 
     I should like to hear what arguments could be advanced against that.  We are told that the machinery would be expensive.  I honestly doubt very much whether the machinery would be any more complicated or expensive than that required for the collection of taxes.  Of course, in the case of the flour trade we had a rather amazing speech from the Minister for Industry and Commerce during the unemployment debate.  One of the members of the Tariff Commission is an official in his Department.  The case is  sub judice , as he stated, but, if we can judge by his remarks, whatever influence he can use is going to be used against the imposition of a tariff on flour.  We were told that one firm in Dublin is putting a pistol at the head of the Commission and had stated that if they were subjected to any inconvenience whatsoever they would close up and depart, and that the loss of employment involved would not be compensated for by the additional employment secured following the imposition of protection.  I believe that threats of that kind always produce a natural reaction. Certainly it produced a reaction in me when I read it in the Press. But I believe that even the objections of that one firm can be overcome if we decide upon a method of prohibition with licensed imports instead of tariffs, and, as in the case of that one firm, where they have to import a special brand of flour, drawbacks or rebates to which they object. 
     In the same way we have the woollen mills.  The point about the woollen mills is that they can produce much more than the country's requirements in woollen cloths.  I think they are asking for a tariff only on cloth above a certain weight per yard.  They do   not consider themselves competent to manufacture certain classes of material required for ladies' clothes.  But they can produce all that the country requires in the way of woollen tissues, and have a balance for export.  In fact, during the last five years their export trade has remained fairly constant. They are holding their place in the world's markets, but they are losing their trade in this country, not because of fair competition by woollen millers abroad, but because of the dumping here of shoddy goods at under-production cost.  In that particular case we believe, on such information as we have acquired&mdash;it is much less complete than that which will be given to the Tariff Commission&mdash;that the prohibition of imports is the obvious thing. Of course, we will be told&mdash;and it is correct&mdash;that a tax on woollen cloths will automatically necessitate a revision of the tax on imported ready-made clothing.  But we believe that there is no reason why Irishmen should have no option but to wear a suit of Irish cloth made in Ireland. 
     In the case of motor bodies the same thing applies.  In this case there is certainly a need for urgency because foreign motor buses are being imported very rapidly in great quantities and there will be a glut in the market, with the consequent disappearance of the demand in a short time, if a tax is not rapidly imposed.  In that particular trade there is another reason for urgency, that probably more than in any other trade the greater portion of the money involved in the manufacture goes in wages.  It is mostly skilled work and not materials that eats up the bulk of the cost. 
     The Tariff Commission has had these three applications before them.  They have already reported on margarine and rosary beads, and they have six or seven other applications which they have not heard yet.  It is quite obvious that if the Commission are going to do their job properly there must be certain essential conditions.  They must be able to give all their time to it.  It is useless to think that three men holding important executive offices can in their spare time fulfil this duty.  They must be free from political influence of   any kind.  They should hold office on the Commission for a stated period. They should be appointed for one, two or three years, but they should remain members of the Commission for the whole of that period, acting in a sort of judicial capacity.  I am not at all convinced that civil servants are the best suited for the position.  Civil servants are men who have lived in a sheltered occupation all their lives, and the Commission, I think, would be strengthened and improved if there were men with practical experience of business conditions on it.  The Commission should have the power to fix a time limit for the Executive Council to act on their report or publish it&mdash;say, three months; that within three months of the submission of the report the Executive Council would either have to declare whether or not they were going to accept the recommendations or publish the report. 
     Such a Commission as I suggest would also have a duty to report to the Dail or to the Executive Council as to how the benefit to be derived from the measure of protection afforded to any trade would be passed on to the consumers and reserved also for the Irish manufacturers.  I do not know if the Ministry are aware of the fact or not, but it is so, that a number of manufacturers of different articles in this country have not applied for the imposition of tariffs on the articles they manufacture, although they believe that it is only through protection that their particular industries can be fostered, because the first result of the imposition of a tariff would be the bringing in here of branches of foreign combines which would crush out the native manufacturers. 
     We have had that matter raised and discussed on both sides of the House, but I remind Deputies that it is a serious matter.  I can think of two or three industries at the moment in this country where the manufacturers are convinced that it is only through protection that their industries can be fostered but will not support the application for protection because they believe the consequences of this would be that they would be crushed out and that branches of foreign combines would reap all the benefits of the tax.  Unless   we can insure that the benefits derived from the imposition of protection are reserved for the Irish manufacturers as well as the consumer it is a dangerous policy to embark upon protection. 
     Protection should be only one part of a general policy, the object of which would be to build up in this country Irish industries controlled by Irishmen and operated through the instrumentality of Irish capital.  We believe that the Tariff Commission if it were to fulfil its duties properly should have the power also to investigate the conditions existing in any trade, irrespective whether there was an application made by the persons engaged in that trade or not.  Of course, it would all depend upon the policy of the Government.  If the Government were serious in its efforts to promote industrial activities here and to build up our industries, they would see these things for themselves and proceed to put them into effect.  If they are concentrating upon selling the product of a single industry to a single customer and looking upon all other industries in this country as a smaller and minor side-line, they will continue as at present hastening so very slowly that we cannot see them going at all. 
     There is one other point which I want to anticipate&mdash;I see that Deputy Shaw is already eager to mention it&mdash; and that is that the adoption of a system of adequate protection here will involve retaliation by England by a tariff on Irish agricultural produce entering the English market.  I would like to remind Deputies of the situation that existed four years ago, when German submarines were all round these islands and England was dependent for her food supplies upon the products of the Irish farmer.  England would have gone down in 1917 if she was not able to get adequate food supplies from Ireland. The English people are not fools. They know that as well as we do and they know that if they take any action which is going to result in the failure of Ireland to supply her with food in another such crisis, she is practically cutting her own throat and the one result of the imposition of tariffs by England on Irish agricultural produce would be that the Irish people would have to find some other outlet for their   activities and their agriculture would decline and if England was up against a crisis again, as she was in 1917, she would not find the Irish people able to supply her with the necessary food stuffs. 
     If that argument is not sufficiently effective, there is another one which should carry weight.  The example of Denmark is constantly held up to our people, and we are told that if we could only get our people to do as the Danes are doing we would be as prosperous as they are.  In Denmark they passed a law such as I would suggest to the Ministry here, imposing a tariff upon every article imported into the country, with certain specified articles excepted.  They embarked on a protective policy.  They stated they would protect everything except certain articles which they could not produce themselves, and which it was best in the national interest to admit tax free. The Danish people imposed tariffs, and fairly heavy tariffs, upon English manufactures.  England bought from Denmark last year £47,000,000 worth of goods.  But she only sold Denmark £8,000,000 worth of goods, so that Denmark had by a big margin the best of that trade.  The same applies to New Zealand. They also imposed tariffs on English goods.  Last year England bought from New Zealand £46,000,000 worth of goods, but only sold to New Zealand £20,000,000 worth of goods.  The same applies to Canada, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Holland, Russia, France, Spain, The Argentine, United States, Italy, Switzerland, Australia.  But it does not apply to the Irish Free State. Of all the countries I enumerated this State alone bought more from England than she sold.  We exported to England £40,500,000 worth of goods; we imported £46,300,000 worth.  England, by a considerable margin, had the best of the trade with this country.  If England did not consider it wise to retaliate upon the Danes and with New Zealand and Canada and Australia and the rest imposing tariffs on English goods&mdash;I think Australia had all the benefit of the trade between the two countries&mdash;why do you think she is going to reverse her policy and proceed   to cut her own throat by imposing tariffs on Irish agricultural products? I believe if we could put the backbone of this Ministry into iron splints, so that it could not bend, and induce them to stand up to the difficulties, we will be able to build up in this country industrial activity that will mean variety of occupation and employment for all our people; that we will be able to keep here not the bare 3,000,000 that at present subsist, but something like eight or ten or twelve millions of people, in occupations and comfort and provide them with all the necessaries of life.  To do that only needs a Government in office that sees the road and has the courage to follow it. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I only rise for a moment to point out that Deputy Lemass's figures are a little deceptive. He has dealt with them in bulk and large sums.  You have to take into account the size of the country and the number of people in it in order to get an accurate estimate of the volume of its trade.  If Deputy Lemass has the figures of imports and exports for 1926 he will find Table 16, which shows that the exports from Britain and Northern Ireland to this State, amounted to £11 14s. per head of the population, and our exports to Great Britain and Northern Ireland amounted to £13 15s. per head of the population.  Australia balances almost evenly.  Per head of the population in Australia they bought from Great Britain £10 8s. worth, and they sold to Great Britain £10 8s. worth.  The Union of South Africa bought £4 10s. worth per head of the population&mdash;of course it is largely a negro population&mdash;and they only sold to Great Britain £2 13s. worth per head, and yet that is the fruit of an advanced tariff policy. 
     
     I give Deputy Lemass the United States.  The peculiar conditions there arising out of the war and also the very large population of the United States make these figures not quite comparable. But, broadly speaking, these highly protected countries, per head of their population, buy more from Great Britain and sell less than we do with   our present fiscal policy.  You cannot look at this simply by lumping countries together.  You have to consider the size of the country and the number of people in it, and based on that, Deputy Lemass's estimate is not quite so convincing as it sounded at first. 
     
      
       Does Deputy Cooper wish to tell the House that the adverse trade balance, as submitted to the House by the Minister for Finance, is not correct? 
     
     
      
       I do not say that it is not correct. 
     
     
      
       Because Deputy Cooper's figures would tend to convey that we export more than we import, and Deputy Lemass wished to convey to the House that, taking the figures in bulk, our total exports do not exceed our imports. 
     
     
      
       I say per head of the population.  Deputy Briscoe must remember that the British exports are from a population very much larger than our own.  Though I think there may be an adverse trade balance&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is an adverse trade balance. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;I am personally of the opinion that our invisible imports are under-rated. 
     
     
      
       How does Deputy Cooper account for the fact that England, with a population very much larger than ours, buys less from us than we, with a population of only 3,000,000, buy from her? 
     
     
      
       As most of us are aware, this question of tariffs has been before the House on a number of occasions. The Minister for Finance brought it prominently before us some three years ago when he made what he then called &ldquo;an experiment in tariffs.&rdquo;  I need not enter in detail into the tariffs that composed that experiment.  Later the Minister stated that until a reasonable period had elapsed he was not prepared to proceed in the matter of imposing further tariffs.  But for some reason or other, which was not on that occasion the introduction to the House of a new   and formidable body, he explained later that he withdrew to some extent from that undertaking.  I gathered from his speech to-day that he has now still further weakened in the undertaking which he gave.  One would have liked to see a somewhat longer time devoted for experimental purposes in connection with the tariff proposals before we decided to adopt either an extension or a reduction of that system. When the Minister brought in these experimental proposals he told us that these tariffs were not for the purpose of producing revenue, but with the object of developing employment.  With that explanation before us let us examine these experimental tariffs very briefly. 
       The Minister has referred in some detail to the tariff on boots.  I am not sure that he has admitted in his statement to-day whether or not the effect of that tariff was to increase the cost of boots by the amount of the tariff. But all of us, and particularly those of us with large families, know that the real effect of the tariff has been to increase the cost of the commodity by the amount of the tariff, which is fifteen per cent.  There is no doubt whatever about that.  That tariff has produced a revenue of some £272,228 per annum. That is, those who have purchased boots in the Saorstat have had to pay that additional amount for footwear. On the other side we are told&mdash;and this is the important point&mdash;that in that industry we have now some seven hundred additional employees who have found work in the different factories as a result of the imposition of the tariff.  I understand that one-third of that seven hundred is composed of females, and we all know that in that industry a considerable number of juveniles is employed.  I should think that at least another third would be juveniles.  So that I think it would be fair to say that one-third would be males, one-third females and one-third juveniles.  The employment of that seven hundred additional hands has cost the residents in the State the sum of £272,228 per annum.  In other words, every additional man, woman and juvenile in that industry costs the State to-day £389 per annum; or between £7 and £8 a week. 
     
     I said that one would like to see a   little further period of time elapsing in connection with this experiment in boots before one expressed an opinion on the tariff.  If we are to pronounce on it to-day as the result of our experience I do not think that anyone in this House, and certainly very few outside it, would be inclined to say that that tariff has been a success.  The tariff has burdened those living in the State to a far greater extent than it has produced any advantage in the way of employment, and the extraordinary thing about it is that the importation of boots to-day is as large as it was before the tariff was put on.  There is practically no difference in the figures of imports. Can anybody say that the tariff has been a success?  There is no doubt but it has done one thing: it has increased the cost of the commodity and, by doing that, has increased the cost of living. 
     Let us dwell for a moment on that particular aspect of this problem of tariffs.  All these experimental tariffs that were referred to by the Minister had the same object, the provision of additional employment.  They are all in much the same position to-day as the boot tax.  They have burdened the taxpayers with an additional heavy burden and, on the other hand, in no case have they produced the amount of additional employment that any of us anticipated. That is true generally of all these taxes.  Remembering that, let us follow the argument a little further. They have increased the cost of living, and by doing that they have increased the cost of production.  By increasing the cost of production they have handicapped exporters in the open markets in which they have to compete. 
     It has been pointed out over and over again in the Dail that agriculture is not alone the basic industry of this country, but one that gives employment to a very large percentage of the inhabitants. It has been computed that over 80 per cent. of the inhabitants of the Irish Free State are dependent on that industry.  To-day that industry depends for its prosperity on its ability to compete successfully in that great market, Great Britain, where it has to meet in the open competitors   from all parts of Europe, as well as from most of the countries outside it. A Deputy referred to the imports to Great Britain from countries as far distant as New Zealand and Canada.  It is important for us to bear in mind that we should do everything, in view of the importance of the agricultural industry here, to assist those engaged in it, not only to hold their own in competition in the markets of Great Britain, but to try to increase our exports there.  In that way we would provide additional employment for those at home and reduce that adverse trade balance that we hear about so frequently.  The only solution that I can see for that difficulty has been referred to on many occasions, that is to increase our exports. We are not going to increase our exports by increasing the cost of living at home, and by burdening those who are engaged in trying to increase the export trade of the country. 
     That is one aspect of this problem that I would like to see referred to in detail by its supporters.  There is another, and, to my mind, a very serious aspect to this problem of tariffs. It was referred to by Deputy Lemass, who has told us that while we export goods to the value of some £40,000,000 to Great Britain, Great Britain sends into this country products to the value of some £46,000,000, and that the balance is against us.  Supposing, as is not at all unlikely when you set up a prohibition against the manufactures of Great Britain coming into this country, Great Britain says: &ldquo;If you refuse to allow our manufactures into your country free, is it fair that we should allow you to send your manufactures or products into our country free?&rdquo; That, to my mind, is the real danger that a tariff policy is likely to produce. Deputies on the other side of the House have told us&mdash;and I think quoted the instance of Denmark&mdash;that other countries export large quantities of their produce to the English market and that there is no retaliation.  Does England send an equally large proportion of her products into the Danish market?  I have not looked into the figures recently, but as well as I understand, English exports to Denmark are comparatively small. 
     
        English exports to the Free State are much larger than our exports to Great Britain, so that while it would be almost a matter of indifference in the case of Denmark it becomes a matter of serious difference to Great Britain in the case of the Free State, one of her best customers at her own door.  That is an aspect of the problem that has not received the consideration it deserves. In the last few months we had an object lesson of that particular problem. We saw in the newspapers where America had set up a tariff against French goods, and France immediately retaliated with a tariff against American goods.  Deputies may say that there is no fear of retaliation, but it has become a rather serious policy with the various countries engaged in an export trade to-day.  So serious has the policy of retaliation become that there has been set up at Geneva a committee to consider the whole problem of tariffs from an international point of view.  I understand that representatives from the Free State have attended conferences on the subject.  This matter of retaliation ought to be carefully considered as a serious possibility to these proposals. 
     Another aspect of the question that, to my mind, has not had the consideration it deserves is as to its effect.  Supposing Great Britain were to retaliate and to put an import duty on our cattle, butter, eggs, bacon and other commodities, what would be the effect of it?  To illustrate my point: out of every four cattle produced in this country there is only consumption here for one.  The other three are exported. Supposing, as a result of your tariff policy, that Great Britain retaliates, what is to become of your surplus supply of the three head of cattle produced here?  The only market we have is Great Britain, and that will be closed against the disposal of our surplus stock of cattle.  The immediate result will be that our cattle trade will be reduced immediately by 75 per cent.  That is to say, it will be reduced to the home consumption.  That, in itself, would create a very serious situation in the agricultural industry.  It would cause a very large amount of unemployment. You cannot make changes of this kind   without bringing about these unfortunate results.  You cannot provide alternative methods of employment immediately, and you cannot change a system in a few months.  These are some aspects of the problem that ought to have more consideration than, I think, they have received. 
     There is another aspect of the problem that I would like to refer to.  It is the constant changing of our fiscal system.  Changes of any kind in the fiscal system of a country give rise, in the minds of those engaged in industry, to feelings of unrest and insecurity. What is more likely to stop the investment of capital in industry in the country than a want of security in connection with your fiscal system? It is just as necessary that you should have stability from that point of view as from the political point of view in order to encourage the investment of capital.  As long as this question of tariffs and this changing of our fiscal system remain in their present form, so long will you have capitalists and industrialists fighting shy of investing their capital in industries, the conditions surrounding which may be changed in a few months time.  All that is reflected in the unemployment problem that we discussed during the last few weeks.  While, as I have said on many occasions before, I am neither a tariff reformer on the one hand nor a convinced free trader on the other, I am anxious to consider and explore every proposal that is put up before expressing an opinion on it to see whether, from my point of view, it is going to be for the benefit of the country or otherwise.  I must say, from what I have seen and from the consideration that one has been able to give to the experiments in tariffs made by our Government, that I will need to see a lot more as a result of those tariffs before I am converted to them or convinced that they have been a successful experiment. 
     
      
       I do not agree with Deputy Good.  The Deputy said that the tariff on boots had increased prices and that there had been no corresponding increase in employment as a result of the tax on imported boots.  I say there has been.  In the year 1924 the Lee   Boot factory was running idle in Cork. As a result of the tax, in the year 1925 and in the corresponding month of the year the factory was paying £4,000 in wages.  A guarantee was given by the firm that they would not increase the price of boots.  I think that in the case of all tariffs, whether on boots, clothing, flour, or any other commodity that we can produce and manufacture in the country, the Government should set up a controlling body to see that merchants or factories would not put on an undue profit on the goods they sell as a result of tariffs.  That would be one way to guarantee that the tariffs that we are empowered to put on by reason of our freedom would be of direct use to the people.  When we have our freedom I think we should exercise it.  As regards the point made by Deputy Good, if as a result of our tariffs the English people began to tax our cattle, a thing I believe they would not do because they are too fond of the beef, it would then be time enough for us to try to make regulations with them. 
       I hold anything we can do to keep the people at home, by way of encouragement by setting the mills going that are idle, should be done.  I am certain that all parts of the House will lend a hand to do that.  But we are not going to burn our fingers by putting a tariff on everything at once; it should be done little by little.  If there was a tariff on flour, the flour mills would not be going six hours instead of twenty-four, and the men would be working at home instead of being away.  I hold it is our bounden duty to put a cautious tariff on, and to try to keep the population at home.  We can show to the world that we have established our freedom by putting a tax on imported articles. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass has endeavoured to exaggerate the remarks I made when the tariff on margarine was being discussed.  I suggested that the word &ldquo;prohibition&rdquo; should be used in a careful and guided manner.  He has ridiculed the possibility of English retaliation, and in that I possibly will agree with him as far as the Government is concerned.  But there are other ways of retaliation.  I can give you a forcible example of what I mean.  In   the summer of 1926, when a large number of English visitors were here, Dublin was placarded with posters issued by the Party he represents, and on those posters were the words: &ldquo;Boycott English goods and boycott every article coming from England to this country.&rdquo;  What occurred?  When the visitors returned to England they reported what they saw here, with the result that in a large number of shops, particularly butchers' shops, there were notices posted up: &ldquo;We are not stocking any Irish meat here.&rdquo;  That, possibly, did a grave and serious injury to the farmers of this country, and it may be one of the reasons for the considerable fall in the price of Irish meat, and the fact that frozen meat in England is at least of an equal price, if not higher.  That was why I stated that we ought to be careful before we go too far.  I am completely in agreement that goods manufactured in Ireland ought to have a tariff to protect them. I believe with the Shannon scheme coming and with a graded system of protection employment will be given to the people.  I do not regret the warning note I threw out, because I believe I am doing it in the best interests of this country. 
     
     
      
       I want to raise very briefly an important subject, and that is the position of the slate quarries in the southern portion of the country. In connection with their present position, the Minister, in reply to a question, outlined what the policy of the Department was.  I have knowledge of that fact, and am quite willing to admit that the Department has been careful in any contracts under their control to advocate the use of Irish slate in connection with building.  I think a good deal more than that might be done.  It is a matter of great regret to see unemployment in the country being intensified by the discharge of a number of people in this industry.  The Minister made reference to the statement that Irish slates were more expensive and that in the case of a five-roomed house, the Irish-manufactured slate would involve persons building that house in an expenditure of about £18 more.  I had no opportunity of pressing the matter further at that   time.  I had direct information from the proprietors of the slate quarries that so far from there being any increase in the cost of local slate, they would be in a position to supply it at the same price as a slate imported into the country.  It is well known and generally admitted, and the fact that the Local Government Department and the Housing Department have advocated the use of Benduff and Madranna slates in Cork on important buildings is proof of the fact that the local material is as good, and very often better, than the material used as a result of the importation of slates.  I consider it nothing less than a scandal that in the South of Ireland buildings are being put up by private individuals and people assisted out of State funds with slates manufactured, I understand, in Belgium and slates imported from Wales, while at the same time week after week those connected with the labour movement are seeing people discharged from the quarries that can provide material equally good and cheap.  This is perhaps not the most important item to be raised in a debate like this, but it is particularly important owing to the possibilities there are in the development of an industry like this.  It is very regrettable that instead of efforts being made to help the industry along, it is being allowed to lapse into a state of decay. 
     
     Whether it is a question of affording protection to this industry, or whether it is a question of compelling people who are being subsidised out of State funds already to realise their duties to the industries of the country, and to the people engaged in these industries&mdash; whether one looks at it in one light or another&mdash;it is a very important matter and I trust the Department will not lose sight of helping this industry in the future to a much more considerable extent than it has been helped in the past.  The fact that the Department of Industry and Commerce has thought it worth while, under the Trades Loan (Guarantee) Act, to give a guarantee for a substantial amount to another slate quarry is proof of the fact that they realise there is a big opportunity for the development of the industry, and I feel that it is a matter that can be very properly considered by the Government,   whether in the nature of affording further protection to the industry or compelling people who are assisted out of State funds to come to a sense of their duty in connection with the industry and in connection with the opportunity they have of helping people who need such help, and who, if not helped that way, must be helped out of local funds, and must be a charge on the local ratepayers.  I have nothing further to say on the point but to express the hope that this matter might be attended to in the future, and that protection which might be necessary in one direction or another might be afforded as quickly as possible. 
     
      
       As one who has been listening to the statements of, and meriting the good offices of Deputy Good and others from time to time, I wish to say a word in favour of protection. In a portion of my constituency of East Cork we are very deeply interested in the barley industry. During the last year a large majority of the farmers of East Cork had their barley left on their hands unsold.  In the finish it was sold at 12/- or 14/- a barrel, a price that was entirely below the cost of production.  On the other hand, we had imported last year, or I should say, in fact, this year, 213,694 cwt. of foreign barley.  But there is worse than that.  Foreign malt has been imported into this country.  Speaking on the matter of unemployment here. Deputy Carey mentioned the malt houses in Ballinacurra and Midleton as having been closed down.  He told you that there were over 200 people employed in these malthouses.  Last year there was £137,000 worth of foreign malt imported in the course of six months.  That is to say, while we here are looking for remedies for unemployment a sum of £137,000 has been sent out of the country for foreign malt, and our own malthouses are closed down and the men that should be employed in them idle. 
     
     The Tariff Commission that we are told is sitting and looking into these matters reminds me of a cartoon which was very prominent during the last General Election and which I noticed in Kilkenny during the last few days.  That was a cartoon showing   a hen hatching on an egg.  I suggest that the Executive Council have had their Free State hen hatching on an egg in the shape of the Tariff Commission, and that hen has been hatching for ten long months, at the end of which they bring out a tariff on rosary beads.  Surely where we have imported 31⁄2 million pounds' worth of foreign flour we are very much concerned in this matter.  The Minister for Agriculture and I were met down in Kilkenny the other day with the fact that there were seven flour mills closed down in Kilkenny.  I know that the flour mills in Co. Cork&mdash;Clondullane and Midleton in East Cork, and Furlong's mills in Cork&mdash;are working six hours out of twenty-four and foreign stuff is coming in.  I have been speaking to these millers.  They told me that they are prepared to give a guarantee that they will sell their home-milled flour at the price prevailing at the moment in Liverpool if the Government on their part will prohibit the importation of this foreign flour.  That is not going to raise the cost of living.  We had a statement from the Minister for Finance that the closing down of the woollen mills was the mill owners' own fault.  I happened to go into that matter a little bit yesterday.  We have twenty-nine woollen mills in the Free State.  We have ten of these in the Co. Cork and they are all practically closed down.  We have mills at Blarney, Douglas, Dripsey and Midleton, and they could be giving employment to 1,270 persons if they were working full time.  At present they are only employing 500 hands.  That means a loss in wages in six months of £34,000, and the Government paid in unemployment benefit in that time to these people £6,400.  Is it not time that this hen, which apparently is a bad hatcher, was got rid of, and that somebody was put in charge of this Commission who would bring speedy results in the matter of the millions of imports of agricultural produce instead of results in rosary beads? 
     Surely if this matter were gone into in a serious light better results could be obtained.  I have heard the speeches of Deputy Good and Deputy Shaw, and   these speeches are an index of the hidden hand which lies behind every attempt on our part here in Ireland to become economically free.  We always hear the threat of &ldquo;Be careful, you will twist the lion's tail; be careful lest you lose your best customer.&rdquo;  We farmers are not afraid of losing this customer.  We know that if John Bull will get a pound of beef from Kamschatka a farthing in the pound cheaper than our beef, he will buy it in preference to Irish manufacture.  We know that if John Bull will get a pound of Chinese bacon a farthing in the pound cheaper he will do away with the Irish stuff if the foreign stuff is of as good quality.  Where is the need of our having imported into this country a half million pounds worth of foreign butter?  Where is the occasion for it? I suggest that most of this butter is bought up by the Government.  It is no laughing matter.  I can prove a share of it anyhow.  It was served out to me in the internment camp&mdash;New Zealand butter was served out to me&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Did you eat it? 
     
     
      
       It is not the New Zealand farmers who pay the Ministers' salaries.  I suggest that this Tariff Commission is working at the wrong end of the stick.  We had allusions here to the tariff on boots.  I suggest that the Irish boot factories are only able to produce one-tenth of the boots necessary in this country, and that the tariff on boots was put on in the first instance solely to get revenue.  Is it with revenue we are concerned or are we concerned with this hardy annual which the Minister jocosely alluded to a few days ago here?  That is the hardy annual of 90,000 men unemployed in this country.  Is that a matter that we should be concerned with?  Is that a matter that we should look into?  There is another matter here.  The imports of maize meal into the Free State in six months comes to £209,000.  Whatever argument there is or may be for the importation into this country of maize or whatever argument there may be for the importation into this country of wheat there can be no argument whatsoever for the importation   into this country of foreign-milled flour or maize meal.  Let the stuff come in whole.  Let the grain come in here if necessary and let our mills be put to work on that grain.  I see here in this list that in feeding stuff for animals, such as bran, pollard, middlings and so on, there were imported in six months £143,000 worth.  That came in after the flour.  We had £143,000 worth coming in during a period of six months, as distinct from flour.  I notice that as regards the importation of foreign flour in 1927 about 1,088,000 cwts. of foreign flour came from England.  It was consigned from Great Britain, according to the information to my hand.  If we get over a million pounds worth of foreign flour imported into this country from England, that is why we have what Deputy Cooper alluded to a while ago as a large population in Great Britain and a large number of bullocks here. 
       I suggest seriously to the Executive Council that they must get rid of this old hen which they have put hatching and which is bringing out no chickens. The usual thing to do with a hen of that description is to get rid of her, and I suggest the Government should get rid of this hen, should get rid of Civil Servants who are not concerned with the ups and downs of Irish life, Civil Servants who have barbed wire entanglements around them and to whom it does not matter whether the farmer has the wherewithal to pay his rates or the labourer the wherewithal to pay his way.  All these Civil Servants are protected in regard to their salaries and bonuses and they do not give a hang whether the labourer or the farmer is in good circumstances so long as they get their money.  You should put on the Tariff Commission men more concerned with the ups and downs of Irish life and who will deal adequately with their work.  You must do something like that if you are not going to have this hardy annual of 90,000 unemployed cropping up every year.  You are importing into this country sufficient foreign produce to keep every man here working at full time. 
     
     
      
       I suggest the   hen may be all right, but some of the eggs may be bad, and that, perhaps, is the real trouble.  Now, on this question of retaliation, the fact of the matter is that if we do our business in an ordinary commercial way there is no fear of retaliation.  If we talk nonsense and go on talking it in the way we are, there is fear of retaliation.  You can have a trade war or any other war if you are asking for it.  I do not know who is most to blame, whether it is the Deputies on the Fianna Fail Benches, who are constantly holding up the Saxon to odium and talking about the hidden hand, or, on the other hand, the people who tell you: &ldquo;Do not do this, that or the other, because the British will retaliate.&rdquo; The fact is that both are too morbid about the British.  Forget the British for a little while and realise that we can carry out our own business if we settle down and attend to it.  If we tackle our business in that way there is very little fear of retaliation.  It is such a big subject it is quite impossible to deal with it briefly.  On the other hand, I do not want to make anything in the nature of a long speech.  At the same time, there are one or two points I would like to put forward.  Suppose we have a tariff on boots, not 15 but 40 per cent.  Suppose you had a tariff on wheat, or, if you like, a prohibition on wheat, and some system of licence under which 20 per cent. would be allowed in. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear any suggestion of a prohibition of wheat, or a tariff. 
     
     
      
       Flour&mdash;you are right. Suppose we had a tariff on flour and some system of licence under which 20 per cent. would be brought in.  Suppose also we had a tariff on woollens, buses and motor bodies, and barley. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear anyone suggesting a tariff on flour. 
     
     
      
       I did; I have better hearing.  Suppose we had all these tariffs, I have no doubt whatever all the mills would be going.  I have no doubt all the woollen mills would be going, provided the tariff was high enough and, further, factories would be built to turn out produce of all kinds.   I have no doubt of any of these things, but you do not solve the problem by leaving it at that.  There is no doubt but all these tariffs, if put on within a period of two or three years, would increase the cost of living.  If you put 40 per cent. on boots, at least for the next five or six years, the price of boots must go up.  I have not examined this question of a tariff on boots in all its details; neither has Deputy Lemass or any other Deputy.  Deputies could not do it.  It takes a Commission sitting for a long time, and a department considering it for a very long time, to get at the exact figures in a case like that. The exact figures and details are really required and most important.  Even though we have not examined these things as closely as that&mdash;and we could not be expected to do it&mdash;we can all admit that if you have a tariff of 40 per cent. on boots for a great many years, until you have boot factories in the country capable of turning out practically the total needs of the country and capable of competing with manufacturing firms in other countries, such as England, that have behind them a tradition of 70 or 80 years, you must have high-priced boots, quality for quality. 
       Deputy Lemass made a point about flour.  He said we should have prohibition, but he was prepared to let in 20 per cent., and if the Irish mills still had a bigger price than what would be charged for the 20 per cent., then the people should be entitled to deal accordingly. That is begging the question again.  The only question is, can the Irish mills produce flour as cheaply? 
     
     
      
       I said if there was any tendency on the part of the Irish mills to profiteer. 
     
     
      
       I beg your pardon. There is, of course, some difference between a reasonable increase and profiteering, but where does reasonable increase end and profiteering begin?  That is a question for very close examination.  We should not be so naive.  You cannot take at face value the statements of interested people, even the Industrial Development Association, about guarantees. Such people will guarantee this, that,   and the other price and will also guarantee quality and other things.  That is natural.  They believe these statements themselves, but no Government, or anybody with a responsibility to the people, will take these guarantees at their face value without examination. It is hard to see whether such guarantees are carried out, as it is not merely a question of price but of quality. What do you call a big increase?  A very small increase in the price of a bag of flour means £240,000 to the people of this country.  Take the case of woollens.  We could produce all the woollen goods which the country wants, and we could produce all the food the country wants.  We could produce all the clothes and boots we require. 
       That is only a question of having a sufficiently high tariff but, at the end of it all, if you are to do these things quickly, within, say, a period of five years, what is the cost of living going to be?  Remember that during the last five years practically £15,000,000 worth of imports have been tariffed, and that has to some extent increased the cost of living.  The fact that it has not increased the cost of living as much as expected is due to the fact that the tariffs were put on with considerable skill.  The right kind of tariffs were picked out.  The tariff on oatmeal is right, but it was received with scoffs and sneers by Fianna Fail Deputies throughout the country when we suggested it.  Practically all the other tariffs are sound.  They were imposed as a result of the closest examination. You have £15,000,000 worth of imported goods tariffed and you want to have the rest, something like £30,000,000 worth, also tariffed, say, within the next five years.  I daresay that Deputy Corry considers five years a scandalous time to wait.  I do not know what Deputy Lemass would think of that, but let us say five years. What would the cost of living be by that time? 
     
     Surely you do not think that you will have woollen factories capable of turning out woollen goods for the whole country in that time, at the same price as English factories with their mass production, highly capitalised, and with a long manufacturing tradition   behind them.  I do not say that you cannot develop such a tradition in this country.  Of course you can.  There is no reason why you should not have industries with skilled workmen and why you should not build up an industrial tradition here, but do you think you are going to do that within five years?  Does any sensible business man think that within five years you will have woollen and boot factories supplying the home market at anything like the prices of the large factories on the other side established for seventy or one hundred years, properly financed, the last thing in efficiency, and with highly skilled workmen?  You cannot do it.  The most charitable way in which I could state the programme of the Party opposite would be to say that they want the rest of the tariffable goods tariffed within five years.  By doing that you must increase the cost of living. 
     Do not misunderstand me.  I am not saying that all tariffs increase the cost of living.  I am not saying that you could not gradually apply tariffs for a long period skilfully in such a way as to cause only a slight increase in the cost of living.  All I am saying is that if it is your policy to tariff £15,000,000 worth of goods more, you are aiming at a very big increase in the cost of living and putting a huge tax on the consumer. Who is the consumer?  He is, to a great extent, the farmer, who is the producer we hear so much about. In that connection let me say that we are told here that the patriotic policy is to build up industry and to find alternative markets for agriculture.  That is supposed to be not only highly patriotic&mdash;in fact it has a Republican flavour &mdash;but something in the way of a discovery. That is our policy, and it must be the policy of any Party interested in the country.  Deputies opposite ought not to state it as if it was a monopoly of their own. 
     Why is it that some Deputies are not capable of going a step further?  They point out that the farmer has only one market, in which he sells nearly 98 per cent of his goods, and they ask triumphantly: &ldquo;Is that a state of things which you want to perpetuate? Is it your policy to maintain that?&rdquo; Of course it is not.  It is unhealthy to   sell all your goods in one market and to have all your eggs in one basket. England has ten or eleven markets, and she sells about 10 per cent of her goods in each.  She has, of course, big markets in the United States and India.  No one is so foolish as to take up the position that, having only one market for our exports, which in bulk is practically 75 per cent. agricultural, is a sound position. Let us agree to start at that point.  I want to see industries in this country.  There would be more people to buy.  Equally, we want to find alternative markets for agriculture.  No one suggests that the present is an ideal position.  Let us leave that and see how we are to alter it. 
     The proposal, so far as I can understand it, from the benches opposite is that we should speed up the Tariff Commission to such an extent, presumably, that we would have about £20,000,000 worth of imports tariffed within the next three or four years. If you do that, is it any harm to ask what about the consumer, the farmer? Can he afford it?  Let me put the dilemma in another way.  Is the fact of sending about ninety-eight per cent. of our goods to one market any reason for breaking the farmer?  The moral is not to throw out dirty water until you get the clean.  Is it not also the moral that the farmers, Guinness and others must be kept in production concurrently with the establishment of new industries?  If you tariff another £15,000,000 worth of imported goods in the next five years how can the farmer and the others produce?  Until you build up a population of 10,000,000 or 12,000,000 I do not see how they can do it otherwise than by selling a big percentage of their products in a foreign market, unless they change their whole economic system.  I cannot see better economy for the farmer than the present system.  I think it is right, but it could be developed wonderfully. It would be, of course, to his advantage to have a home market as well as an English one, but I think it is absolutely essential in a poor country like this where, apparently, everyone wants a dole or a grant and where somebody has to pay, that the producers who are paying should be kept in production until you have other producers. 
     
        Is it not the moral of the story that the Tariff Commission should proceed with the greatest circumspection? Deputy Good spoke about the changes in the fiscal policy.  He said that the effect would be to keep capital out of the country.  I do not agree with his point of view, that the fact that the Government is likely to impose tariffs gradually will prevent capital coming in or being put into production.  I think it will have the contrary effect. What would prevent capital coming in, or prevent capital being put into production, is imposing tariffs and then taking them off.  That is what the policy of the other side would lead to. The greatest enemies of tariff reform are the people who want to cram tariffs indiscriminately within a short period.  That is absolutely certain to lead to reaction.  It must be remembered that farmers and farmers' sons count in politics, and if you make it impossible for them to produce at a profit they will not stop at repudiating their Land Commission annuities and paying no rents, rates, and so on; they will see to it, as they are the electors, that a Government, or that somebody, will be put in charge of the country to see that these tariffs which are choking them will be removed.  If you want to prevent any chance of industrial development go ahead with the tariff policy on the lines of taxing practically £20,000,000 or £30,000,000 worth of imports within the next five years.  In other words, go ahead with a badly-thought-out tariff policy.  If you want industries, and everyone does, they must be developed slowly, and they must be developed concurrently with the development of agriculture.  They must be developed in such a way as to put the smallest burden on the farmer, who is endeavouring to produce at present under the very gravest difficulties. If you attempt any other policy, then two things will happen, and I do not know what will happen after.  One is that the farmer will go out of production, and the other is that the industrialists will go out of production, and somebody will have to clear up the mess. 
     
     
      
       I would like to refer to a couple of points in connection with this matter.  To my mind the reasoning of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture is unsound on certain points.  He said that if we impose a tariff on flour it would lead to an increase in the price of flour; in other words, that it would mean a tax on the consumer.  We have heard from Deputies who seem to know about mills in some parts of the country that they are working only six hours out of the twenty-four.  I understand that Irish flour is being sold at the same price as foreign flour.  It stands to reason that if those mills were working 12 out of the 24 hours that would not lead to an increase in the price of flour, but would probably lead to a slight reduction, for the overhead charges would remain practically the same&mdash;the rents and rates, irrespective of the labour concerned. Speaking the other day on our adverse trade balance, the Minister for Industry and Commerce told us that it would not matter materially, if he spent £100 over and above his income, where he spent it, whether in this country or not.  I hold that it does matter very materially.  We will assume that that £100 over and above income comes from a reserve fund, or is obtained on a loan which may be regarded as a mortagage on future earnings or producing capacity.  If the Minister spent £100 in the Isle of Man, or England, or Geneva, it would be a dead loss to the country.  If, on the other hand, it were spent at home it would, by being put into circulation, afford a certain amount of employment. If spent in this country it would give employment to one person, and the same would apply to England if it were spent there.  Supposing it were spent by a farmer or business man in buying goods produced in England, that would mean keeping one person out of employment here.  If we increase that £100 to £18,000,000, which represents our adverse trade balance, or the amount spent over and above our income, then the number which could be calculated as being deprived of employment in Ireland would increase to 90,000, so that it does matter materially where the £100 over and above income is spent,   or the £18,000,000.  I saw, according to a placard in O'Connell Street, that there is a site for sale which carries a Government grant of £18,000.  Some time ago I went through the freestone quarries at Mountcharles.  The freestone there is equal to that in any part of the world.  Overlying the deposit of freestone there are ten or twelve feet of granite.  The owners of the quarries have not sufficient capital to remove the granite, and the consequence is that they have to bore into the rock and take the ledges as they come and work them out in the best way they can. That, of course, is a handicap.  If they had sufficient capital, or could get sufficient orders, they would be able to put in modern machinery and have that overlying granite removed, and could tackle the rocks straight off the face. We import stone from Portland and elsewhere for building purposes.  If a tariff were put on imported stone that would result in a good deal of employment being given in our quarries. 
     
     
      
       Would it increase the cost of building? 
     
     
      
       It might, but I question whether it would or not, because at present these people are expected to compete in price with the stone imported from Portland and elsewhere. If they had larger orders, and were able to develop on more modern lines, that would lead not to an increase but to a decrease in the cost of production. Anything in the nature of building material that can be produced at home should be tariffed or prohibited according to the findings of the Commission dealing with the matter.  A Deputy referred to the slate industry. We have large deposits of clay of different kinds suitable for different purposes, including the making of bricks. Still we find that we are importing what could be produced by this State. That should cease.  It might in some cases, for a little while, increase the cost of certain things such as bricks or slates.  I am not competent to speak on that, because I have never made bricks or slates, but at the same time it should be taken into consideration that these things are absolutely essential, because we find that our mineral deposits, and deposits of any description, such as   stone, clay, etc., are generally found in areas where there is great unemployment. 
     
     
      
       The trouble about this kind of debate seems to be always that people never seem to realise that the world moves.  On this question of tariffs, year in and year out, we get the same kind of speeches delivered from various quarters of the House.  The world may go round and round in a circle, but at any rate it moves, and we ought to begin sometime to recognise the fact that it does move.  We get speeches from people who announce that they are in favour of protection and who never seem to remember that we are living in a country which enjoys a rather high degree of protection.  We get speeches from Deputies like Deputy Good, who seems to have stood still where the receding waters of Free Trade left him four years ago, and who thinks that he is still living in a Free Trade country and struggling against the imposition of protection.  It is about time that we made up our minds that things change from year to year.  It is rather useful in a deliberative assembly such as this that we recognise that a change is taking place. 
     
     There were one or two omissions in Deputy Lemass's instructive speech which struck me as rather remarkable. He omitted to tell us how many factories have been established by reason of the entry of Fianna Fail into the Dail?  He is quite clear that an immense amount of good has been done to industry by their entry, but he has not told us the exact number of factories or industries that have been established by reason of it.  He also omitted to tell us where exactly in the country is that loud demand for protection to be found if it is not to be found in the daily press.  Speaking as a convinced protectionist, one of the things that sometimes make me doubtful is the fact that I am not able to see that immense demand for protection from all over the country anywhere. If it does not exist in the daily press, neither does it exist in the weekly press.  Anyone who reads the provincial weekly papers can easily see that for himself.  I am afraid it is rather   a silent sort of demand, and that it really exists in the imagination of the Deputy himself. 
     I remember a couple of weeks ago Deputy Derrig, talking about creameries, I think it was, said that there was a very strong demand amongst farmers for an increase in protective tariffs.  I have gone about a good deal during my time amongst farmers, and, speaking as a protectionist who would like to see an increase in protective tariffs as far as possible, I should be glad to meet some of those farmers.  I do not believe there are very many of them.  I believe that is one of the dangers that we have to be careful about in our tariff policy&mdash;that we may go too far, that we may go far beyond the demands of the country at the moment. and bring about a condition of affairs in which what Deputy Good spoke of would happen, that we would have a setting back of the hands of the clock and the taking off of tariffs that have been put on, with, as a result, all kinds of instability and uncertainty in industry. 
     One would imagine from speakers like Deputy Lemass that he and his friends have blown in here a few days ago from an outer world like little winged angels, and that they have no cognisance or knowledge of, or responsibility for anything that has happened in this country for the last four or five years.  They come along and make this sudden discovery, that it is necessary to have protective tariffs, and talk as if there were no tariffs in existence. Others made that discovery a good while before them and have been arguing about these matters on rather trite lines, perhaps not so originally, not with such startling subtlety as they can argue, but, at any rate, have been arguing these matters for the last three or four years here.  If the question of protection has not advanced far enough, if there are industries languishing, if tariffs have not been applied as much as they should have been, and if it is a healthy thing that more should be applied than have been, then the responsibility rests as much with those who were the elected representatives of the people and who stayed outside and said nothing about tariffs for   the last four years as with those who came in here and did their best to see that a tariff policy was inaugurated, and when it was inaugurated, that it was kept going.  Practically the only speeches I made in a previous Dail dealt with this question and were concerned with urging the Government to extend the tariff policy as far as possible. I have always, and so has this Party, been in favour of Protection. Protection has been put in force by this Party, while Deputy Lemass and his friends have been in the Heaven from which they have suddenly come to visit this mundane and imperfect world. 
     We can all agree, as the Minister for Agriculture said, on certain essentials, and we ought to begin to agree about them.  We ought to begin to agree that we can do what we like with our own fiscal system, and that we need not worry as to what other people think about us if we do.  We ought to agree, and, except for Deputy Good, probably everyone here will agree &mdash;I doubt if even Deputy Good will disagree&mdash;that we must have some measure of protection for our industries. The only question that divides us is the extent to which that measure of protection will be afforded and the rapidity with which it will be imposed.  Even on that point, I am inclined to believe that if people talked the matter out calmly, kept politics and the necessity for putting up a political programme out of the matter, and considered the interests of the country from the point of view of the people who have to live in it, there is very little room for difference between different political parties, even on the question of how rapidly we can go ahead in the matter of protection.  The possibilities of variation, laying aside electioneering problems and party propaganda, are very small for sensible people who have also a feeling of responsibility to the ordinary plain men and women who have to live in the country. 
     I believe that the Government have taken the only sane and sound course in setting up the Tariff Commission&mdash; that it is the only machinery by which a protective policy can be applied. When Deputies get up here and give   figures about flour and coach bodies, and all sorts of other things, I should like them to remember that these are matters which cannot be debated here by a set of amateurs as we all are in the Dail&mdash;that we cannot reach a final conclusion on such a question as flour. The conclusion that we reach on such a question as flour, for instance, is going to be of the utmost importance to a great many people in the country.  Our decision on whether the importation of flour is to be prohibited may mean the line between starvation and a certain amount of comfort to a great number of people in the country.  The same thing will apply to a great many other things that are dismissed so lightly, such, for instance, as maize meal. These are not matters upon which a set of politicians can decide.  These are matters which depend upon all sorts of factors, and can only be decided by men who are experts in weighing up those factors, and who can devote the time to that weighing up.  For that reason I believe that the Tariff Commission is the only machinery by which this question can be settled, and in that Commission industrialists in this country have a machine by which as much progress as is desirable can be made in the direction of further protection. 
     If there are industrialists who chose to quarrel with the personnel of the Tariff Commission or chose to think that the Tariff Commission will be influenced by some political prejudice or some anti-Irish prejudice in viewing their case, then those industrialists are mixing their political notions with their industries, and the sooner they stop it the better.  The sooner they realise that the Tariff Commission is an honest instrument for no other duty and job except to weigh up the economic factors and decide upon economic factors, the better for them and their industries.  We have complaints about the personnel of the Commission, and we are told it is desirable that we should not have Civil Servants on such Commissions.  That reminds me of Deputy de Valera's request for a Commission of economic experts.  It is all very well to talk about a Commission of economic experts who will reform all the functions of life in this   country as you tell them, but when you come to find the economic experts to sit on that Commission, you are in a difficulty.  The same applies to the Tariff Commission.  When you go outside the ranks of Civil Servants, and look for business men or ex-business men, to sit on a Commission like that, where are you to get them?  Business men are not so numerous, everyone knows, and those we have have plenty to do to look after their own business. 
     There is the further question: How far can the normal man, engaged in any business or profession, be expected to take an absolutely impartial view of some question that concerns that business or profession?  I say without any disrespect or suspicion of anybody this is a fair question&mdash;how can you take a man engaged in flour milling and put him on the Tariff Commission to decide whether we are to have a tariff on flour or not?  That question will arise every time you get up against the proposition of putting anybody except professional Civil Servants on a Tariff Commission. 
     It is said that Civil Servants are people who lead sheltered lives and cannot be trusted to know anything about the great hard, cruel world. There are other people besides Civil Servants who seem to have led sheltered lives and know nothing about the cruelty of the world.  People who talk about food and clothing and shelter as ultimate ideals for a nation, and people who expect to solve all economic difficulties by setting up a Commission of unnamed experts, may be said to be somewhat inexperienced in the hard ways of the world as well as Civil Servants. 
     The Chairman of the Tariff Commission, if it is not improper to refer to one of the members of the Commission, can be said to have as much experience of business or of the hard ways of the world in the service of his country, as almost any member of this Dail.  I do not think there is any alternative to the appointment of Civil Servants on a Commission of that kind, and I do not think you can find a better machine or instrument for disposing of this whole question of tariffs than some kind of permanent Commission.  If the members   of the Tariff Commission have not the time to get on rapidly enough then that is an easy thing to remedy.  An order from the Minister for Finance to have time put at their disposal would mean that they could be relieved of other duties that might interfere. There is no reason in the world why that should not be done.  But as far as I can see what the Minister for Agriculture said is really the truth of the matter, that the danger is that in view of the state of public opinion on this question and all big factors that have to be considered, we may go much too fast rather than too slow, especially in view of the fact that we have put tariffs on the most simple industries in whose case there was less of a problem. The industries that are left are industries in connection with practically every one of which big problems arise. 
     I would like to deal for a moment, although I insist it is not a matter for discussion in the Dail, with the proposition as to the prohibition of the import of flour and meal.  It is admitted by Fianna Fail speakers that our Irish flour mills can only produce eighty per cent. of our demands.  I think Deputy Corry is the only Deputy who does not seem to admit that.  It is proposed that we should exclude that eighty per cent. apparently of our present demand and allow in twenty per cent.  The danger I see in a policy of that kind is that if there were any dislocation, as I think very likely, in the supply of flour to any part of the country, the part of the country which would suffer by that dislocation would be the poorer part &mdash;the western districts&mdash;and there in the western districts we are up against a very peculiar problem on this question of flour.  I was told on very good authority that the people of Blacksod will not buy any except the very whitest kind of flour.  They have actually turned home from Belmullet rather than take a flour less white than they were accustomed to buy.  The same applies to Indian meal.  It is not only food for stock, but it is a very important element of the dietary of a considerable portion of people along the west coast, and any interference with the supply of either flour or Indian meal for the people on the west coast   of Ireland would result in one or other of two things: greatly increased privation and hardship in these districts, which have enough privation already, or else it would mean that the Government which imposed that prohibition would have to set up extraordinary machinery full of all kinds of complications, something like a Heath Robinson cartoon&mdash;if Deputies are familiar with the work of that great artist&mdash;in order to do for the people of the west coast what trade would do for them in the ordinary course if left alone. 
     I see a very big danger in that.  I am speaking as a person who would very much like to see our flour mills working at their fullest capacity, and not only that, but to see them working at their fullest capacity as far as possible with Irish wheat.  I think it would be a very great thing for this country if we could bring such a state of affairs about.  But I want to see that in trying to bring such a state of affairs about, we shall safeguard the people who are likely to suffer from any kind of dislocation in our economic machinery. 
     There is one other point to which I would like to refer.  It is a point on which, perhaps, I hold individual views. I notice that protectionists always adopt the attitude, both in the Dail and outside it, that a tariff which results in the raising of revenue is anathema, is something to be condemned, something which a good protectionist should despise and hate even more than he should despise and hate free trade.  That is a point of view that I have not been able to understand.  A great deal of this question of protection is bound up with the fiscal question, not only owing to the fact that a tariff is a tax in any case, but also owing to the fact that one of the most important elements in industry is taxation, that the welfare of industry depends very largely on the type and incidence of taxation in the country.  It seems to me to be almost axiomatic that if, by means of a revenue tariff in a certain state of affairs, you can lower, for instance, the income tax, which is too high, or you can take taxes off foodstuffs, or you can relieve the consumer or the producer in any way and lighten his fiscal burden, you are doing as much and perhaps   more by that means to protect industry as you are doing by putting on a high protective tariff which is so high that it brings in no revenue.  If it is so high that it brings in no revenue at all it is, of course, certain that it increases the cost of living considerably.  That is the question that I have often wished to hear discussed. 
     We have a great many protectionists who talk about putting tariffs on industry. I have not met anyone in this country who believes in an all-round revenue tariff.  I am not at all disinclined to think that in an all-round revenue tariff of a low kind we might find some remedy for our present economic disabilities, that we might be able to do something towards a further reduction of income tax and thereby bring back some of that capital that has gone out of the country.  But while saying that I would like to say also that these are not questions which can be decided by amateurs in council; they are questions which have to be left to men who have made a study of these matters, men who are experts; and while wishing to hear that question of a revenue tariff considered&mdash;a low revenue tariff of five per cent., we will say, to act as a substitute, partly for income tax and partly for other taxes&mdash; I am not at all anxious to see it made a matter of political controversy.  I think these are things on which people could argue without dragging in polities at all. 
     I am afraid that the policy of Fianna Fail on all these matters, in so far as they can be said to have a policy, is very analogous to their political policy. A couple of weeks ago we had Deputy Hugo Flinn talking about unemployment. He and others of the Party let us see that they, at least in their own belief, have some kind of secret doctrine, or secret remedy, the application of which they believe will mend all our troubles.  They have not given us any clear indication as to what that remedy is, but one can guess that to some extent it is the Douglas Credit Scheme, or something of that kind.  The curious thing about it is that, while not letting us know what their remedy is in detail, they adopt the most superior attitude about it and threaten to exterminate us if we do not accept that remedy.  That   sort of thing worked very well in religion. Mahomet announced that there was but one God and he was His prophet, and put all infidels to the sword, but it is a rather awkward thing in matters of political economics in the twentieth century to be faced with the statement that there is but one God, that Deputy Hugo Flinn is His prophet, and that if we do not believe it we will be put to the sword. 
     That type of argument is reminiscent of the whole record in politics of the Party to which Deputy Flinn now belongs. All along they have believed, as the Minister for Education said last week, in progress by catastrophy.  That is their political ideal.  They believed four or five years ago that their leader could look down into his heart and see written there what was best for the Irish people, and that he had a right to compel the Irish people to do that. Now he looks down into his heart again and he finds that Irish girls must not wear silk stockings and Irish people must not buy foreign flour.  And just as his opinion of an Irish Republic was a fine idea, so too is his idea that Irish girls should not wear silk stockings and that people should not eat foreign flour.  That is his ideal, but where the difficulty comes in is in his method of carrying that out.  He believes in enormous tariffs, the prohibition of imports, all kinds of force in every direction, but he does not believe at all in letting things right themselves and in allowing people to wear what they like an eat what they like as far as possible.  That seems to me to be the fundamental distinction between the attitude of the Government towards this problem and the attitude of Fianna Fail.  The Government has tried to progress by steady evolution in this matter of tariffs.  They have tried, while making progress&mdash;and they have made great progress&mdash;to see that they do not leave any part of the country behind, to see that they do not inflict damages on any element of the nation's life to off-set the benefits that they are trying to bring about.  They have done their best to march ahead all in line.  The Fianna Fail idea is to go ahead by a series of jumps and to leave half the country wallowing in the mud behind them as they go. 
     
     
      
       The North-East. 
     
     
      
       The North-East has nothing to do with tariffs. 
     
     
      
       Nor you either.  You are not talking about them. 
     
     
      
       I am talking about the Deputy's policy on protective tariffs when I say his policy is to jump ahead without considering anything. It is the same policy now as it was in 1922&mdash;to make up your minds what you want and go straight for it, not caring whether you kill yourselves or anybody else in the process.  That seems to me to be the fundamental distinction between the two Parties.  I am in favour of peaceful progress by evolution every time. 
     
     
      
       Se ar dtuairim, ar an dtaoibh seo den Tighe, na fuil moran maitheasa dul ar aghaidh leis an diosboireacht so, toisc na fuil rud airithe os ar gcoir.  I dtreo go mbeidhmid in ann rud eigin airithe do dheanamh agus gan bheith ag cainnt agus ag cainnt, ta se ceapaithe againn tairscinct do chur os coir na Dala sul i bhfad ar an gceist seo.  Ta smaointe againn le cur os coir an Tighe agus dheanfamid iarracht tuairim Teachtai na Dala do nochta i dtreo go ndeanfar beart da reir. 
     
     On this side of the House, we are satisfied that the policy that has been pursued since the Free State took control, if I might say so, has been one of playing for safety at a time&mdash;speaking now economically&mdash;when the nation required some big courageous effort to be made to save it from disaster.  The policy of safety has in five years brought us to a position in which we cannot say with truth that there is anything like a hopeful future before Ireland.  That policy of  laisser aller  or  laisser faire  or  festina lente , if you like, if continued for another five years would see this country with a population depleted at least to the tune of 400,000, as it was, in the last ten years anyway.  Progressively, emigration would continue and as far as the decreasing population would allow it, would increase in proportion to the decline of the country.   It is in realisation of the fact that Ireland has reached a stage when some big drastic effort is necessary to save her that we have made up our minds and intend to do our utmost to induce the country, and the country's representatives here to take their courage in both hands and start on a new policy. It is not a new policy&mdash;as there is nothing new in the policy of protection, even so far as Ireland is concerned&mdash;but a new method of handling that policy, so that a vigorous united effort may be made to save the nation from the ruinous policy of recent years, and give it a chance to get on its feet again. 
     The Minister for Industry and Commerce, in reply to a question by Deputy Lemass, stated to-day that in fifteen years 502,000 people emigrated from Ireland.  That was the net emigration in fifteen years.  Deputy Good and other Deputies talked of the cost of finding employment for 700 people.  I have not had an opportunity of checking his figures, but the Deputy stated that to find employment for 700 people &mdash;if I am not misquoting him&mdash;cost £300,000 in round figures, or perhaps not so much.  Economists reckon that having reared and educated 700 people up to whatever standard they may have been educated, even if it was only a National School education, to the age of twenty years, these people would be worth at least £400 each to the nation to which they belonged.  If we only take the 700 people to which Deputy Good referred they would be worth at least as much as the employment of that number is supposed to have cost the country. 
     
      
       Not in the Labour market. 
     
     
      
       Per annum? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps per annum, if they remained in the country and were given an opportunity of producing. It is a speculative figure, but there is potential wealth in these people. Even if we reduce the economic value of the 500,000 people who left Ireland in the last 15 years by half, and put the figure at £200 per head, it comes to at least one hundred million pounds sterling value gone out of Ireland and lost   to it for ever.  Taking account of decreased agricultural produce in Ireland in recent years, we find, if we go back to 1855, there was a total of 4,260,000 acres under tillage, while last year the total area under tillage was only 2,042,000 acres.  That is a loss to Ireland that arises from various causes, practically all economic, and very largely because of the emigration which arises from causes too familiar to all of us.  But if there is any one thing that will help to bring back the land into tillage and hold the people we have it is a policy that is not new, that this Party does not claim proprietorship in; it is a policy all patriotic Irishmen, who have thought of Ireland first, and not of the interests of another body or nation outside Ireland, and have preached a policy that was mainly responsible for bringing this institution such as it is into existence, the policy taught long ago by Davis, and in later times by Griffith.  That was the policy of protection for Irish industry.  We believe that policy will put Ireland on her feet again.  It may not bring back many of those who are gone, but it certainly will bring back into productivity millions of acres that have gone out of tillage, and will help us to keep the population that is growing up and that will come after us.  It will certainly enable them to live a life of decency and comfort, which they have not known in the past, and which they do not know to-day in many counties in Ireland.  To me, at any rate, it appears, having listened to this debate so far as it has gone, that there is an air of unreality about it, and that we are all talking academically, and not getting down to the roots of the matter.  The resolution is vague and in too general terms, and, for that reason, I do not intend, and I do not know that many of my friends intend, to discuss the matter on the basis of the resolution much further.  In the course of the next day or two we intend to put down a motion for discussion by this House, definitely asking it to come down to hard tacks, as the Americans say, and to let us do something about this question of protection and tariff reform. 
     
     Let us get at one of the difficulties   that is in the way, and that is, we claim, the Tariff Commission. Deputy Tierney talked at length in defence of the Tariff Commission.  We knew that a Tariff Commission is necessary and will be necessary under any Government, whatever its views be, whether whole-hog protectionist or a tip-and-run kind of protection, such as the present body indulges in.  We do claim that the three gentlemen on the Tariff Commission, no matter how industrious they may be and no matter how highly qualified they may be, have already on hands at least enough work each individually in his own Department to keep them more than fully occupied.  They are three executive heads of important civil service departments, and unless absolutely relieved from the duties attaching to their present posts are not the type that we believe are best fitted to give attention to the important subject of tariffs and protection in general that the subject deserves.  We believe it may be necessary to have civil servants on it, but as Deputy Lemass said, they alone are not the best type.  You want to get with them men who have practical experience in business, who know the problem of trying to run, say, a woollen industry, who know the difficulties that flour millers, or even flour importers, are up against.  You want, perhaps a man like a chartered accountant, or other public accountant, who is in the habit of dealing with large businesses, of examining their accounts and knowing their difficulties, as well as, perhaps, an ordinary working miller from one of these firms or an ordinary weaver from one of the woollen mills who may know a great deal more about the practical difficulties of the trade than some of the directors of the firm. 
     You want a Commission having as its personnel men of wide experience in business as well as perhaps statisticians and civil servants and gentlemen of that type who will bring other talents to bear on the problems put before them.  We do not say anything against the individuals concerned.  They may be the best that could be found in Ireland from the point of view of those who nominated them.  We have nothing to say against them personally, but as long as they hold their present posts   and as long as they are subject to being called away at any moment from this work, which involves a consideration of big economic problems&mdash;as long as the duties of the Finance Department, the Stationery Office, or whatever Departments they may belong to, are likely to call them away at any time and demand a great deal of their attention &mdash;they are not, unless relieved of these functions, the best people to be put at that work.  It strikes me, speaking personally, that when they were selected to go on that work the intention was that they should not take it very seriously. It was given to them as a side line, and a very remote side line at that. Those who thought of appointing men already so fully occupied thought very little of the grave economic situation of Ireland and of the grave economic problem they were asking these gentlemen to take upon themselves to solve. Therefore, those of us who take protection seriously, and believe that we see in it a remedy for the present economic ills of Ireland, are glad to notice the change that has taken place, whatever may be responsible for that change.  It may be the fact, though Deputy Tierney does not realise it, that the country has wakened up to the possibilities that protection offers to Ireland and particularly to agricultural Ireland. 
     I think it was Deputy Tierney who said that he did not see any evidence of the fact that the country was interested in protection.  It is true that you will not see much of it in the Irish press.  You will not see much of it in the &ldquo;Irish Independent,&rdquo; which, I suppose, is the paper read most by the people of the country, and which claims to have the largest circulation of any Irish daily newspaper.  You will not see much of it there because, as Deputy Lemass said, it would not suit their pockets any more than their national instinct, if they have such. There is one bit of evidence, I think, that might be adduced to show that there is an interest displayed in the country in this problem and that is borne to my mind by the fact that I saw Deputy Gorey walking in here to-day as a newly-elected member of this House.  If you look at the figures of that election you will find that it was   fought to a very large extent on the economic question, the question of protection. I was not there myself, but the speeches on our side dealt frequently indeed with the economic condition of the country.  If you take the result of that election as an indication, Fianna Fail increased its vote, as compared with the last election, by seventy-three per cent.  That increase must have come very largely from the farming community.  Both Carlow and Kilkenny are big agricultural counties. Even agriculture has been increased and intensified by what Deputy MacEntee called the &ldquo;sweetening&rdquo; of the Carlow constituency by President Cosgrave when representing it.  Notwithstanding that, seventy-three per cent. is the increased vote that the Fianna Fail Party got.  They got that increase largely from agriculturists because they had urged what evidently the people down there have accepted, namely, the teachings of our Party with regard to protection. 
     We are not such fools&mdash;at least I hope we are not&mdash;as to want to go into this question of protection like a bull in a china shop, smashing everything before us and breaking down all the traditions, whatever they are, as regards agriculture, trade or commerce, that have grown up in the country. But we want to improve the position of the country.  We want to build up and not to destroy.  In doing that, some changes will have to be made. Some old traditions will have to be broken.  You cannot, it is said, make omelettes without breaking eggs, and there may be some old traditions, dear, if I may say so without offence, to conservative minds like Deputy Good's, that will have to be broken.  There had to be many traditions broken in the last few years.  Perhaps they were not all for the good of Ireland.  I know that, in the view of some, they were anything but for the good of Ireland, but, at any rate, a big change came about politically, and we hope to bring about a great economic change.  We hope to do that in such a way as will bring benefit to the country and not injury. 
     We believe that the economic condition of Ireland to-day is such that nothing but drastic changes will   suffice.  Desperate diseases require drastic remedies, and Ireland's economic condition is, we believe, desperate. The remedies may have to be desperate, but whether they are drastic or not, we mean to introduce them, and do our best to get this House to adopt measures of full-blooded protection for such industries as we believe ought to be protected in Ireland under present conditions, such industries as can, under normal conditions, be brought to success in Ireland.  We want full protection. We even think that protection should take the form of embargoes with regard to certain items, embargoes against the importation of certain materials which we believe we can produce. It is true that, as to the details, the practical working out of such a scheme, this House is not the best place. We will have to come here before any great change in the law takes place, but to get down to the figures that the Minister for Lands and Agriculture and Deputy Tierney talked of would be probably best done by the Commission referred to, an enlarged Commission of a wider scope and a more representative one than that in existence at present.  That body, without reflecting in any way on its personnel, is nothing but a makeshift.  It was not the proper kind of Commission to have been put in charge.  We want that altered, and a more representative one put in its place.  There is nothing new in that policy so far as we are concerned. We did not invent it.  It is older a great deal than most of us here. It is the old Irish-Ireland gospel of giving Ireland an opportunity to develop industrially.  It is not even confined to Ireland.  There is hardly now a country in Europe, and if there are any outside it they are very few, that has not adopted it when and as it suited it. Somebody talked about America importing such large quantities of goods from Great Britain.  I have figures which go to show that Ireland buys as much from Great Britain at present as does the United States.  There is a little over £1,000,000 in the difference. The United States is probably the most highly-protected country in the world, and nevertheless England sends goods there and buys goods from them.  England   buys from the United States goods to the value of £230,000,000 and sends to that country £47,000,000 worth.  Ireland, at least that part of Ireland called the Free State, poor certainly in comparison with the United States, exported to Great Britain 401⁄2 million pounds worth&mdash;£40,567,000&mdash;and imported £46,346,000.  We believe that as long as it will serve England to buy our goods, if they are good value and she can get them as cheaply from us as elsewhere, she will purchase them. She does not buy goods for the love of us, and of the goods, largely agricultural imports, that we would like to see protected, a great part do not come from Great Britain.  Maize, oats and barley do not come from Great Britain; perhaps a good share of the woollens does, and flour does very largely.  Boots do, and whatever linens we get in this country largely do also, but, at any rate, taking agricultural produce, we would like to see some of it tariffed, other portions of it stopped altogether, except under licence, and these tariffs would not, in the main, hit Great Britain.  Therefore so far as these agricultural products are concerned England would have no reason to object.  A lot of the wheat that comes to Ireland, of course, would have to come in free until we could have our country back again to the area under tillage 40 or 50 years ago.  When we have that acreage under tillage it is possible that we can produce the wheat as we did before. 
     
      
       Economically? 
     
     
      
       Economically. It is not our intention so to ram our views down the neck of anybody that we would do harm instead of good to our country.  We are anxious to convert this Dail to the necessity for protection in a whole-hearted way that you do not believe in at present, and that you have not the heart or courage to put into operation at present.  You have gone, in a miserable, mean way, and with a want of courage, in for the policy you were supposed to have accepted when you accepted Griffith's teaching.  You ran away from it.  Now you are trying to get back, because you are being forced back, realising that   the country is going against you.  I have quoted the figures from Kilkenny. You realise that the country is going away from you on this question of economics as on other questions.  You have got to mend your hand, and the word is given out that you are going to be as much protectionists as Fianna Fail are.  Several of your speakers have said that there is no difference between us.  We are glad that you are going back to the old gospel of your old teacher, Griffith, the one you used to talk so much about, and, God knows, it is time.  We do not, I hope, intend, as Deputy Tierney suggested, putting anyone to the sword who does not accept our gospel.  If there were any swords about, I have a fair idea where Deputy Tierney would be.  I will say no more about him.  The less he says about swords the better.  He would not be there anyway.  We do not, I hope, intend to talk of this economic question in terms of swords.  It is a serious problem, and I believe there are people on the Cumann na nGaedheal Benches who look on it as seriously as we do, and who realise, as well as we do, that it is a problem that must be tackled. The only thing we say is: &ldquo;Be men and have the courage to tackle it in the way it needs to be tackled, because it is a question of life and death for Ireland.&rdquo; The population is flowing out of the country at such a rate that you must bend your best efforts with the rest of Ireland to save it, and to save it soon. 
     
     
      
       Before calling on the next Deputy, will the President say if it is intended to conclude this debate this evening? 
     
     
      
       I venture to hope that we will conclude this evening.  It is a very pious hope. 
     
     
      
       I was glad of the spirit in which this debate has been conducted so far.  I was glad to notice that we did not have the statement made from the Opposition Benches&mdash;a statement that has been made on other occasions&mdash;that those standing for protection are Nationalists and patriotic Irishmen and that those who do not   stand for protection, as put from the opposite benches, are those who stand in support of West Britonism in this country.  I regard this whole problem of protection as an economic question. I regard it as a question to be dealt with economically and not politically, and I believe that one can hold theories in regard to protection which may be very contrary to the policy of general protection put from the opposite benches, and still regard himself as being a good Irishman and that he may be regarded by the country generally as being as good an Irishman as those who put forward theories that are put from the opposite benches. 
       I approach this matter as a case of visualising what we intend to do&mdash;what form of economy we intend to have in this country when we have carried out our plans.  Deputy Lemass made a statement which amounts to this&mdash;that everything required by the Irish people which can be made in the Free State should be made here.  That means that everything required by the Irish people for their use should be made in Ireland, because I hold that anything that we require can be made here.  But some of these things could be made only at such an expense as to be absolutely prohibitive.  It is not beyond the bounds of possibility to build a dreadnought in Dublin Bay provided we first of all make the necessary dock accommodation and provided we can provide all the necessary moneys connected with the building of a dreadnought.  But is it seriously suggested that if we require a dreadnought that we should proceed to build a dreadnought in Dublin Bay? 
     
     
      
       Build it in Passage. 
     
     
      
       I take it that what Mr. Lemass means is that everything required by the Irish people which could be produced economically in Ireland ought to be produced in Ireland. If that is the policy that Deputy Lemass has put to the Dail to-day I am with him.  But I am not with him in the policy that everything that is required by the Irish people which could be produced in Ireland ought to be produced in Ireland.  I disagree with that policy altogether.  It seems to me, in approaching this problem, that the   great majority of those who preach it have no real visualisation of the conditions existing in the country or of the natural resources of the country, or the people's economic development. Deputies approaching this matter make comparisons with countries like the United States, Canada and Australia, regardless of the totally different conditions which exist in those countries and in Ireland.  They do not take into account the fact that in regard to natural resources we have very definite limitations which most of those countries have not got; that we have the unfortunate limitation of not having any coal resources of any commercial importance in Ireland&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order &mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       This is not a point of order.  This, I am sure, is a point of fact on the Deputy's part. We will hear Deputy Heffernan. 
     
     
      
       We have the unfortunate limitation of having no iron resources in this country.  Lacking those resources and making comparisons with the countries which have those resources and which had industrial development of considerable consequence in the past, we must realise that those countries that had industrial development have that development largely because of the existence of these natural resources, and largely because of the juxtaposition of those natural resources.  If the Deputy will look at industrial England he will find that the industrial portions of England, the thickly-populated portions of England, are places that are close to the coal and iron fields, and in industrial England he will find that the population is greatest where they have these resources.  He will find that those parts of England which have only agricultural resources are without large populations and without large industrial undertakings.  I think, therefore, that we must take into account that we have definite limitations in that regard. 
     
     The object that we should aim at is to develop in accordance with the natural resources that we have.  That   being so, we must take into account that our foremost and most important resource is agriculture and that we must not do anything and that we must not be responsible for any legislative or administrative action in the Dail which might have the effect of adversely affecting the main agricultural resources of this country. 
     Deputy O'Kelly did not touch on the advantages which would accrue to agricultural Ireland from a policy of protection.  He mentioned that there was a general turning of agriculturists of this country to a policy of protection. He also stated that the exodus of our population which has taken place in recent years is due to the fiscal policy of this country.  I will begin at the last part of it.  We all regret to see this exodus of the best of our population from year to year.  But is there any proof that that exodus is due largely or entirely or partly to our fiscal policy?  Is there any proof that if we change any part of our fiscal policy from what it has been, that the effect of that change will be to retain the population in this country?  I am exceedingly doubtful if that will be the effect of such a change.  I think the Deputy will realise, if he examines into the source from which was drawn the population that has left the country, that the greater proportion of those that have left for foreign countries in recent years have left the land.  They are country boys and girls.  They are not the unemployed in the towns and cities.  Why are they leaving the land? Because there is not a decent livelihood for them on the land.  So that the deductions from these arguments are that we are going to make it still more difficult for our people to live on the land, and the inevitable final deduction is that the change in the fiscal policy will not have the effect of keeping the people on the land but of driving them still further from it.  I think that the whole of this argument of protection must be directed to ascertain whether it is going to improve the position of the people on the land. 
     
      
       Might I suggest that the best proof of it is what happened to Deputy Heffernan's Party. 
     
     
     
      
       I think it has not been denied that the effect of tariffs in general will be to increase the cost of living.  That has not been denied, and unless it can be shown that if we have this policy of general tariffs which the Deputies on the opposite Benches are putting forward, unless it can be shown that there will be a  quid pro quo  to the people of the country in some form, tariffs will have the effect of making their position worse and of driving them from the land. 
     
     
      
       To the Post Office. 
     
     
      
       We are not dealing with the Post Office.  The effect of a tariff will be to increase the price of what the farmer buys.  The farmer is engaged in his business not for the good of his health or for the good of his country, but just for the same reason that Deputy Lemass and Deputy Briscoe are engaged in business&mdash;in order to make a living and to make a profit.  Unless you can show the farmer that the effect of this policy of general protection advocated from the opposite Benches will be to increase his profit you are not showing the farmer that tariffs are going to be for his benefit.  I have heard arguments for tariffs on farm products brought forward for a considerable time.  I had to face up to those arguments in order to refute them.  Those arguments came, not from the farmers&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Question! 
     
     
      
       Those arguments came not from the farmers themselves, nor from any representative bodies of farmers, but from interested industrialists really seeking, not for tariffs for the farmers or for agriculture, but to suit their own individual interests. These people knew that if they got the farmers behind them asking for tariffs, then the real opposition to the policy of a general tariff would be gone and they could have any tariffs they were interested in asking for.  For that reason those who stood behind the non-political part of the tariff movement, the really interested part, concentrated their attention almost exclusively in endeavouring to persuade farmers that   tariffs for their own products would be beneficial to them, and could be usefully enforced.  I never saw the demand coming from any organised body of farmers; it came rather from interested industrialists. 
       Those arguing about the advantages of a tariff for the agricultural industry do not argue how it would benefit the farmers.  We heard generalities about growing wheat and having tillage, but we did not hear how wheat was to be grown or tillage enforced.  Take any of the arguments about these things and examine them in detail.  We could even examine them here, roughly.  I doubt if a case can be made for any of them, with the possible exception of barley.  In my opinion the barley tariff is an arguable one.  I doubt if any case can be made in regard to other commodities. Take bacon as an example.  Can any case be made that a tariff on bacon will have the effect of increasing the price to the Irish farmer by a farthing a pound?  When the Irish farmer rears and feeds his pigs it does not matter to him whether the pigs are sold to an Englishman, American, Chinaman, or an Irishman; what matters to the Irish farmer is what price he can get for the pigs.  Unless you can show the effect of your policy will be to increase the price of bacon for the Irish farmer your claim for a tariff is gone by the board. 
     
     We are told we should have a tariff not on wheat but on flour.  If we do have that tariff, is it going to be one iota of benefit to the Irish farmer?  Not while the Irish millers continue to produce flour from the imported foreign wheat, and in my opinion they will continue to produce it.  Suppose you decide that Irish millers are not to mill foreign flour, but Irish flour, do you think the Irish millers want that?  Further, do you say that you can economically mill Irish wheat in large proportions and so change the public taste that the people will use Irish wheat?  The taste for a particular kind of flour is a very important thing, and if the Irish people have got used to foreign flour, it will be difficult to bring about a change. Then again, the mills are set up for the purpose of milling foreign wheat and it is doubtful if the machinery installed is   capable of milling Irish wheat.  Irish wheat is a soft wheat and the foreign wheat is a hard wheat.  The millers have to introduce a special form of rolling machinery in order to deal with foreign wheat and that could not be used effectively in connection with Irish wheat.  Suppose all these economic changes that are advocated were brought into force, and suppose you had succeeded eventually in prohibiting foreign wheat and you had ensured that Irish farmers could grow wheat for the Irish mills, the only advantage to the Irish farmers is that you do increase the price of the wheat so that he may sell that wheat at an increased price to the Irish millers, but the Irish millers then may probably sell at an increased price to the Irish consumers and you will be thereby increasing the cost to the consumer, all for the purpose of getting the Irish farmer to revert to a policy of agriculture that was in vogue 50 or 60 years ago, a policy which has been changed, not because of fiscal changes but because of the development of the great plains of America, Canada and other places. 
     You are again going to divert the Irish farmer from the course he has taken, the course of natural development, and to enter him into competition, or at least endeavouring to compete in the growing of wheat against the wheat-growers on the prairies of Canada, the Argentine, the Steppes of Russia, and those other countries in which wheat is produced in mass production on land on which practically no rent and taxes are paid.  That is your economic proposal to the Irish farmer.  You are going to take his land away from the growing of oats and the growing of barley for feeding purposes and, instead of that, you are going to divert it to the growing of grain in competition with countries with which you could never economically compete. That is bad policy, bad economy, and bad agriculture.  I think that the policy which the Dail should pursue is the policy of the natural development of agriculture along the lines of &ldquo;the cow, the plough, and the sow,&rdquo; along the lines of dairying and the concomitant industries&mdash;eggs and poultry and other produce which also mean tillage. 
     Deputies opposite need not worry   about the ranchers.  It will not be necessary for them to kill the ranchers, to wipe them out, and to introduce fiscal changes.  The ranchers will be wiped out, not because of any policy of this Dail, or any economic or fiscal policy, but because of world economic conditions.  The man who is feeding a three-year-old bullock finds it uneconomic to do so, and he is changing his policy.  He is going back to cows and milk and subsidiary industries.  That is the right direction in which to go rather than going in the direction of competing with the large wheat-growing countries.  We should be very careful about putting half-baked theories to farmers at a time especially when they are looking for an easy way out, faced as they are with dire, distressful, economic conditions.  Just as those theories about the remission of land annuities appeal to the farmer, so do these theories appeal to him about protection which have not been thoroughly examined.  The average farmer is too busy looking after his land to examine them, and such theories mislead the farmer and lead him to think that his salvation lies along political lines rather than in industrious and personal action upon his farm.  That is the danger of theories which are being put as a panacea for the agricultural ills of the country. 
     The time of the Dail would not be wasted if we devoted our attention to a thorough examination of theories put forward with regard to the economic salvation which, it is held out, will come to the farmer by a policy of protection for agricultural produce.  Deputy Lemass, in a speech which was largely one of generalisation, said that there was no reason why a good Irishman should not wear a suit of Irish manufacture.  I agree with that theory provided there is a qualification.  Are we to take it that an Irishman is not a good Irishman unless he wears a suit of Irish manufacture, no matter what it costs compared with a suit made elsewhere? That is not patriotism, and is not a doctrine that should be inculcated. The policy which should be inculcated is that we ought to wear a suit of Irish manufacture when we can get it as good and as cheap as a similar suit made in a foreign land.  That   theory was brought forward by Deputy Lemass as an excuse for the acknowledgment that a tariff on woollens is going to make it necessary that we shall have a further increase in the tariff on ready-made clothing.  Deputy Lemass is the main protagonist in regard to the fiscal policy of his Party, which he has suggested is going to do such a lot of good for the Irish farmer. He put forward a theory that we should have a further increase in the tariff on wearing apparel.  Deputy Lemass and Deputy O'Kelly are appealing particularly to the small farmers.  How will it appear to the small farmers when they are told that the policy of these Deputies will result in an increase in the cost of clothes, which at present they are hardly able to buy? 
     
      
       Will the Deputy state if he is speaking for or against the motion? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass knows very well what my opinions on this matter are.  As regards the question of administering a tariff, of examining into its operations, and of ascertaining whether tariffs are suitable to existing economic conditions, I think there is general agreement that the only way to examine into them is by a Tariff Commission.  The criticism which I make of the policy of the Government in regard to the Tariff Commission is that they did not set up the Commission before they started to impose tariffs.  I believe that we possibly have advanced almost too far in the direction of tariffs. 
     
     
      
       By accident. 
     
     
      
       I believe that it is time for the people who have the real interests of the farmers at heart to dig their heels into the ground and resist the ramp for general tariffs which is going on all over the country and which, if allowed to be carried out in its entirety, is not going to result in economic salvation to the farmers or any class in the country, but will result in the economic devastation of the people.  The right policy, in my opinion, to pursue is a policy of concentration   on the development of our basic and main industry, and considering, side by side with that, the possibility of developing other industries which are parallel, sympathetic, or subsidiary to that industry, always bearing in mind the danger of imposing tariffs which will increase the cost of living.  As a representative of the farmers, I think if agriculture was booming and was in a strong economic position, we might say to the farmers: &ldquo;Protection is going to cost money; it will increase the cost of living, but it is going to bring advantages to the State; it is going to give us a chance of building up a larger national life, and we therefore ask you to contribute your quota in that direction.&rdquo;  I believe that if such circumstances did exist the farmers would patriotically contribute their quota to building up the industrial side of the nation.  That is not the economic position now, and we should not lay a penny-weight more on the burden of the farmer but we should go dead slow as regards the imposition of further tariffs.  I hope instead of speeding up the Tariff Commission, that that Commission will be asked to slow down.  That is the policy which I believe should be the policy at present, as it would be for the benefit of this country. 
     
     
      
       I want to defend the motion against the criticisms of the Secretary for Posts and Telegraphs.  I believe he is not very much in favour of tariffs.  He wanted to know, for instance, if an impost on bacon would make bacon any dearer to the farmer. In every stage we have had here against the imposition of tariffs we have been told that they would raise the cost of living.  Deputy Good, for instance, said that when you put 15 per cent. on a pair of boots that raises the price of the boots, and, therefore, increases the cost of living.  If you put one penny per lb. on imported bacon naturally it will increase the price of bacon by one penny per lb. and, therefore, give the farmer one penny per lb. more for his bacon.  If that is an argument which would induce Deputy Heffernan to go a little way towards protection he should at least see that that is true.  Deputy Heffernan said   that he saw no demand from any representative body of farmers in favour of protection.  I am sure the Deputy is thinking of the Farmers' Union being a representative body of farmers, and as they have not asked for protection he did not see any demand for it.  I assure Deputy Heffernan that if he goes down the country to the Fianna Fail clubs he will see many more farmers there than there are in the Farmers' Union. 
     
     
      
       Question. 
     
     
      
       It is not a question; the figures can be got.  The big question that seems to be putting Deputy Heffernan and many others against protection is with regard to a tariff on flour or wheat. 
     
     
      
       May I point out that the Deputy said he was going to deal with bacon?  Will he deal with that now? 
     
     
      
       I will take flour first, if you do not mind, for it leads to bacon. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can make his own speech. 
     
     
      
       We have been so misquoted with regard to our policy on wheat and flour that I will read our printed statement on the subject. 
       &ldquo;Foreign wheat should be allowed into Ireland free of import duty. The entry of foreign-milled flour to be prohibited except under special licence.  Irish millers should give an undertaking with reference to sale price to the community.  The import and export of wheat ought to be subject to control.&rdquo; 
     
     Last year we imported about £3,000,000 worth of flour.  If we were to import wheat instead, we are told by the Millers' Association that wheat will yield 70 per cent. of flour and 30 per cent of offals, we would, therefore, require to import 4,500,000 cwts. of wheat.  Last week wheat was quoted at about 30/- per barrel.  Therefore, it would cost £2,748,000 to import sufficient wheat.  Seventy per cent. of that money in cwts. would give us 3,119,000 cwts. of flour, which is the amount required. That would realise, at 43/6 per bag, £2,790,000.  Along with that   we would have £374,000 worth of offals. Labour would cost in or about 25/6 per ton.  That in itself is a big consideration in the matter of having wheat milled here instead of importing flour. Deputy Cooper, in his speech here some weeks ago, asked us not to forget the men who unload the flour that comes into this country, and he said we would be disorganising labour to a great extent if we did not continue to import flour.  The amount these men get, I am told, is 1/6 per ton.  The Millers' Association say that with wheat milled here labour would get 25/6 as against the 1/6 per ton.  Labour, therefore, would get out of this £286,000 per year.  I hope to prove that flour will not be any dearer, but suppose it was dearer, would it not be a good thing to keep down unemployment to the amount of £286,000 a year? 
     
      
       If flour is dearer has not the cost of living gone up? 
     
     
      
       No.  I have given the flour at the very same price at which it is being sold by the millers, that is 43/6 per bag.  I do not see why it should go up.  The President the other day was very lucid on a very simple matter, and said that if you produced 10,000,000 units of electricity at one penny per unit you would produce 20,000,000 units at something less than a penny per unit.  If you produce 60 per cent. of the flour wanted in this country at 43/6 why you could not produce 100 per cent. at the same price or less I cannot see.  The present price of pollard in Dublin is 10/6 per cwt.; red bran, 9/-; white bran, 10/9; which works out at an average of 10/3 per cwt.  If wheat were imported instead of flour we would have more offals than we require, and the result would be that the millers would have to export the offals to Liverpool or somewhere else.  If we get pollard at 10/6 we may take it that it is 9/6 in Liverpool. Therefore, if we have too much pollard, since at Liverpool it could be got for 9/6, therefore, it would be only 8/6 here, so that instead of paying 10/6 it would be 8/6.  I take it that offals sold at 8/- a cwt. would realise £549,000.  The millers' balance sheet would be:&mdash;wheat cost, £2,748,000;   labour, £286,000, and balance for overhead charges and profits £304,000.  He sells his flour at £2,790,000 and his offals at £549,000, making the sum total £3,339,000.  You have offals 2s. per cwt. cheaper.  Flour is the same.  You have spent £286,000 more on labour in the country.  The cost of living has not gone up.  We have offals cheaper for the farmer.  The farmer feeds his pigs and gets, say, the same for his bacon, but it costs him 2s. per cwt. less to feed the pig.  Therefore, he gets more profit than at present. 
     
     
      
       And pays 3/- per sack more for his flour. 
     
     
      
       Nothing more&mdash;the same as at present. 
     
     
      
       What about the evidence of the flour millers before the Tariff Commission? 
     
     
      
       I did not see it yet.  It is not published. 
     
     
      
       It was published. 
     
     
      
       It is getting late and I do not want to go into the question of oats, barley and other things, the import of which could be stopped.  We were also asked about maize.  I think we have been misrepresented with regard to that also&mdash;&ldquo;the importation of maize meal and maize products to be prohibited, whole maize to be admitted free of duty.&rdquo;  As a matter of fact, the quantity of maize meal imported last year was not very much&mdash;only about one quarter million pounds&mdash;if I remember rightly.  It is not going to inflict any hardship on farmers or anybody else to have that put into force, and the only thing is that it would give a little more employment in the country.  Another matter that was mentioned here by Deputy Heffernan was the kind of farming that was carried on. 
     
     
      
       I thought the Deputy was going to deal with bacon and the other agricultural products, and the effect of a tariff on them. 
     
     
     
      
       I will go into it more fully if the Deputy wishes. 
     
     
      
       Deal with bacon. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must not be cross-examined.  He must be allowed to make his speech. 
     
     
      
       If a farmer buys a pig at present, with feeding-stuffs at the present price&mdash;it does not matter, for the sake of argument, what he pays for the pig&mdash;he will buy a ration composed of imported or home-grown stuff, as the case may be.  It will be mostly imported, and it will consist, say, of Indian meal, pollard, palm-nut meal, fish meal or meat meal.  There may be other things in it, such as molasses, if the farmer has a fancy for sweetening his food.  It will cost, roughly, here in Dublin at present, about £11 per ton. If foreign flour were prohibited and we compelled the importers to import only wheat, and the wheat was milled in this country, the millers would necessarily have to sell their offals of pollard and bran at 2/- per cwt. less than at present, because they would have to sell at the difference between the freight from Liverpool to here and from here to Liverpool.  The farmer would, therefore, be able to feed his pig for&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       No.  I will not have any further interruptions of the Deputy's speech. 
     
     
      
       This is not a tariff on bacon, but on flour. 
     
     
      
       I have finished with flour. The millers would, as I say, have to sell their pollard and bran 2/- per cwt less, and the ration under the prohibition of imported flour would be 18/- per ton less.  It takes somewhere about a quarter of a ton of meal to fatten a pig. Instead of it costing him £2 15s.&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Fattening a pig altogether on pollard! 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I want to take my information about pigs for the moment from Deputy Ryan.  I am open to receive any further information   later on from other Deputies, but not now. 
     
     
      
       The fattening of a pig at present costs £2 15s.  Owing to the prohibition of the import of flour bringing the price of offals down, it would then cost £2 10s.  Therefore, a pig would be turned out 5/- less than at present.  Deputy Heffernan asks if it is possible to fatten a pig on pollard alone.  I mentioned already that the ration I suggest at the present time when using both meals was: 10 cwts. of maize meal, 5 cwt. of pollard, 2 cwt. of palm-nut meal, 2 cwt. of molasses, half a cwt. of fish meal, and half a cwt. of meat meal.  Under the new arrangement, if I wanted to keep out all imported foodstuffs, the ration I would suggest would be: 12 cwt. of barley meal, 7 cwt. of pollard, half a cwt. of fish meal, and half a cwt. of meat meal. 
     
     
      
       What price is the barley meal? 
     
     
      
       I will come to that. 
     
     
      
       Is it 12/- or 20/-? 
     
     
      
       The price we could not sell the barley at last year. 
     
     
      
       I did not intend to go into this fully, but when one is challenged one does not like to appear ignorant.  I was coming to the question Deputy Heffernan spoke of, that is, going on with our policy of producing milk, butter, eggs and so on&mdash;mixed farming generally.  In Deputy Heffernan's constituency&mdash;Tipperary&mdash;they go in a lot for what is called summer dairying.  The Minister for Agriculture on a previous occasion here defended the farmers in that system. This matter is so much bound up with the question of tariffs and feeding-stuffs and the question of tillage&mdash;they are all interwoven one with the other&mdash; that it appears to me to be a very important subject which was not dealt with very fully on the creameries debate. It may be a very admirable thing to encourage farmers to milk cows from 1st May to 1st January in that part of the country, and not ask them to do anything in tillage or anything like that&mdash;only to let the cows   calve at a certain time in spring and have no more trouble about it.  But it does not appear to me to be a very long-sighted policy for a nation to try to work up a market for butter in the English or any other market, and, having secured that market, only to supply it for eight months of the year and take no account of the other four. It seems to me that that is a sort of market it will be very easy to lose at another stage.  Therefore, I would ask the Minister for Agriculture and Deputy Heffernan, who takes an interest in the farmers, to consider the point of view that the farmers ought to be advised strongly that unless they hold this market right through the winter as well as through the summer, there is a danger of losing it some winter and not being able to get it back in the summer.  Therefore, I think this matter of winter dairying is a very important one.  There is another thing. There is a better price in the winter; it may be small, but still it is better, and there is also the important point of view that if a cow calves in the autumn it is a well-known fact that the milk yield will be on an average 100 gallons more than from the cow that calves in the spring.  The reason is that the cow which calves in the autumn milks fully all through the winter and when she goes out on grass in the summer she keeps milking fully all through the year. 
     
     
      
       Is that not an argument for grass as against feeding stuffs? 
     
     
      
       There may be something in what the Minister says, but I cannot see it for the moment.  What I am coming to is that I believe that it is a most important thing, first from the point of view of the nation, and for holding our markets in the foreign country, wherever it may be.  There are some Deputies under a misapprehension about what we say.  When we say all imports should be prohibited if possible, we say at the same time that we should export all we possibly can, and if we are going to export butter to get a market for it, we should try and hold that market all the year round.  Secondly, from the point of view of employment, unless we get   the farmers tilling the land and making provision for the stock for the winter there will not be much employment given on the land.  It is only through tillage that employment will be given; and, thirdly, cows calving in the autumn will give a bigger milk yield than cows calving in the spring. 
       I think it is worthy of consideration that the Minister for Agriculture should not persist in the policy which he gave us to understand was his policy in his speech on unemployment, when he told us that the farmers have, after mature deliberation, come to regard summer dairying as the only thing worth while in this country.  I think the Minister for Agriculture is somewhat at variance on this point with his own staff.  I know a few years ago, at any rate&mdash;I am not sure how it is at present&mdash;that in the Agricultural College they were teaching their students the advantages of winter dairying. 
     
     
      
       I wonder has winter dairying got any relevancy to the question of tariffs.  I think it possibly might, but I should like to know. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry, but I am getting back.  I said that one of my three reasons for advocating winter dairying was tillage, and coming to tillage there was this matter of imported feeding stuffs.  But, as we went into that matter of imported feeding stuffs before, I will not deal with it now.  I shall only touch upon a few points mentioned by other Deputies. 
     
     Deputy Shaw, speaking about English visitors coming over here in 1926, said that they saw posted on the walls the words, &ldquo;Do not buy English goods.&rdquo;  I think as a matter of fact he blamed the members of this party for putting up those posters.  I do not remember them myself.  It may be true.  But when those visitors went back to England, the Deputy said, they spread the word, and after that if a person went into a butcher's shop in England they would see a notice, &ldquo;No Irish beef sold here.&rdquo;  Deputy Shaw went on to say that he believed that was one of the reasons why the price of beef and other meat fell in this   country.  I do not think there is much sense in that.  At the time that beef fell in this country, beef fell also in England.  I do not think that our posters here could have the effect of causing a fall in the price of British meat.  I think we might take for granted it had no such effect, and that the fall in the price of beef here, and in England, was due to some other cause. 
     Deputy Good talking about the tariff on boots said it raised the cost of that particular article and, therefore, raised the cost of living and that the next step was that it made it impossible for the exporters of this country to compete in the open market with other people. That reason is all right, but if it is, he asked later on, what will be the effect supposing England put up a tariff against our beef?  The effect would be to raise the price of beef in England, to raise the cost of living in England and, therefore, make it impossible for the Englishman to compete with the exporters of other countries, and so we would get our own back in that way. 
     Finally, there is a lot of talk here about the cost of living being raised. That seems to be the big bogey held up.  I suppose a tariff does, sometimes, raise the cost of living, but other things must be taken into account.  For instance, one may take the simple case of a man who buys three pairs of boots in the year.  Suppose these three pairs of boots cost him £5. 15s. would be the tariff.  Does that mean that that man's cost of living has risen by exactly 15s?  Is it as simple as that?  I think it is a bit more involved.  For instance, before that tariff was put on, that particular man was paying something towards unemployment.  He may have been paying towards home assistance or in some other way.  But he is relieved somewhat of that on account of the increased employment in the country.  Further, we are told he is relieved by the result of revenue from the tariff on boots, so that the thing becomes very complicated. 
     I believe that the person we are most concerned with is the farmer.  Deputy Good stated that the farmer produced 80 per cent. of what was produced in this country.  Whatever the Government may cost, whatever unemployment   may cost, whatever any public service may cost, will eventually go back to the producer, and it is the producer who will have to bear it, because it is quite plain that the non-producer cannot bear it.  The man who buys his produce from the farmer can only live off the farmer, the man above him also lives off the farmer, and so on all along. Eighty per cent. of the country is living on the farmer and 80 per cent. of the public services is paid by the farmers' money.  Therefore, if the increased cost of living comes, that we are told so often will come as a result of tariffs, it will fall on the farmer.  But he will at any rate be relieved of a good deal of unemployment, as he pays for 80 per cent. of that at present, and he will be relieved also in this way, that he will be getting a better market for his stuff from people who are employed, and as time goes on we expect that emigration will cease, and with the natural growth of the population that will take place the farmer will get a still better market for his stuff, so that the relief every year will be more and more, and this cost of living may not fall on him as heavily as most people fear. 
     This cost of living is not a simple proposition.  If a pair of boots should cost three shillings more than they cost last year, as a result of the tariff, that does not mean that the farmer is three shillings worse off when he buys a pair of boots, and so all round.  We should not look at the simple side of this.  It is very complicated, very involved. For instance, as the Minister for Finance said, if the tax taken off tea is put on boots the farmer is so much better off in every cup of tea he drinks, even though he may be worse off in every pair of boots he uses, and I ask those Deputies who are prejudiced against tariffs to take that into consideration. 
     
      
       I had not intended to talk in this debate but for the fact that Deputy Heffernan does not seem to be able to get away from his old fears.  Seeing that he has got into good company recently I thought that he would have changed a little, but apparently he has not.  He talked the usual thing about tariffs increasing the cost of living to the farmer.  If tariffs   increase the cost of living to anybody the farmer should feel it less than anybody else, because the farmer has to buy less taxable commodities than anybody else.  Deputy Heffernan said that we should not do anything to diminish the farmer's profits, but in the next breath he proceeded to tell us that the farmer is not making any profits at all. How you can diminish what does not exist is more than I can understand. He talked about the difficulties of producing grain in this country in competition with Canada, Australia, and other countries, but it is quite a reasonable proposition to try to produce cattle against the competition of these countries. We were also told that it was bad economics to try to make the farmers change from their present methods.  If one thing has been proved more than another, it is this: that since free trade was introduced this country has been deteriorating.  There is no question about that.  Since 1846, since the repeal of the Corn Laws, conditions have been getting worse year in and year out.  That may only be a coincidence, but it is a very strong one. 
     
     Deputy Heffernan told us that it was a dangerous thing to be preaching protection to farmers, who were not capable of understanding protection.  I am inclined to agree with Deputy Heffernan that the type of farmer whom he claims to represent is not capable of understanding protection, because if he were Deputy Heffernan would not be here speaking in favour of free trade.  He told us of the patriotism of buying clothes.  It is good patriotism to buy a suit of Irish clothes if you can get it as cheap as, or for preference, a little cheaper than you can get a suit of English clothes. That is the essence of Irish patriotism. I suggest to Deputy Heffernan that Irish clothes can be bought as cheaply as foreign clothes, and I say that if we were to buy Irish clothes as readily as we buy foreign clothes, in the end we could buy Irish clothes much cheaper than we could buy foreign ones.  We ought to face up to the realities in this thing and, as Deputy Ryan said, it is not right to talk about increasing the cost of living.  Tariffs may increase the cost of living, but it might be a good thing if they did.  There was talk of   boots costing 3s. more than they did before a tariff was imposed, but the man who, as a result of a tariff, has a wage which enables him to buy a pair of boots does not worry about that.  It does not matter very much to the man who is unemployed, as he has not to worry about the cost of living. When Deputy Heffernan and others talk about the cost of living, I would remind them that the farmers of this country were never so prosperous as they were when the cost of living reached its peak point in 1918 and 1919. 
     
      
       It did not reach it until 1920. 
     
     
      
       Well take 1920. From 1917 to 1920 were the farmers of   this country ever so prosperous, or, are they ever likely to be as prosperous? Did the cost of living affect them very much then, or did we hear so much about the cost of living?  If the farmers had the home market, and if they were able to sell and have their produce consumed by their own countrymen they would be much better off than they are now.  I am surprised to see the President smiling at that.  It would be much better if the Irish people were able to consume their own beef and mutton than say Irish carpets. There would be more general consumption of the beef and the mutton than the carpets, I admit. 
     
     
      
       I move the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.30 p.m. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - PETITION RELATIVE TO GALWAY DRAINAGE SCHEME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if a petition has been received from the Galway County Council under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, relative to the Shanroley and Templepark proposed drainage district; if a report has been furnished on same, and if so, what are the proposals of the Ministry in the matter. 
     
     
      
       The petition referred to was duly received from the Galway County Council by the Commissioners of Public Works, who have obtained reports on it from an Engineer and a Land Valuer.  From these reports it appears that the proper way of dealing with this petition is to include it with the Hardwood and Kellysgrove and Ballinure petitions from the same county in one joint scheme.  To carry out this joint scheme would be uneconomic for the land holders concerned unless substantial grants were made by both the Government and the County Council.  The County Council, however, have passed a resolution from which it appears that they are not prepared to make any grant for the scheme, and it is, therefore, very doubtful whether it can proceed.  The whole matter is being further investigated. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ERECTION OF PILLAR BOX IN ATHLONE DISTRICT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will have   a pillar box erected at Kilkenny West, district of Glanore, Athlone, in view of the fact that people in this area have several miles to go to post letters and that the district is a populous one. 
     
     
      
       I am having inquiries made in the matter, and will inform the Deputy of the result in due course. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - REPLANTING OF TREES IN MAYO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture when he may be able to have the replanting of forest trees taken in hand in the townlands of Tavnynah and Balnalyra, Charlestown, Co. Mayo, containing about 50 acres, and if he is aware that trees on these woods are being illegally cut own, destroyed and taken away, and that no replacement has been made up to the present. 
     
     
      
       As no land in the townlands referred to has been acquired by the Forestry Division of the Department of Agriculture for afforestation purposes, the replanting of forest trees there does not come within the Department's purview.  I have no information as to the matters referred to in the concluding portion of the question.  I understand, however, that the lands in question were formerly in the hands of the Congested Districts Board, and in the circumstances I would refer the Deputy to the Minister for Fisheries for information on the points raised. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - AN ATHLONE FATALITY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if any decision has yet been come to in reference to the claim of Mrs. Bridget Tighe, Corrydonlon, Rathowen, for the accidental death of her son, Private Daniel Tighe, who was killed by the accidental explosion of a mine in Athlone Barracks on 30th March, 1925. 
     
     
      
       No decision has yet been arrived at with regard to the claim of Mrs. Tighe.  I must, however, point out that the case does not come within the provisions of the Army Pensions Acts, 1923 or 1927. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health why Mrs. Catherine (Breheny) Henry of Tunnagh, Carracastle, Ballaghadereen, who was passed by the Pension Committee at Tubbercurry, at their meeting in June, 1927, was refused the pension, and on what grounds; if he is aware that her elder sister, Mrs. McGarry (next in family) has been in receipt of the old age pension for the last 3 years and 8 months; that the necessary affidavits were lodged and all reasonable evidence given bearing out the above facts, and if he would have the matter re-opened or an Inspector sent to investigate the application. 
     
     
      
       No birth or baptismal certificate, or other definite evidence of the claimant's age was submitted. It appeared from the official marriage register that she was recorded as of full age when married on 4th February, 1882.  Testimony as to her age was received, which was not, however, considered sufficient to justify the allowance of a pension, and while the appeal was still under consideration the claimant was asked, on 14th July, 1927, to furnish further specified evidence.  No reply being received the appeal was decided on 6th August, 1927, and the claim was disallowed. Subsequently, on 24th August, 1927, the baptismal certificate of her elder sister, baptised 9th March, 1854, was forwarded, together with a statement as to the order of births in the family. This evidence was then, however, too late to be of use. 
       A decision given on appeal under the Old Age Pensions Act cannot be reconsidered. 
       It is, however, open to the claimant to make a fresh claim in the usual way through the local pension officer, and if it should subsequently come in on appeal all the evidence will receive careful and sympathetic consideration. 
     
   
 