 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Pensions for Widows and Orphans. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the Executive Council has yet reached any decision in regard to the question of introducing proposals for legislation to provide pensions for widows and orphans. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the replies to similar questions on this subject on the 25th April and 30th October last.  It is not yet possible to state when a decision will be taken on the matter. 
     
     
      
       After the Minister has made the necessary inquiries regarding the statistics, is it the intention of the Executive Council to introduce legislative proposals in this respect? 
     
     
      
       The present position is that an actuary's report on the whole matter is being obtained, and when that report is obtained the question will be considered by the Executive Council. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Preventive Men's Duties. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that preventive men in the service of the Revenue Commissioners are required to clean the quarters of landing officers and public officers in Customs road stations, and that this   duty is resented by the men, and, if in view of this fact, he will make provision in the forthcoming Estimates to provide for the cleaning of these offices by charwomen. 
     
     
      
       It has always been the practice that preventive men should perform necessary cleaning services in offices occupied by the preventive staff.  In certain Customs station premises on the border occupied by landing officers as well as by members of the preventive staff, this practice has been continued for reasons of convenience and economy. A revision of the arrangement is at present under consideration, but for the reasons indicated I am unable to undertake that preventive men will be relieved of all such duties at these stations. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state if any representations have been made by the men concerned with reference to this duty? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Civil Servants. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is yet in a position to make a statement regarding arrangements for enabling civil servants to represent their views on service matters, having regard to his undertaking in November last to the effect that such a statement would be issued at an early date. 
     
     
      
       As indicated in my previous replies to questions on this subject, a number of points are involved which present considerable difficulty and I am not yet able to make a statement as to the general position. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Promotion from Clerical Grades. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the ban on promotions from the clerical grades to the executive grade of the Civil Service is in operation on the grounds that there are no vacancies for promotees; and, if so, why the policy of recruitment to the executive grade by open examination is being continued. 
     
     
     
      
       Under normal conditions, the recruitment of persons to fill vacancies in the junior executive grade would proceed partly by open competitive examination and partly by promotion from the clerical grade. Of the 267 vacancies that have arisen in the executive grade since the change of Government, about 200, which occurred before the ban on promotion was imposed, were filled by promotion from the clerical grades.  As a result, the junior executive grade, which now numbers about 460, contains only 61 persons admitted by means of open competitive examination.  There is, therefore, an abnormally small proportion of this latter element in the grade and, consequently, it is the intention to continue for some time longer to recruit persons by open competitive examination for any vacancies available. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if any schemes are under consideration to enable promotions to be made from writing assistants to clerical officers and can the Minister say if any provision is being made in that scheme for the promotion of shorthand-typists and typists generally to clerical officers and will preference be given to this particular class over writing assistants in view of the fact that they have received a secondary education while writing assistants, in the main, have only received a primary education? 
     
     
      
       I think that does not arise out of the question on the paper and I would ask for notice. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister consider the advisability of leaving this competitive examination open to clerical officers and extending the age limit accordingly in order to allow clerical officers to sit for these examinations? 
     
     
      
       I would not contemplate making any change in the ages. I would like to say that, in addition to the promotions which I have indicated as having been made from the clerical grade to the junior executive grade, since the change of   Government about 100 clerical officers have been promoted to minor staff posts which are intermediate in value between the clerical grade and the junior executive grade, and in some cases the promotions mean even a greater jump; that, furthermore, 53 clerical officers have been promoted to be officers of the Customs and Excise, which is equivalent to the junior executive grade, so that there has been a great volume of promotions from the clerical grade since the change of Government. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Old Age and Blind Pensions. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state (a) the number of persons in receipt of old age pensions in the Saorstat; (b) the cost of blind pensions for the year ending the 31st December, 1929; and (c) the total number of persons over 70 years of age in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       (a) The number of persons in receipt of old age pensions in the Saorstat as at 31st December, 1929, was 115,666; (b) £70,033 approximately; (c) 170,468 as at 18th April, 1926, the date of the last census.  No later figures are available. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Motor Races in Phoenix Park. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether in the event of the Royal Irish Automobile Club holding a racing fixture in the Phoenix Park during the coming summer, it is his intention to allow the club the exclusive use of the Park while the races are being held, or whether he will arrange that citizens and others not interested in motor racing can have access to the Zoological and People's Gardens during the race times, without having to pay a charge for entering the Park. 
     
     
      
       The suggestion in the question is not practicable.  The difficulty caused by the persons who have a right of free   admission to the Park through residence or occupation is considerable, but it would clearly be impracticable to admit everyone who said he was going to the Zoological Gardens or the People's Gardens. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary consider the propriety of suggesting to the organisers of the races to make some contribution to the funds of the Zoological Society to compensate them for their loss of revenue during the race days? 
     
     
      
       The Zoological Society should themselves make representations to the Irish Automobile Club. 
     
     
      
       Under what Act has the Board of Works power to close the Phoenix Park? 
     
     
      
       We have got ample powers. 
     
     
      
       Under what Act? 
     
     
      
       Under the Act of 1925. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Buncrana Pier and Harbour. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state the date upon which work in connection with Buncrana pier and harbour will be commenced. 
     
     
      
       Preliminary arrangements for the work have been in hand and plant and materials are being despatched to Buncrana with a view to commencing operations next week. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Talking Films. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether the Committee which inquired into the question of a Censorship for Talking Films has yet furnished its report; and whether in connection therewith the Minister intends to introduce proposals for legislation within the present session. 
     
     
      
       The answer to both   parts of the Deputy's question is in the affirmative. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Town Tenants Bill. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he can now say when he hopes to introduce the long-promised measure dealing with the position of town tenants. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is yet in a position to state when he intends to introduce proposals for legislation to give effect to the recommendations of the Town Tenants Commission. 
     
     
      
       I am taking Questions 9 and 10 together.  I hope to be in a position to introduce a Bill at an early date dealing with the recommendations of the Town Tenants Commission. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister explain to the House what he means by &ldquo;an early date&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say what the Minister for Justice means by that. 
     
     
      
       In the &ldquo;not far distant future.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Will facilities be given for the passage of the Bill through the House, in view of the length of time that will be taken up by the consideration of the Estimates? 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister tell us if the Bill will be introduced this session? 
     
     
      
       This session, certainly. 
     
     
      
       What is meant by that? 
     
     
      
       Before the Easter Recess? 
     
     
      
       I would not promise that. 
     
     
      
       Possibly before the next election. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Treatment of Mountjoy Prisoners. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice to state fully the   facts in reference to the treatment of the prisoners in Mountjoy Jail who have been kept in solitary confinement for various periods during the last six months, and in particular to state the exact details as to the treatment of Aidan Sweeney, Patrick McGuinness, Sean Russell, George Mooney and David Fitzgerald, giving also the ages and conditions of health as reported by the medical officer of the prison in each of these latter cases. 
     
     
      
       No prisoner has been kept in solitary confinement in Mountjoy Prison during the last six months. 
       The particulars as to age, health and treatment of the prisoners named in the question are as follows:&mdash; 
       
         Aidan Sweeney:  Age 20 years; health good; undergoing sentence of two years' imprisonment. 
       
         Patrick McGuinness:  Age 25 years; health good; undergoing sentence of two years' imprisonment. 
       
         Sean Russell:  Age 38 years; health good; undergoing sentence of three months' imprisonment. 
       
         George Mooney:  Age 28 years; health good; undergoing sentence of two years' imprisonment. 
       
         David Fitzgerald:  Age 29 years; undergoing sentence of two years' imprisonment. 
       Each of these prisoners, with the exception of Fitzgerald, is receiving ordinary prison treatment.  Fitzgerald has been receiving hospital treatment for a chronic cough since last October. 
       For some time past these prisoners have voluntarily abstained from exercise and have refused to work. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Cork Electrical Company's Employees. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that a number of persons are likely to be unemployed on the taking over of the Cork Electric Tramways   and Lighting Co. by the Electricity Supply Board; if so, whether any arrangements have been made for the employment of these persons either in the Electricity Supply Board or in the works of any transport company which may be substituted for the present tramway system; also if he will introduce proposals for legislation to provide a pension scheme or some compensation for the employees of long service. 
     
     
      
       The Electricity Supply Board has no power to acquire the tramway system of this company and would, therefore, have no concern with employees engaged on transport work.  The Board could deal only with the part of the Company's undertaking which consists of electricity supply, and I am not now in a position to anticipate whether, in the event of the Board acquiring that part, circumstances would arise justifying any special provision for compensation. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister taken into consideration at all the inclusion in the purchase price of a figure which would go at least some way towards giving these men compensation for loss of employment? 
     
     
      
       I do not know what purchase price the Deputy refers to.  Is it the purchase price for the whole undertaking? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Board decide that.  I have no authority. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister any responsibility over the activities of the Electricity Supply Board? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the Cork Electric Tramways and Lighting Company had a contract which requires them to continue to run a tramway service over a period of years, and has the Electricity Supply Board in buying over the property of the Cork Electric Tramways and Lighting Company bought over that obligation or not? 
     
     
     
      
       The first part of the Deputy's question is entirely new matter and notice will have to be given of it; the second part of the Deputy's question has nothing to do with me. 
     
     
      
       All right; you will get notice. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Electricity Board's Accounts. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state when he expects to be able to lay on the Table of the House copies of the Accounts (with report of the Electricity Supply Board proceedings) for the years 1927/1928 and 1928/1929, as promised by him for the commencement of last session. 
     
     
      
       I am awaiting delivery of these accounts and reports from the printers and expect to be able to lay them on the table in a short time. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Irish Workers in Britain. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that large numbers of Irish workers who were employed in insurable occupations in Britain have been refused unemployed insurance benefits when they became unemployed and had returned to the Saorstat, owing to no reciprocal arrangements in connection with unemployment insurance benefits being in operation; and whether he will state if any decision has yet been reached with the British Ministry of Labour in regard to the question of reciprocity. 
     
     
      
       No further progress has yet been made in the matter of reciprocal arrangements, but I am expecting a communication from the British Government at an early date. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that this correspondence has been proceeding for quite a considerable time without tangible result, does the Minister not consider it advisable to have direct negotiations rather than rely upon correspondence? 
     
     
     
      
       That has been done also. 
     
     
      
       I understand that it has not been done since the change of Government in Great Britain. Would not direct negotiations be very desirable? 
     
     
      
       I had direct contact myself with members of the present Government in Great Britain. 
     
     
      
       With what result? 
     
     
      
       No result so far. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Unemployment Insurance Claims. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the reasons why the claim to unemployment insurance benefit made by Patrick Lawlor.  Ballyknockan, Blessington, was disallowed. 
     
     
      
       On his claim of the 14th December last Patrick Lawlor was entitled to nine days' benefit, which was paid to him.  This exhausts the contributions standing to his credit and no more benefit is therefore payable to him without further contributions. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the reasons why unemployment insurance benefit due to George Flynn, Ballyknockan, has been withheld. 
     
     
      
       The unemployment insurance benefit withheld from George Flynn was in repayment of money, formerly received by him by way of unemployment benefit, to which he was not entitled.  Recovery of moneys so received by insured contributors is authorised by the Unemployment Insurance Acts. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will expedite payment of unemployment insurance benefit to William Byrne, Lynam Gardens, Ballytore, Co. Kildare, Serial Book No. 915, Athy Branch Office. 
     
     
     
      
       I regret that William Byrne is not at present entitled to unemployment insurance benefit, being disqualified by Section 8 (4) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920 (as amended), in the circumstances stated in the letter which issued from my office to the Deputy on the 14th instant. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state when unemployment insurance benefit will be paid to Martin Kelly, West End, Monasterevan, Co. Kildare, who lodged a claim to benefit on the 19th March, 1929, at Kildare Branch Office. 
     
     
      
       On the claim made by Martin Kelly on the 19th March, 1929, he received unemployment benefit up to the 17th April, 1929. Before any further benefit became payable on that claim, it was found that the claimant had claimed sickness benefit under the National Health Insurance Acts, and in doing so had represented himself as incapable of work as from the 29th April, 1929.  His claim to unemployment benefit had, therefore, to be disallowed because he no longer satisfied one of the statutory conditions for its receipt.  He was duly notified of the disallowance and did not appeal against the decision.  The claimant did not again attend at the local office of the Department until the 25th January last.  Subsequently, on the 5th instant, he produced medical evidence to show that he was capable of work from and including the 29th April last, and it was then ascertained that the claim for sickness benefit made at that time had been refused as it had been found that he was not incapable of work.  On receipt of this information the question of his right to unemployment benefit was re-opened and his claim, as a result, allowed. Part of the benefit that had accrued has already been paid to him, and the balance will be paid next Friday. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Approved Societies in the Saorstat. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Local Government   and Public Health if he will state (a) how many Approved Societies under the National Health Insurance Acts are administering the National Health Insurance Acts in the Saorstat; (b) what is the total number of insured people in these societies; (c) what is the total amount of insurance benefits paid during the latest year for which information is available by these societies under the heading&mdash;Sickness, Disablement, Maternity, and additional; (d) what is the total amount in administration paid to the Approved Societies; (e) what was the number of people insured in the D.C. Fund up to the date of its abolition; (f) what was the total amount of benefits paid out of this fund for the latest year for which information is available; (g) what was the total amount of administration expenses for the D.C. Fund for the latest year for which information is available; (h) what is the total amount of deficit in the administration funds of the Approved Societies; (i) how many Approved Societies struck levies to meet that deficit, and what was the highest levy per insured member struck; (j) what is the total amount of money invested by the National Health Insurance Commission for the Approved Societies, and in what security is it invested; (k) how many Societies are giving additional benefits to their members. 
     
     
      
       The replies are as follows:&mdash; 
       (a) 65, of which one society is a society with 19 branches. 
       (b) At 31st December, 1928, the latest date at which accurate figures are available, 399,967. 
       (c) In the year ended 31st December, 1928: 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             Sickness 
             292,936 
           
           
             Disablement 
             261,801 
           
           
             Maternity 
             53,314 
           
           
             Additional Benefits 
             34,037 
           
           
             Total 
             £642,088 
           
         
       
     
     
        (d) In the year ended 31st December, 1928, for administration, £100,237. 
     (e) 127,000. 
     N.B.&mdash;The number of established deposit contributors with accounts open in the fund at the same date was 3,031. 
     (f) In the year ended 31st December, 1929, £2,140. 
     (g) For the year 1929, approximately, £2,050. 
     (h) At the 31st December, 1928, £774. 
     (i) No levies were struck. 
     (j) The Commissioners hold investments for approved societies under Section 56 (3) of the National Insurance Act, 1911, to the nominal value of £698,242 0s. 6d.  The investments are in Trustee Securities. 
     (k) 55.  The number of branches giving additional benefits is 19. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Old Age Pension Claim. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state explicitly what was wrong with the evidence submitted as to age in the claim of Mrs. Mary Behan, of Tyrrellspass, Mullingar, to the old age pension. 
     
     
      
       Two appeals have been received in this case on the ground of insufficient evidence of age.  The claimant, who stated she was born in February, 1857, did not, however, furnish a birth or baptismal certificate, or any other similar definite evidence of her age, and the statutory declarations from three neighbours were not considered sufficient to warrant the allowance of a pension. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - County Medical Officers of Health. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and   Public Health if he will state if a County Medical Officer of Health is a full-time officer, and, if so, is it permissible for him to absent himself for prolonged periods weekly from his duties, otherwise than by leave from the County Board of Health. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  As regards the second part, medical officers of health are officers of county councils not of county boards of health.  If the Deputy intended, however, to refer to the county council instead of the county board of health, the answer to such question would be in the negative. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - The Grain Tribunal Inquiry. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he can state when the Grain Tribunal Inquiry will be in a position to furnish a report. 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to state when the report in question may be expected. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Export of Young Cattle. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he is aware of the prevailing shortage of heifers in the country, and if he proposes to take any steps to prevent the export of all heifers under two years old. 
     
     
      
       So far as I am aware, there is no general shortage of heifers in this country, nor is it proposed to take any steps of the nature referred to. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Licensing of Bulls. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture to state the number of bulls licensed and the number rejected under the Live Stock Breeding Act, 1925, in each of the years 1925 to 1929 inclusive. 
     
     
     
      
       The following are the figures asked for by the Deputy:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Year 
             Total Number of Bulls 
           
         
         
           
             Licensed 
             Rejected 
           
           
             1925 
             15,589 
             4,015 
           
           
             1926 
             11,631 
             4,782 
           
           
             1927 
             9,067 
             5,908 
           
           
             1928 
             10,718 
             6,524 
           
           
             1929 
             9,315 
             6,709 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that there is a sufficient number of licensed bulls in the country? 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied that there is. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Premiums on Bulls. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will state the   number of premiums and the amount paid on bulls for each year from 1922 to 1929, inclusive, under classes &mdash;(a) Dairy Shorthorn; (b) Beef Shorthorn; (c) Aberdeen Angus; (d) Herefords; (e) Kerry. 
     
     
      
       The answer will be circulated in the Official Report. 
       Following is the answer: 
       The appended Table contains the information asked for by the Deputy as to the number of premiums paid on bulls under various classes during each of the years indicated.  The total amount paid in premiums during each of these years is also given, but as figures of expenditure are not made out by breeds, it would take a considerable time to ascertain and prepare such details. 
     
     
       
        CATTLE BREEDING SCHEME. 
     PREMIUM BULLS. 
     NUMBER AND COST OF PREMIUMS IN PERIOD 1922 TO 1929, INCLUSIVE. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Number of Bulls standing for Premiums. 
             Amount paid in Premiums. 
           
         
         
           
             Year 
             Dairy Shorthorn 
             Beef Shorthorn 
             Aberdeen Angus 
             Hereford 
             Galloway 
             Kerry 
             Total Number of Bulls 
             County£ 
             Extra£ 
             Total£ 
           
           
             
             
             *County 
             *Extra 
             County 
             Extra 
             County 
             Extra 
             County 
             Extra 
             County 
             Extra 
             County 
             Extra 
             County 
             Extra 
           
           
             1922 
             157 
             16 
             182 
             41 
             110 
             38 
             69 
             14 
             6 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             524 
             109 
             11,274 
             2,002 
             13,276 
           
           
             1923 
             233 
             26 
             210 
             38 
             104 
             45 
             66 
             14 
             1 
             &mdash; 
             1 
             &mdash; 
             615 
             123 
             11,470 
             2,183 
             13,653 
           
           
             1924 
             306 
             37 
             200 
             30 
             114 
             49 
             73 
             11 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             1 
             &mdash; 
             694 
             127 
             12,994 
             2,284 
             15,278 
           
           
             1925 
             347 
             40 
             158 
             27 
             173 
             60 
             79 
             10 
             1 
             &mdash; 
             1 
             &mdash; 
             759 
             137 
             13,695 
             2,352 
             16,047 
           
           
             1926 
             445 
             53 
             188 
             28 
             324 
             72 
             117 
             9 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             1 
             &mdash; 
             1,075 
             162 
             18,132 
             2,685 
             20,817 
           
           
             1927 
             472 
             67 
             321 
             43 
             472 
             90 
             158 
             7 
             2 
             &mdash; 
             2 
             &mdash; 
             1,427 
             207 
             22,934 
             3,353 
             26,287 
           
           
             1928 
             571 
             67 
             233 
             59 
             471 
             87 
             139 
             5 
             2 
             &mdash; 
             2 
             &mdash; 
             1,418 
             218 
             25,211 
             3,451 
             28,662 
           
           
             1929 
             562 
             64 
             263 
             74 
             518 
             82 
             200 
             4 
             2 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             1,545 
             224 
             &dagger;24,798 
             &dagger;3,337 
             &dagger;28,135 
           
           
             Totals 
             3,093 
             370 
             1,755 
             340 
             2,286 
             523 
             901 
             74 
             14 
             &mdash; 
             &Dagger;8 
             &mdash; 
             8,057 
             1,307 
             140,508 
             21,647 
             162,155 
           
         
       
     
     * &ldquo;County&rdquo; Premiums are paid by the County Committees of Agriculture.  &ldquo;Extra&rdquo; Premiums are paid directly by the Department. 
     &dagger;A considerable number of Kerry bulls of premium standard is located each year by the Department on reduced terms in the congested areas of Counties Cork and Kerry. 
     &Dagger;Estimate. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tithe Rent Charges. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state the amounts collected by the Irish Land Commission in tithe rent charges (a) in the Free State, and (b) in County Offaly. 
     
     
      
       The amount collected by the Land Commission in the year ended 31st March, 1929, in respect of Tithe Rent Charges and Terminable Tithe Annuities was:&mdash;(a) in the Free State, £34,976 19s. 5d.; (b) in County Offaly, £923 18s. 4d. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Achill Mission Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will consider the making of a turbary road on the Achill Mission Estate, to accommodate about 37 tenants of Cashel, in view of the fact that at present those tenants suffer grave inconvenience owing to lack of such accommodation. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have expended the sum of £200 on the making of a road into the South side of Cashel Bog, and are considering the construction of a road to give access to the Northern portion of the Bog. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Delmege (Co. Tipperary) Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission have decided to acquire for the relief of congestion in the district the lands known as the Delmege Estate, Co. Tipperary, and, if not, when it is expected to do so. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are making enquiries as to the suitability of the lands of Ballywire on the Delmege Estate for acquisition under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Wexford Non-Vested Estates. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state the number of estates in Co. Wexford,   the gross rental, the acreage, together with the total number of holdings of tenanted land not yet vested in the tenants in that county. 
     
     
      
       The number of estates in County Wexford in respect of which maps and schedules of particulars have been lodged in the Land Commission under the provisions of the Land Acts, 1923-9, but which have not yet been vested is 243, comprising 2,900 holdings and a total area of approximately 86,000 acres and representing a gross rental of £48,000, so far as at present can be ascertained.  The work of checking and inspection necessary before these estates can be vested in the Land Commission is being proceeded with as rapidly as possible, and after detailed examination and survey and the disposal of such matters as discrepancies in area, tenure, occupancy, rights of turbary, etc., particulars of 24 of these estates, comprising 700 holdings and an area of 26,400 acres and representing a rental of £13,600, have already been provisionally gazetted preparatory to vesting. 
     
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary state when he will be in a position to vest all the holdings? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say. 
     
   
   
     Question on Adjournment. 
     
      
       The subject matter of Question 11 will be raised on the Adjournment. 
     
   
   
     Bills from Seanad&mdash;Question of Procedure. 
     
      
       I should like to raise a question of procedure in reference to a Bill which came down from the Seanad last week. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy did not give me any notice of this. 
     
     
      
       I did not because I had only time to read the report this morning and I had not an opportunity of seeing you, sir.  The point is this: are Bills coming down from the Seanad to this House in the nature of Private Members' Bills if they are not actual Government measures?  If so, should they not take their place in the queue, so to speak, of Private Members' Bills in Private Members' time rather than in Government time?  The point has reference to the Wild Birds Protection Bill. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy wishes to know what is the position of Bills initiated in and passed by the Seanad and sent to Dail Eireann for consideration.  They remain on the Order Paper until a motion is made for Second Reading.  If the motion is made for Second Reading by a Minister and they are thus adopted as Government business, they may be taken in Government time.  If the motion is made by a private Deputy, they will be taken in Private Members' time.  In the particular instance referred to, the   Minister for Justice moved the Second Reading in Government time. 
     
     
      
       He explicitly, in reply to me, said that it was not a Government measure.  Then what was it? 
     
     
      
       Of course, if the Deputy and the Minister do not agree as to what it was, it is not for the Ceann Comhairle to say what it was.  If the Minister chose to move the Second Reading in Government time, he was within his rights. 
     
     
      
       Although not a Government measure?  Seeing that he moved it rather as a Private Member, should it not come on in Private Members' time? 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy explain what the difficulty is? 
     
     
      
       The difficulty is that when a private member of this House in the position of a Minister is moving a Bill which is not a Government Bill, the Bill should come on in Private Members' time and not in Government time.  If he says that it is a Government measure, that will answer me. 
     
     
      
       The position is that the President could, if he so wished, allow Deputy Little to move a Bill in Government time without the Bill becoming a Government measure. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. 
     
      
       I do not propose to interrupt public business at 9 p.m. this evening to take Private Members' business, but I shall allow Private Members' business to be taken to-morrow night at 9 p.m. 
       Ordered: That public business be not interrupted at 9 p.m. this evening for the taking of Private Members' business. 
     
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. 
     Resolved: That leave be given to introduce the following Supplementary Estimate for the service of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, namely, Vote No. 64&mdash; Army (The President). 
   
   
     State Lands (Workhouses) Bill, 1929&mdash;Money Resolution. 
     
        The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move: 
       That it is expedient to authorise any payments out of the Central Fund under the provisions of any Act of the present session to make better provision in relation to the making of leases and the granting of licences of certain lands which were formerly vested in the Local Government Board for Ireland and now belonging by virtue of Article 11 of the Constitution to Saorstat Eireann, to confirm certain leases and licences heretofore made or agreed to be made of portions of such lands, to make provision for the maintenance of such lands and for the discharge of outgoings payable in respect thereof and for other purposes connected with the aforesaid matters. 
     
     
      
       Could we get any information as to the approximate amount likely to be required from the Central Fund? 
     
     
      
       The amount received into the Central Fund in respect of these lettings up to the present has been about £1,099. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Resolution reported to the Dail. 
       Report of Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     State Lands (Workhouses) Bill, 1929&mdash;Committee. 
     Sections 1 and 2 agreed to. 
     SECTION 3. 
     (2) Every lease or licence made or granted under this Section shall (unless the Minister is of opinion that such lease or licence should in the public interest be made or granted free of any payment) be made or granted subject to the payment to the Minister of such   moneys, whether by way of fine or other preliminary payment or by way of rent or by both such ways, as the Minister shall think proper and shall agree upon with the person to whom such lease or licence is made or granted, and all such moneys when received by the Minister shall be applied by him in such manner and for such purposes within the functional area of the local authority in whose functional area the land the subject of such lease or licence is situate as he shall think advisable. 
     
      
       I move amendment 1:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), page 3, to delete all words from the word &ldquo;and&rdquo; in line 6 to the end of the sub-section. 
       I undertook on Second Reading to make it clearer that the moneys received from the lettings of these buildings would be applied to the maintenance of these buildings and for the purpose of the Poor Relief Act.  Amendment 8 makes that necessary provision.  It provides that &ldquo;All moneys received by either the Minister, a local authority, or the council of a county under this Act in respect of any land shall be applied by the Minister or such local authority or council (as the case may be) in discharge of any debts, liabilities, outgoings or expenses payable&rdquo;&mdash;I shall ask the leave of the House to take out the word &ldquo;due&rdquo; which occurs here and which is unnecessary&mdash;&ldquo;by the Minister or such local authority or council in respect of such land and any other land held under the same title, and, in so far as the same may not be required for the discharge of such debts, liabilities, outgoings and expenses, in aid of the expenses incurred in the relief of the poor in the functional area of the local authority in whose functional area such land is situate.&rdquo; Amendment 8 meets the undertaking I gave on Second Reading, and amendments 1, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are consequential. 
     
     
     
      
       We shall take a decision on amendment 1, which is the operative section. 
     
     
      
       There is only one point that occurs to me.  Perhaps the Minister would be agreeable to adopt or to be incorporated in the Bill&mdash;if he would not agree to that perhaps he would do it otherwise&mdash; something to the effect that once a year, say in January, a return should be sent to the local authorities concerned setting out the amount of money received during the previous year in respect of such lands and the amount of money estimated to be available in the coming year for the upkeep of the lands and buildings and so on.  If the Minister would agree to send such a return once a year to the local authorities concerned that is all I want.  Let his Department send out each year to the local authorities a statement of the money received in the previous financial year and also showing an estimate as far as that could be made of the money that would be available in the following year to aid them in making their annual budget. 
     
     
      
       Not only will the list be sent to the local authorities but the actual money will be credited to them.  Some of the money will be paid directly through the local authority, some of it will be paid to the Minister, but whether paid to the local authority or the Minister it will be credited to the local authority and the local authority will take it into its moneys. 
     
     
      
       They will be duly notified at some specific date? 
     
     
      
       It is really a matter of administration.  According as each lease is entered into by a local authority they will know how much there will be coming from such licence or lease; according as the lease is entered into by the Minister in respect of five years or more, the local authority will be consulted beforehand and apprised of the lease being entered into.  But so far as estimating from year to year   what the income from the letting from these lands will be the local authorities are in a more satisfactory position than the Minister.  I will not say that workhouses are involved in the possibility of such a letting, but there are 128 of them and it would be difficult for the Minister to make an estimate of what the income will be to the local authority from such letting. 
     
     
      
       Do I understand that the moneys receivable under the Act whether by the Minister or the local authorities will be expended at the discretion of the local authority? 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  The local authorities will be responsible for the upkeep of these buildings and will be required to administer the Poor Law Relief Act.  They will get a certain amount of money under these leases and so far as that is not required for the upkeep of the buildings, the repayment of loans or debts, it will be so available and must be spent on Poor Relief. 
     
     
      
       It is understood that the local authorities shall get only such sums as accrue from the land in the immediate neighbourhood of the unused workhouse? 
     
     
      
       Land includes buildings. 
     
     
      
       But will they get the amount that will accrue from the letting of these lands? 
     
     
      
       Yes, also any funds that will accrue from the letting of the building which is included. 
     
     
      
       Many of these buildings have been allowed to get into a terrible state of disrepair and if the local authority has to make that good they would have to expend a considerable sum more than the letting of the land would realise even in most favourable circumstances. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy requires a certain amount of money to be set aside now for the repair of certain damage to certain workhouses throughout the country. 
     
     
     
      
       There will be back payments to certain of the local authorities and could they not be set aside? 
     
     
      
       There is £1,099. Amendment 8 here introducing a new section 10 requires that the money shall be so spent. 
     
     
      
       Is it not possible in the case of a particular local authority with some back money coming to them to use it in relief of rates in the coming year rather than in executing repairs that have been long over-due? 
     
     
      
       We make, as far as it is possible to do it by legislation, the discharging of debts, the meeting of liabilities, outgoings and expenses, a first charge on the money received, and as we make the local authorities responsible for the upkeep of the buildings I think that is met.  Any settlement of the matter must be administrative. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move: 
       To add after sub-section (2) a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Minister shall submit annually to the Dail a return showing all moneys received by him in each year in respect of every lease or licence granted under this Act, and the purpose or purposes for which such moneys were applied.&rdquo; 
     
     I table this amendment to meet the point I raised on the Second Reading debate.  The Bill has been amended since by the deletion of the words to which I had most objection, namely, that the State revenue accruing from licences or leases paid to the Minister shall be expended by the Minister in such manner as he deems advisable.  Despite the fact that the Bill is improved by the Minister's amendment, never theless I think it is desirable that a return should be submitted annually to the Dail showing the amounts received by the Minister each year in respect of leases or licences granted under the Bill and the areas from which the amount   came and the local authorities to which they were credited.  I do not know whether the Minister has any objection to submitting such a return.  I think it is desirable that in all matters dealing with finance the Dail should be kept fully informed of everything that happens. 
     
      
       In the first place, speaking only of workhouses. I wonder what purpose would be served by the provision of this return. There will in fact be laid before the Oireachtas in respect of licences granted for a period of more than five years an actual statement of the terms in respect of each letting according as the letting is made.  The other lettings will be made by the local authority under regulations made by the Minister subject where the letting is for more than one year to the Minister's consent, and where under one year subject alone to the decision of the local authority, but subject to regulations made by the Minister. Most of these lettings will be for less than twelve months.  There will be lettings of grounds for grazing, there will be lettings of the halls for bazaars, for flower shows or dances. 
     
     
      
       The return is only asked in respect of moneys received by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       In respect of lettings for which money will be received by the Minister, according as such lettings are made, the whole terms will be tabled before the Oireachtas in the same way as lettings under the State Lands Act, 1924, have been tabled up to the present. 
     
     I do not know that any particular purpose would be served if we were to take these figures and make a return of them, but in so far as it is desired to keep a control over the money and see that it is spent on work which it is stated in this Act it should be spent on, each of these lettings, whether made by the local authority or by the Minister, will come under review by the auditor, and the auditor will have machinery   for seeing that such moneys were brought to account and were applied to the particular purposes for which they were intended.  The auditor will do that side of the thing, so that I do not know that anyone in the Oireachtas will be helped in any way by doing what the Deputy suggests in his amendment. 
     
      
       Is the Minister referring to the Comptroller and Auditor-General? 
     
     
      
       No, but to the ordinary auditor auditing accounts 
     
     
      
       As we shall discuss the matter on the amendment that refers to documents laid on the Table I will withdraw this amendment. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
       Section 3, as amended, put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 4. 
       (2) No lease or licence for any term exceeding five years shall be made or granted under this Act until either&mdash; 
       (a)  each House of the Oireachtas has by resolution authorised the making or granting of such lease or licence either with or without modification of any of the proposed provisions of such lease or licence, or 
       (b)  the expiration of whichever of the following periods shall be the longer, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (i)  twelve days after the first day on which either House of the Oireachtas shall sit next after the statement in accordance with this section shall have been laid before the Houses of the Oireachtas, or 
       (ii)  six days on which either House of the Oireachtas shall have sat after the said statement shall have been so laid before the Houses. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 3: 
     
     
        To delete sub-section (2) and substitute the following:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(2) No lease or licence for any term exceeding five years shall be made or granted under this Act until each house of the Oireachtas has by resolution authorised the making or granting of such lease or licence either with or without modification of any of the proposed provisions of such lease or licence.&rdquo; 
     This is an amendment to deal with the other point which I raised on the Second Reading discussion, namely, the value of Section 4 as a safeguard over the powers of the Minister. The section is identical with the section and powers in the State Lands Act, 1924.  Its ostensible purpose is to provide that the Dail will have the right to exercise an effective veto over any proposed lease or licence, information concerning which is placed before it in the documents laid upon the table of the House.  When an attempt was made last year by Deputy Hogan to exercise the power presumed to have been given by a similar section in the State Lands Act of 1924, it was found that the machinery set up was defective.  The section provides that any Deputy desiring to veto or amend a proposed lease must table an amendment in the Dail and secure the passage of that amendment within twelve days after the documents are first laid upon the table.  There is, however, no provision to ensure that the Dail will discuss the motion within the twelve days specified in the Act.  Deputy Hogan, it will be remembered, proposed a motion asking the Dail to disagree with the proposed leasing of workhouse lands in Clare.  The motion appeared upon the Order Paper for months.  The twelve days specified in the Act passed and the lease was made permanent long before the Dail got an opportunity of discussing the motion proposed by Deputy Hogan.  A similar section is proposed in this Bill and I suggest that either this section should be deleted entirely or else some machinery should be devised which will make the power of the Dail effective.  I   propose that paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) should be deleted, in other words that no lease or licence under the Bill should become effective until a motion has been proposed in the Dail expressing approval of it.  That is in effect an attempt to make the powers of the Dail positive and not negative. 
     I do not suggest that the amendment I propose is perfect.  It, if anything, gives the Dail too much power and might lead to a number of unnecessary discussions concerning these leases here.  Nevertheless, I suggest that procedure is better than the procedure suggested in the Bill for the very good reason that it will work whereas the other will not or may not work in the majority of cases.  If there is some middle course to be followed which the Minister can suggest, I will be very glad to withdraw the amendment in my name.  Otherwise I think it will have to stand.  The course I would like to see adopted by the House is to leave the section in the Bill as it stands with an additional sub-section to provide that a motion tabled under that section shall be given priority over other business in the Dail within the period of the twelve days specified. 
     
      
       Does the Deputy seriously mean that? 
     
     
      
       I am quite serious. I cannot possibly see the sense of putting in a section of that kind if it is the intention of the Government that it shall be meaningless. 
     
     
      
       The letting of workhouses to take precedence of all Government business! 
     
     
      
       The letting of a patch of workhouse land! 
     
     
      
       If the President makes any suggestion of alternative machinery I will be glad to get it. Might I point out that the intention of the Government as expressed by the Minister for Local Government during the second reading discussion was that the section should be inoperative. On page 119 of the   Official Report of February 12th the Minister states: 
       &ldquo;The Executive Council controls the time of the Dail and there was no necessity, and I cannot imagine that there was any intention, to put a section into the State Lands Act stipulating that time should be given to Deputies who wanted to raise discussions over the granting of particular leases.&rdquo; 
       In putting a section identical with this section in the State Lands Act of 1924 the Government's intention was that the machinery thus created should be incapable of being worked.  Now here is the procedure: A lease is proposed, a document containing particulars relating to that lease is laid upon the Table of the House.  If some Deputy on examining that document finds something is being done with which he could not agree then his only means of securing a decision of the Dail on that matter is by tabling a motion.  Now, if the President or the Minister will look at the Order Paper to-day he will come to the conclusion that a motion tabled by a Deputy under this section could not be possibly considered before this time next year. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy quite sure of that? 
     
     
      
       I am quite sure.  In the particular instance of Deputy Hogan's motion concerning Scariff Workhouse&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Did that motion of Deputy Hogan exhaust the subject? Was not that position rectified? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of it. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Corish had another motion subsequently, and I think it was generally agreed that a matter of that sort would be given precedence in private members' time. 
     
     
      
       A matter of this kind to be left to general agreement? What the President is suggesting is more serious than the defective nature of the section in the Bill. Any private member under such an   arrangement would probably hold up discussion on a motion under a section of that kind by refusing to surrender his place upon the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       No.  The present position is that any such motion in reference to a matter of that sort gets precedence in private members' time. 
     
     
      
       In respect of what Act or what Order? 
     
     
      
       In respect of the State Lands Act. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass means under what provision. 
     
     
      
       I think it was the Committee of Procedure and Privileges. 
     
     
      
       There certainly was a discussion on this matter in the Committee of Procedure and Privileges and general agreement was arrived at to give precedence to such motions, but it should not be left to agreement between Ministers and Deputies of the House to give precedence. It should be definitely provided in the Bill that gives Deputies that power that that power shall be exercisable.  I think I am correct in saying that if a Deputy proposes a motion relating to some lease under the State Lands Act, and I have a motion on the Order Paper for several months concerning fish barrels, and if I should refuse to give place to that Deputy, there is no power to ensure that that motion will be considered within twelve days. I cannot see either why the power of the Dail cannot be made positive, in other words these leases should be subject to the approval of the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Is not the Deputy confusing two matters, the power of the Dail and the power of a private member to coerce the Dail into doing something he wants? 
     
     
      
       The purpose of this section is to give the Dail effective   control over the leases.  In fact, the section does nothing of the kind.  It merely provides that Deputies shall be informed of the details of such leases.  If the section is to be made effective it has got to be amended in one of two ways.  Either it has got to be amended by making the power of the Dail positive and not negative, or else it has to provide that a motion tabled under sub-section 2 must be considered within the twelve days allowed.  Personally, I do not think that the dangers which the Minister and the President imagine will arise, through making the power of the Dail positive, are likely to be as serious as they pretend, because in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the motions to approve of leases granted under the Bill will be purely formal and will pass the Dail in two minutes without discussion.  It is only in the hundredth case in which some Deputy will have possibly an objection to the lease that a discussion will ensue. The course I would prefer would be to have an amendment inserted in the section providing that it shall be incumbent on the Dail to discuss and decide on such motion if proposed under Section B within the twelve days allowed by Section B. That will ensure that no Deputy will be deprived of his right to call the Dail's attention to the provisions of the lease so that the Dail may veto or amend the lease under the Bill. 
       I raised this matter on the Second Reading.  The Minister, in his reply, gave the impression that it was the intention of the Government that the section should not be operative. He stated that that was also the intention of the Government in relation to a similar section of the State Lands Act of 1924, that it should be inoperative.  I think it is undesirable that members of the Dail should be hoodwinked by a section which purports to give a power which is not capable of being exercised.  I would ask the Dail to pass the amendment which appears in my name, to ensure that this question will be reconsidered by the Minister before the Bill comes before us on Report. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy attempts to argue that the State Lands Act of 1924 set out either to provide or to persuade Deputies that there was provided machinery for actually discussing here, contrary to the will of the House, any lease given under the State Lands Act that was tabled in the House.  There was no such intention.  Article 11 of the Constitution provides that such lands shall be controlled and administered by the Oireachtas in accordance with such regulations and provisions as shall be from time to time approved by legislation.  The Deputy suggests, in order properly to administer these lands, that it should be possible for any Deputy who wants to question a lease to be able to bring it up here and take up Parliamentary time discussing it.  The Dail appoints a Minister to administer a particular branch of local government, hitherto the Minister for Finance.  In future he will continue to deal with State lands other than workhouse lands which are a particular type of State lands and were vested for local purposes originally.  The Minister for Finance will continue to administer State lands, but the Minister for Local Government and Public Health will discharge the duties in regard to workhouse lands.  Each Minister has his own big Department to deal with.  They take actions from time to time that are much more important from the financial point of view than the letting of a few rooms for residences in workhouses or the letting of a patch of land for the purpose of industry, or any purpose that it would be required for, for more than five years. To think, with the limited time at the disposal of both Houses for the transaction of their business, that any one of these leases should be the subject of discussion, however short, here is to take a view about which there is a very considerable want of proportion.  What is provided by the State Lands Act and what is proposed in this Bill is that the Minister for Local Government in the discharge of his duties in administering these lands, in the first place, will   be aided if necessary by the provision which enables a resolution of both Houses to quicken the date on which the lease may be given. 
       On the other hand, if there is a prima facie case in connection with any particular lease that would make it acceptable to the Houses as a whole, either here or in the Seanad, the matter can be discussed within a limited time, but it does preclude the possibility of taking up the time of either House by a discussion, contrary to the will of either House, of small matters such as the granting of these leases. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I think the Minister is making it abundantly clear that he is willing&mdash;I might say almost anxious&mdash;to disobey the law. He indulged here in a very peculiar interpretation of a section of an Act of Parliament.  I suggest that we are not qualified to interpret Acts of Parliament, that it is a matter for another place.  Anyhow, I do suggest to him that if he wants to limit what we should consider in connection with the letting or leasing of State lands he ought to make it clear what we are entitled to consider. What might appear to be of little consequence to this Dail may be of very great importance to local people.  I put it to the Minister, in a reasonable way, that he cannot have his fingers upon all the leases, lettings and licences in connection with State lands throughout the country.  He will have to take the advice of certain officials, perhaps ill-prepared statements from his officials.  I suggest that a Deputy with local knowledge, and who comes in close contact with administration in his own county, will be in a better position to judge these matters.  The non possumus attitude of the Minister and the statement that it was never intended that the time of the Dail should be taken up considering these matters, is to my mind most preposterous. 
     
     
      
       Contrary to the will of the House? 
     
     
      
       I am getting confused between the will of the people and   the will of the Dail, I am hearing them so often.  The will of the Dail, as expressed in a section of an Act of Parliament, was that the Dail would have a complete opportunity within a specified time to make objection or otherwise against these leases. 
     
     
      
       There is nothing here to prevent that. 
     
     
      
       There is nothing there to enable it. 
     
     
      
       I am speaking from experience in this matter.  I do know that when I did want to bring up a matter in this Dail the statutory period had long elapsed and the Department had taken action before the Dail could pass an opinion as to whether the lease or letting should be made by the Minister responsible. I know that the Committee on Procedure and Privileges did decide that a certain motion should be taken out of its order and given precedence, and I objected to my motion being passed over.  I know that I had to get a certain arrangement made before I would allow the particular motion to be considered. 
     
     I think that Deputy Lemass is perfectly right in saying that he can rattle his fish barrels to the discomfiture of any Deputy who wants to move a motion out of its place.  If the Minister takes up the attitude that it was never intended to do this, then we do not know what is intended in any Act of Parliament and he ought to tell us.  I, for one, cannot see how any motion can come within the statutory limit to put a brake on the activities of any Minister in this connection.  I do not know whether this is the proper place to introduce the machinery. I do not know whether it is the machinery of the Dail that is at fault but I understand that in other places some time is given for the consideration of such motions that might be regarded as Government matters. Wherever the defect is, there is surely a defect and it should not be met by saying that it was never intended   that a section of an Act of Parliament would be put into operation. 
     
      
       What Deputy Lemass and Deputy Hogan are really asking for is that, a statement having been tabled to the effect that it was proposed to enter into a certain lease and that some person says that from his particular point of view there is prima facie evidence in that statement that the lease should not be entered into and this person puts down a motion to that effect, then these Deputies want that that person shall be able to have his motion discussed within a certain time although he could not get the support of the House for a discussion on such motion. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): How could he? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy wants to have a person coming in here, although the will of the majority of the House is in favour of discussing what they consider to be more important business, and forcing the House to allot time for the discussion of his particular motion.  We say that there never was any intention to have the will of the House over-ruled in that way. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): In other words, the Deputy should belong to the Cumann na nGaedheal Party before he can move a motion. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say how the will of the House can be ascertained?  If a Deputy wants a motion discussed within the statutory time fixed he can only do so if the majority of the House or if another Deputy who has a motion down consents.  As Deputy Hogan says, Deputy Thrift can rattle his Senators or someone else can rattle his fish barrels. 
     
     
      
       There are two safeguards.  He can get Private Members' time if there is anything in the motion worthy of discussion as to the policy of the Government in granting a particular lease.  If there is anything serious he can put   the Government into the position of offering time to him. 
     
     
      
       How?  That is the very point. 
     
     
      
       Because generally, if there is a question of want of confidence involved, the Government have never declined to give Deputies an opportunity of discussing matters which they want to make matters of confidence. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): Does the Minister suggest that I should put down a motion of want of confidence because the Government propose to let certain lands in Scariff in a particular way? 
     
     
      
       I think that the Deputy is wrong in arguing about lands in Scariff as he did before. The Deputy wants to take up the time of the House against the will of the House&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You had a majority of only three. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;protesting against the giving of certain lands in Scariff for the purpose of a creamery business. 
     
     
      
       Surely we should not get back to Scariff workhouse at this particular stage. 
     
     
      
       I would advise the Deputy not to get back to that. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the Minister says that the section cannot become operative without the consent of the Executive Council? 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister misses the point; what is asked for is that legislative sanction should be given in this Bill for particular purposes, that it should be raised from being the practice of this House to take a motion within twelve days, that instead of being the practice it should get legislative sanction.  It is not a question of the will of the House, because if Bills take precedence over motions concerning fish barrels and other matters, I am perfectly certain that   if it is a question of appealing to the will of the House Deputy Lemass would prevail. 
     
     
      
       It is not in the order of legislative sanction that Bills take precedence of motions concerning fish barrels.  If it can be arranged by the machinery that arranges the order for the discussion of Bills that motions of this particular kind should be discussed in a particular order of precedence, it is a matter for settlement by machinery and not by legislation. 
     
     
      
       This amendment suggests a particular method of proceeding, and it has been indicated by Deputy Lemass that in the event of failure to carry the amendment, a machinery might be created.  The machinery exists.  The matter has been discussed by the appropriate body, namely, the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, and they made a suggestion.  All agreements made by that body up to the present have been carried out, and will, no doubt, be carried out in the future, but failing agreement, the procedure might have to be regulated by Standing Order.  The Committee on Procedure and Privileges considered in May last whether a Standing Order should be framed. Following this it was stated in the House, on behalf of the Committee, that they did not consider that a Standing Order should then be drafted, but that a certain procedure suggested by them should be given a trial.  If that suggestion did not achieve the object, the matter would receive further consideration. 
     
     
      
       Although each individual lease or licence under the Bill might be a matter of no importance. I recollect that the Minister for Industry and Commerce announced that a similar section would appear in the Minerals Bill which he is drafting.  He stated in some discussion that he had been considering the improvement of the provision contained in the State Lands Act for the purposes of the Minerals Bill. He announced that he had been unable to improve upon it and he asked   the co-operation of the House in devising a better system.  I take it that when we have a section in this Bill similar to the section in the State Land Acts of 1924 it is tantamount to an admission that the Government have been unable to devise any other method by which the power of the Dail over acts of this kind could be maintained.  It is only recently that we had it proved that particular machinery established by this section had proved inoperative.  It is possible to make it operative as the result of general agreement among Deputies.  I think, in view of the importance of maintaining some form of control by the Dail over administrative acts of Departments, that the power which the Dail decided should be kept to itself, should not be dependent on an agreement among members but should rest on the more secure foundation of a section of an Act of Parliament. 
     
     That is the reason I have been pressing this matter on the Second Reading and on the Committee Stage of this Bill.  It is likely to come before the House again in relation to much more important matters than those contained in the Bill.  I think it is desirable that members should have every opportunity to resist attempts to lessen their control over matters of this kind.  The particular objection to the section is that it purports to give power to the House which in fact it does not give. The Minister has spoken about the will of the Dail.  It was obviously the will of the Dail when it passed the 1924 State Lands Act that it should have the right to question any lease given under that Act within twelve days after the particulars had been laid upon the Table.  It inserted a section in the Bill which it thought gave us that power.  It was found, when they came to operate that section, that it did nothing of the kind.  Some temporary arrangement has been made by agreement reached at the Committee of Procedure and Privileges. That is satisfactory, but I think that the Government should have noted the fact that the machinery set up by   the State Lands Act proved inoperative and that they should have taken steps to rectify it, particularly in relation to the first Bill of a similar nature introduced into the House. 
     
      
       I hope that when the House passes this section it will do so with its eyes open and know what it may expect.  As the matter stands I hope the Deputy has more wealth in mind in this country than the mines and minerals we have been discussing here and that matter can be discussed in a suitable way in whatever Bill the Minister for Industry and Commerce brings forward.  This Bill expressly leaves out the question of mines and minerals. 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
       Section 4 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 5. 
     
     
      
       I move to delete sub-section (5). 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 5, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       Section 6 agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
     
     
      
       I move to delete sub-section (4). 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 8. 
     
     
      
       I move in page 5, to delete sub-section (3). 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section as amended ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 9. 
     
     
      
       I move to delete sub-section (3). 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section as amended ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     
     
        SECTION 10. 
     
      
       I move. 
       Before Section 10 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;All moneys received by either the Minister, a local authority or the council of a county under this Act in respect of any land shall be applied by the Minister or such local authority or council (as the case may be) in discharge of any debts, liabilities, outgoings or expenses payable due by the Minister or such local authority or council in respect of such land and any other land held under the same title, and, in so far as the same may not be required for the discharge of such debts, liabilities, outgoings and expenses, in aid of the expenses incurred in the relief of the poor in the functional area of the local authority in whose functional area such land is situate.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 10 put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 11. 
       (1)  All expenses incurred by a local authority (other than a board of guardians) under this Act shall be defrayed by means of the poor rate and shall be raised equally over the functional area of such local authority. 
       (2)  All expenses incurred by a board of guardians under this Act shall be defrayed as a union charge and shall be raised, equally over the whole union of such board of guardians. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (1), line 55, to insert after the word &ldquo;Act&rdquo; the words &ldquo;and not defrayed out of moneys received under this Act.&rdquo; 
       Both this and the following amendment are consequential on amendment No. 8. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
     
     
        In sub-section (2), line 59, to insert after the word &ldquo;Act&rdquo; the words &ldquo;and not defrayed out of moneys received under this Act.&rdquo; 
     Section 11, as amended, put and agreed to. 
     Title put and agreed to. 
     Progress ordered to be reported. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Bill reported with amendments. Report Stage fixed for Friday, 21st February. 
   
   
     Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Bill, 1930&mdash;Second Stage. 
     
      
       I move that the Bill be read a Second Time.  It is practically identical with Bills of a similar nature which have been before the House so often that I do not think I need say so much about this Bill.  The House understands that it is a formal Bill, and that it is necessary to renew the Defence Forces Act year by year.  The purpose of the Bill is to continue that Act in operation until 31st March, 1931.  There have been so many discussions on the Act from time to time that I do not think it necessary to say more. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has been very brief in his remarks in introducing the Bill.  I think he might have had something more to say as to why we should continue the Army and continue spending over one and a-half million per annum on it.  He says it is a temporary Bill from year to year, but it has been promised from 1923 that a permanent Bill would be brought in.  The Minister has made no reference to that promise to-day.  I do not see why the Dail should be asked even in a few words or a thousand words&mdash;I do not see how it could be justified in ten thousand words&mdash;to carry on this Army with the present policy of the Government.  The Army can only fight when England wants it to fight.  There are absolutely no munition factories here, and I do not see why the Irish people should be asked to expend £1,600,000, leaving out the   cost of Army Pensions, on an Army which can only fight when England wants it to fight.  One thing the Minister should have referred to is how he justified the establishment of a Volunteer Reserve under the past temporary Acts.  I admit that he has more justification for that according to the letter of the law, than the Government had for a lot of other things they did but certainly I think he should have referred to it and explained what his policy regarding the Volunteer Reserve Corps is going to be for the coming year and the dimensions which he hopes it will attain.  I think if the Minister wanted to establish a Volunteer Reserve which would command respect in the country and for which he could get recruits, he should have come to the Dail and tried to get general agreement for the establishment of a Volunteer Reserve.  I think he might have got some suggestions from all sides of the House which if adopted would have led to the establishment of a real Irish Volunteer Reserve instead of a Reserve, that, as far as I can see, is going to be one wing of the British Army. 
     
     If it is not going to be a wing of the British Army, I would like to know why the Volunteer Reserve was so successful in Trinity College and unsuccessful throughout the country.  I believe that in Dublin men, though on the verge of starvation, have refused to join up.  Only 600, according to the official organ of Cumann na nGaedheal, have offered their services and only 300 of that 600 were found suitable.  I think that the fact that the Volunteer Reserve has broken down shows conclusively that the people of the country are not satisfied with the defence policy of the Minister. I wonder just from an expense point of view whether it would not be cheaper to add 300 men to the permanent standing Army rather than recruit 300 into the Volunteer Reserve at the expense which the authorities have incurred to get these 300.  They have got offices in the city, and as they cannot be doing   very much work in these offices, I certainly think that it would cost more to get these 300 recruits into the Volunteer Reserve than it would have cost to get 300 additional men into the Standing Army.  I would like to hear if the Minister has any estimate as to how much these 300 men cost.  According to the Order Paper we are going to have more money voted for the Army.  I suppose some of the Supplementary Estimate is going to cover the expenses of the Volunteer Reserve.  We would also like to know from the Minister when he is going to introduce a permanent Defence Forces Bill.  I would like the Minister to give some indication as to what he wants an Army for in the future, and as to how he can justify an expenditure of £1,600,000 on an Army which can only fight when the British want it to fight. 
     
      
       Before the Minister concludes, I wish to say a few words concerning the Volunteer Reserve which has been inaugurated in recent months.  In the other House attention has been drawn by Senator Johnson to the methods by which steps were taken to form that Reserve.  I do not intend to say anything concerning the legality of these methods, because I am not concerned with their legality so much as with their wisdom. 
     
     As Deputies are aware, the way in which the Minister decided to form his Reserve was not by introducing proposals for legislation to that end and securing their passage through the Dail but by straining the powers given him under the Act of 1923.  He enlists men into the Army and then, without any period of training, transfers them to the Reserve.  I think it is due to that particular method of procedure that the Volunteer Reserve has been what can be described as a hopeless failure. Announcements appeared in the Press some months ago that some 50,000 recruits were required, and, according to the official organ of Cumann na nGaedheal, as has been pointed out by Deputy Aiken, 600 recruits offered themselves in Dublin and 300 have been accepted.  I think   that I remember reading in the newspapers of the formation of a half battalion in Templemore area on the understanding that it would not be asked to fight in any year earlier than the month of November.  If my recollection is not correct I withdraw the statement, but I think that was the promise given to that particular battalion.  However, comparatively speaking, the formation has been a failure, and I suggest it has been a failure not so much because the people of the country do not want a reserve force as because of the methods which the Minister adopted to create it. 
     The first official announcement of the impending creation of the force was made by the Minister in his speech, of all places in the world, at the Dublin Rotary Club dinner. There were contained in that speech references not merely to the Volunteer Reserve Force but to the good work done by the Cumann na nGaedheal Ministers.  In other words, from the very beginning, the Volunteer Reserve Force was linked up with the political party of which the Minister is a member.  Persons offering themselves for enlistment in the force are, I understand, required to subscribe to a declaration or oath which they are informed immediately afterwards ceases to be operative in consequence of their transfer to the Reserve.  That oath requires them not to be a member of or to subscribe to any political society or organisation, to give good and true and faithful service to the Oireachtas and the Government of Saorstat Eireann under the Constitution, and to defend the country against all enemies whomsoever. 
     In the propaganda matter issued by the Department of Defence to secure recruits for this Reserve it was described as a citizen army, and they emphasised the necessity and the duty of every young able-bodied man being trained and organised to defend his country against aggression.  But I think it will be obvious that a citizen army will not be created if the members of it have as a first step to declare by oath that they will not exercise one of the fundamental   rights of citizenship, and that is the right to influence political matters through political organisations. Throughout the whole period during which this force was being planned and organised a definite impression was created that it was not to be an army designed to defend the country against external aggression, but a sort of Fascist force at the disposal of the present Executive Council. I do not wish to imply that I think the Executive Council had that view in mind; it was the clumsy methods which they adopted which resulted in the creation of that impression. We have had very definite assurances from the Minister that the Army is and will be a non-political force, giving the same loyalty to one Government elected by this Dail as it gives to any other Government. We have been always glad to have such assurances.  We hope that time will prove these statements to be facts.  It is, however, somewhat extraordinary that officers of the Army when they are discharged, placed on the Reserve, given gratuities and allowed to exercise all the rights of citizens, always prove to be the most vituperative opponents of Fianna Fail.  It is not necessary to go outside the membership of the Dail to get proof of the truth of that statement.  I am quite certain that the amount of spleen which these members of this House possess was not suddenly acquired by them on the day on which they took off the Army uniform.  It had obviously been stored up during a long period, when they could not give expression to it, and is poured out with particular volume and force as soon as the brakes are taken off.  I hope that was a mere coincidence, and that the particular individuals to whom I refer are not typical of the officers of the Army or of the Volunteer Reserve. 
     The Minister gave a most unsatisfactory statement in introducing this Bill.  I think it was his duty to have reviewed developments in the defence forces during the past year when asking the Dail to renew for another period the Act of 1923.  He did not choose to do so, and left us   dependent on news which we get through the columns of the semiofficial organ of his Party.  These statements, as I pointed out, indicate that his efforts to form a volunteer reserve have been a failure.  I do not know if the Minister for Defence is to be criticised for the failure.  He was telling the people of the United States about the prosperity we enjoy here, while actual steps were being taken to bring the force into existence.  The Minister for Finance, I understand, was acting as his deputy at the time and was personally responsible for the details of the arrangements, and the fact that the plan miscarried must be laid at the door of the Minister for Finance.  If he had been here the Minister for Defence might have handled the position more skilfully, but I think that the speech which he delivered at the Rotary Club prior to going to America indicates that such would not have been the case. 
     The Minister for Defence in fact made the first false step when he linked up the Reserve with the present Executive Council.  He gave as an example of the political wisdom of the Party to which be belongs the fact that they were going to take steps to form this force.  Therefore, at the very beginning he made it difficult to ensure that there would be no political tinge attached to membership of it.  At present that political tinge is there, and the best course which I suggest the Executive Council could take would be to wind up the present attempt, to acknowledge their failure, to come to this House with a new Bill seeking to form this force upon new lines, and to secure if possible the agreed passage of that Bill through the Dail, and then I suggest that the formation of the force would have the good will of every political Party in the State.  I am convinced that if the force be established as being only liable to be called up to defend the country against external aggression no difficulty will arise in securing that good will from every Party. 
     
      
       I should like to say   a few words in support of this Bill; not that it ought to need support from any section of the House, because it should have the support of all sections.  Year by year, following the usual course, the Minister has moved the continuation of this Act to keep the armed forces of the country in being.  That is following the course in other constitutional countries in providing every year for maintaining an armed force for their defence.  Since 1923, year by year, the Army has been reduced in numbers, but not reduced in efficiency, as anybody can tell you who knows anything about military matters at all, and I think I may say that I do.  Nobody can say otherwise than that the Army is as well drilled, as good and as efficient a force as any of its size to be found in any other country. 
       Along with the efficiency of the Army, there is, of course, the question of the cost of it and of its size. Ministers announced many years ago that as soon as they saw that the state of affairs justified it they would reduce the Army as much as they thought advisable.  They have done so, but they have not reduced its efficiency.  A year or so ago it was announced that when it was reduced to the smallest nucleus that would be capable of expansion in case of necessity a reserve would be formed, and this promise they have fulfilled.  Deputy Lemass and Deputy Aiken more or less threw cold water on the Reserve because some had been passed into it very quickly.  I have had a good deal to do with the training of Irishmen. Many years ago I formed five battalions, and I trained every man of them, so that I do know something about drilling, and anybody who had anything to do with the drilling of Irishmen will know that they learn their work with extraordinary quickness; that in one day they will learn what some men of other nationalities would take a very long time to learn. 
     
     This Reserve is being made little of because it has not reached in three or four days the enormous proportions which apparently Deputy   Lemass and Deputy Aiken think it should have done.  We do not want it to reach that stage all of a sudden. We want to get the best and the most efficient Reserve that we can get.  It is desirable that everybody should have a military training.  I think men will get an opportunity of getting that training before they pass into this Reserve, and when in it they will retain what they have learned.  I am perfectly satisfied that the Minister is acting on the right principle by having efficiently trained reserves and, as small as possible, a centre body to which the men of the Reserve could be brought in case of need. 
     I have not the smallest doubt that that plan will be a success and that the Reserve will attract to it the best elements in the country, irrespective of what the political opinions of the men enlisted may be.  I do not see what authority Deputies had for insinuating that this is a party business. The Army has been formed to protect the country, not to protect any particular party.  That has been put forward by the Government time after time, and nobody has ever put forward any proof to show that the contrary is the case.  I have no doubt at all but that the country generally does approve of the action of the Ministry in forming this Reserve and in their action generally on the subject of the improvement of the Army. 
     
      
       Deputy Wolfe misunderstands us if he thinks that we say that the Army is a party machine. 
     
     
      
       That is what was said. 
     
     
      
       We welcome the assurance that it is not.  But there is a certain amount of evidence which is being quoted here to show that there is, unfortunately, a tendency amongst those who have recently left the ranks of very biassed views on party lines which is very regrettable indeed. 
     
     So long as there is an Army there, the national dignity requires that that Army should be of as strictly   a non-party nature as possible.  Our attitude towards the Army is that we wish we could transfer its activities into productive activities as citizens working in a State where there would be plenty of work for everybody. There is no need for an Army in this country and the only opportunity they will ever have to fight is when they are brought in to fight for England under the Treaty.  As to the formation of a Reserve Force, the thing is at present psychologically impossible, and we may as well recognise the fact.  We are emerging from an unfortunate period in Irish history, a period of civil war, when the people of the country took certain action, and the feelings arising from this civil war have not yet died down.  It will be a long time before you can appeal to the people in such a way as to get united action in the formation of a Reserve Force.  It is a matter for the time being of psychology at any rate.  We have got to wait until there is something that will appeal more to the traditions and imaginations of the younger generation, something that will be closer to our ideals and closer to the ideals of Irish nationality than the present system. 
     
      
       (An Clar): This Bill might be described as an Army annual.  We have it coming up here every year in a temporary fashion and the Minister never gives us any definite reason as to why some permanent measure is not introduced.  I submit that the reason the Minister does not introduce a permanent measure is that some of the arguments that have been used from time to time in the Dail are arguments which have some weight with him and that he is looking forward to the time when he can dispense with the Army altogether.  I think a good case could be made out for dispensing with the Army altogether.  In the first place, the country can scarcely afford an ornamental Army at the present time, and that is what we are having just now&mdash;an ornamental Army that will do very little work, that will add very little to the wealth of the country, and will never   do any service of the kind that an Army should do.  The only thing that Army will indulge in will be Army manoeuvres in the Dublin Mountains or somewhere else.  That Army is keeping money out of productivity, money that might be very well employed in productive work. It is keeping men out of productive occupations.  Secondly, I have repeatedly asked succeeding Ministers in the Dail for some reason for the existence of an Army in this country. Whom is the Army going to fight? What Army can be sustained in this country that will be able to resist an invader and what invader wants to come into this country except to impose a foreign government upon it? If a foreign government wanted to impose their form of government upon this country, I submit there is another people whose responsibility it would be and whose desire it would be to keep out this foreign Army.  I submit that if it were the desire of some South American State to come in here to enforce its form of government upon this country it would be the duty of Great Britain to resist that encroachment upon one of its Dominions. 
     
     There is no good in blinking the matter.  If we are to maintain an Army, it is to take its stand with the long red line whenever Great Britain chooses to go to war with another country.  If we are to preserve this country from invasion by any other State which may endeavour to use this place to attack Great Britain, this Army would be a very menace to the safety of the country that it is protecting.  If we are going to get ourselves involved with any people who are at war with Great Britain, we will get ourselves into a maelstrom of war and the civilians will suffer just as well as any other people in the country.  I submit, then, that the reason for the existence of an Army here has never been demonstrated so far as the protection of the country from any outside influence has been concerned.  If we want an Army to preserve the internal peace, we do not want an Army of the size that we have at   present, and if we want an Army for internal peace preservation it is in the best interests of the country that that Army should be on a permanent and not on a temporary basis. 
     The Minister, I submit, did not explain to the Dail, when bringing in this measure, in what way the Army is going to maintain the national dignity. He did not explain what way it is going to maintain this nation and this State intact.  What power, does the Minister think, is likely to invade this country which this Army would be able to resist?  In what way does he propose that this Army is to be used if at any time Great Britain should find itself involved in war and if a foreign State tried to make use of this country as a base of attack upon Great Britain?  I think he ought to tell us whether this Army would be used to resist that invading force or whether it would be simply neutral.  These are important points not alone for the Dail but for the entire State and for the mass of the civilian population.  One never knows when we may get involved in war with other countries.  For this reason, I would ask the Minister to make some statement as to what is the purpose of the Army and how it is to be used. 
     
      
       On these benches, we would have liked to have had some expression of opinion on this matter from some of the Private Deputies of the Government Party. There is no inconsiderable number of them who have served in the Defence Force of the Free State, and I have no doubt, judging by their views upon other matters affecting the citizens of this country, that they have very definite views with regard to Army organisation as well.  Apparently, the last thing that the Minister for Defence is anxious for, judging from the attempts he has made to conclude the debate, is to hear such an expression of opinion from the members of the Government Party.  He evidently does not wish to hear such expressions of opinion from private members of his own Party in regard to the question of the Army generally, or the question   of the new development which was launched during his absence by the Minister for Finance.  I may say that I would have liked to have heard a little more from the Minister for Defence as to the present position of the Volunteer Reserve.  I may say that the experiment which the Government made in this matter was one which I personally watched with a good deal of interest, an interest which, if the circumstances were happier, would be translated into a good deal of active sympathy. 
       We, in Fianna Fail, do not deny the necessity for a defence force in this country.  We have suffered from the aggression of other States, and possibly similar circumstances may arise again.  But we have very definite ideas as to how this defence force should be organised.  We have, time and again, argued from these benches that the Army of this country should be organised on a volunteer basis.  Therefore, we watched the experiment of the Minister with a good deal of interest, and the conclusions which we have been compelled to draw, from the facts as they have been reported in the papers, and as we have learned for ourselves, are that the Minister never intended that the Volunteer Reserve should be a success.  We say that he launched it in the circumstances which he did in order to be able afterwards to come to the Dail and to say there that the Fianna Fail policy is impossible&mdash; that it is not possible to reorganise the defence forces of this country upon a volunteer basis to save the taxpayers of this country three-quarters of a million pounds a year. I believe that that is what the Minister for Defence and the Executive Council meant in this matter. 
     
     If they had intended that this force should be a success they would not have compelled those who wished to join to take an oath of attestation which, I believe, is not acceptable to the general body of citizens in this country.  The oath of allegiance, or of fidelity to the Constitution, in its present form implies allegiance to a monarch who has not been, and would not be, freely   chosen by this people.  Even to take that for a day and thereafter be released from it is, I know, repulsive to the patriotic feelings of the general mass of our people.  It is particularly repulsive and repellent to the young manhood of this country, the section of the citizens which in normal circumstances would flock to a volunteer force. 
     It has been said by the members of the Executive Council that the Army is the servant of the State, that it serves the State without any political predilections whatsoever, that there is no political atmosphere or bias in the officers or the men of that organisation, and that they are loyal to the Oireachtas and to all parties in the Oireachtas without distinction. That is an attitude which the Executive Council has expressed on behalf of the Army in this House. But what are the facts?  Deputy Lemass has told you that there is no section of our political opponents who go further in vituperation than those who resign from the Army in order to become candidates of the Cumann na nGaedheal organisation at by-elections through the country. Those men who speak with a bitterness that is not equalled by any other politician in the country are the men who are the officers of the Volunteer Reserve.  Do you think that any young man who wishes to see this country united and free would take service in a force of which, say, Deputy Sean McKeon is an officer? Do you think, or does the Minister for Defence think, that any young man who takes the same view with regard to the Constitution of this State as the Deputies on the Fianna Fail Benches would serve in a force which has Deputy O'Higgins as an officer?  And yet these men are officers in the Volunteer Reserve. If the Volunteer Reserve is to succeed, if it is to be recruited from all ranks of the citizens of this State, if it is to be, in fact, a non-political organisation and not a mere Fascist army serving Cumann na nGaedheal, then men like Deputy Sean McKeon and Deputy O'Higgins will have to retire from the service altogether. They will have to be either one thing   or the other, bitter party politicians as is their nature, or else they will have to be merely soldiers without any politics. 
     There is another point that I think the Minister, if he wished the Volunteer Reserve to be a success, should have been careful of, and that is the conditions under which it might be mobilised.  As I see it here it says: 
     The men joining will be liable to be called out at any time to aid in the preservation of public order should an Executive Minister call out the Reserve or any portion of it or should the Officer Commanding the Forces, if requested in writing by a District Justice in a town or district call out for the purpose aforesaid the men belonging to the Reserve resident in such town or district. 
     That is to say, that the officers and men of the Volunteer Reserve might be mobilised on the mere fiat of a District Justice in order to aid what he might think would be the preservation of law and order in his district. There is the possibility there that men might be called out to intervene in a trade dispute.  They might be called out even to break a strike.  It is the very fact that such a provision exists in the conditions which are imposed on the men when they join that has deterred, I believe, quite a number of men who would otherwise join the force; they are afraid when they do join that this force might be used in a trade dispute or in some semi-political way. 
     We have watched this experiment with a good deal of interest.  We wish that the Minister were sincere in it.  The facts as I have recited them have compelled us to believe that the Minister does not want the Volunteer Reserve to succeed.  If he does want an organisation working on a volunteer basis he has a very good opportunity before this time next year to have that done.  The measure he has introduced is a temporary one.  The Oireachtas was told it was a temporary measure when it was introduced first in 1923. After seven years the Minister and   his Department surely should be in a position to come to the Dail and to say that they have some definite ideas as to what should be the permanent basis of the defence forces in this country.  The legislative output from the Minister's Department has at no time been considerable. With the exception of this Bill, which has been introduced by him in this perfunctory way year after year, the only other Bills he has been concerned with are Bills providing for gratuities or pensions for those who leave the Army in order that his Party may secure parliamentary candidates. 
     I think that in seven years the Minister and the Executive Council should have formed some clear idea as to what should be the permanent basis of the Army.  We have been urging that it should be organised upon a volunteer basis.  The Minister will have twelve months to put a definite and final scheme before the Dail.  I suggest that he should abandon the present Volunteer Reserve, the success of which has been prejudiced from the very start, and he should come next year to the Dail with a Bill putting definite proposals before the House for the reorganisation of the defence forces.  The defence forces under that Bill should be capable of being organised in such a way that no man, no matter what his political opinions may be, who is desirous of serving his country in arms and protecting her against the aggression of foreign States, will be debarred from entering that service. 
     [ An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
     
      
       I have not heard the whole of this debate, but, judging from what I have heard, nothing new has been said.  I sincerely hope the Minister will not waste his time and the time of the House replying to the worn-out remarks of the Deputies on the opposite benches.  As we know, the Army is the Army of the State, pledged to uphold the Constitution. These gentlemen are admittedly the enemies of the State, because they are pledged to overthrow the Constitution. Why the Minister should   waste his time answering criticisms of the Army put forward by the proclaimed enemies of the State I do not know.  The Army is pledged to uphold the State. 
     
     
      
       Did the Deputy ever assist in organising mutiny? 
     
     
      
       No, I did not.  With regard to that section of the Bill which makes it possible for the Minister to institute the Reserve, I would like to know if he has made any progress in the direction of the establishment of a cavalry force and an aerial observation force in connection with the Reserve Volunteer Forces.  As yet I have seen no signs in that direction.  I think that in the horse-breeding districts it would be a very popular move to organise a few cavalry regiments for training during the autumn or winter.  I think a large number of farmers' sons and others would be very glad to join such regiments. 
       With regard to the formation of an air reserve, the Minister has, I understand, so far done nothing.  I am afraid that he has been derelict in his duty as far as looking after the aerial forces of the Army is concerned.  The aerodromes under his control are falling into disrepair. Rain is coming through the roofs, birds are nesting in the rafters, and there is a general air of decay and desolation.  Dotted throughout the country are these vast aerodromes half in ruins like the Coliseum in Rome, a relic of one of the greatest Empires of the past.  I hope before the Minister introduces his Estimate he will have some hope to offer to those who look forward to the aerial future of the country. 
       I should like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the fount of all evil, the Department of Finance, has done its best to make the volunteer reserve system  failure by not giving adequate facilities to civil servants with regard to the period of training, thus setting a bad example to private employers throughout the country.  I do not know if that is true, but it is widely rumoured. 
     
     
     
      
       The matters dealt with by Deputy Lemass and Deputy Aiken are rather difficult for me to deal with because a good deal of what they said justified me in the few remarks I made in my opening statement.  Time and again I have come before the House and have given detailed accounts of our reserve and volunteer arrangements. That has been done often, as I say. At the same time, both Deputies in speaking showed that they have not the remotest idea as to what they mean when they talk about the Reserve and the Volunteers.  Deputy Aiken sees something proving an idea, that he apparently has in his own mind, in the great success in Trinity and the lack of success through the country.  I thought at first that he was speaking about the Volunteer Reserve.  The Volunteer Reserve, strictly speaking, has not been started in Trinity and has not been started in the country.  Therefore, to attempt to compare the two is perfectly absurd.  To say that one nothing is more than another nothing, is mathematically wrong.  Deputy Lemass showed the same complete misapprehension.  He talked about starting half a battalion in Templemore area and an undertaking that they were not to fight before November.  The body formed in Templemore is a body of &ldquo;B&rdquo; Reserves.  There is no arrangement that they will not fight before November, but their period of training is in the month of November. 
     
     Deputy Lemass said that the first official announcement of the bringing into being of the Volunteer Reserve was a statement I made before the Dublin Rotary Club.  The first announcement I remember of the formation of such a body was made by the Minister for Finance in his Budget statement in 1927.  I have spoken very frequently on the matter from that date to this, and certainly to suggest that the first official announcement was at the Dublin Rotary Club is quite absurd. As a matter of fact Deputy MacEntee will remember that some year or two after we had made our statements with regard to our policy in   this matter&mdash;not having read them; he was not here at the time these statements were made, possibly&mdash;he suggested that when we repeated what he had said before we were borrowing from him. 
     There has been a suggestion that the Volunteer Reserve is linked up with a political party.  Deputy Lemass tries to make the case out there.  He says that when a Volunteer reservist joins he takes an oath and is informed that it ceases to be operative.  He says that the propaganda described this body as a citizen army, and that the duty of the men was to defend their country from aggression.  He says that is impossible if they are required to declare that they will not exercise the fundamental right of trying to influence any political matters. Deputy MacEntee disagrees diametrically with Deputy Lemass. Deputy Lemass says that we cannot expect this body to be successful if men are asked to take an oath not to belong to any political organisation, whereas Deputy MacEntee says that that is quite impossible, that we, obviously, have no desire that it should be a success unless we insist that anybody who is going to be an officer shall, even when not called up for active service, completely divorce himself from political activities.  The two Fianna Fail Deputies, with that chaotic state of mind which is so representative of their Party, produce two contradictory things as both proving what they know to be perfectly untrue, namely, that we do not desire the Volunteer organisation to be successful. Deputy Lemass says that the impression is created that it was meant to be a Fascist force for the Government.  I should like to know anything I have said or done in any way that gives any impression that it is meant to be a party force in this country.  I do from time to time see certain scurrilous organs directed mostly against the Government, and in one, which I understand is more or less the official organ of the Party in opposition, I certainly have seen that they are very strongly attempting   to create the impression that this force was meant to be a party organisation of the Government Party. 
     I may say also that in that organ of opinion I have seen a few indications of great rejoicing at what they imagine is the non-success of the Volunteer organisation.  Deputy Lemass also says that it is extraordinary that the officers of the Army always appear to be most vituperative opponents of Fianna Fail after they leave the Army.  It seems that their stored-up antagonism to that Party bursts out as soon as the restraint is removed.  No one is going to say that a man in the Army should have no political opinions.  He has a right to have political opinions, but he has no right to take any part in any political matters.  When a man ceases to be a member of the Army, he is then relieved from the restraint of discipline which the Army imposes upon him.  I should think that Deputy Lemass should at least recognise, if what he says is true, that the discipline in the Army is very effective in that the strong political opinions of certain officers only become apparent when they have left the Army.  We have tried, as far as possible, to select our officers from what I might call intelligent men, and I can quite see that the majority of intelligent men would necessarily feel strong opposition to the Fianna Fail Party.  When it is suggested that we are attempting to make this a political organisation, I can only reassert that such a statement is diametrically opposed to the truth.  As a matter of fact, members of the Fianna Fail Party, subject, of course, to their being physically sound, and, possibly, subject to a mental test which might exclude most of them, are eligible for membership of the Volunteer Reserve.  I can assert here that I have not the remotest idea what the political opinions are of any member of the Volunteer Reserve.  There is a constant suggestion that there is a political tinge about it.  What have I said that in any way can be considered as giving it a political tinge?   If we want to see what is being done in the way of attempting to give a political tinge to it, we have only to read certain organs produced by the parties in opposition to the Government. There that attempt is being made.  As far as I am concerned, I have not queried in any way any political opinion of any member of the Volunteers. 
     Objection is taken to the form of oath or declaration to be taken on attestation.  The form is this: &ldquo;I ................ do solemnly swear (or declare) that I have this day freely and voluntarily enlisted as a soldier in Oglaigh na hEireann, that I will faithfully serve as such for the period .................. (unless sooner discharged by the proper authority) and under the conditions prescribed in accordance with law; and I will accept such pay, bounty, rations and clothing as may from time to time be prescribed in accordance with law.  And I do further solemnly swear (or declare) that I will bear true faith and allegiance to, and against all enemies whomsoever defend, Saorstat Eireann and its constitution as by law established, and I will render good and true service and obedience to the Oireachtas and the Government of Saorstat Eireann under the Constitution, and that I will submit myself to discipline and obey without question the orders of the officers appointed over me according to law, and further that I will not while I am a soldier in Oglaigh na hEireann join, or be a member of or subscribe to any political society or organisation whatsoever or any secret society whatsoever&rdquo;  What is there there for Deputy MacEntee to find fault with?  Deputy Lemass finds fault with the proposal that they should not be members of or &ldquo;subscribe to any political society or organisation whatsoever.&rdquo;  When men are under military control and discipline we cannot have them holding political meetings in the barrack.  So far as the Volunteer Reserve is concerned when men join they have to take an oath which includes the clause about participation in politics. That is necessary because those joining   may at any time of national emergency be called up for active service, and if they are so called up they must be clearly then subject to military discipline.  Under normal circumstances they are not subject to military discipline and that proviso does not apply.  I think any intelligent man will agree that if men are called up on active service it is good to have such a proviso, and I think he will also agree that that condition must be made at the moment of entry and that it is perfectly right and correct that as long as these men are leading ordinary lives of ordinary citizens, only attending drill occasionally, this clause should not apply.  I do not understand therefore what the objections raised are. 
     There is a great deal of talk about a permanent Bill.  Now why should there be a necessity for a permanent Bill being brought in immediately? Bringing in this Bill annually gives occasion for almost two distinct debates on the Army of the Estimates type.  I am not anxious to bring in a permanent Bill just yet a while.  What is the necessity? When this Bill is brought forward, and when the Army Estimates come forward, the Army is particularly subject to criticism and review by the Dail.  If it is pointed out that something which should be done cannot be done under the present Act, or that we do something under the Act which we should not be able to do under a permanent Act, then, I could conceive, and it would be understandable, that there should be this demand for a permanent Act. At the present time I find that the development of the organisation that I am going on with is in no way inconvenienced by the procedure of bringing in the present Bill.  It does not inconvenience me in the least.  I think that as we are moving rapidly forward towards a new form in the Army, and as it is an advantage to have had certain experience in order to form an army that is best suited to the needs of this country, I think it is a great advantage that we should have that knowledge before bringing in a permanent Act.  I do not see why there is a suggestion of   something untoward in our failure in not bringing in a permanent Act when the present Act permits us to do what should be done and when we have not attempted to do anything that I have heard criticised as something we should not be able to do. 
     Deputy Lemass seemed to question the legality of starting a Volunteer Reserve.  There is nothing illegal about it.  Deputy MacEntee said that he would like to hear private members on these benches speaking upon this particular subject, and he said the last thing I wanted to hear was any expression of opinion from private members on this side.  He said whether private members spoke or not depended on my will.  Whether private members speak depends entirely upon their own will.  I have no objection to hearing them speak, even those private members who have been members of the Army. Those were the ones the Deputy seemed most anxious to hear, although he complained every time they did speak that they are vituperative towards his Party.  He said that if circumstances were happier he would like to look at this still more sympathetically.  I might ask him what there is unhappy in the circumstances.  Deputy Aiken, in his very lugubrious way, asked what the Army is there for, and says that we can only fight when the English want us to fight.  I do not know how far Deputy Aiken would pass the intelligence test for the Army Reserve, but provided he would pass it he knows a remark like that is merely silly. 
     
      
       Where is the ammunition to come from?  Must not the ammunition come from England? 
     
     
      
       The ammunition will come from wherever we can get it most conveniently and cheaply. 
     
     
      
       Where did it come from? 
     
     
      
       Mostly from England. 
     
     
      
       And from nowhere only England? 
     
     
     
      
       I cannot tell, but I should say mostly from England. I would like to know what Deputy MacEntee means when he says &ldquo;if the circumstances had been happier.&rdquo; There is no political tinge about the members of the Volunteer Reserve. They may for all I know, every one of them, be staunch supporters of the Government.  On the other hand, the majority of them may be quite the contrary.  We have in no way confined the membership of this body to those people who are likely to support the Government.  We have not done that.  There have been other organisations at work to attempt to keep out of the Volunteer body people who do not agree with the Government's view of things.  Deputy MacEntee went further and said he was compelled to draw the conclusion that it was never intended that this Volunteer Reserve should be a success, and I gather that he implied that we were limiting it as a political body for the purpose of not making it a success. 
     
     
      
       May I make this clear: the Minister has read the form of attestation, or the oath, &ldquo;to defend Saorstat Eireann and its Constitution as by law established,&rdquo; that is to say, to defend the retention of the oath and of the Governor-General. These are the two political issues which divide this country, and yet you ask all those who join the Volunteer Reserve to take an oath to preserve these and to keep them here. 
     
     
      
       What is the whole idea of the Volunteer Reserve?  The State exists for the well-being of the whole people, and the Volunteer Reserve are part of a body of men who, because the State is necessary for that well-being, both spiritual and temporal, come forward and volunteer their services to protect that which is fundamentally and essentially good against outside force. 
     
     
      
       The oath and the Governor-General. 
     
     
      
       It is a question of the State.  I understand the Party   opposite is a constitutional Party. What do they propose to do?  The Constitution was made by this Dail. The proposal that men should abide by the law of this country is what it amounts to, and abiding by the law means the fundamental law of this country, and the suggestion that such a proposal as that would exclude anybody that it is desirable to have is, to my mind, perfectly absurd. The Volunteers exist for the protection of the State. 
     
     
      
       And the maintenance of the Constitution. 
     
     
      
       And the defence of the Constitution, whatsoever form the Constitution may have, whatsoever the time may be.  Anyone who objects to the Constitution should attempt to change it in a constitutional way. 
     
     
      
       The way you changed the last one. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy suggests that oath is not acceptable to the majority of the people of this country.  If it is not acceptable to the majority of the people of this country what does it mean?  Either that the majority of the people propose to resist the Constitution or that the majority of the people here resist the existence of an Irish State. Either suggestion is, I think, a suggestion that a form of civic immorality exists amongst the majority of the people of this country, which I do not believe to be true.  The Deputy asks who would serve in the Volunteers under Deputy Sean McKeon or Deputy O'Higgins.  Of course, as usual, he is wrong. Deputy Sean McKeon is not associated with the Volunteer Reserve, and Deputy O'Higgins is not even a member of the Reserve, but anyway, whether they are or not, a Reserve officer and a member of the Reserve of Volunteers, except when they are actually on active service and definitely subject to military law, have a perfect right to whatever political views they care to hold, and a suggestion that a man should be excluded from the Reserve   merely because he holds a political opinion, except when he is on active service, is to my mind an attempt practically to interfere with the freedom of the citizen.  Deputy Little welcomes the assurance that it is not a party machine.  &ldquo;Unfortunately, bias was shown by some of the men who left the Army.&rdquo;  Why should a man who has ceased to be a member of the Army be incapable of having a political opinion?  To my mind that is perfectly absurd.  I do not know what the political opinions of officers or men in the Army are.  I have never asked them.  He says that the Reserve force is psychologically impossible.  &ldquo;It would be a long time before united action is possible; we want something closer to the ideals of Irish nationality than what we have now.&rdquo;  Our present ideals are that the Irish State which exists for the people for their well-being should be protected. If that is something contrary to the ideals of Irish nationality, well, then, all I can say is that there is something wrong with the ideals of Irish nationality. 
     
     Deputy Hogan said that I never give a reason for not introducing a permanent Bill.  I have done so time and again.  He does not see why we should not dispense with the Army altogether, and then he comes along with&mdash;if I was in order I would like to say&mdash;the almost contemptible doctrine that when our country is invaded we should remain supine and allow the British to defend us.  That is the doctrine of the coward and the slave and a thing I do not propose to attempt to refute.  I think it was Deputy Lemass who said that no man, no matter what his political opinions may be, should be debarred from serving his country against aggression. We do not attempt to prevent that.  The only attempts I have seen to prevent any man, no matter what his political opinions may be, from serving his country against aggression were made by the organ of the Party opposite.  Deputy Esmonde spoke about the establishment of Cavalry and Air Reserve Forces.  I think there is actually an Air Reserve   Force, but I think it is so small that Deputy Esmonde would be justified in saying it does not exist. I think that in at least some branch of the Reserve Forces or Volunteer Forces equitation will enter into part of their training. 
     As for the Department of Finance not making arrangements to facilitate men joining the Volunteer Reserve, I have no fault to find with the facilities so far given by the Department of Finance.  As the Deputies opposite lumped together all branches of the Reserve Forces, that is to say, the Volunteer Reserve, the Reserve of Officers, the Officers' Training Corps, and so on, they may be relieved to know that instead of the 300 members they speak of as included in the branches of the Reserve altogether, the number is something nearer 7,000. The Deputies on the other side seem to be temperamentally incapable of absorbing any piece of information I give them, as they will come along with the same misguided opinions afterwards.  They seem to have an unlimited capacity for absorbing statements which are not true. 
     
      
       Does the Minister say that there are now 7,000 men in the Volunteer Reserve?  The Minister seems to lump the Volunteer Reserve, the Officers' Training Corps and the Reserve of Officers. 
     
     
      
       On the contrary, the Deputy himself did that.  I took the opportunity of dealing with what the Deputy himself spoke about. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is now trying to give the impression that in the Volunteer Reserve there are 7,000 men. 
     
     
      
       Which just proves the truth of what I said, that the Deputy opposite is incapable of understanding anything I said.  He stated that I had said that the Volunteer Reserve numbered something nearer 7,000.  I do not say that the Volunteer Reserve amounts to that or anything like it. 
     
     
     
      
       Would the Minister give us the figures for the Volunteer Reserve? 
     
     
      
       The Volunteer Reserve, with O.T.C.'s, is something in the neighbourhood of 500. 
     
     
      
       How many of these are out of Trinity? 
     
     
      
       I think 82. 
     
     
      
       Why should not a man come out of Trinity as well as anywhere else? 
     
     
      
       You are the only objection we have. 
     
     
      
       The Leader of the Deputy's Party went down to Trinity.  The Deputy said that only 600 offered.  As a matter of fact, a great many more than 600 offered. The Deputy talked about only people who were dying from starvation offering.  If anybody is dying from starvation it would be perfectly futile for him to join the Volunteer Reserve because he would be only putting extra work on himself and getting no advantage out of it.  The Deputy when speaking of that obviously was speaking of the B Reserve. If I was dying of starvation I would go into the B Reserve much more quickly, because I would be fed for three months, and would be paid.  In the Volunteer Reserve I would be called upon to drill and get no pay. 
     
     
      
       The aristocracy. 
     
     
      
       Not necessarily aristocracy, preferably people not of the type of the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I am not concerned with the misrepresentation of my statement by the Minister. Misrepresentation is, of course, the main characteristic of the Minister. I did not say that we should remain neutral if we were being invaded. What I did say was that we are a dominion of the British Commonwealth, and if we are invaded it will be by some country seeking to force a form of government upon us.  It is   the duty then of Great Britain, of which we are a dominion, to resist that power. 
     
     
      
       If I misrepresented the Deputy I should be sorry indeed.  I made certain notes.  The Deputy talked of dispensing with the Army, and asked what was the reason for the existence of the Army. Was it to fight?  Presumably to resist an invader.  Who would invade?  No one except a foreign country seeking to impose their foreign Government upon us.  It was other people's business to resist that encroachment. When the Deputy says that we are a dominion of Great Britain, of course it is a slight twist of words, totally misrepresenting the case. This State is entirely independent, and it is not Great Britain's business to defend us; it is her business to defend herself, and it is our business to defend ourselves against any invader whatsoever.  The British Government has no control whatever in the Irish Free State.  It cannot say this shall be done or that shall not be done.  Inasmuch as the Irish   people themselves are masters here, it is their business to protect that which is their own good, namely, their own State, and it is nobody else's business.  If I have misrepresented the Deputy I am very sorry, and I hasten to withdraw it.  If what I understood him to say was what he actually did say, then the epithets apply to him. 
     
     
      
       If we resist a foreign invader we do it to retain England. Is not that the sum total of it? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy knows well that that is not the case.  England has no power whatsoever within the shores of the Irish Free State, and the Deputy ought to know that. 
     
     
      
       Is not this a dominion of Great Britain? 
     
     
      
       It is not. 
     
     
      
       The status of this country does not arise on this Bill at all. 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 64; Nil, 46. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Daly, John. Davis Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Good, John. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas Hennigan, John. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Colohan, Hugh. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. Doyle, Edward. 
             
               Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     Supplementary and Additional Estimates. 
     The Dail, in accordance with Order, resumed consideration of the Estimates for Public Services in Committee on Finance. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote 55.&mdash;Land Commission. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Choimisiun Talmhan na hEireann (44 agus 45 Vict., c. 49, a 46 agus c. 71, a. 4; 48 agus 49 Vict., c. 73, a. 17, 18 agus 20; 53 agus 54 Vict., c. 49, a. 2; 54 agus 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38, agus c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; Uimh. 27 agus Uimh. 42 de 1923, Uimh. 25 de 1925, Uimh. 11 de 1926, agus Uimh. 19 de 1927). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Irish Land Commission (44 and 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, and c. 71, s. 4; 48 and 49 Vict., c. 73; ss. 17, 18 and 20; 53 and 54 Vict., c. 49. s. 2; 54 and 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38, and c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; Nos. 27 and 42 of 1923, 25 of 1925, 11 of 1926, and 19 of 1927). 
     
     
      
       Deputies will understand that this is merely a token Vote for a nominal sum of £10, introduced in order to fulfil an agreement made on the introduction of the Supplementary Estimate for £32,000 on the 5th December last that if the House passed the Vote on that occasion without discussion an opportunity would be afforded to debate it retrospectively on the re-assembly of the Dail.  Under those circumstances I propose to explain the position as it was on the date of the introduction of that Estimate.  In sub-head (I), Improvement of Estates, there was an estimated sum of £45,000 and an administrative saving on another sub-head of £13,000, leaving a net Supplementary Estimate of £32,000. 
     
     Under the Land Purchase Acts power has been given to the Land   Commission to spend money on the improvement and rearrangement of holdings sold under the various Acts and for the provision of houses, fences, roads, drains, etc., on untenanted lands divided under the Acts.  So much of the expenditure on improvements, as in the opinion of the Land Commission could be recovered, having regard to the security for the repayment of land purchase annuities, is added to the price of the land so improved and is repaid as part of the purchase annuities. The remainder is given by way of free grants.  Improvement on lands already vested and subject to Land Commission annuities cannot be carried out without the prior sanction of the Minister for Finance. The original estimate under sub-head (I) was £161,650, which includes £11,500 for the purchase of tenancies on the Congested Districts Board estates; workmen's compensation, £500; livestock insurance, £50; nurses' cottages in congested districts, £500.  Deducting this sum of £11,500, there is left a sum of £150,000 for improvement work, of which £112,000 had been expended up to last October, leaving a balance of £38,000 available for expenditure for the remaining five months of the financial year, a sum which is totally inadequate to meet the improvement of land already acquired and about to be allotted and also to carry out improvements on other lands which are to be divided before the end of the financial year.  The winter months are as a rule the most favourable for placing allottees on untenanted lands on holdings, and considerably more land is divided in the winter months than in any other period of the year.  Untenanted land cannot be divided without the expenditure of money on fences, drains and housing, so that the allottees may be in a position to work to the best advantage the parcels of land allotted to them.  As to the circumstances which made rapid for the expenditure of money during the earlier part of the financial year, I can only repeat what I said on the introduction of the original Estimate, namely, that it   is very difficult to estimate accurately at the beginning of the financial year what amounts will actually be required for improvements during that particular year. A great deal depends on the rate at which untenanted land is acquired. 
     In connection with the acquisition of untenanted land, legal and other difficulties arise which delay the negotiations for the acquisition of estates.  Then, on the other hand, difficulties and delays which were anticipated may perhaps prove unexpectedly capable of speedy solution.  I stated when introducing the original Estimate that although the inspection staff had been reduced slightly it would not make any difference in the progress of the Land Commission's operations during the year.  I am satisfied that the rate of expenditure on improvements in the early part of the year has amply justified that hope.  In addition, the Act of 1929 relieved the Land Commission inspectors of a great deal of work.  A substantial percentage of the time of inspectors was engaged on the valuation and inspection of holdings subject to judicial rents.  Now the inspection staff is free to concentrate entirely on the work of dividing and equipping untenanted land.  In determining the amount of the Supplementary Estimate, details of expenditure under other sub-heads were carefully examined, and it was found that a saving of about £13,000 could be effected in this respect and that that sum could be devoted to improvements. It has been estimated that £195,000 will be required for improving estates during the financial year, so that an additional sum of £32,000 will be required to reach that figure. As stated in my speech on the introduction of the original Estimate the Land Commission now enter into purchase or permanent agreements with the allottees of untenanted land rather than temporary agreements, as the latter method entailed a considerable addition of work.  The paramount reason for the substitution of permanent agreements for temporary agreements was the necessity of placing allottees of untenanted   land in a position to borrow money freely for the development of their new holdings.  The Credit Corporation refused to advance money to tenants holding land on temporary agreements.  In such cases the Land Commission invariably took steps to have temporary agreements substituted by permanent agreements so that the tenants would be in the position to obtain loans from the Credit Corporation.  The Joint Stock Banks also refused to advance money on temporary agreements. 
     
      
       Is this relevant to the improvement of estates and to the Vote for which the Parliamentary Secretary is looking? 
     
     
      
       I am explaining the reason why it is necessary to introduce the Vote. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that it is relevant. 
     
     
      
       At all events, in view of the recent issue of the Report of the Land Commission up to 31st March last, I do not think that it is necessary at this stage to quote statistics.  Deputies will have an opportunity within the next two months of discussing the Land Commission Vote in detail, and I will then be in a position to furnish statistics relating to the Land Commission proceedings during the present financial year.  I do not think that I need say anything more at this stage than state that the progress shown in the Report just issued has been well maintained during the present year. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Vote be referred back for reconsideration. I have put down this amendment in order to afford members an opportunity of discussing matters arising on this subhead.  The discussion is confined to the question of the work of the Land Commission in connection with the improvement of estates which is the same as the division of ranch lands, a question on which we are all interested and it gave rise to a lengthened discussion last year when the Parliamentary Secretary told us that the amount   which was to be spent during the financial year 1929-30 was only half what was spent in the preceeding year.  The Government came along before Christmas and got an additional sum of £32,000, which brings the total sum spent in the present financial year up to about £193,000.  In the last financial year the amount was £323,000 and the total amount, I find in the Land Commission reports, spent during the last six years amounts to about one and a half million.  That would work out at about £250,000 per annum, so that even though we make allowance for the supplementary estimate this year, the amount actually spent by the Land Commission in providing employment and in carrying on the work of dividing untenanted land is very much below what we had reason to expect from them on account of what they had done for the past six years. 
     
     In addition to that the Parliamentary Secretary, in the course of his speech last summer or spring, when he was introducing the original Estimate, said that there were some 490,000 acres still to be distributed, and he pointed with satisfaction to the fact that in the year 1927-28, only 35,000 acres had been divided, whereas in the year 1928-29, 60,000 acres had been divided.  Even if we accept the figure of 60,000 acres as reasonable, and if there were almost 500,000 acres still to be divided, it will be seen that considerable time must elapse before the House gets rid of this Estimate and the work that is entailed under it by the Land Commission.  I do not know what is the cause of the delay.  In the first place, the Parliamentary Secretary told us last year that the Land Commission intended to concentrate rather on the vesting of tenanted land than on the distribution of untenanted land.  I do not think that any Party in the House agrees that it is necessary that the congests or the landless men throughout the country who are looking for portions of the ranches, should be set back or that their claims should be postponed because of the necessity   for vesting, which is really a legal process and which, as far as I can understand, is done by the indoor staff chiefly.  It is true that some outdoor work may be necessary in connection with vesting, but I think that practically all the outdoor staff of the Land Commission should be engaged on the work of dividing up the land. 
     I think that all Parties in the House will agree that no matter what additional sums of money have to be found to do that work and to get it completed within a reasonable time, it would be well worth it.  In the first place, employment would be given, and in the second place, as the lands were being divided, more land would be brought into cultivation and more people placed upon the land.  So there was a general feeling when the original Estimate was being discussed that we should press for expedition in the work of dividing up the ranch land.  I am glad to see that a good deal of attention is being devoted to the Gaeltacht, but I rather have a feeling that other areas may be neglected if the total staff of the Land Commission is engaged in the process of vesting or on reclamation schemes in the Gaeltacht.  By all means let us do what we can to provide more work in the Gaeltacht, where it is very urgently needed, and let us speed up the vesting of land, but when it imposes&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       I think the Deputy should keep to the question of the improvement of estates. 
     
     
      
       If it is necessary that further money should be allotted, all Parties would be agreeable, and our feeling is that the amount should be brought up to £250,000 annually. There is no reason for slacking up at this particular juncture.  This money is reproductively spent.  It goes into the land and it makes the land better.  It produces a national asset, and even the Minister for Finance, who was responsible for cutting down the Estimate in the first place &mdash;we do not know the circumstances which made him relent, but we hope   that his changed attitude is due to the good offices of the back benchers of Cumann na nGaedheal&mdash;has admitted that at least 70 per cent. of the money spent last year could be considered as a national asset, such work as the State could legitimately borrow money for. 
       If that is so, at least £100,000 of the £193,000 could be considered as abnormal expenditure.  Then again, all these people are paying back for the improvements made on their holdings so that whatever way we look at it, the work is of national benefit.  It is of a great deal more benefit than money voted here for other purposes.  I think it is expenditure of the nature in which the House should exercise its discretion and endeavour to get the Ministry to increase the sums available.  I have only to reiterate what I have already mentioned, that while we are glad to see vesting and the other work of the Land Commission being speeded up, we, on this side, also want to see the ranch lands divided. When we look through the long lists in the annual report of the Land Commission and see the hundreds of thousands of acres in the midland counties which have not been divided and upon which very little progress has been made, we wonder whether the Land Commission is really in earnest.  We have heard it frequently stated that some of the schemes are not successful.  If they are not successful I say that the Land Commission or no member of the House ought to lay the blame on the tenants.  When we consider the agricultural depression, and the peculiar difficulties that people have in working land at present, I think it is extraordinary that so many of the tenants who acquire land have been able to carry on so well. 
     
     There is another matter which I wish to mention, but I dare say the Leas-Cheann Comhairle would rule me out if I brought it up.  I would simply ask the Parliamentary Secretary to let us know exactly what is the cause of the delay.  Is there a sufficient staff to keep the work up to the level of previous years, or are the legal processes through which   the acquisition of these lands has to go responsible for holding up a great deal of this work? 
     Is it a fact that when the Land Commission took over lands, as has been the case, for example, in County Tipperary, and when it was decided in court that some of them could not be taken over, and that other parts could only be taken at a much higher price, the Land Commission very often after having gone to the trouble of gazetting and inspecting the lands then leave them there, simply because it was found under the decision of the court no longer economic to proceed?  If that is the case, and if these matters of legal procedure are one of the factors keeping the Land Commission from proceeding as rapidly as they could proceed with the division of untenanted lands, I suggest that legislation ought to be introduced to deal with it.  There is no use telling us that more money cannot be made available than is being spent for the work of dividing up land, while, on the other hand, scores of thousands of pounds can be found to increase the prices paid to the owners by the Land Commission. 
     
      
       The Deputy is now going into the price paid for the acquisition of lands. 
     
     
      
       If the Parliamentary Secretary can throw more light on the subject, and tell us exactly why the work cannot be proceeded with, I hope he will do so. 
     
     
      
       It seems pretty difficult to steer clear of the rulings under this Estimate, as the road seems to be rather narrow, but, at the same time, I would like, if possible, to call attention to a few items which might be relevant, and which are certainly important.  As far as I see, this is not an Estimate in which there is actual expenditure, inasmuch as a great amount of the money is returnable, and a certain amount returnable within a very short period.  If it can be considered   an investment it is certainly a really good investment, because it is one of the most important purposes the Land Commission has to carry out. But I find one great drawback gradually cropping up under the heading of improvements and special works.  It is more especially noticeable under the 1903 Act, and, of course, after a time it will become noticeable under this Act.  Certain improvements were carried out under the 1903 Act, mainly making roads, which are considered improvements. That took place where huge estates existed, especially in counties like Meath, that in certain instances were not connected up by any roads or passes.  New roads had to be made right through these large estates to connect with the county roads.  That was some considerable time ago, and the result is, after incurring the expenditure on the roads, and after the tenants had been vested, and are paying for the making of the roads, there is no means at the present time of having the roads maintained in proper order. The result is that they are largely unfit for transport.  Those tenant farmers pay rates, but for some reason they cannot get assistance from the county council.  They cannot get any further assistance from the Land Commission, with the result that roads which cost the nation a good deal of money, and which the tenants are paying back, are gradually dwindling away.  I may be told that the tenants should take steps to put the roads in order themselves. That is reasonable, of course, to certain people, but to others who understand the position it would be found practically unworkable, as it is nearly impossible to get the tenants to agree to put the roads in proper repair.  In a few years the money spent on these roads will become a total loss.  I have nothing further to mention under this heading, any more than to say that the amount to be expended is a good deal less than hitherto.  These improvements and special works are very necessary.  In the case of ranch land the expenditure is practically an investment returnable very soon, so that it is   rather a pity to ease off, especially in this direction. 
     
     
      
       Maidir leis an meastachan a bhi os ar gcoir £32,000 ise an t-aon locht amhain ata agam air na a laighead.  B'fhearr liom da n-iarrii a thuille airgid chun a thuille oibre do dheanamh.  Bhi athas orainn a fheiceal on dtuarasgabhail do cuireadh amach le deanai go bhfuil dul chun cinn san sgeal, an talamh do roinnt, mar is mithid e. Is maith an rud cigiri do chur ag obair ag roinnt na talmhan ach do reir mar ta an obair ag dul ar aghaidh fa lathair ni criocnochar e go ceann ocht mblian.  Ba cheart e do chriochnu roimhe sin&mdash;se sin an talamh do roint gan tracht ar na daoine do chur i seilbh i dtreo nach mbeadh siad ag ioc brabach in ionad ciosa no interest in lieu of rent. Nuair a bhi an meastachan os ar geoir anuiridh be ar ngearan nach raibh go leor airgid ag teastail.  Is maith an rud go bhfuil a thuille airgid ag teastail anois toise go bhfuil an obair ag dul ar aghaidh nios mire.  An t-airgead a eaithtear ar an doigh seo tioefaidh tairbhe don tir as&mdash;tairbhe do na feirmeoiri agus do na sclabhuithe.  Agus ar an abhar san, ni do liom go gcuirfidh aon Teachta in aghaidh an t-airgead seo do thabhairt don Roinn. 
     
     
      
       I understood the Parliamentary Secretary to state that, with the sanction of the Minister for Finance, some of this money would be expended on lands already vested. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that; I said it would be necessary to obtain the sanction of the Minister for Finance before any money could be expended on vested lands. 
     
     
      
       None of this money is going to the improvement of vested lands? 
     
     
      
       No, this money will be spent on untenanted land. 
     
     
      
       The improvements on which money is being spent, at any rate in portion of my constituency, are not improvements at all, and the   money could be better spent for some more useful purpose. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy object to the improvements being made? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I called the Parliamentary Secretary's attention five months ago to the activities of one of his inspectors down there in regard to the so-called improvement of estates.  I would like to know whether anything has been done yet in that district.  I am alluding to the Mount Uniack estate, where one of his inspectors was spending money in tearing down a mansion.  I quite understand the delay that is taking place in the Department in regard to the taking over and dividing of ranches.  I quite understand that the Parliamentary Secretary found that he had burnt his fingers, and I hope when in future he sends down to my constituency somebody to inspect and to value these lands, he will send down somebody who will at least have some sympathy with those who are to be put into the estates. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy ought not to use this Estimate to criticise civil servants.  The Deputy can criticise the Parliamentary Secretary. 
     
     
      
       Very well.  The Parliamentary Secretary is apparently responsible.  I am only calling attention to what happened in my constituency with regard to this matter, and I think this is the place to do so. Estates have been purchased and gentlemen are walking off with four times the value of the land, while the tenants who come in afterwards find it quite impossible to pay the money. I gave the name of one estate, and I can give the names of some more. 
     
     
      
       They have the right to appeal. 
     
     
      
       I suppose so. 
     
     
      
       Why did they not appeal? 
     
     
      
       I understand that an inspector has been sent down there   to inspect three or four estates, holdings, or as the case may be&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What particular estate is the Deputy referring to? 
     
     
      
       We are not dealing with the acquisition of estates on this Vote, but with the improvement of estates. 
     
     
      
       As far as the improvement of estates is concerned, in my constituency it would be better for the Parliamentary Secretary to throw the money into the tide and not be wrecking estates instead of improving them.  They have done more wrecking in my constituency than was done either by the Tans or by your crowd, who did more than we ever did. 
     
     
      
       I was surprised to hear that the Deputy had left a mansion in his constituency for anyone to pull down. 
     
     
      
       I think that there is very little to reply to.  The criticism has been very much milder than I anticipated, and I may take that as a tribute to the exceptionally good work that has been done by the Land Commission during the year. Deputy Derrig referred to the fact that £316,000 had been spent in the year 1928-9.  There was only £226,000 actually spent during that year, and the balance of the money went back to the Minister for Finance.  It is very difficult to estimate accurately at the beginning of a year what money is likely to be spent on improvement works in the course of that year; in fact, it is impossible to estimate accurately what money will be spent on improvement work in any one particular year.  Difficulties of all kinds arise in connection with estates, and sometimes it is not very easy to find solutions for these difficulties, in fact it takes years to find solutions for some of the difficulties that arise in connection with certain estates.  Then, on the other hand, we may find it necessary to carry out improvement works on certain   estates that in the ordinary course of events would not have been reached for two or three years perhaps so that on the whole accurate estimating is well nigh impossible. 
       We have been examining this problem for the last twelve months, we have been trying to get down to some sort of scientific basis for calculating expenditure during a particular year, but so far we have found it impossible to arrive at anything approaching a satisfactory basis of calculation.  It is more than likely that for many years to come it will be necessary for some Parliamentary Secretary or for some Minister to approach the Dail for a supplementary estimate at some period during the financial year. 
       Deputy Derrig complained of the delay that is taking place in connection with the distribution of untenanted land.  I stated last year, in reply to a similar complaint of Deputy Derrig's, that untenanted land is being distributed at present at least three times faster than it was at any period during the former regime, and I think I quoted figures to prove my statement.  Under all the Land Acts up to 1923, 750,000 acres were acquired and distributed. During the six years since the passing of the Act of 1923, 370,000 acres have been distributed.  In other words, we have been distributing land during the last six years at the rate of, approximately, 60,000 acres a year, whereas the rate of distribution prior to that did not in any one year exceed 20,000 acres. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order. Is the Parliamentary Secretary in order in discussing the division of land on this Vote, seeing that Deputies were prevented from discussing it? 
     
     
      
       I quite agree that the Parliamentary Secretary is out of order. 
     
     
      
       If you confine me to the improvement of estates I am afraid that I will have very little more to say. 
     
     
     
      
       I must confine the Parliamentary Secretary to that, because that is his Estimate. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Reilly complained that the roads made on estates in his constituency have got into a very bad state of repair.  I am afraid that I cannot offer the Deputy any redress.  I think it was clearly understood that when these roads were made, even under the Act of 1903, the tenants would take responsibility for keeping them in repair, and certainly it was never contemplated that the Land Commission should assume responsibility for keeping roads made under any Land Act in permanent repair. 
       Deputy Fahy referred to the Congested Districts Board's estates in the West, and to the fact that a number of tenants there are still making payments in lieu of rent.  I realise perfectly well that many of these tenants are really suffering under a grievance.  This is, of course, a legacy which the Land Commission has inherited from the old regime. It was the policy of the Congested Districts Board to deal with the easiest estates and to leave the difficult ones over.  We have inherited that legacy, but we are trying to get rid of it as quickly as we can, and we have made considerable progress during the past year.  As a matter of fact, only yesterday I was looking through some statistics relating to the progress made in dealing with the Congested Districts Board's estates, and I find that there has been an increase of 50 or 60 per cent. this year as compared with last year.  We hope in the course of two or three years to be finished with these Congested Districts Board's estates, and in the meantime I can only assure Deputies that the tenants' interests are being looked after as well as can be done in the circumstances. 
     
     I do not know what to say to Deputy Corry and his castle&mdash;the Minister expressed surprise that there was a castle left in his constituency &mdash;but I will say this, that every Deputy from the constituency that Deputy Corry represents has expressed   complete satisfaction with the improvement work done there, and I am pressed almost daily by some of his colleagues to carry out further improvement works on other estates in the constituency.  But as the Deputy objects to improvement works altogether, I hope when he goes back to his constituency he will tell the people who sent him here that he objects to the Land Commission carrying out improvement works anywhere on any estate. 
     
      
       I would be delighted if the Deputies would come down to this estate and they would see for themselves the position there.  I know there are some Deputies who were already there and they did not like it. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary say if this money for improvement is applicable to tenanted land? 
     
     
      
       It is applicable to tenanted lands&mdash;does the Deputy mean non-vested land? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       It is applicable to non-vested land. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
       Vote put, and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 7&mdash;Old Age Pensions. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £14,800 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun ioc Pinseanna Sean-Aoise fe Achtanna na bPinsean Sean-Aoise, 1908 go 1924, chun Costaisi Riarachain airithe a bhaineann leo san, agus chun pinseanna fen Blind Persons Act, 1920. 
     
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £14,800 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the payment of Old Age Pensions under the Old   Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1924, for certain Administrative Expenses in connection therewith, and for pensions under the Blind Persons Act, 1920. 
     
      
       This Supplementary Estimate is necessary, because the trend of numbers in respect of old age pensioners has changed from what it was in the early days after the setting up of the Saorstat.  Apart from any question of administration, there was a decline in the number of persons entitled to Old Age Pensions for a period.  That reduction reflected the sharp decline in the population 70 years previously.  Recently &mdash;and this is perhaps due to better health conditions in the country and to better hygienic conditions&mdash;the tendency has been rather to increase. The Estimate last year did not allow for certain increases.  In fact, that Estimate was based on the opinion that there might be, again, some small decline.  There was a slight increase in the number of old age pensioners.  There was also a small increase in the average amount paid to the individual old age pensioners. There was an increase also in the expenses of the Old Age Pension Committees, and that was due to the fact that claims and questions that arose and had to be dealt with by the Pension Committees and the Sub-Pension Committees after the Act of 1928 still continued to a degree much in excess of what had been actually contemplated.  It will be still as big as it was in the year 1928-29 as far as it is possible to judge it at the moment. 
     
     
      
       If it is allowable on this Vote to mention pensions officers, I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister the numberless complaints that have been made all over the country about the attitude of pensions officers towards claims that have been allowed by the Old Age Pension Committees and Sub-Committees. I have had several cases and so.  I presume have other Deputies&mdash;from what they have said here in the House.  It was quite obvious that the people concerned   who were claiming the pensions, were entitled to pensions on the grounds of age.  There was no objection as far as I could learn in these particular cases on the grounds of means. 
       I remember one case in Glencolumbeille of a pension claim that had been allowed by the Pension Committee after an affidavit as to age in the case had been signed by three or four responsible people, who in the ordinary course of events would be taken as people of good faith and people who in the ordinary course of events would not sign anything which was untrue. These responsible people had sworn that the claimant concerned was of the statutory age.  The claim had been allowed by the Pensions Committee, but it was repeatedly turned down on the advice, I understand, of the pensions officer.  In this particular case in Glencolumbcille, I was in the house and saw the claimant.  It would have been quite obvious to anybody, to even a blind man, if he had only felt her face with his hand, that the person was over 70 years of age.  It was perfectly obvious to me and would have been obvious to the pensions officer if he had seen the claimant. But that case, though I myself put it before the Minister again, was turned down again.  I would like to say to the Minister that if the pensions officer, in the face of the Pensions Committee, is going to turn down what is perfectly obviously a just claim the Minister will have to do something to remedy that.  I, therefore, thought it proper on this Vote to put this before the Minister.  I have listened here, and I have said very little in this House on this matter.  I have listened to complaint after complaint against the pensions officers.  It is perfectly obvious to me that the pensions officers are more than exceeding their duties in this regard. 
     
     
      
       The only complaint I have to make, as far as the Old Age Pensions Department is concerned, is the delay in the granting of pensions to claimants who are entitled   to them.  I wish to draw the Minister's attention to that matter. Officers who go around to estimate the assets of cottiers go too far. They count the number of apple trees in the plot and they put an estimate on the average weight of apples produced on each tree.  They count the number of fowl, and all that sort of thing.  I imagine myself that this mode of procedure in determining the assets of an applicant is a great hardship. 
       I believe that if the inquiries were more restricted it would be more equitable, and that if the officers were to confine themselves to ascertaining the amount of money coming into any particular house their assessment of the income of the applicant would be more satisfactory than going around counting the hens and counting the apples on the trees in the orchard.  That method is very unfair to the applicant.  I say from the Government Benches here that that is a very unfair way of determining the amount of the pension which the claimant is entitled to receive. 
     
     
      
       I would like to support the Deputy who has spoken on this matter of the old age pensions. In fact, it is only waste of time on the part of the pension committees to sit listening to pension claims; for when the pensions officer comes along he turns down, month after month, the claims that they have passed.  Some change should be made in the method by which the pensions officers assess the income of the claimant.  A poor person who is an applicant for a pension is sometimes living in a labourer's cottage with a relative, and surely it is absurd for the pensions officer to come along and talk of that as income. The pensions officer never goes into the house at all.  For instance, I have one case of a sister who was living with her brother in a labourer's cottage.  The brother has nine or ten children, and the pensions officer assesses that applicant with &ldquo;income&rdquo; because she has been given shelter in her brother's house.  Some alteration is   overdue in that matter, and I suggest to the Minister that some consideration should be given to those claimants. 
     
     
      
       I think there really was some explanation required as to why the Government found it necessary to have a supplementary estimate for old age pensions.  In the country we have been asked what was happening to the Local Government Department, because it was almost impossible to get through to it.  Members of sub-committees who have been working in connection with pensions for years were surprised.  I am glad that the Minister has now given us the reason, and we will be able to tell our constituents that it was because it was necessary to move for a supplementary estimate that the strings were tightened. 
     
     
      
       I have not very much complaint to make about the manner in which the incomes of people are estimated.  I think, however, there is ground for complaint sometimes as to the long delay that takes place in the investigation of cases.  A difficulty arises in out-of-the way places. The law requires that before a pension can be given the applicant must have definite proof of age.  In many out-of-the-way places positive proof is practically unobtainable.  That is a matter of common knowledge.  In many places, when these people were born, there was no State registration of births.  Parish registers have not been well kept, and where they were well kept they have, for one reason or another, perished.  People were not great writers at that time, and the result is that documentary evidence of age does not exist.  That difficulty the Local Government Department tried to meet very reasonably and fairly on the whole by accepting whatever other evidence could be produced.  The trouble is that, with the exception of a general belief based upon knowledge of the individual, there is really no proof available at all.  There is no documentary proof of any kind, neither vaccination, marriage, birth certificates nor any other documentary   proof whatever, and, therefore, if the Local Government Department kept within the strict letter of the law, as far as I can see those pensions could never be granted. 
       What happens is that after a great deal of trouble and a refusal of the claim for want of proof on one or two or three occasions, in the long run some further investigation takes place on the spot.  An inspector, perhaps, sees the old person and satisfies himself that in all reasonable probability, as no proof is there, the person has attained the age of 70, and ultimately a pension is granted.  I think that which is the exceptional procedure and which is reached after a very long delay might become a little more the regular practice.  As soon as it becomes evident that in a particular case the local committee is convinced that the person is of the required statutory age, and since it is evident that documentary proof is not forthcoming, then what is now merely the exception might be made the regular practice; that is, that instructions should be issued to an inspector to see the claimant.  If that were done I do not believe that it would result in any more pensions being granted, because, perhaps, in many cases the inspector could not satisfy himself that the person had attained the age. It would result in this, that in cases where it is quite clear that the person is the age, the heartbreaking delays that at present take place would not occur, and it would save a great deal of friction. 
     
     
      
       I recognise there has been a considerable improvement in the administration of old age pensions. Something, however, ought to be done in connection with chronic cases.  I refer to the cases of people who cannot obtain their baptismal certificates and who are unable to give proof of age.  There is not a shadow of doubt about it, a great many of them are over 70 years. They are not getting the pension and there is no prospect that they will get a pension.  Other Deputies, I am sure, have had complaints of this   nature.  We all recognise that those people are entitled to pensions and that they are over seventy, but they are knocked out by not being able to give proof.  It is a very grave hardship. They are told that they must go to wherever they were born or to the school where they were educated. A great many of them are illiterate or are physically unable to go.  I have a suggestion to make which, if adopted, would meet the case.  That suggestion is that those persons ought to be able to take their cases before a District Justice.  They can produce evidence in the court showing that they are the required age. Many of these people are physically unable to travel perhaps fifty miles to where they were born.  If they were permitted to make a case before the District Justice I believe that the persons now unable to get pensions would be permitted to receive them.  The number is limited, and in a great many cases it is not the money that matters so much as the hardship of knowing they are over seventy and they are deprived of getting a pension because they are unable, not through any fault of their own, but because records were not kept, to give documentary proof of their ages. 
       I put a suggestion to the Minister now that I think would meet the case, and that suggestion is that the applicant should be permitted to go before a District Justice, make his or her case as to age, and then, having made their case before the District Justice, they should be granted a pension.  Persons very often much younger are getting pensions. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to say much as to the investigations that take place with regard to the means by which the pensions officers assess income, because I know that in this matter the tax-payers' interests must be safeguarded.  I can, however, from personal knowledge say that there is too much delay in the making of these investigations.  I think the Minister ought bear in mind that the applicants who are entitled to these pensions are usually in very poor circumstances.  That   period is a very anxious one for them.  If anything could be done to expedite the inquiries of pensions officers, particularly in cases of appeals from the decision of pensions committees, I think for humanity's sake it should be done. 
     
     
      
       With regard to old age pensions generally we find, for the past few years, that in most cases the position with regard to them has been very satisfactory.  There is one matter I want to bring to the Minister's attention.  In many cases where people are unable to procure birth certificates what they invariably do is to give the date on their marriage certificate.  I am afraid that in many cases the ages that ladies give when they are getting married are not quite convincing. Therefore, I think that when an applicant for a pension gives as evidence in regard to age her marriage certificate that the pensions officer should not pay the strictest regard to it.  I came across some cases recently where applicants gave the date of their marriage as proof that they were a certain age at that time. The age they were supposed to be at the time they got married simply put them out of court altogether and very few of them got the pension. In cases where affidavits have been submitted to the pensions officer and the pensions committee, in nine cases out of ten the pension has been awarded.  In conclusion I would ask that in future the pensions officer should not pay too much regard to marriage certificates as evidence of an applicant's age. 
     
     
      
       I desire to support the plea made by Deputy Connolly that the age entered on the marriage certificate, a woman's age particularly, should not be taken as a guide by the pensions officer.  Deputies from the country, in particular, are aware that the ages stated on these marriage certificates are very far from being reliable.  Very often they would be five or six years out to the disadvantage of the people looking for a pension.  I would like the Minister to take that matter into consideration when issuing instructions&mdash;I   believe such instructions are issued&mdash;to the old age pensions officers. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I desire to make a few remarks regarding the administration of the Old Age Pensions Acts.  I notice in the Estimate that there is an amount of money set aside for the work of pensions committees. I do not know whether what I am going to suggest will be regarded as undemocratic, but when one considers the way the matter works out in practice, I suggest the Minister should tell us what are the functions of the pensions committee.  In practice what happens is this: a person puts in an application for an old age pension.  The application is sent to the pensions officer who makes the necessary investigations as to whether the statutory conditions are fulfilled in the matter of means and age. After a time the application comes before the pensions committee.  The committee investigates the matter as far as they are capable of doing so. They either award a pension or refuse it.  If the pensions officer thinks that the applicant should not have been granted a pension, he appeals to the Minister for Local Government. The Minister then deals with the matter, and decides it one way or another.  The position is that it is not the pensions committee but the pensions officer that decides whether there will be an appeal to the Minister for Local Government or not.  If the pensions committee decide that an applicant is entitled to a pension and the pensions officer holds a contrary view, there is then an appeal to the Minister for Local Government who makes the final decision. But if the pensions officer agrees with the pensions committee, the pension is granted forthwith. 
     
     That brings me to the position that I would like to know what exactly are the functions of the old age pensions committees.  Have they any powers at all, or is it one of their functions, when they do recommend an applicant for a pension, to prepare a case and state the grounds on which they came to their decision and forward it to the Department of   Local Government?  At the present time, as far as I can see, they have no powers whatever.  They simply assemble to investigate cases, but it is the pensions officer who decides either to approve of the application or to appeal.  I would like to know from the Minister what exactly are the powers and functions of these pensions committees. 
     
      
       When we hear various complaints about details in regard to the administration of the Old Age Pensions Acts it is well, I think, not to forget that the Acts are being administered in the most liberal spirit possible.  If the Acts were strictly administered, or if there was any failure to give pensioners almost uniformly the benefit of the doubt, the old age pensions bill would probably be anywhere from fifty to one hundred thousand a year less than it is.  It is almost impossible, in dealing with so many cases, and cases, too, where there is not the clearest evidence, to avoid a certain amount of dissatisfaction from time to time. On the whole, I think there are certainly no grounds at all for complaining about the way in which the various officers concerned with the administration of these Acts do their duty.  A pensions officer, if he is not satisfied with the decision of the pensions committee, must appeal to the Department of Local Government. It is not at all easy to tell a person's age by his or her appearance.  If we were to rely on a system of that kind, some people who are well over 70 would fail to get the pension, while perhaps some who are under that age would get it.  As a matter of fact, appearance in a small number of cases does decide the matter. There are cases in which no evidence that is of any value at all can be obtained. As a last resort, an inspector visits the applicant, talks to him or her, and comes to some conclusion partly from appearance and partly from anything that he can gather in the way of conversation. That happens in a small minority of cases which cannot be decided in any other way, but it is an unsatisfactory way of dealing with them. 
     
     
        It is perfectly well recognised that many people cannot obtain birth certificates or other documentary evidence.  In cases where they cannot do that, affidavits which are fairly precise are accepted in lieu of them. Hundreds and, perhaps, thousands of pensions are granted to people who cannot produce a birth certificate or evidence of a similar nature, but the affidavits of neighbours or school-fellows or people who have the means of knowing that an applicant is actually 70 years or over, would, in certain cases, be accepted. I do not think that it would be a good thing that applicants should go before a district justice, because if it became a court matter it would be the duty of the pensions officer to fight the case in the way that he would fight any other case.  I think that would only lead to expense being thrown on the applicant, and perhaps to a less number of pensions being actually granted.  I think that the district justice would have to regard these cases as he would regard every other case, and would have to look for strict legal proof.  I do not think a district justice could decide a case by an applicant's teeth or absence of teeth, or anything of that nature.  The question of allowing an appeal to the district justice was considered, and the general opinion was that it would not be to the advantage of the applicant, and that it would not lead to expedition or a more satisfactory working of the Act.  We feel that the Old Age Pensions Acts cannot really be run at all on the basis of strict legal proof, and that there has to be a certain laxity, a certain exercise of discretion in favour of the applicant.  If you are going to give exercise of discretion you want to get uniformity all over the country, and that is why you must have an appeal officer like the officer in the Department of Local Government who deals with all the country, and as far as possible uniformly with the cases.  If a district justice dealt with them not as he would deal with ordinary matters and according to strict rules of evidence, you would have the most extraordinary differences between the   district justices according to differences of temperament.  Pensions officers look at things differently. There are differences of outlook. One man is inclined to be stricter than another.  The thing is levelled up as far as practicable by the fact that appeals go to one central authority which deals with them. 
     On the question of a man's means, there have been many conferences between the officers of the Department of Agriculture and the pensions officers.  Every possible attempt has been made to insure that the pensions officer's estimate of the value of lands or turbary, or anything like that, is on a basis that is real and that gives the true means. Once or twice as a result of complaints or representations to the Minister other conferences were held between the representatives of the Revenue Commissioners and the representatives of the Department of Agriculture in order to see that the outlook of the officers in that matter, and their system of estimation, was right and in accordance with the facts.  I do not know whether anything remains that can be done to expedite the determination of these cases.  The matter has received consideration many times.  It has been the subject of a great deal of discussion in the House, and many questions have been asked about it.  It is not one of those things that might go on for a great number of years without being looked into.  The question of the administration of old age pensions has been the subject of conferences between the Ministers and heads of Departments on many occasions. 
     There is a great deal of force in what Deputy Fahy and Deputy Connolly said about the unreliability of the ages shown on the marriage certificates. I do not know to what extent the appeal officer would regard such evidence as final.  I think he must be aware that it is unreliable, and that it should not be used to set aside entirely in all cases other evidence that might come forward. Of course, Deputies should bear in mind, as I suppose they are aware, that there are a great many applications   for old age pensions by people who know well they are not seventy years of age, and who try to bring forward evidence of one sort or another in order to get a pension, and they get through sometimes.  A few years ago in a couple of parishes in the West as a result of the carelessness of the clergy false certificates were issued by parish clerks, and signed by the clergymen.  I think about £15,000 was paid out to people who were not entitled to it before the fraud was discovered.  We had a great number of people who were under age coming in and making applications once the news was spread quietly around that it could be done. 
     While there is no wholesale attempt to get pensions for people who are not entitled to them, still there are many applications coming forward from people who are near the age and who think they will have a shot at it.  It is necessary for anyone dealing with the matter to remember that there are two sides to the case.  While giving every latitude to the claimant for a pension, and accepting any evidence that seems good you must have some measure of doubt.  There must be some investigation, and the pensions officers must occasionally put up a very definite opposition to a claim.  Deputy Hogan asked what are the duties of the pensions committee. The pensions committee is a court of first instance.  It gives its decision.  The pensioner may appeal, or the pensions officer may appeal.  If the pensions committees were doing their duty in anything like a perfect manner perhaps there might be almost as many appeals by pensioners as by officers, but the unfortunate fact is that in a great many instances pensions committees do not do their duty in any sort of thorough way. Some years ago we had before us the question of abolishing pensions committees, and we did not abolish them because there were a few committees which did their duty well and took up a judicial attitude.  If there was not sufficient evidence they were quite prepared to decide   against an applicant, but the majority of the pensions committees are too much on the side of the applicants.  They are not judicial.  I do not say that there are any of them that never turn down an application. I do not believe there are any so much on the sides of the applicants as that, but the weakness of the committees is that they are not sufficiently judicial.  If they were more judicial probably there would be a greater inclination on the part of the officer to accept their decision, even if he did not agree with it, and there would be a greater tendency on the part of the deciding officer in the Department of Local Government to agree with the decisions of the committees than at present. 
     When looking into the matter two or three years ago I was informed that certain committees which had a good reputation had more weight with the deciding officer in doubtful cases.  He took into consideration that these committees had a good reputation for doing their work well and judicially, and he was influenced by that fact.  I think if pensions committees think themselves badly treated, to put it no stronger, it is partly the fault of the committees, but a court of first instance cannot object if it is occasionally reversed. There are 115,000 pensioners.  A large number of claims are made every year, and a large number admitted.  There is bound to be some dissatisfaction and some delay, but I say as emphatically as I can that the Act is administered in a very liberal spirit.  If it was administered on a court basis, and people had to go before a District Justice who would look for full evidence, there would not be anything like 115,000 people receiving pensions.  Possibly the system adopted occasionally lets in people who are not entitled, but we are dealing with poor people who are in great need of pensions and it is permissible that there should be this easy administration by which occasionally people who are not entitled are admitted. 
     
      
       May I ask what   are the windfalls that have accrued under sub-head C?  Several have accrued since the original estimate was framed.  Could the Minister give the Dail any indication of what those were? 
     
     
      
       (Clare): As to pensions committees, I am a member of a pensions committee and attend as often as I can and see the routine work carried on.  There can be an appeal by the applicant and an appeal by the pensions officer.  In the matter of appeals, I do not know what is the power of the Minister or of any Minister, but I think it should be the duty of the officers and officials of the pensions committees to state to the Department on what grounds they base either their appeal or the grant of the pension.  I should like to make them useful to the applicant, just as well as to the Department. I know that many applicants for pensions could not state a case to save their lives.  They come before the committee and the case is dragged out of them inch by inch.  I suggest that it ought to be the duty of the pensions committees to state why they grant the pension as against the pensions officer; why he refuses to give it, or vice versa, where they refuse and where there is an appeal against the decision.  I think there ought to be some function like that which would make them a useful body.  At present I must candidly say that I cannot see that they are doing very much useful work, either for the Department or for the applicants. 
     
     
      
       The Minister mentioned that he did not know whether it was in his power to take any steps which would eliminate the very serious delays which take place. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy aware that the Minister had concluded the debate? 
     
     
      
       I understood we were in Committee and I did not know that the Minister was concluding. Might I point out that some years ago an Old Age Pensions Committee of Inquiry was set up and made certain recommendations   which, up to the present, have not been carried out.  One of the recommendations was that leaflets should be distributed through the Post Office authorities to applicants for pensions, because there are a large number of points upon which applicants are not very clear.  That has not been done up to the present, with the result that many applicants are in ignorance as to the means by which they should go about making application.  There is no gainsaying the fact that considerable and unnecessary delays take place both in regard to old age pensions and blind persons pensions.  This Committee of Inquiry stated that in 99 cases out of 100 where applications for blind pensions were granted by sub-committees the pensions officer appealed against the decision. 
     
     When a pensions officer appeals against a decision, the Department of Local Government insists upon sending a medical inspector to examine the applicant's eyesight.  In a large number of cases in Donegal, I am aware that where this procedure was adopted, from six to nine months elapsed before the medical officer was sent from Dublin to Donegal to inspect the person's eyesight. In some cases, after the inspection had taken place and it was found that the applicant was entitled to a pension, instead of the pension being made retrospective, it was only paid as from the date of the medical inspector's visit.  I hold that that is most unfair to the applicant. When delays such as that take place the applicant should not be made to suffer.  I have in mind one particular case where an application was made last September to the Pensions Committee for a blind person's pension. The pension was granted by the committee, but the pensions officer appealed against the decision. I understand that it is the intention of the Local Government Department to send an inspector to examine the applicant's eyesight, but, notwithstanding the fact that six months have since elapsed, the medical inspector has not yet been sent, with the result that the applicant is naturally suffering much hardship   owing to the unnecessary and prolonged delay on the part of the medical inspector. 
     The Minister for Finance stated that pension committees are very often too much on the side of the applicant and are not sufficiently judicial.  I might retort, as far as the appeals branch of the Department is concerned, that they are too often on the side of the pensions officer and against the applicant.  I understand that in Dublin, and probably in Louth, Limerick and Cork, much difficulty is not experienced, by applicants for pensions in regard to birth certificates, but in some rural areas no record of births was kept seventy years ago, and in many cases baptismal certificates are not available.  In such cases, when the applicant gets one or two affidavits certifying that he is of the stipulated age, the Local Government Department turn down his affidavit and do not grant the pension. 
     Some time ago the Minister for Finance brought out a sort of Mussolini rule to the effect that Deputies were not to be allowed to go to the Department and interview the appeals officer.  That is most unfair, because in many cases we find that these affidavits are turned down for some reason of which the applicant or the Pensions Committee know nothing.  Consequently I think that this rule should be revoked, and, in fairness to the applicants, the Deputies should be allowed to make inquiries in regard to cases on behalf of constituents and, if necessary, to submit further evidence.  I hope that the Department of Local Government, in conjunction with the Minister for Finance, will see to it, as far as the blind pension cases are concerned, that this prolonged and unnecessary delay will not be allowed to continue any further, and if they find that it takes nine months to send a medical inspector from Dublin to Donegal to inspect a person's eyesight, they should rely upon the medical certificate furnished by the local doctor. 
     Another matter to which I should   like to refer is the question of secret instructions issued to pensions officers by the Revenue Commissioners. In reply to a question of mine a few days ago the Minister for Finance stated that no secret instructions were issued, that the instructions dealt only with the administration of the Act.  I might mention that when the Committee of Inquiry inquired into this matter they asked that the secret instructions should be disclosed to them.  The Revenue Commissioners, through the Finance Department, were not prepared to disclose them, with the result that this committee, which was set up by this House, stated that they were dissatisfied with the attitude taken up by the Revenue Commissioners and the Department of Finance.  They asked why, if the instructions referred to as secret instructions have only reference to matters connected with the administration of the Act, there should be so much secrecy in regard to them.  I suggest that the time has come when all this secret society business should be done away with and that the Act should be administered openly; that the applicants should get a fair crack of the whip when they are not able to get birth certificates.  In addition to that, I think the Minister should also make some arrangement to obviate these delays which are taking place in connection with applications for blind pensions. 
     
      
       I am very sorry that the Minister for Finance has left, because some of his remarks call for explanation.  He said in effect that the fact that some of the old age pensioners' cases were passed by the old age pension committees was prejudicial to the applicants.  I think it would be better to do away with the pensions committees altogether if the local officer took such a hostile view prejudicial to the cases of the applicants because of that fact.  I happen to know a case where an elder brother produced the certificate and has been in receipt of an old age pension.  The next brother, a year younger, was not able to produce   a certificate and his application was turned down, while a sister who was younger than the second brother got the pension, and the inspector would not accept any affidavit that this man was older than the sister.  I wonder was this the result of having his case passed by the Pensions Committee?  When I hear talk of liberality I do not accept it.  There is no liberality, as far as I know.  I have not heard of any, and I should like to hear of a case in which liberality has been shown.  I am prepared to stand over one case that I know of, the case of a man named Burke.  The applicants for pensions would evidently be better off if there was no pension committee at all and if they had to apply to the officer direct. 
     
     
      
       I also think that the position in which the Pensions Committee is placed is unfair to them.  I happen to be a member of one of these committees, and I know they waste their own time as far as getting anything for it.  I quite agree with the Minister in his statement that the fact of an applicant being passed by the Pensions Committee is prejudicial to him.  I know very well that in Cork applications for pensions are fought out to the bitter end by inspectors sent down by the Minister, and the excuse given for refusing pensions is, in nine cases out of ten, frivolous objections that would not be sustained anywhere except in the Minister's Department. I think the twists and little irregularities that have been taken hold of by the Pensions Department to deprive the old people of pensions are no credit to the Department of the Minister.  I do not wish to go any further into the matter, but in view of the statement of the Minister for Finance the sooner the pensions committees resign the better, leaving the whole thing to the Minister. Let him finish them up himself. I think there is no other cure for the conditions that prevail. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, I wish to raise a question.  This debate proceeded for some little time and   then the Minister, as I understood, was called upon by the Chair to reply. He did reply, and the Chair allowed one or two questions to be put to the Minister, but since then we have been re-conducting the debate. I ask you, A Leas-Chinn Comhairle, to tell us is there a new precedent being established or is some change being made in our procedure in debate. 
     
     
      
       There is no new precedent being created, I can assure the Deputy.  We are in Committee.  But as the matter has been raised, when a debate has been initiated and conducted, even in Committee, and when the occupant of the Chair sees there is no other speaker and calls upon the Minister to conclude, I think it is undesirable that the debate should be re-opened after the Minister has made what he believes to be his concluding speech. 
     
     
      
       Deputies may have refrained from speaking to give an opportunity to the Minister to deal with some particular points raised, and the Chair should not necessarily call on the Minister to conclude until it is obvious that he is to conclude. 
     
     
      
       Most of the Deputies opposite were not in the House at the time. 
     
     
      
       I was talking about a general principle. 
     
     
      
       I only want some information as to the future conduct of these matters of old age pensions. The procedure, so far as I am aware, in Cork is this.  An applicant makes a claim before the local claims committee, and the claim is admitted or rejected.  A form is given to the claimant, and subsequently if the claim is turned down in Dublin, as it usually is, the applicant is asked to furnish particulars in the form of affidavit or declaration before a magistrate or a peace commissioner. I consider all this is absolutely futile in view of the fact that I have at least half a dozen cases in Cork in which substantial proofs could be given of age and statutory declarations   have been made, and yet they have been refused.  I seriously suggest to the Minister to scrap all these committees and also to get rid of the statutory declarations because, apparently, they have no effect in Dublin.  There have been very great and grave cases of hardship due to the fact that a number of poor people were unable to secure their certificates because in many cases the records were not kept in the parishes in which they were born.  That seems to carry no weight with the Department in Dublin.  I could produce cases in which persons who are themselves now in receipt of old age pensions have made affidavits that applicants are over 70 years of age, yet they cannot get the pensions. 
       Another point I want information on is this.  Has the Minister any intention of accepting an age other than 23 as the marriageable age accepted for old age pensions where the birth certificates are not obtainable? We know there are many cases in which the women were over 23 and up to 30 before they entered into the married state.  These people would be over 80 before they would be entitled to a pension under the present rules, where 23 years is the age recognised for the purposes of old age pensions on the part of applicants who have no other evidence to submit.  I have already pointed out the difficulty that exists in many towns and villages in Cork where there were no records kept in the parish churches in those days. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, I wish to ask are we to understand that the Minister refused to sit in this House even when his own estimates are under discussion. 
     
     
      
       Surely the Deputy does not expect me to answer that question? 
     
     
      
       Can any member of the Ministry present answer it?  It is nothing short of gross discourtesy to leave the House when Deputies are asking questions. 
     
     
      
       There were no questions asked; a number of speeches were made. 
     
     
     
      
       Would it be in order to move the adjournment of the House until the Minister attends? 
     
     
      
       (Clare): May I point out that the Minister for Finance does not know whether it is questions that are being asked or speeches that are being made.  Even if the Minister had concluded the debate Deputies are within their rights to ask some further questions. The Minister for Finance does not know what we are doing here now, whether we are asking questions or making speeches. 
     
     
      
       Will you take a motion, A Leas-Chinn Comhairle, that the debate be adjourned? 
     
     
      
       No, I will not take that motion. 
     
     
      
       Then I shall move to report progress if it is in order to do so. 
     
     
      
       I will not accept that motion. 
     
     
      
       On what ground? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must refer to the Standing Orders. 
     
     
      
       The Minister had concluded and then Deputies stood up and made further speeches. 
     
     
      
       The Minister may consider he is entitled to ignore discussion, but I submit it is in accordance with the practice of the House on matters of this kind for the Minister to wait and see if further questions are raised.  Deputies are quite entitled to raise questions and get answers from the Minister, but I think it is discourteous on the part of the Minister to leave the House when the debate is going on. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I can explain exactly what happened.  The Minister was not called upon to speak until it was obvious that no other member in the House wished to speak.  Every Deputy in the Chamber got a full opportunity   to make his speech; the Minister was then called upon to conclude the debate.  No objection was taken to that and the Minister replied to the points that were made.  Deputy Hogan, when the Minister had sat down, elaborated the point which he had made in his previous speech.  I think the Minister made some reference to it, but I am not quite so sure about that.  Deputy Cassidy then rose to speak and I asked him if he were aware that the Minister had been called upon to conclude the debate and had done so.  He said he was not aware of that and he pointed out that we were in Committee on Finance.  That is quite true and under the Standing Orders the Deputy may speak more than once.  I allowed Deputy Cassidy and every other Deputy who followed him to make speeches.  If the Minister does not choose to remain in the House to reply to points made I have no power to make him. 
     
     
      
       I accept everything you stated, but is it not in accordance with the practice in this House that after the Debate has been concluded the Minister sits in the House and answers questions which can be properly raised at the conclusion of the debate? 
     
     
      
       That is so, but there were not any questions asked.  There were certain statements made and amplification of certain statements made but, with the exception of Deputy Hogan's statement which I think he put in the form of a question, I did not hear any other questions asked.  I think members of the House must realise that there must be some finality. 
     
     
      
       Will you accept the motion that the Estimate be referred back for reconsideration on account of the absence of the Minister?  We surely must have the matter considered somehow. 
       [ An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. ] 
     
     
      
       The question has arisen as to whether a Deputy in the   House is entitled to ask leave to report progress in order to call the attention of the House to the fact that a Minister has refused to attend during the discussion of an Estimate which he has introduced.  The Leas-Cheann Comhairle refused to accept that Motion.  I submit under Standing Order 63 he is bound to accept it. 
     
     
      
       If the Leas-Cheann Comhairle has refused to accept such a motion, then that matter is surely decided, is it not? 
     
     
      
       I submit not, because he can only refuse on certain stated grounds. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy asking me to accept a motion to report progress? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  The Standing Order reads: 
       &ldquo;The Committee of the whole Dail may from time to time direct the Chairman to report a Resolution or Resolutions, or to make a special report to the Dail.  A Motion to report progress and ask leave to sit again may also be made: Provided that the Chairman may refuse to accept any such Motion which he deems to be dilatory or obstructive.&rdquo; 
       I submit it is not in order to refuse a Motion unless it can be shown that it is dilatory or obstructive.  I think the question of having present a Minister who is responsible for an Estimate is neither dilatory nor obstructive. 
     
     
      
       I think it would be well that you should know the circumstances in which the Chairman was asked to report. 
     
     
      
       The matter was one for the Leas-Cheann Comhairle in the circumstances. 
     
     
      
       He is not here. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I should explain exactly what happened.  The Estimate was moved in the ordinary way by the Minister for Finance, and it was debated in the usual way and, if I might say so, debated very fully.   The whole question of old age pensions was gone into, and the Minister was not called upon to reply to the speeches made until it was obvious to me that there was no other Deputy in the House who desired to speak.  I then called upon the Minister for Finance to conclude, because it seemed to me quite clear that there was no desire at that stage that the debate should continue.  There was no exception taken by any Deputy present when I called upon the Minister to conclude.  When the Minister had concluded his speech Deputy Hogan got up to amplify a point which he had made previously, and I think the Minister had dealt with that point.  Deputy Cassidy then stood up to make a speech, and I asked the Deputy if he was aware that the Minister had been called upon to conclude the debate and had done so.  Deputy Cassidy said he was, but reminded me that we were in Committee, and I gave the Deputy, what I considered he rightly had if he insisted on his rights, the right to make a speech under the Standing Orders. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, I did not recognise that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle was in the House, and I must apologise. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): For the sake of correction rather than making a point, the Minister for Finance did not make any reference to the point I made when I stood up.  The matter stands as if he did not reply to anyone. 
     
     
      
       The claim to move to report progress was not acceded to by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, and that decided that particular claim.  Is a further claim now being made? 
     
     
      
       Arising out of that decision, I submit that the debate has not been properly concluded in so far as the Motion was not put from the Chair to the House.  It has been the practice in this House for the Minister to sit in his seat until that stage of the debate has been arrived at and Ministers, including the Minister for Finance, have   answered questions, even though the debates have been taken in the ordinary way as being concluded.  I move to report progress for the purpose of drawing attention to the fact that the Minister has left the House and has deprived Deputies of the rights which they had in this respect. 
     
     
      
       May I say further by way of explanation that one of the reasons why I refused to accept the Motion was because this was not the first occasion upon which a Minister here in charge of a Bill left the House in the course of a debate; it has happened on many occasions and never, so far as I can recollect, has any Motion been made to report progress, nor have we adjourned a debate so long as other Ministers were present. 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand that Deputies of this House are to be deprived of a recognised privilege which they had in the past and that Ministers will in the future, as the Minister for Finance refuses now, refuse to answer questions at the end of a concluding speech? 
     
     
      
       I would like to make my position clear.  I do not feel particularly aggrieved that the Minister is not here, but I think it would be unfortunate, so far as the right of any member of the House to report progress is concerned, if the Standing Orders are not strictly adhered to.  According to the reading of the Standing Order which I submit to you, the Leas-Cheann Comhairle can only refuse a Motion of that sort upon one of two grounds: either that it is dilatory, or obstructive.  In this case the Motion was neither dilatory nor obstructive, and I think it would be unfortunate if the grounds of refusal were further extended by giving the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, which has happened in this case, authority by creating a precedent now to refuse that Motion on other grounds. 
     
     
      
       The circumstance that no member of the Executive Council was present on the front bench, might, conceivably, be   deemed by the Chair a sufficient reason for acceding to a claim to move to report progress, but the absence of a particular Minister in charge at the particular moment is not a sufficient reason.  I think it is not contemplated that the absence of a Minister in charge of the motion before the House, or the Bill before the House, should be sufficient grounds, particularly in this case, where it appears the Minister thought he had concluded the debate. 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that a Minister in future will refuse to answer questions when he has concluded? 
     
     
      
       I have no function to say whether Ministers will or will not take a particular line of action.  From the point of view of the Chair, what would appear to be necessary is the presence of a Minister on the front bench, not necessarily the particular Minister in charge, during the whole period of the debate.  I see Deputy Davin's point, but it is not for the Chair to decide whether or not a particular Minister should be present.  Deputy Davin is right in saying that a certain practice has been followed.  He can elicit, by questions to the Ministers, whether or not that practice is to be departed from.  From the point of view of the Chair the absence of the particular Minister in charge is not a sufficient reason. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): When the Minister has made a speech does it not seem an act of discourtesy for him to go away without dealing with matters arising out of his speech?  Are we to understand that because a Minister not concerned with a particular department takes notes we are to accept his statement of proceedings concerning another department?  Are we to understand, for instance, that the Minister for Education will tell us all about old age pensions instead of the Minister for Finance? 
     
     
      
       Surely it was almost a tradition here that when a Minister introduced a Bill, an estimate, or   whatever it might be, and it was discussed in the House, and he was called upon to conclude that that really did conclude it.  In this case I think Deputies who were not in the House prior to his being called upon to conclude came into the House and recommenced the debate.  That is what really happened.  If the Minister is bound not only to sit here and conclude, but to sit here when anybody and everybody chose to re-open a debate, surely it is asking more than courtesy and is a departure from practice. 
     
     
      
       May I point out that the business had not concluded; the Chair had not proceeded to the next business, and I take it that until the next business is announced the question of old age pensions is under consideration.  I agree with Deputy Hogan that if Ministers are going to be allowed to leave the House after they have made a speech, and another Deputy in the position of Deputy Cassidy who has not already spoken, as happened in this case, gets up and makes his remarks, Deputy Cassidy would legitimately be entitled to consider that he was being ignored unless it can be shown that the Minister intended to come back.  If it can be shown that the Minister leaves the House for some particular reason and intends to come back, then it is all right, but in this case it seems to be the opinion of many Deputies that the Minister deliberately intended to ignore Deputy Cassidy.  There were other speakers as well as Deputy Cassidy, and it is quite obvious at this stage that the Minister for Finance has no intention of replying.  The Minister for Finance stated his position, other Deputies stated theirs, and they were obviously waiting for a reply. I think the Minister has not treated the House as he should have treated it, and that you, a Chinn Comhairle, ought to accept Deputy MacEntee's motion. 
     
     
      
       On a point of personal explanation.  I might say that when I rose to speak in regard to the question of old age pensions, I   did not know that the Minister had made a concluding speech. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy was not here. 
     
     
      
       I am not accepting the motion to report progress. There is a convention that a Minister concludes a motion he has moved, even in Committee.  That has been mentioned over and over again.  It seems to be the only method of bringing a debate to a conclusion.  If the Minister for Finance was under the impression that he had concluded the debate nothing remains but that the question be put.  I propose to put the question now. 
     
     
      
       I submit that it is quite fair to expect a reply from the Minister.  After all, Deputies in this debate have not talked on the lines of obstruction.  No Deputy, as far as I know, has any desire to cause obstruction in this particular debate, or in any other debate that I know of.  When a Minister has concluded, Deputies may want to ask questions for the purpose of having made clear points raised by the Minister, and it is a gross discourtesy on the part of the Minister to leave the House without answering such questions put without any desire of creating obstruction. 
     
     
      
       I agree with you, a Chinn Comhairle, that there must be something like finality in these matters.  But I think it has been the custom, as far as my observations go, for Ministers, even when they conclude their speeches, to wait until the next business is announced. Apart from the question of courtesy, which I think should enter into our debates, the Minister might have remained until the questions which were asked had been answered.  I agree that we must have some sort of finality, but as I have already pointed out, the custom has been that the Minister waits until the next business has been announced. 
     
     
      
       Would it be possible to adjourn the discussion on this   particular estimate without reporting progress? 
       Vote put and declared carried. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 14&mdash;Property Losses Compensation. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £100,000 chun iochta an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun iocaiochtanna i dtaobh mille no diobhail do mhaoin a dineadh i rith na treimhse 21adh Eanair, 1919, go 12adh Bealtaine, 1923, go huile, fe sna hAchtanna um Dhiobhail do Mhaoin (Cuiteamh), 1923 go 1926, agus ar shlite eile; agus mar gheall ar dhamaiste do mhaoin, no cailliuint maoine, agus iocaiochtanna tre shlanu no tre aisioc fen Acht Slanaiochta, 1924, agus chun deontaisi d'ioc a socruiodh a ioc de bharr mola an Property Losses (Ireland) Committee, 1916, mar chuiteamh i bhfoirginti a milleadh i mBaile Atha Cliath i rith Seachtain na Casca, 1916. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £100,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for payments in respect of destruction of, or injuries to, property within the period 21st January, 1919, to 12th May, 1923, inclusive, under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Acts, 1923 to 1926, and otherwise; and in respect of damage to or loss of property and payments by way of indemnification or recoupment under the Indemnity Act, 1924, and for payment of grants awarded on the recommendation of the Property Losses (Ireland) Committee, 1916, as compensation for buildings destroyed in Dublin during Easter Week, 1916. 
     
     
      
       On a point of procedure, I take it the Minister for Finance is responsible to the House for this Estimate. 
     
     
     
      
       Any Minister. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  The Minister for Finance is now present, but Deputies will have to realise that Ministers are interchangeable units. The fact that they have collective responsibility means that one Minister may answer for another.  In order to get that particular point&mdash; quite apart from the particular motion we are now on&mdash;it should be stated that the Executive Council is a body having collective responsibility and, therefore, it is quite in order for one Minister to answer for another.  There is no doubt at all about that. 
     
     
      
       Unless Deputies can get an assurance before this Vote is moved that the Minister responsible, whoever he is, I presume the Minister for Finance, will stay in the House to answer any questions put to him through the Chair, it is useless to proceed with a discussion of this kind. 
     
     
      
       I should say that I do not feel bound to answer any questions which Deputies may put to me. If I think it wise to answer them I will do so, and, if I do not answer, the House can draw whatever conclusion it likes and can show its disapproval accordingly.  I think it is an entirely ridiculous doctrine to say that a Minister must answer.  If he fails to answer I presume that the presumption will be that he cannot answer, so that he and his Party will suffer accordingly.  The presumption that he must stand, or rather sit, to attention throughout a debate is, I think, wrong.  As the Ceann Comhairle has said, I think that any Minister may at any time answer for the Minister who may be chiefly concerned with a particular Vote.  As a rule I sit in the House during a debate in which I am concerned, but I will not undertake to sit in the House during any particular debate. 
     
     In regard to the Vote just moved, Deputies will remember that in almost every year up to this considerable sums were voted for compensation in excess of the sums that   were actually proved to be required. Generally at the beginning of the year we entertained hopes in regard to the progress of reconstruction which were not realised.  The result was that large sums in most years remained a surplus in the end.  Last year it was determined to cut down the sum asked for property losses compensation in accordance with the lessons that had been learned by previous experience.  The year, however, in which we cut the Estimate down proved to be the year in which there was actually a considerable spurt in reconstruction.  The result is that the sum now asked for is required. Practically all the excess sum is required for reconstruction by the holders of ordinary post-Truce awards.  An excess sum of £5,000 is required for reconstruction where compensation goes to the Board of Works in respect of destroyed premises of various kinds.  Attempts were made this year, as in previous years, to get the holders of awards to speed up reconstruction, and it happened that in this particular year these efforts were more successful than they were in previous years. 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 19&mdash;Tariff Commission. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £100 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Choimisiun na nBleacht (Uimh. 40 de 1926). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £100 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Tariff Commission (No. 40 of 1926). 
     
     Deputies will notice that the excess sum required is mainly in respect of allowances to two of the Tariff Commissioners.  Up to about this time last year the members of   the Commission who are public officials did the work of the Commission without any extra remuneration. The work of the Commission has proved to be exceedingly onerous.  It involves not merely the necessity of making special efforts to carry on ordinary departmental work, while attending the various sittings, both public and private, of the Commission, but it also means reading vast masses of documents and material of various kinds, that have either been submitted by those applying for or those opposing tariffs, and also materials which the Commissioners themselves procured. In the case of a tariff like the woollen tariff, a great deal of study was undertaken by the Commissioners before the case for the applicants had been fully heard.  Statistics and material of various sorts were collected for them, and the members of the Commission were obliged to study them, not during official hours but after official hours, at home.  As a matter of fact, the result of this work which has been thrown on the Tariff Commission has been that the members have had no leisure at all.  Personally, I have doubts as to whether it would be possible for any prolonged period for men to continue working at the pressure at which those who undertook these investigations have been obliged to work.  When the first term of office of the members of the Commission was at an end about a year ago the Government determined that it was suitable that a certain allowance should be given to two of the members for that work.  The allowance was not given to the other member because he is on the maximum scale of any member of the Civil Service. 
     
      
       I think if the Minister came to the House with a proposal to deport the members of the Tariff Commission he would occasion much less surprise than he has done with the proposal which he has now put before us.  I cannot see why it is necessary to take this particular method of resolving the difficulty which has arisen concerning the work of the Tariff Commission.   If it is true, as the Minister has said, that the work is so onerous that the members of the Commission cannot be expected to perform it, then there is a case for adopting some other method for hearing applications. The particular difficulty to which the Minister has referred will not be removed merely by paying two of the members a sum of £300 extra.  That is not going to increase their capacity for work, to increase their ability.  It is not going to do anything except increase their salary. 
       The Government which has made this particular proposal has also gone out of its way to increase the work of the Commission in a manner designed to make it impossible to produce reports at any quicker rate than they have been doing heretofore. If the Commission had no applications pending we could understand the action of the Government in appointing the same three individuals to be the tribunal to investigate the grain proposals.  The fact, however, is that there are applications in process of being heard by the Commission or awaiting hearing which were originally made in 1926. Despite the fact that that long delay has been occasioned by the slow working of the Commission, the Government proceed to make impossible the more rapid production of reports by the appointment of these individuals to hear the very complicated and involved case in respect of the proposals to mix home-grown grain with imported maize.  It was in 1926 that the coach builders of this country first made an application for an increase in the duty on the bodies of imported motor cars.  I have calculated from the trade summary recently published that the fact that the duty asked for in 1926 was not in operation in 1929 has resulted in 2,000 people, who would otherwise have been employed, being idle. The actual financial loss to the country arising out of the delay on the part of the Tariff Commission in reporting on these applications must be very substantial indeed. 
     
     If the Government are really   anxious that these applications should be heard more rapidly and that the arrears of work should be wiped off, they would come to the House with a proposal to establish a second body, to appoint additional commissioners to deal with the problem in some other manner except that which they propose.  I can understand the Minister for Education boasting at Geneva that the Free State tariffs are as low as possible, though I cannot understand how they consider that a source of pride.  Neither can I understand why the Government so arrange things that decisions on applications will be as slow as possible.  No case whatever has been made for giving this additional allowance to two of the Commissioners.  If the Government really think that the work is so onerous that it is impossible for these three individuals to perform it properly, the proper thing to do is to amend the Tariff Commission Act so as to provide for the appointment of an additional number of Commissioners. 
     On previous occasions we have raised in the Dail the question of the work of the Departments of which these three individuals are important members.  The work of the Departments must be seriously impeded by the fact that these three civil servants have to give a very considerable portion of their time to the work of the Commission. That position, as I said, will not be rectified by this proposal.  Nothing will be rectified by this proposal. As far as the results of the Tariff Commission are concerned, there will be no change, and as far as the economic position of the country is concerned there will be no change. The only thing which will be changed, as I have said, is the remuneration of two of the Commissioners. If the Government are really anxious to resolve the difficulty to which the Minister has drawn attention, they would have taken another line of action.  The work may have proved onerous, but this proposal is not going to make it prove easier. 
     
     
      
       I did not understand whether the Minister said that the two Commissioners in question have been altogether relieved from the ordinary duties of their offices or not.  I have no objection to people being paid for extra work, and although the decisions of the Tariff Commissioners may not be acceptable to everyone, I think they are very painstaking. Another matter which I do not understand is that although the work of the Chairman and his duties must be as heavy as the other two Commissioners, he is to get no extra remuneration.  I do not see why the fact that he is at the top of the scale should debar him from getting the same remuneration for extra work any more than the other two Commissioners. 
     
     
      
       I desire to support the remarks of Deputy Lemass.  I think the Minister is not treating the Tariff Commission or the tariff policy fairly in this Estimate.  Members of the House were astonished when, in addition to their duties on the Tariff Commission, which it seems quite impossible to carry out so long as they hold very important offices as heads of Departments in the Civil Service, the Commissioners were asked to administer ad hoc Committees like the Grain Tribunal. To-day's paper tells us that there are very important moves in the flour milling industry.  It seems likely that the representatives of the flour millers have proposals to put before the Government, and it might be necessary to take immediate steps to deal with the situation. You will be constantly coming up against matters like that, and I see no way out of the difficulty except to make the Tariff Commission quite independent of the Civil Service and set up the Commissioners as a separate Board. 
     
     Whether you agree to your present personnel or not, is a question that can be decided later on, but I certainly think the Government are not wise in treating the matter in this fashion.  We have had no suggestion whatever from the Minister   that this matter is being gone into. We have had complaints constantly in the House about delays.  It may be said that a large amount of that delay is due to applicants who had not their case ready.  Certainly we must admit that the Tariff Commissioners whether we disagree or otherwise with their findings, have gone into the work very thoroughly and have given an example of how things should be examined.  That is all the more reason why their time should be completely placed at the disposal of this work.  The Ministry would be wise I think to withdraw this Estimate and to try to reconstitute the Commission in such a way so that it would deal with applications in connection with tariffs and all matters concerned with the economic position of the country in a more expeditious manner. 
     
      
       Deputy Lemass dealt with this proposal almost in a jocular manner.  It is not suggested that the payment of an allowance to members of the Commission will increase their ability, or make the work less onerous, but if these officials are asked to do, and to continue to do for a period of years, work which deprives them of practically all, if not all, their leisure, it is only reasonable that some extra payment should be made to them, something beyond the remuneration that they would receive if they were not called upon to take up and continue this extra work.  With regard to Deputy Murphy's question, perhaps the logic of the position is with him, but we have not, at any rate so far, come to the conclusion that we should give an allowance to an official that would increase his remuneration beyond what has been the upper limit. These officials are not relieved of their ordinary duties.  They are relieved of some portion of them because it would be impossible for them to undertake tariff work if they were not given some extra assistance in their offices.  But they cannot be relieved of as much of the work in their offices as is thrown on   them by the work of the Tariff Commission. Every one of them has to work harder, and to give more of his time to the public duties that are cast on him than he would have if the Tariff Commission were not in existence. 
     
     Some Deputies have suggested that these officials, or other officials, or some other people should be put entirely on Tariff Commission work. Although Tariff Commission work is very heavy, we do not think it is a whole-time job.  There would be considerable periods when members of the Tariff Commission, if they had no other work, would not be occupied at all.  When a certain application had been disposed of, and before they had fully entered on the consideration of another, before evidence had been put up to them, there would be, perhaps, days, and often weeks, when there would be practically nothing for them to do.  There would be periods when they would be waiting for the answer of the opponents of an application to be put in to the case made by the applicants, or when they would be waiting for additional evidence to be submitted by the applicants, as a result of weaknesses that might have been shown at the hearing.  The result is that although the work, taking it over the year, these officials have to do, is very heavy, and although there are intervals when the members could quite well give all their time to Tariff Commission work, there are other periods when, if they had no other duties, they would be decidedly slack.  The fact that they are occupied at other duties has caused some delay, but except in one or two cases it has not been very serious.  There is delay caused at the moment, I admit, because of the fact that members of the Tariff Commission are engaged on the Grain Enquiry. There are two or three applications for tariffs which they would be making progress with, and perhaps, by this time have come to a conclusion on, if they had not the extra work of the Grain Enquiry thrown on to them.  But if we leave out the delay   caused by this very special enquiry, the avoidable delays that have taken place on applications for tariffs have not been very great. 
     Anything that I have seen about Tariff Commissions elsewhere indicates that it is normally a year or two after the application is put in before a conclusion is reached.  There may be similar tribunals which decide quickly in a month or two, but those about which I have particulars have all occupied a good deal of time dealing with every application.  As a matter of fact, there is value in not dealing with them too rapidly.  In various ways information comes in that is of great account in coming to a conclusion, and it might not be available at all if one could sit down and dispose of the case, as it were, summarily.  I do not think that eighteen months can be regarded as too long for the proper consideration of any application of importance for a tariff.  In the case of smaller applications perhaps, somewhat less time would do, but, even in the smallest applications, there are delays and intervals which are necessary.  First, there is the submission of the case and the giving to it of some consideration, the hearing and giving notices for public sittings, and that sort of thing.  An interval must elapse to allow those who would oppose the tariff to put in their case and, perhaps, for further evidence to be given by the applicants. 
     We feel that this Tariff Commission is doing extremely good work. We are most anxious, because of the very thorough, sound and capable manner in which the Tribunal had done its work, to retain it without making any change, at any rate for the present.  When all these major applications that have come in have been disposed of, it might be possible to make some change in the personnel, but at present we think that the best results will be obtained by retaining the present members. We are satisfied that the work is being done almost as quickly as it would be done if we had whole-time members of the Tariff Commission, and that it is being done much more   cheaply than with whole-time members, because they would be, as I have already said, busy at some periods, and altogether, or almost altogether, without work at other periods, and then you might easily find a position where you reached a point when there would be no applications at all before the body, or no applications of any importance, perhaps only trivial applications, and you would have to decide whether you would dissolve the Commission or not&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Give them a roving commission. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;or whether there would be further applications. 
     
     
      
       I want to make it clear that we feel we must vote against this Supplementary Estimate. We have no objection whatever to the payment of officials, and we believe it is quite possible that a good case could be made out for extra payment to officials who have done overtime, possibly a considerable amount of overtime, on this kind of work.  But we do feel that the whole thing is wrong in principle. The method adopted by the Government for investigating these applications for tariffs, to our mind, is a wrong method, and it is as an indication of our view that the method should be changed that we will vote against the Estimate. 
     
     We understand that two of the officials engaged are the administrative heads of fairly important Departments, and that the Chairman is the administrative head of a most important department.  We cannot see how it is possible, even for men who might be regarded as excellent officials, men who are more than ordinarily capable, to dispose of the work of their own department, and the work of the Tariff Commission as well.  We do not think that either their own departments or the Tariff Commission get the best service in that way; one or the other must be neglected at some time, not due to their fault, but due to the fault of the Government in putting them into such positions.  We believe   that plenty of work could be found for a Tariff Commission to keep it busy.  If we had our way I believe that there would be no danger that the Tariff Commission would not be fully engaged for years to come. There would be plenty of work for them to do, and they would not be taken away from important administrative work in other departments. For these reasons we will vote against the Supplementary Estimate. 
     
      
       The Minister has stated that these men have to be absent at times from their work as civil servants.  Are they getting their full salaries as civil servants? The Minister has stated that they are not doing their full work as civil servants.  Are they paid their full salaries?  Is one of them receiving £1,500 salary, with £200 war bonus, in addition to this £400 for leisure hours? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       That is not an exact statement. 
     
     
      
       Then I see that another is getting £1,100 salary and £228 war bonus.  He is not paid enough with that but has to be given £100 more.  I think that the Minister is relying a great deal on his bit of a majority in this House. 
     
     
      
       What applications are awaiting attention at the moment in addition to the coach-building? With regard to the Minister's apology for not putting the Tariff Commissioners on full time, I think that he must be aware that he has a very weak case, because obviously if the Tariff Commission were put on a full-time basis they would not be dependent on applications being submitted in the present fashion; they would have a sort of roving commission, and they would be entitled to initiate work rather than wait for manufacturers to apply to them. 
     
     
      
       There are two important applications and perhaps half-a-dozen minor ones. 
     
     
      
       We will have to start them on the roving commission. 
       Question put. 
     
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta, 73; Nil, 45. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Broderick, Henry. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Colohan, Hugh. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Edward. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Everett, James. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Derrig, Thomas. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Vote declared carried. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 41&mdash;General Register Office. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana, dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930. chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Ard-Chlarathora na mBeireataisi, etc. (7 agus 8 Vict., c. 81, a. 54; 26 Vict., c. 11, a. 9; 26 agus 27 Vict., c. 52, a. 11, agus c. 90, a 20; 42 agus 43 Vict., c. 70; agus 43 agus 44 Vict., c. 13). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Registrar-General of Births, etc. (7 and 8 Vict., c. 81, s. 54; 26 Vict., c. 11, s. 9; 26 and 27 Vict., c. 52, s. 11, and c. 90, s. 20; 42 and 43 Vict., c. 70; and 43 and 44 Vict., c. 13). 
     
     
      
       Last year the Estimate for the temporary staff was £3,236.  For the current year it was estimated that £1,851 would be required for the temporary staff.  It was anticipated there would be a considerable reduction in the temporary staff.  For one reason or another, including the change of the General Register Office to the Custom House, it was not found advisable to reduce the temporary staff as much as was expected.  I will, however, say that the amount received under Appropriations-in-Aid for the issue of certificates more or less balances the increase. 
     
     
      
       There is one point I would like the Minister to give us information upon.  In the Report of the Registrar-General figures are given relative to the volume of emigration to countries outside Europe and not within the Mediterranean Sea.  Would it not be possible to get statistics relative to the volume of emigration to Britain and countries within Europe so that we   would be in a position to know exactly the total volume of emigration from the country? 
     
     
      
       I am not quite clear that that is the function of the Registrar-General but I will undertake to look into the matter.  I think it is a matter for the Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
     
     
      
       I myself am not quite clear that it is the Registrar-General's function, but his Report gives figures relative to countries outside Europe and it would seem, therefore, that he would have some function in relation to those figures. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 43.&mdash;National Health Insurance. 
     
      
       I beg to move: 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £2,621 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi an Choimisuin Arachais agus chun.  Ilsintiusi agus Ildeontaisi mar gheall ar chostas Sochar agus Costaisi Riarachain fe sna hAchtanna um Arachas Slainte Naisiunta, 1911 go 1929 (maraon le Deontaisi airithe i gCabhair). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £2,621 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Insurance Commission and for sundry Contributions and Grants in respect of the cost of Benefits and Expenses of Administration under the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1929 (including certain Grants-in-Aid.) 
     
     
      
       It is anticipated that the payments in respect of sickness, disablement benefit, etc., will be £182,400 instead of £176,500 as estimated.  The number of people insured has risen more rapidly than   was anticipated.  The present estimate is £470,000.  There is also the fact that the amount paid out in sickness and other benefits has increased proportionately and the number of people insured has increased as compared with the previous year. 
     
     
      
       What particular advantages are derived from the fact that the medical certification scheme is now based on the dispensary district instead of on the county in view of the extra cost involved? 
     
     
      
       For some years past, medical certification was based on dispensary districts.  I have endeavoured to get agreement with the doctors that it would be more satisfactory and, in a way, more equitable to base the distribution of fees for medical certification on a county basis.  Very great differences arise under the dispensary system between the amounts a doctor in one dispensary receives for a certificate issued and the amount received by a doctor in another dispensary district.  It has seemed to me and to the National Health Insurance Commissioners unsatisfactory that there should be these big discrepancies. It has seemed unjustifiable from the point of view of the ordinary equitable distribution of money for certificates.  The doctors are the persons mainly concerned in the matter. They have opposed a change from distribution on the dispensary district to distribution by county. The National Health Insurance Commissioners estimate that it costs £800 a year more to distribute medical certification on a dispensary basis than on a county basis.  In the National Health Insurance Act of 1929, statutory power has been given to take such amount annually from the Medical Certification Fund and to refund to the Treasury as the Minister for Finance in consultation with the Commissioners may think fit.  It is proposed this year, in respect of the year under discussion, to transfer £800 to the Treasury as being the amount that it costs to distribute the medical certification moneys on a dispensary rather than   on a county basis.  The matter has been discussed between ourselves and the doctors, and reluctantly, no doubt, the doctors have agreed to sacrifice that amount of money rather than to have the Medical Certification Fund distributed on a county basis. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote 48&mdash;Technical Instruction. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £6,925 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun na gCostaisi a bhaineann le Ceard-Oideachas. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £6,925 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Expenses connected with the Technical Instruction. 
     
     This is a Supplementary Estimate in connection with sub-head (E) of the Technical Instruction Board&mdash; Attendance Grants.  It is impossible to estimate quite accurately the amount that has to be paid in attendance grants during the year, because it depends on the number of people who avail of these technical instruction schemes.  As to the type of classes that they attend, in some classes the attendance grant is higher than in other classes; it also depends on the regularity of the attendance.  For a number of years, the Department rather overestimated the amount of money that would be spent on technical instruction.  They expected more to be spent than actually was spent.  In the year 1926-7, the actual amount of the Estimate was £65,875 for attendance grants, and of that sum £4,169 remained unexpended. In 1927-8, out of a sum of £71,585 voted, there remained unexpended a sum of £5,536.  With the admonition from the Public Accounts   Committee and also with these figures in mind, we thought last year that it would be quite sufficient to estimate the expenses to be met this year at £70,000.  But the recent returns have shown that our expectations were not fulfilled.  In some respects they were more than fulfilled&mdash;that is, from the purely educational point of view.  In that connection, therefore, there is a necessary increase asked for.  So that if you compare the amount of money spent on attendance grants this year as compared with last year, there is an increase of over £10,000 due to the causes that I have indicated. If you take 15 of the larger urban areas for technical instruction in the country, the increase in numbers from 1927-28 to the following year 1928-29 is from 15,484 to 18,375.  The total class entries increased from 39,917 to 50,474.  The aggregate attendance hours rose from 1,610,000 to 1,914,000.  The increase of £10,000 is mainly made up from the very causes that I have just indicated. 
     
      
       It is pleasant to learn that this additional Estimate is required to meet the increased attendance at the classes in technical schools.  As the Minister said, higher grants are given for certain more advanced subjects in these schools, and perhaps it would not be fair on a Supplementary Vote like this to ask the Minister to state if it was for attendance at advanced classes that the increase grant is required.  I ask that because at the technical schools throughout the country and in Dublin a large percentage of the classes is of a primary nature&mdash;primary instruction, which is really impeding technical instruction in this country. I have seen it myself on visiting the schools.  I have heard similar reports from many teachers in those schools who are doing the advanced work. They urge that there should be some test applied before boys and girls are admitted to technical schools.  The word &ldquo;technical&rdquo; is in fact a misnomer when applied to several of these classes in the schools.  It is very doubtful, if we calculated the   Government grants and the amount spent by the different councils and boroughs from the rates for technical education, if we would find that we are getting anything like full value for our money.  Perhaps the Minister can tell us when we are going to have this new scheme which he outlined rather fully some months ago in Limerick and whether the Bill will be introduced this session or not. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister whether his attention has been directed&mdash;when he speaks of the improved attendance at technical schools about which we are very pleased to hear&mdash;to the clause in the report of the Technical Instruction Commission which dealt with the small number of attendances at technological and trade classes.  The figure was 23 per cent., and the percentage of attendances at commercial classes in these schools was 77 per cent.  Those commercial classes try very largely to improve the standard of education of those attending our technical schools. 
     
     I agree with Deputy Fahy when he says that a great portion of the work that is being done in our technical schools is not technical education at all.  Owing to the defective primary education of many of the pupils entering our schools, it is absolutely necessary to supplement that education, and that is charged against technical instruction.  That is not technical instruction at all. Many will agree that the primary function of our technical schools is really to develop technological and trade classes.  I am sure the Minister for Education was surprised to learn from the report of the Commission on Technical Education that the attendance in those classes was as low as 23 per cent.  I am sure that must have surprised the Minister just as it surprised many others. The effect of that is obvious to those engaged in commerce.  If we advertise to-day in any of our newspapers for an assistant on the commercial side of commerce, we will get more replies than many of us could carry   away, even if the salary offered is an exceedingly low one, whereas if we advertise for a tradesman, or a man with technical knowledge, we will be lucky if we get two or three replies.  That makes clear to those who are engaged in educational work and in commercial work that too much importance is being attached to the commercial side and too little to the industrial side.  That is one of the matters that the Commission drew attention to in its report. I would be glad to know from the Minister how far that particular factor has been affected by the improved attendance.  Like Deputy Fahy, I am anxious to know from the Minister when we are going to get some of the recommendations made by the Commission put into force.  The Commission reported in October, 1927.  Yet, as far as I am aware, we have not had any act from the Minister putting any of the recommendations of that Commission into force. 
     It is a deplorable thing for one going around our cities and towns at the present moment to see the large number of young people of both sexes between the ages of fourteen and eighteen unemployed.  As the Commission recommended, something should be done for these people in order to make them more adaptable.  In other words, more employable than they are at the moment.  Unfortunately, a great number of them, by reason of their low standard of education, are largely unemployable.  The Commission recommended that steps to improve the education of these young people should be one of the first things taken in hand by the Minister.  To my mind it is one of the most important matters requiring attention at the moment.  It is very distressing to see so many of these young people going about idle, while nothing is being done to make them more employable.  I urge on the Minister that something should be done in that direction without delay.  Month by month the number of these young people is being   added to by the boys and girls leaving our schools.  I hope the Minister will be able to give us some information on this very important matter. 
     
      
       I would like to know from the Minister if he has any statement to make with regard to the proposed continuation schools, whether these are to be established in the near future, and whether any arrangements have been made with regard to the present part-time Irish teachers throughout the country.  At the present time these teachers are in a very unsatisfactory position. In the first place, they are part-time, and in the second place, the system of education which they are endeavouring to carry out is very unorganised. The continuation school system, which the Gaelic League, I think I may say, is anxious to foster and anxious to have in our midst, would be one something like the Danish system, under which a good cultural foundation in the Irish language and literature would be laid. I ask the Minister to pay special attention to the claims of these Irish teachers.  I think if the Minister is really in earnest about this matter, that he should at least take steps to see that the system is put into operation, and that competent teachers who will be able to speak Irish and able to do a certain amount of work through Irish will be made available. 
     
     With regard to Deputy Good's point, personally I think that we cannot have proper technical education in this country until we have industries.  Until we have a number of industries like Fords in Cork to which our technical instructors could go and see the processes carried out, in which the education of the student or apprentice could proceed side by side with actual working experience, where the boys would be employed during the day and at night time could take advantage of the technical education that would be afforded them, I do not think, no matter how good the Minister's scheme is, that it is going to bring about the change Deputy Good desires.  At the present time, if we had boys trained up as boot or woollen operatives, or,   operatives in any other industry, they fly out of the country at the first opportunity.  They get higher wages abroad.  Whatever chance they have abroad with some knowledge of a skilled trade, they have no chance whatever if they simply go as mere labourers.  There is an immense difference in the future before them if they go abroad as skilled artisans rather than as mere labourers. I think that if Deputy Good is anxious to have real technical education and to see that all our young people are employed after they leave the primary or secondary schools, he will have to take up a more advanced attitude than he has given himself credit for up to the present. 
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy's attitude is not a very advanced one. 
     
     
      
       It is a little advanced from the Estimate. 
     
     
      
       I know that Deputy Good is really interested in this question of technical education. Will the Deputy go so far as to agree that technical education is useless if we have no industries? 
     
     
      
       It is the basis of industry. 
     
     
      
       If we have not industries our technical education is going to be a purely academic stunt &mdash;such as we had under the old Department, without blaming that Department&mdash;under which we will have men teaching who will not be directly connected with business.  If you want to get real technical education you must get your teachers out of industries.  They must come out of industries so that they can acquaint the students with day to day advances. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Fahy and Deputy Good put forward some views with which I am in full sympathy.  I agree with them that a great deal of the work which has been done in the technical schools, especially on what I may call the commercial side, is not, strictly   speaking, technical education in the sense that we would like to see it.  I have urged that again and again. During the past year or two since the appearance of the report of the Commission, one of the things that we have been trying to do ahead of legislation is, so far as possible, to discourage that particular type of school.  I ask Deputies to remember that to discourage is one thing, but the drive for it is very strong.  It is a matter that I myself on several occasions have called the attention of the Department to.  It is one of a number of important points in the report that did not require legislation that we have actually got after. Deputies, however, will understand that the drive is undoubtedly in that direction.  It is quite possible that our efforts have been to keep it still. I recognise that there is a great deal of waste in that direction, especially in the country districts and in the smaller towns.  With the exception, perhaps, of Irish classes conducted under technical education schemes I think that in practically every other subject taught in the technical schools there has been an increased attendance.  For instance, a couple of years ago we trained a number of motor car engineering lecturers. Practically all these have now been absorbed in that particular trade.  I have been asked about the Vocational Instruction Bill.  Personally I had hoped to be able to introduce that Bill on the first day of the session. The draftsman has been busy with the Bill during the last couple of months.  Other Bills, of course, have also come into his office, but this Bill has had priority for some considerable time. 
     
     I hope in a fortnight, or at most three weeks, I will be able to introduce the Vocational Instruction Bill which will deal not only with technical education&mdash;16 to 18&mdash;but with the continuation side&mdash;14 to 16. There is a certain amount in what Deputy Derrig urged about industry, and also in what Deputy Good said in reply to him.  The two should go hand in hand.  That is, you will not and cannot have technical education   in the full sense unless you have industries.  On the other hand, if you take up the line that you are only going to train the number you can immediately find employment for, then you are undoubtedly handicapping any possible advance in industry.  I might also point out that you are depriving people of what is a definite type of education.  Therefore, I think it would be a great mistake to urge the point too far that you should only train the number of people that existing industry would absorb.  The ideal system, of course, would be if we had a number of large industries and the schools could be established in close relation with them, but it is pushing the point too far to suggest that we should do nothing until industrialists have brought that state of affairs about.  If the time comes when they think they are capable of doing it we, on our side, should be ready to meet any efforts they make. 
     
      
       The Minister has made no reference to one point I raised.  I do not want to press him, for I understand from an answer given by the Minister for Finance earlier that if a Minister does not want to reply he need not do so, but he may have overlooked my question with reference to Irish teachers. 
     
     
      
       We will look into the question.  One of the most unsatisfactory things about the scheme is with regard to Irish classes throughout the country.  I spoke of not getting good value in the commercial classes for the money spent, and I would say that still more applies to some of the Irish classes, especially in the country districts. An effort must be made to provide proper teachers for classes under the new technical schemes, and to see that full value is got from them. 
     
     
      
       In reply to what Deputy Derrig said, with regard to the training of apprentices I do not know whether he is aware that there is a tendency on the part of apprentices to object to attending evening   classes.  They want to attend them in the day time.  The view of industrialists is that attendance in the daytime is better for apprentices. When an apprentice has done a hard day's work he is in no humour to go out and take advantage of a technical school.  I only want to put the Deputy in possession of what seems to be the modern tendency with regard to training. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote 49&mdash;Science and Art. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi na bhFunduireachtai Eolaiochta agus Ealadhan i mBaile Atha Cliath, maraon le hIldeontaisi i gCabhair. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Institutions of Science and Art in Dublin, including sundry Grants-in-Aid. 
       This Supplementary Estimate is brought before the Dail as a result of the findings of the Committee of Public Accounts.  I quote the following from that Committee:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;Under this Vote a payment of £300 was made, from savings on various sub-heads, to the Cork School of Music.  It was, in fact, a grant-in-aid, but no provision had been made for it, as such or otherwise, in the Estimate.  Sanction for the payment was, however, received from the Department of Finance.  The exercise of the power of virement in this case again demonstrates that this power is one which should be exercised with caution.  For to the Oireachtas alone belongs the authority to specify what are the grants of which the details may be withheld   from the Comptroller and Auditor-General, or, in connection with which unexpended balances may not be surrendered at the end of the financial year.  A consideration of the difficulties connected with this payment afterwards forced the Department of Finance to the conclusion that authority must be obtained from the Oireachtas, and a supplementary estimate was accordingly prepared, the intention being to bring the expenditure within the scope of the Central Fund Bill then pending. This measure, however, passed its remaining stages somewhat rapidly, and before the Estimate could be produced, leaving the payment in question unauthorised. The Department of Finance in face of this unexpected result sanctioned the opening of a special sub-head in the account, the purpose being to direct the attention of the Dail to the situation.  The Committee had no option but to recommend the disallowance of the payment.  A supplementary estimate can in due course be introduced and payment thus regularised.&rdquo; 
     A grant was made to the Cork School of Music in the early portion of 1922 by the Dail Cabinet.  Of the original grant, £14,000, a certain amount was spent and a certain amount was paid over to the Committee of the Cork School of Music. The extra amount spent, I think, was £390.  This is the £300 of a grant-in-aid to meet these expenses. 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 50&mdash;Reformatory and Industrial Schools. 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £710 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Costaisi mar gheall ar Scoileanna Ceartuchain agus Saothair, maraon le hAiteanna   Coinneala (8 Edw. 7, c. 67; Uimh, 17 de 1926 agus Uimh. 24 de 1929). 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £710 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for Expenses of Reformatory and Industrial Schools, including Places of Detention (8 Edw. 7, c. 67; No. 17 of 1926 and No. 24 of 1929). 
     There was an increase in the numbers committed to the reformatories and sent to the industrial schools.  In the case of the industrial schools, that may be in part due to the passing of the Act in the early portion of last year.  If you take the period from the 14th August to the 31st December last in which the Act was in force and compare it with the corresponding period for some of the previous years the actual increase in numbers probably traceable to this Act can be seen.  In the year 1926 there were 376 commitments; in 1927 there were 453; in 1928 there were 355; and in 1929 under the 1908 Act 269 and under the new Act 152, making a total of 421.  It will be seen, therefore, that there has been a decided reduction in the number committed under the 1908 Act, but a very considerable number has been committed under the 1929 Act, which suggests that there was something in the plea of those who brought forward the Act in the Seanad that a number of those committed under the 1908 Act were not guilty of any real offence but that a pretended offence was charged against them.  The increase in the Estimate is due to the absolute impossibility of determining beforehand the number of people who would be committed to reformatories on the one hand and to industrial schools on the other hand. 
     
      
       The figures quoted by the Minister are a justification of the Dail in passing the Children's Act which did away with the necessity of committing minor offences in order to have destitute children   committed to industrial schools.  It is unavoidable, apparently, that there should be an increase in that particular Department, but the Estimate shows that there is a larger number of youthful offenders in reformatories. I wonder whether the Minister agrees with certain judges in pronouncements made recently that there is a wave of youthful crime, whether he thinks that crime is on the increase amongst them because there have been additional numbers sent to reformatories.  Perhaps he could give us some information on that.  It is estimated that £846 additional will be received from parents of children sent to industrial schools.  That is just an estimate. I hope it will be justified, and that the hopes will be realised. 
     
     
      
       So far as the last question is concerned, we have collected a considerable number of them.  Of course, this is only an estimate and there are a number of weeks still to run to the end of the financial year.  I think it can be taken as fairly accurate.  All I know is that there is an increased number sent to reformatories; whether because people have been more vigilant or because boys and girls have not been quite as good as they ought to be, I do not know.  It may be due to the activities of the Guards, or possibly to what Deputy Fahy and some judges fear, that there is a crime wave sweeping over the youthful community.  I could not undertake to answer that question. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 52&mdash;Agriculture. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £46,300 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Talmhaiochta agus seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara hOifige sin, maraon le hIldeontaisi i gCabhair. 
     
     
        That a supplementary sum not exceeding £46,300 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Agriculture and of certain services administered by that Office, including sundry Grants-in-Aid. 
     
      
       This Estimate speaks for itself.  The original Estimate for the year 1929-30 was £35,000, for the purpose of buying creameries in Tipperary, Cork and Kerry.  I am glad to say that we have succeeded in purchasing certain creameries, notably the Kerry creameries, much more quickly than I had anticipated at the beginning of the year. We have purchased most of the Kerry creameries, and, with the exception of a few creameries in Cork and Kerry, we are in a position to transfer all the creameries in the country to the co-operative societies. The original Estimate was £35,000; the revised Estimate is £95,000. 
     
     
      
       We are under a disadvantage, as we did not get this Estimate until two hours ago.  We had no idea what it was all about until the Minister stood up.  I do not know if his explanation places us in a much more favourable position. What I should like to know, however, is, are we finished buying creameries now? 
     
     
      
       No.  The notice undoubtedly with regard to the Estimate was a bit short as it was only circulated this morning, but this subject is hardly new.  It has been the policy of the Department, approved of by the House on more than one occasion, to purchase all the proprietory creameries and transfer them to the co-operatives.  That process will not stop until we have purchased all the creameries in the country.  The outstanding ones were the Kerry creameries.  It was considered that it would be difficult to buy them for various reasons, but   we have met with somewhat more success than I anticipated at the beginning of the year and we have purchased practically all of them and made arrangements to transfer them.  There are just a few left in Kerry, Cork and Waterford to be purchased and transferred, but I should say that 95 per cent. of the creameries are now purchased. 
     
     
      
       And two in Kilkenny. 
     
     
      
       There may be one or two odd creameries here and there. 
     
     
      
       Are we to conclude that the Minister has made more rapid progress than he hoped for when the Estimate was before us? It is not that he has paid a higher price than was estimated? 
     
     
      
       No.  I think they are worth the money we paid for them. Of course time will tell that. 
     
     
      
       It is true that this matter was before the House previously. 
     
     
      
       On half-a-dozen occasions. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps on half-a-dozen occasions and that it was agreed by the House that it was a proper policy to adopt.  But if we had got a little notice we might have been in a position to find fault with certain things that occurred in the purchases of the creameries.  As the notice, however, is short, we shall have to let it go through and await our opportunity until next June. 
     
     
      
       Yes, on the Estimates. I hope it will be before June. 
     
     
      
       It will be on the main Estimate? 
     
     
      
       I think so. 
     
     
      
       There will be a sub-head on the Vote. 
     
     
      
       I think there will. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote 57&mdash;Railways. 
     
     
      
       It is proposed to withdraw this Vote as there will be a revised Estimate. 
       Vote not moved. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 60&mdash;Unemployment Insurance. 
     
      
       I move: 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,000 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi i dtaobh Arachais Diomhaointis agus Malartan Fostuiochta, maraon le sintiuisi do Chiste an Diomhaointis.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;That a supplementary sum not exceeding £1,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for Salaries and Expenses in connection with Unemployment Insurance and Employment Exchanges, including contribution to the Unemployment Fund.&rdquo; 
       This Estimate is for practically £12,000 due to the increase in the State grant, necessitated by the fact that more stamps for unemployment insurance have been sold because of the fact that more people are in employment. There has to be a deduction made of £5,900 because there are appropriations-in-aid to the amount of one-eighth of the entire sum that comes into the fund from the State, the employer and the employee, and there are savings in other sub-heads which reduce it to £1,000. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has stated that this additional sum is required because more stamps were purchased, arising out of the fact that more people are in employment than was anticipated when the original Estimate was prepared.  It is, of course, a common failing of members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party to exaggerate the   position concerning employment in the Free State.  They always like to represent the position as being somewhat better than it is.  I think that the Minister's statement that this additional sum is necessitated by the fact that more people are in employment can be questioned.  An examination of the figures available seems to show that the increase in the number of persons insured under the Act is due, not to any increase in the amount of employment available, but to more rigorous enforcement of the Acts.  If one examines the figures relating to the total number of people insured under the Acts for the various years since the establishment of the Free State, one notices that the number recorded in June, 1926, was higher than the number for any subsequent year until 1928.  On 3rd June, 1922, the number of persons insured under the Acts was 261,000. The number fell in the next year to 242,000, and then remained at about the 250,000 mark until the year 1928, when it suddenly jumped to 280,000. It rose then on 7th January of this year to 284,000.  Now, the increase in the number of persons employed under the Acts between July, 1927, and October, 1928, was not due to any big volume of employment being suddenly made available for our people. The increase during that period in the number of persons insured was actually 35,000, but during the same period the number of registered unemployed increased also by 4,000.  If we examine the figures relating to building operations, for example, we notice that the number of houses built in 1928 was substantially less than in 1927.  There is no evidence in any sphere of industrial activity that additional employment was found in 1928 for 35,000 additional workers.  If we examine the figures given in the census of occupations, in respect of 1926, we notice that there were returned, as being engaged in occupations insurable under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, a number of workers exceeding 300,000, but the actual number of workers insured in that particular year was, I think, about 250,000. 
     
     
        In other words, there was evidence that there was in 1926 a considerable amount of evasion of the Acts by employers and employees. If the Department of Industry and Commerce have been more successful in the enforcement of the Acts since then, as the figures seem to indicate, that is something upon which they can be congratulated. I do not think, however, that there is any reason to believe that the volume of employed in the country has increased as the Minister has sought to make us believe by his introductory speech.  Only this day week I received from the Minister a return showing the number of persons in receipt of Unemployment Insurance benefits on 2nd January, 1929, and the 1st January, 1930, and I notice that the number has increased by 15 per cent. in that period.  Similarly, I notice that the number of workers registered as unemployed, at the Dublin Exchange, increased during that period also. The number of workers at Limerick, Athlone, Galway and Sligo Exchanges, also increased.  In the other smaller Exchanges the numbers show a decrease.  The only big Exchange in which there is a decrease is Cork, where the decrease, no doubt, is accounted for by the increased employment in Messrs. Fords' works. 
     I do not think there is any reason to believe that the employment situation has substantially improved during the past year, despite the fact that this additional Estimate is now before us.  In connection with these figures there is one other matter that I should like to refer to. On the 8th of January, 1930, Deputy MacEoin gave an interview to the &ldquo;Boston Herald&rdquo; in which he said unemployment in the Free State was not particularly bothersome and that there was, in fact, only 10,000 unemployed at the time.  On the 7th January, 1930, the actual number on the register, as unemployed, was 24,886, and the number of registered unemployed is approximately about half the actual number of persons seeking work. 
     There is another matter I would   like the Minister to refer to.  There appears upon this Estimate an Appropriation-in-Aid of £5,900, the additional amount estimated to be received from the Unemployment Fund consequent on the increased income of the fund referred to in Sub-head G.  The Government is entitled to take one-eighth of the income of the fund for the purpose of meeting administration expenses.  The total amount estimated for administration purposes for the year 1929-30 was £94,738; the one-eighth of the estimated revenue of the fund appropriated by the original Estimate amounted to £114,689, and now an additional £5,900 is being taken out of the Fund for administration purposes. In other words, the Department is taking from the Unemployment Insurance Fund an amount of approximately £26,000 more than the estimated expenditure on administration as shown in the Unemployment Insurance Vote.  When this matter was mentioned in the Dail before, the Minister for Industry and Commerce explained that a certain part of the cost of administering unemployment insurance was borne upon the Vote for his own Department.  I have no doubt that explanation is correct, although I find it very hard to believe that the cost of administering unemployment insurance borne by the Minister's Department amounts to £26,000.  I think it is very unsatisfactory that the Dail has no means of knowing the exact cost of administering the Unemployment Insurance Acts.  It is very desirable that the entire cost of administration in that connection should be brought under one Vote.  I would like the Minister to tell us whether or not the £120,000 taken from the Unemployment Insurance Fund does, in fact, meet the entire cost of administration, or if the general taxpayer has to contribute anything towards that cost.  It seems to me, however, no matter what additional work may be done in connection with this Vote by officials from the Minister's Department, that it is not unlikely that there is a surplus left after all administration expenses have been met which is being used in relief of   general taxation.  If that is the case it is most undesirable and, I think, illegal. 
     
      
       You think that is done. 
     
     
      
       I do not know. 
     
     
      
       You have insinuated it. 
     
     
      
       I say if it is done it is illegal, but I say that it is undesirable that the Dail should not have any information as to what is the entire cost of Unemployment Insurance administration.  It is possible that the amount taken out of the Fund does not equal the cost of administration, but if that is the case there should be, with the other Votes concerned, a sub-head that would indicate the amount of the Vote which is devoted to that purpose. I should be glad if the Minister would clarify the position in that respect when he replies. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy opened his remarks by stating that Deputies belonging to the Party to which I belong made it a point to put a gloss upon the unemployment situation.  It would be a matter of bad party politics for the Deputy to admit that there was no improvement in the employment situation, but nevertheless in two and a quarter years the insured population of this country has advanced by 40,000 people.  The case is made that that is due to better compliance.  We know more about compliance than the Deputy.  We know exactly where the faults are. It is the considered opinion of the Department that of that 40,000 increase in two and a quarter years there cannot be more than 2,000 put down to better compliance with the Act.  Everything the Deputy says proves that contention.  He talked of the bigger number of registered unemployed.  Naturally when there is a bigger bulk to draw upon there will be an increase, and the Deputy should realise that.  He quotes a statement made in America. I do not know what the statement was, but if it were to the effect that 10,000 represented anything like   the hard core of unemployed in this country I would consider it an exaggeration. No attempt merely to get over the situation, which is one that ought to please everybody in this House, by saying that it is due to better compliance without a single item of evidence, will succeed. Simply the Deputy stands up and pronounces in a dogmatic way that it is because of better compliance, having no experience of the machinery and of how compliance is dealt with.  He just makes a simple statement.  That is the type of simple statement that is given down the country.  One does not mind it there with the kind of audiences the Deputy addresses, but here there should be some attempt to bring in facts.  What are the facts?  40,000 people more in the insured population of this country in two and a quarter years, and that in a period in which the Deputy has known from answers given here, that due to tariffs on industries, trade facilities and other means employment has been increasing.  That is positively shown.  Here we get the other side of the proof. 
     
     As to the general taxpayers meeting any portion of this, if Deputy Lemass wants exact figures he can ask a Parliamentary question and I will give him the best estimate I can. But the best estimate I can give at the moment is that the general taxpayer is contributing to the cost of the administration of the Insurance Act.  The Deputy had the temerity to say that the Department was doing something which was illegal. I cannot give the Deputy the figures at the moment.  He simply said he could not see how it was possible that a sum of £26,000 was spent out of the general vote on unemployment insurance administration.  Surely he could see that it would be absurd and an uneconomic thing to keep a special finance and establishment branch for unemployment insurance. They are establishment services and the finance service would be rendered from the general branch.  Certain proportion of the headquarters expenses has to be borne against unemployment   insurance but the Deputy could not have been long in this House without realising from the number of questions put on this single matter that the staff at headquarters are kept very busy on this special question of unemployment insurance, and the way the fund is administered and apportioned between the applicants there is quite considerable proof.  I cannot give the figures at the moment of the exact amount contributed.  I do know that in previous years enquiry was made but in fact this amount that we take by way of appropriation-in-aid does not meet the full expenses of the fund. 
     
      
       Would the Minister state the total cost to the finance establishment concerned?  Does the Department represent £36,000? 
     
     
      
       I am not saying it does. 
     
     
      
       Or if not, is the work on the unemployment fund done by members of the transport branch or the geological branch or what branch? 
     
     
      
       The headquarters branch. 
     
     
      
       Does the total amount to £36,000? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can find that out for himself. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister tell us how it is possible to increase the number of workers in employment by 35,000 without reducing the number of unemployed? 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  There is a bigger mass of people from whom people casually become unemployed. We have our calculations and of the 22,000 registered from time to time nothing like 20 per cent. are unemployed for any lengthy period.  There is a considerable change over.  If your numbers increase from 245,000 to 284,000 there are 40,000 more people in occupation for some part of the year who may be out for another part of the year. Surely if the same percentage of unemployment   is amongst the insured population there is an immediate reason why the number of registered unemployed would be greater without any greater unemployment in the country than previously. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that non-compliance does not exist? 
     
     
      
       No, but I do not say it is brought to the point where this non-compliance is very nearly non-existent and it has been that way for some years past. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote 61&mdash;Industrial and Commercial Property Registration Office. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £2,745 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi na hOifige Clarathachta Maoine Tionnscail agus Trachtala (Uimh. 16 de 1927 agus Uimh. 13 de 1929). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £2,745 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Industrial and Commercial Property Registration Office (No. 16 of 1927 and No. 13 of 1929). 
     
     The main item in this is under the heading of salaries.  There is an increase in the small sub-head due to the fact that there was an increased volume of work in the Patents Office which did not make it possible to reduce the staff as had been intended.  Where a decrease had been thought possible it was on the clerical side.  But corresponding with this an extra amount of work had fallen on the Patent Office, part of it due to the taking up of work that had not been done in the completest way in the early years and   part due to new work.  That, of course, results in extra fees coming into the office.  They are not shown here, but go into the general exchequer receipts. 
     
      
       When the Industrial and Commercial Property Act, 1927, was passed it was provided that the qualification for registration as a patent agent was residence, and the residence or the establishment of a place of business in Saorstat Eireann.  It was found that a number of British patent agents came over taking advantage of that Act, and established letter-box addresses. That qualified them to be placed on the register of patent agents.  To prevent that abuse the Minister introduced an amending Act last year which provided that the qualification for registration should be that the person both resided and had a place of business in Saorstat Eireann.  Under the Act that new qualification came into operation on the 18th August, 1929.  It has been stated to me that it has, however, not been enforced by the office. 
     
     I would be glad if the Minister can give us any information in that connection.  A person who has examined the register of patents on two occasions told me that on August 24th he found that there was twenty-four British agents on the Free State register comprising ten firms.  On February 3rd this year he found there were eleven British agents registered in the Saorstat comprising seven firms and of the seven firms it is known amongst people who are engaged in this class of work that five of them definitely do not reside in the Saorstat.  There may be some difficulty in securing an immediate compliance with the terms of the Act but I will be glad to get an assurance from the Minister that the failure to comply heretofore has been due to such difficulty and not to any desire on the part of the officers of the office to avoid putting Section 7 of the 1929 Act into operation.  It has also been rumoured in the city that the Government proposes to dispense in the near future with the qualifying   examination.  I would be glad to be assured by the Minister that in that matter as in others rumour speaks with a lying tongue. 
     
      
       So far as I know the Act has been administered and no people are going to be allowed on who do not comply with the provisions of the Act.  People got certain certificates the date for renewal of which has not yet come.  As far as the other thing is concerned I have not even heard the rumour and there certainly is nothing in it. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       It is not proposed to take Vote 62&mdash;Posts and Telegraphs.  I understand that it is to be withdrawn and is to be reissued in a revised form. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote No. 66&mdash;External Affairs. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £5,055 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1930, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Gnothai Coigriche agus Seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara na hOifige sin. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £5,055 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1930, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for External Affairs, and of certain Services administered by that Office. 
     
     The total sum previously voted for External Affairs was £58,000. That did not include provision for the establishment of the Legation at the Holy See.  A Supplementary Estimate for those expenses was presented some time after the original Estimate, bringing it up to some pounds over £61,000.  The original Estimate and the first supplementary, were both prepared on a basis of furnished premises of which a   lease could be secured to accommodate the Legations proposed to be set up at Paris, Berlin and Rome. Provision, accordingly, was not made for capital expenditure on furniture. We found in the case of Berlin and Paris that it was almost impossible to secure suitable furnished premises and it was decided, with the approval of the Minister for Finance, that the best procedure would be to take unfurnished premises at Berlin and furnish the offices with furniture manufactured in the Saorstat.  That decision involved extra expenditure.  This expenditure has caused the excess on the original two sums which amounted to £61,000.  Unfurnished premises have been secured at Berlin; they have been furnished as far as possible with home manufactured goods at a cost of about £1,500. The Roman situation is different. There it has been found possible to secure furnished premises on good leasing terms. 
     In so far as there is any increase on the other items they are small and are mainly explained by the fact that the original provision was based upon the Legations being established at certain times of the year, and the preliminary expenses were incurred a little earlier than was originally intended. 
     
      
       I do not propose to go over the ground that was covered when the original Estimate was brought in last year.  I only want to say that the Supplementary Estimate, taken with the sum originally asked for, is a considerable sum, and I suppose, in the natural order of things, we may take it that it is not likely to decrease, but rather to increase.  In that connection, one might ask what value are we getting from the large sum of money that is being expended on these services. Without going over the ground covered by myself when speaking on this Estimate last year, I would say that there is not any ground of satisfaction over the results of the services so far, either from the purely political point of view or from the economic point of view.  Nobody   that I know of has claimed that there has been a large increase of export trade as a result of the establishment of the various offices.  Nobody, I think, has even claimed that there has been an increase in trade proportionate to the increased cost of these offices in recent years.  I think it would be still more difficult to get anybody to say that Ireland, or even that part of it known as the Irish Free State, derives such political advantage or prestige as one might expect from the establishment of these offices.  It would not be our purpose to object to money being spent on such a service as representing Ireland abroad if it were possible to do that properly.  We are not satisfied that it is advisable to go on increasing the amount of money expended on these services, with our experience of the recent past or what we can see we are likely to gain in political or economic prestige or industrial or commercial advantage here in the future. 
       Considerable sums are down under different heads&mdash;travelling expenses, entertainment, and matters of that kind.  I suppose as long as we send representatives abroad travelling expenses are necessary, and entertainment is a necessary part of our diplomatic representatives' work, but we certainly have yet to find out, in any tangible fashion, anything that would show us that we are getting any value out of the services under this Estimate. 
     
     
      
       I presume it will be in order to discuss upon this Estimate the activities of the Department during recent months, with particular reference to the report circulated last week concerning the work of the Imperial Conference Committee in London in October last. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the Minister is to move a motion in respect of that, and if that is so perhaps it would be better if the Deputy would leave the question of the Dominion Conference over until then. 
     
     
      
       That is so. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister proposes to introduce it? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The question could be more appropriately discussed then. 
     
     
      
       I have no desire to force a discussion on it now if the Dail is to be given an opportunity to discuss it at a future date.  I take it that we will also be given an opportunity to discuss the report which was circulated this morning concerning the activities of the Free State delegates at the League of Nations last year.  I wonder whether that matter would arise on this Estimate or on the next one. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will, in a comparatively short time, have the full Estimate. 
     
     
      
       The only particular matter which I would care to raise now, if it be in order, is the decision of the Executive Council to be represented at the Tariff Truce Conference at present sitting in Geneva. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy would be in order in discussing that matter. 
     
     
      
       The history of that Conference has been set out briefly in the report which was circulated this morning, although I imagine that the majority of Deputies have not had an opportunity of examining it in great detail.  At a meeting of the League Assembly in last August or September the British Minister for Trade, Mr. Graham, made a proposal to the League Assembly that a Conference should be called to consider the question of the feasibility and advisability of what has been described as a tariff truce in order to provide an interval during which it would be possible to consider the steps to be taken to secure a general reduction in tariffs throughout Europe.  The Free State delegates at the League meeting did not, apparently, at that time consider this proposal favourably, although they did not definitely state that the Free State would not be represented at   the Conference.  The decision of the Government to be represented there by delegates came, I am sure, as a surprise to the majority of people in this country, including the supporters of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party. It is noticeable that other British Dominions decided not to be represented, notably Australia, South Africa, India and New Zealand.  The Free State Government, if it were merely anxious to keep itself informed of the trend of discussions at the Conference, could have decided to be represented by an observer.  In my opinion, the decision to send, not an observer but delegates, implies a willingness to accept the proposal that there should be a tariff truce as the first step in a general movement towards the reduction of tariffs. 
       As I remarked earlier this evening, the Minister for Education, speaking at one of the Committees of the League, seemed to consider it a source of pride that the Free State tariff system is as low as it is.  Apparently, the trend of policy in the Executive Council is becoming more and more fixed in the direction, if not of free trade, of what Mr. Baldwin calls freer trade.  That has been made evident not merely by the speeches of the Minister for Education and the Minister for External Affairs at Geneva, but by the speeches here of the Minister for Agriculture, and the fact that the Government decided to be represented at this particular Conference. A number of statements have, of course, been issued by the Department of External Affairs in this connection and, while dealing with that matter, I would like to voice a criticism of the actions of that Department in not giving more general information concerning its work to the public than it has done. Apparently it is only possible to find out what that Department is doing when questions are asked in the Dail or when its policy is criticised by somebody throughout the country. They then issue explanatory statements, but do not consider it necessary to issue them on their own initiative. 
     
     The first statement concerning the   attitude of the Government towards the Tariff Truee Conference was published in the Press at the beginning of the year.  It appeared in the &ldquo;Irish Independent&rdquo; on 4th January, and stated that the Free State Government had not yet decided whether it would participate actively in the Conference.  Later, another statement, and one of greater significance, appeared in the &ldquo;Irish Independent&rdquo; on 13th January in the form of an interview with the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who is also the Minister for External Affairs.  He stated: &ldquo;A blunt proposal to mark time on tariffs is not acceptable to us.  While I would not describe our representatives at the Conference as observers, their main duty will be to watch the proceedings for my Department.  The question of a tariff truce is only one of many recommendations to be discussed at the Conference.  The matter which interests us most and of which we approve is the proposal for an economic rapprochement with particular reference to the question of assisting countries which are mainly agricultural and which, for various causes, are undeveloped industrially.&rdquo;  A further statement was issued on 28th January again affirming that the Government would not accept a tariff truce.  It is impossible to understand from these statements what the exact attitude of the Government towards the Conference is. The Minister for External Affairs made reference in one of his statements to our export trade in Ford tractors, woollens and biscuits, and seemed to indicate that because of the fact that we possessed an export trade in these matters we were particularly concerned with any movement regarding tariffs on the Continent of Europe.  It seems to me that if it is desirable that our export trade in these commodities should not be interfered with, the proposal to reduce tariffs generally in Europe is one to which we should not object.  One gathers, however, from the various statements issued that the attitude of the Free State representatives at the Conference is   to oppose the particular proposal for the consideration of which the Conference has been summoned. 
     
      
       Where do you get that? 
     
     
      
       In the statement issued by the Minister on the 13th January&mdash;&ldquo;A blunt proposal to mark time on tariffs is not acceptable to us.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear, &ldquo;to mark time on tariffs.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       A statement was issued through the instrumentality of the political correspondent of the &ldquo;Irish Independent&rdquo; on 28th January that so far as the Saorstat was concerned they would not accept a tariff truce.  A statement contained in this morning's issue of the &ldquo;Irish Independent&rdquo; gave what presumably are the terms of the communication in which the Free State Government conveyed their intention to be represented and in which they stated that their representatives were appointed with a view to considering whether, having regard to the special conditions of countries industrially undeveloped, a truce may be arranged in which the Free State could find it possible to participate. I certainly consider that these statements are in conflict, if not directly contradictory.  On one occasion the Minister appears to contemplate the Free State representatives opposing the proposal to have a tariff truce on the ground that if they took any other action they would be expected to comply with the conditions of the truce, while a later statement implies that the Government intends to accept the proposal of a truce without necessarily complying with its conditions.  Apparently the policy of the Free State representatives will be to convince the other delegates at the Conference that a tariff truce is good for everyone except ourselves.  I do not know if that is the policy.  I am sure that the Minister for External Affairs, bad and all as he has proved to be in that capacity, would not be quite as bad as that.  I think that he would   realise the futility of any such course. 
       The outstanding fact, in relation to continental tariffs which the Minister in deciding to be represented at this Conference overlooked, in my opinion is that the bulk of our export trade consists of agricultural produce to Great Britain.  That fact has been repeatedly referred to, both in the House and outside it, before by persons who are anxious, as the Minister apparently is, to cement the bonds of sympathy which bind the two islands together.  It is, however, something to bear in mind in relation to this particular decision, that within the past month the leader of each of the political parties in Great Britain&mdash;Mr. Baldwin, Mr. Ramsay MacDonald and Mr. Lloyd George&mdash; has publicly and definitely declared that under no circumstances whatever would he tolerate or agree to the imposition of any tax on these imports.  It is, therefore, I think, to be assumed that the Free State need not fear that its principal export trade will be interfered with in any way in consequence of any change in the existing import duties in operation in Europe.  I would like also if that particular fact was borne in mind by Ministers who are constantly attempting to terrorise the agricultural community of this country by talking about the possibility of a pound per head tax on cattle if Fianna Fail does this, that or the other.  The Minister for Finance is particularly prone to that form of argument.  Of course, it is possible he may know more about the intentions of the British Government than the British Premier but I think it is most unlikely. 
     
     We have an export trade in woollens, in motor tractors, in biscuits and, to a comparatively small extent, in horses, with Europe and it would not be desirable that that export trade should be interfered with by any increase in the existing duties.  If we were to purchase any concessions designed to help our export trade in any of these commodities at the cost of agreeing to a modification of our general tariff policy, I think that these concessions   would be bought at too high a price.  I must say that if I could feel confident that the Executive Council were not committed to an extent greater than we wish to a policy of low tariffs, the decision to be represented at this Conference would not appear as serious as it is.  There is, however, serious reason to believe that the Executive Council had decided to embark upon a policy designed to keep this country mainly agricultural and to concentrate all activities upon the production of live-stock and live-stock products for the British markets.  Whether or not that is the particular policy to which the Minister for External Affairs would give his personal allegiance, it is quite obvious it is the policy of the Minister for Agriculture as revealed in his public statements. 
     The action of the Government in deciding to send representatives to this Conference was in my opinion unwise.  It is liable to give a false impression as to the general trend of public opinion in this country. I think the vast majority of the electors of the Free State area, whether they vote Cumann na nGaedheal or Fianna Fail at election times, would prefer to see a vigorous protective policy in operation designed to increase the industrial capacity of the area and thus provide a much larger volume of employment than is now available and also diminish the drain of emigration. There has been a tendency in the Department of External Affairs to seek, unduly, opportunities of being represented at international conferences of all kinds with some of which we have no direct concern or should have no such concern.  The Naval Conference is a case in point.  It may be that the Department think that they are enhancing the prestige of this part of the country by that policy.  That is of course a matter of opinion.  When we read in the Press or see a diagram published in the &ldquo;Sunday Observer&rdquo; showing that the Minister for External Affairs has been awarded the   honour of a place at the Conference Table fifth down from His Majesty the King, it may be a matter of congratulation to certain elements amongst the Government supporters. With the majority of the people of the country, however, it is nothing of the kind.  We regard activities of that kind as being definitely prejudicial to the national interest. 
     I think that the Minister for External Affairs would be much better advised to keep clear of all these international conferences unless it can be shown that the Free State has a very direct and vital interest in them.  We will have an opportunity of discussing the report of the Imperial Conference later, as we have been informed.  The incompetence shown by the Free State delegation at that Conference is good reason why we should hesitate to give our assent to similar delegations being sent to other Conferences. There is every reason to believe that our delegates to this Tariff Truce Conference at Geneva may induce the Government to commit itself to a line of action which would not serve the industrial interests of this country.  I hope that we will get from the Ministers present a serious and considered statement as to the reasons which induced them to take this step.  The Minister for External Affairs has in the past generally succeeded in concealing his incompetence behind the insolence with which his reports have been submitted to the House.  That will not serve always.  I think the House is entitled to be treated with much more consideration than it has been treated in the past by that particular Minister.  I think we are entitled to demand that a full and frank statement on this and other matters should be given, and I hope the Minister will do so on this occasion. 
     
      
       I would not rise to speak were it not for the fact that I was struck by one sentence that Deputy Lemass made use of in his statement.  He suggested that this country should not be represented at future international affairs of this   character, unless we had a direct and vital interest in the proceedings. I want to suggest that as an integral part of what is known as the British Commonwealth of Nations we have a direct and vital interest in anything that takes place at the League of Nations, or any other international assembly.  I also believe that at this juncture it is worth considering, in view of recent experiences in regard to the whole question of tariffs, whether it would be in the best interests of this State to review its relations in connection with the whole subject.  I do not want to suggest for one moment that I do not favour tariffs in certain cases, but we know that at this conference, where it was suggested that a tariff truce should operate for a period, the various countries were represented by the best economic thought in the respective areas from which they were drawn.  We also know that we would not have had many of the recent wars, whether big or little, were it not for the operation of these tariff barriers between one country and another. 
     
     It was therefore most essential that our country should be represented at that particular Conference.  I am not going to cavil at anything that was done at that Conference, because I believe that we had the elected representatives of the people of the Irish Free State at that Conference. We may not all agree with everything that has been said or done at that Conference, but this much, at any rate, we should be prepared to admit, that we were represented by the best people that could possibly be got in our Executive Government.  I have my quarrel with the Executive.  I am here as an opponent of the Executive, and as an opponent of the Government, but, at the same time, in international affairs I do not want to cavil at certain things done.  I have yet to learn that the spokesmen of any Government represented there have been taken to task on their return to their respective countries or Parliaments because of their activities.  I have said that it would be well, perhaps, in view of recent happenings   with regard to tariffs in this country that we should either prohibit certain imports or recast the whole system of tariffs. 
     
      
       The Deputy should not get into the question of tariffs. 
     
     
      
       They have been raised, and apparently you had no objection until I mentioned them. 
     
     
      
       I want to make the matter clear.  The question that has been raised is the advisability of this country being represented at the Conference. 
     
     
      
       One of the things that took place at the Conference, I suggest, was the suggestion of a tariff truce, and Deputy Lemass was allowed to proceed and say what he thought about that.  I thought I might be allowed to say something quite different from what Deputy Lemass said. 
     
     
      
       As long as the Deputy does not talk about tariffs in Ireland he will be in order. 
     
     
      
       A tariff truce was asked for at that Conference, and the representatives of this country were charged with acquiescing in it, or saying nothing against it.  That is the position as I see it, and I have sufficient confidence in the representatives we had at that Conference to say that I think, under the circumstances, our delegates could not have done better. 
     
     
      
       This little amusement of ours which is at present estimated at £58,000, is now going to cost £5,000 more, and I am rather anxious to know what the sudden increase is about.  For instance, under &ldquo;Travelling Expenses&rdquo; the amount of the original Estimate was £350.  It is now £1,375.  Who got a commission with £1,000 to go rambling over the world?  Surely when the Minister was preparing his Estimate he knew that travelling expenses would cost a certain amount. Did he suddenly come to the conclusion that they were going to cost   £1,000 more?  What new circumstances arose to cause the increase? Then we have &ldquo;official entertainment.&rdquo; The cost of entertaining distinguished foreigners was estimated at £1,250.  I think that would furnish quite a few sprees.  Apparently it is now going to cost £1,800. I wonder if it is a fact, that the extra £550 went in fines at the local police court the following morning&mdash;the morning after the night before. 
     
     
      
       Oh!  I think that 
     
     
      
       Order. 
     
     
      
       I protest&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Order.  Let Deputy Corry proceed. 
     
     
      
       I am going to deal with what I consider to be the facts of the case. 
     
     
      
       Not one of them repudiated you. 
     
     
      
       I notice that in Berlin rent and rates, fuel and light were to cost £1,000, but are to cost £5,850 now.  That is a big increase.  I wonder what is our volume of trade with Germany.  Our Ambassador there, or whatever you call him, is costing £2,900.  It was suddenly decided to supply him with furnished apartments at £4,850.  What kind of a mansion is it intended to provide for this gentleman which costs £4,850?  How many farmers' houses or how many labourers' cottages could be built in Ireland for that amount?  The whole thing seems to me to be: &ldquo;We do not know how to spend enough.&rdquo;  I think the gentleman in Berlin has been already sufficiently provided for.  I notice in the Estimate that the Ministers in Paris and Berlin occupy rent free quarters, including fuel and light. They have rent free quarters already, but they are allowed £125 yearly for rent.  Now the Berlin representative is going to get £4,800 to fix him up in a mansion, apparently. 
     
     Has the Minister any idea of the   present position of affairs in this country?  I am sure that if he approached the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Lands and Fisheries he would enlighten him somewhat.  We find budgets like this brought up here for increased expenditure night after night and, at the same time, we hear solemn declarations from other Ministers that they cannot find funds for other purposes.  In those circumstances, we should like to know exactly where we stand.  Some Deputies seem to think that this is a laughing matter.  I think it is rather pitiable that what I can honestly describe as a travelling show, which is making an exhibition of this unfortunate little piece of an island all over the habitable globe, is going to cost us £5,000 in addition to the £58,000 already voted.  That is what this &ldquo;pretending to be free&rdquo; is costing us.  I wonder what number of Free State citizens pass through Germany every year to justify this expenditure. Or how many of the Free State citizens who go to Germany ignore our extraordinary Minister there and go to the British Minister. I should like to see the figures.  I think the Minister lived so much abroad during his holidays that he does not know what the position of affairs is in this country.  It would be most advisable, before he enters upon further expenditure of this sort, if he would consult the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Lands and Fisheries and find out how the farmers who have to foot the bill stand&mdash;how many houses costing £4,800 they have. 
     
      
       I am in some difficulty, because I do not know exactly the scope of this debate.  Perhaps you, A Leas-Chinn Comhairle, or the Minister, would tell the House exactly how far we can go.  As far as I can make out we shall have, within the next few weeks, at least four motions allied to the motion before the House.  The next Estimate is for the League of Nations and, presumably, on that Estimate we can discuss the report which has been circulated to Deputies from the   Irish Delegation to the League.  Then, to-day we have received from the Ministry a copy of the declaration with regard to the optional clause. The Minister said that he will make that the subject of a separate motion in the House.  Again, I presume we shall have a separate motion to approve of the report of the Conference on Dominion Legislation and Merchant Shipping Legislation.  Deputy Lemass entered upon a general debate, so far as I can see, on the question of tariffs and a tariff truce. That is a very wide economic question. I should like to ask the Minister whether, in the Estimate before the House, there is any money being voted for this Tariff Truce Conference. If there is no money being voted for that purpose, I do not see how we can discuss the matter on this Estimate.  Perhaps the Minister would inform us. 
     
     
      
       I can inform the Deputy that Deputy Lemass was quite in order. 
     
     
      
       You have declared him in order, sir, but you ruled that Deputy Anthony was not in order in proceeding on the same lines. 
     
     
      
       No. Deputy Esmonde himself is not in order.  If the Deputy considered that Deputy Lemass was not in order when making his speech, he should have called my attention to it then. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Physician heal thyself!&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Many general matters have been brought into the discussion upon this Estimate.  I should like to deal with some of the smaller items first.  Questions have been asked as to why certain items in the Estimate have gone up.  The travelling expenses item has gone up because a headquarters officer had to pay certain visits to Rome in connection with the establishment of our Legation at Rome and the complementary establishment of the Papal Nunciature here.  In addition, the Commonwealth Conference lasted much longer than had been expected.  Consequently, the subsistence   allowance increased.  The Conference lasted more than double the time estimated and as a greater number of persons were brought over for the meetings than was estimated the travelling expenses also went up.  Deputy Corry's remarks in this connection were not very charming but I suppose they were the best we could expect from him.  His reference to police court fines was extraordinarily inappropriate and it only shows the capacity for blundering that certain members of the Party opposite have.  The increased expenditure upon entertainment arose entirely out of the visit of the Papal Nuncio.  That is the context in which Deputy Corry's rather foolish remarks are to be read.  I leave it to the people outside to form their own impression of the Deputy and the Party to which the Deputy belongs, no member of which even repudiated the statement which he made. 
     
     
      
       Get off that.  That will not work. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy also talked about the Berlin Office.  I stated here the main reason why this item showed an increase.  I explained that it was decided, instead of getting furnished premises on a lease, to take unfurnished premises and furnish them.  We took unfurnished premises and almost the entire amount of the sum shown there has gone in the furnishing of the Office with articles made here.  To that extent, Deputy Corry's reference to a &ldquo;travelling show&rdquo; might be somewhat accurate, though the atmosphere in which he introduced it was not quite happy. Probably there is no better judge of what a travelling show is than the Deputy himself.  He asked for statistics as to the number of people who ignored what in his best form he described as &ldquo;this extraordinary Minister of ours&rdquo; in Berlin and who approached the British Minister instead.  I do not know of any.  If the Deputy knows of them, I should like if he would give me information about them.  As to the suggestion that I live so much abroad that I do   not know what happens to people here, I leave that jest where it is.  I think the Deputy himself would not be disimproved if he got an odd experience of travel abroad in order to bring himself up to some type of cultural level that would do him credit both here and abroad. 
       With regard to the questions raised by Deputy Lemass, I wonder how many people, after Deputy Lemass has finished, know exactly what Deputy Lemass thinks ought to have been done about the Tariff Truce Conference.  He stated, in his opening remarks, that the motion was introduced by a member of the British Government and that the Irish Free State Delegates, although against the proposal, did not state they would not go to the Conference. He would know more about the Conference at Geneva if he took the trouble to read the very definite statement of our point of view made at Geneva.  There was no statement about our staying away from the Conference, which would afford an opportunity of making our case clear and provide an audience before whom we could make it clear. 
       Then I notice that the Deputy, in a speech down the country, was very interested in this matter, because he said we were bound to blunder being there, for we either had to object, and so possibly ruin our export trade of tractors, woollens and biscuits, or else we would not object, and that denoted a weakening of our whole tariff policy here.  Apparently the Deputy's idea is that the best thing would be to stay away, it being then quite clear that we are against it and so apparently, from his point of view, we would help our exports of woollens, tractors and biscuits.  For my part, I think it is much better to go there and have a reasoned explanation of the whole position.  Such an attitude would be particularly desirable, and the Deputy might be inclined to see that, if he knew the atmosphere and the circumstances. 
     
     In this matter one is really dealing with an assembly which already has had before it a report from the   World's Economic Conference and in that report special attention is drawn to countries that are necessarily primarily agricultural and also to countries which have not yet quite reached the point of industrial development of which ordinarily they are thought capable.  These people who drew up the World's Economic Conference report stressed the fact that arrangements ought to be made with regard to the consideration, amongst representatives of various nations, of certain matters. That is the atmosphere surrounding our decision to send delegates to the Conference, so that we might be able to make known our own particular position.  Those are the people before whom we are sending our delegates and those delegates will plead that special attention should be given to a country such as ours.  Of course, there were other countries represented at that Conference. 
     The Deputy wonders that we did not stand in with Australia, Africa, Canada and India and remain away from those meetings.  The Deputy apparently has not yet realised that the Tariff Truce Conference is mainly a European Conference, although not under the auspices of the League of Nations.  He apparently does not realise that very few nations outside of the European States attended the Conference and that neither Australia, Canada, Africa nor India can well be stated to belong to the group interested in this matter.  Movements may take place with regard to the whole tariff system in Europe, and there may be no reaction or repercussion on events in Australia, Canada, Africa or India.  But we are in Europe, and any change in the tariff conditions there, particularly if the change is brought about by the League of Nations, will have an immediate reaction upon us.  Immediately it has to fly to the Deputy's head that it is because England goes there that the Free State must follow, while the superior Dominions stand apart. Just for the purpose of argument, for the moment the ordinary party outlook has changed and Australia and India are reckoned amongst the   good Dominions, and Africa, which has been held up as the exemplar of the Dominions, still holds that position, but is associated with the others.  There would not appear to be any appreciation on the Deputy's part that the geographical position of the countries concerned has possibly a bearing upon the matter, and has modified their views as to whether or not attendance at the Conference was a good thing, nor, apparently, has that aspect of it as from the point of view of this State been realised by the Deputy. 
     We are told here that the fact that we were actually represented at the Conference and that we did not adopt the attitude of observers implies a willingness to accept the tariff truce.  There has been read out a series of newspaper extracts. One was an extract from an article by the political correspondent of the &ldquo;Independent&rdquo; on his own; another was the report of an interview with myself, and the third was an authoritative statement from a document sent off to the League of Nations.  What did that document say?  It did not go into detail, but, roughly, it set out that we were considering how far, conformable with the opinions expressed by the delegation of the Irish Free State at the last Assembly, we could take part in a Conference having for its object, but not as a condition preceding it, the conclusion of a tariff truce. 
     We felt by being represented at that Conference that we could call attention to the position of undeveloped or under-developed countries, and yet, despite the official announcement heralding the approach of our representatives in a particular way, the Deputy holds that our going there at all implies willingness to accept the tariff truce as the first step.  The Deputy thought we were going there to block and obstruct the Conference.  He was perturbed as to whether or not we were willing to accept a tariff truce.  He thought that we were going to block it and that our going to the Conference would perturb other nations in Europe and so harm our export   trade.  Again, it is possible to go to Geneva with a special point of view, knowing you are going before a reasoned and reasonable people, that you can make your case before them and that there is no necessity to obstruct our export trade or bring about any breach of policy. 
     The Deputy said that if he had the feeling that the Executive Council had not changed its tariff policy, then he would not be so anxious about our appearance at the Conference.  When the Deputy makes any comment with regard to tariffs in this House it is to the effect that the Government has no tariff policy.  Why should he have a suspicion at this stage in this country's development?  The Executive Council has already tariffed many articles while the people outside were fighting about shibboleths and bogies.  When they were tariffing articles why should there be a suspicion that the policy has changed because two people go to represent a special case before other people who are already attuned by listening to the case and who have expressed themselves as being sympathetic towards it? 
     
       [An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair.] 
     
     The Deputy is afraid that our appearance there is liable to give a wrong impression as to the trend of public opinion in this country.  Has he read the speeches delivered at the last League of Nations Assembly by delegates from this country?  Has he heard at all, or did he understand from the newspapers at the time that the League of Nations Assembly was sitting, of resolutions proposed by the Irish Free State delegation and not received with such hostility on the part of other nations as to show that the putting forward of our special case was going to bring any odium upon us?  Does the Deputy realise that in the end there was a change made on the initiative of the Free State delegation at the Assembly last year with regard to the whole Tariff Conference?  Does he realise that originally the proposal was that this Tariff Conference would have handed over to it, if the   first resolution had been carried, a settlement of the whole economic policy of the League and that it was at the instance of the Free State delegates that there was a final resolution put in which altered the whole frame-work so that there might be a preliminary Conference such as this?  In the end it was decided that there should be a final diplomatic Conference to which members of the League would be called before the economic policy of the League was determined. 
     That is the safeguard we have&mdash; that no matter whether certain nations are agreeable to the letting down of tariffs between themselves, there is going to be no economic policy on the part of the League determined until there is a final conference of all representatives of the League.  There, if only there, we can give expression to our status, but we thought it better to give expression to our point of view at the preliminary Conference before certain groups of people.  And we are not alone there.  There are other nations in an arrested stage of development and they find themselves building up. One does not go to the League expecting to find that it is thought, because you have a proposal running counter to other proposals, that immediately there must necessarily be a breach as between nations.  Geneva is a place where different points of view are reconciled.  I move that we report progress. 
     Progress reported, the Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
   
   
     Adjournment Debate. - Treatment of Prisoners in Mountjoy. 
     
      
       I rise to raise a question in reference to a query I had on the Order Paper to-day relative to the treatment of prisoners in Mountjoy Prison.  I asked the Minister for Justice to state fully the facts in reference to the treatment of the prisoners in Mountjoy Jail who have been kept in solitary confinement for various periods during the last six months, and in particular to state the exact details as to the treatment   of Aidan Sweeney, Patrick McGuinness, Sean Russell, George Mooney, and David Fitzgerald, giving also the ages and condition of health as reported by the Medical Officer of the Prison in each of these latter cases.  To that I got a reply from the Minister in which statements are made which, on the information I have, I cannot accept as correct.  The Minister, for instance, says that no prisoner has been kept in solitary confinement in Mountjoy during the last six months, and he goes on to describe the state of health of these five prisoners and in one or two cases where I am informed that the parties mentioned are not, to put it mildly, in good health, the answer of the Minister describes their health as good.  My information, and I think it is reliable information, is that some of those prisoners have been kept in solitary confinement for a period of 140 days; that they have not been allowed out of their cells except to go to Mass on Sundays, to confession some day in the week and to leave the cell for other purposes that can be readily understood.  I made inquiries from a relative of one of these prisoners&mdash;this prisoner is a young man whom I do not know personally. I know his father and he has informed me that his boy is in solitary confinement.  That boy is in solitary confinement because first of all he refused to allow himself to be treated as a convict or to mix with convicts. 
     
     He demanded, and his colleagues also demanded, that they and those who, like him, claim to be political prisoners and to be imprisoned for political offences, assert that they are entitled to political treatment.  They claim that they should not be asked to associate with people who are in prison for purely criminal offences. The father of this boy, in a letter, tells me that his son was sent into the tailor's shop and was put to work alongside of a man who is in prison.  I do not know for what term this particular man is in prison, but I know certainly that he is in prison for offences that in most countries are regarded as very heinous offences,   and particularly so in Ireland.  These offences are regarded, at any rate, as offences of so serious a nature that boys should not be asked to work with them or to be brought in close contact with individuals charged with such offences.  There is a certain doctor&mdash;I do not know much about the case, but the father of the boy tells me that the boy knew the charges on which this doctor was convicted.  His father was told that his boy was asked to work alongside this man in the tailor's shop.  The boy felt very indignant at being asked to work with such a man, or to be brought into association with a prisoner who had the record that this particular doctor had.  This doctor was arrested somewhere in Pearse Street some months ago. Those who read the Dublin newspapers will probably remember the charges brought against him.  The same applies to another of these men who was sent into a shop and asked to associate with that prisoner, and with prisoners of a similar type, at any rate, with people who are criminals.  Those men claim that they are political prisoners and that they are in jail for political offences. On general grounds I think that our treatment of prisoners, our treatment even of people convicted of offences that are not regarded as political, is not what it ought to be in the Free State area.  Perhaps if I enlarge on that you will call me to order.  I will, therefore, say no more on that subject for the moment.  I do not think that we are treating our prisoners as they ought to be treated, that is, if we bear in mind the fact that we ought to reform and improve their character and conduct.  Outside of that, however, I do not think that other prisoners of the type of these five men about whom I asked a question to-day should be treated as common criminals.  The Minister may say, and he has said it before, and others occupying similar positions to the Minister have said that there is no such thing recognised in the Free State as political prisoners. That may be so, but I remember that not so long ago&mdash;the Minister may not know it and has no experience of   it, but his colleagues do&mdash;when a great fight was put up by the Minister's colleagues and other prisoners in Ireland, they got political treatment from the British Government. That treatment was won, and won more than once, by Irish political prisoners.  Special treatment was accorded to men who were in prison for political crimes. 
     Prisoners claimed that treatment and they were segregated from the ordinary criminals.  These five are men that one could not charge with being criminals in the accepted sense of the word.  I know the father of one of these prisoners.  I know another of the prisoners and I know him to have been in the Irish Republican movement perhaps as long as I have.  He is not quite my age but he has been in the movement for a very long time.  He is known to the majority of the members of the Executive Council.  They know what his character is.  They know that though he is in prison that he is not a criminal: I know the members of the Executive Council would confirm that statement.  Yet they insist on treating him as a criminal and putting him to work in the workshop with men of the vilest character.  That is not good enough.  Some of the colleagues of the Minister for Justice know what prison treatment is here.  The Minister, himself, has not had that experience.  The Minister's education has been sadly neglected in that way.  However perhaps there is a good time coming. But his colleagues know a good deal about them.  I think they ought to be the last people to condemn some of these men or give them the treatment they are now meting out to them.  After all, we have got to bear in mind this fact that the so-called crimes for which some of these men are now in prison are things that were preached to them by persons of responsibility in the country, by persons who to-day are members of the Executive Council of the Free State.  They were told in season and out of season to do the very things for which they are now ordered by the same individuals to   associate in workshops with the lowest and the vilest of humanity, as far as we can find such inside the Free State area and inside Free State prisons.  We know that Ministers on the other side have changed their politics, but if they wish to change the people to whom they preached that gospel for so many years it certainly cannot be done in a day or in a year.  The violent doctrines that in some cases they preached so long and so persistently cannot be eradicated all at once from the minds of these people. The gospel they preached entered into the minds of young and old people, people who are not as quick to change as some of the Ministers who preached it.  These people were taught to carry arms, to get them wherever they could and store them and use them.  They were taught that by the Minister's colleagues. I am not accusing the Minister of preaching those doctrines, but his colleagues preached them for years in season and out of season. 
     I know the father of one of these boys.  He was in prison with President Cosgrave, with the Minister for Defence and with others who sit alongside and behind the Minister for Justice.  He was in prison for putting into practice the gospel that was preached by the President, by the Vice-President and other colleagues of the Minister for Justice. While these people have not changed certain Ministers have.  These people have kept on to the gospel that was preached to them. 
     The main burden of our story here is that these people ought not to be treated as low-class criminals.  If the Ministry desire to change them, then this is the wrong way to go about it.  The very worst way to go about it is to degrade these men in their dignity as men and as citizens. That is what is being done.  You are throwing these men into association with the lowest and the vilest scum of humanity, so far as you can get such types in the Free State.  Having done that, you expect them to come out afterwards and respect law and   authority.  That is the treatment these men are getting because they have obeyed the gospel and the teaching of the Minister's colleagues. In yesterday's &ldquo;Irish Independent&rdquo; I read an account given by a distinguished medical man in the Free State who recently while in America visited some of the prisons there.  He told of how the ordinary convicts in American prisons that he visited are treated.  The men he referred to are not men who claim any particular privilege as political prisoners.  They are ordinary convicts.  In the course of his lecture he said: 
     The New Castle Co. Workhouse (Jail) is the official name of the State Penitentiary of Delamare... Here, he said, is none of that forbidding gloom of exterior that bids the prisoner abandon hope; no spiked walls, nor armed guard, nor rogue's livery to mark the criminal in his own and others' eyes. The prisoners wear the clothes of an ordinary citizen, and there is no boundary wall or line of demarcation whatever.  The neighbouring farms are separated only by hedges; the prisoners move about in a free and easy fashion, and when not at work, can smoke and chat and laugh in perfect freedom. 
     At the end of the report of the lecture there is a note that is very appropriate.  It is that &ldquo;Mr. H. O Frighil, Secretary to the Department of Justice, represented the Minister.&rdquo;  I hope he gave his approval also representing the Minister to the type of treatment that is meted out to the prisoners there.  I do not know that that account is typical of America.  Being interested in the subject of penitentiaries and criminology, I visited some prisons not only in America but in other countries.  I saw in different prisons in some of the States of America where efforts were being made on the lines described in that lecture. In all cases, there was an effort to try to remove from the minds of those unfortunately enclosed in these places ideas usually associated with convicts and prisons.  There was an effort to try and reform the   individuals and make them better citizens.  That applies to ordinary convicts.  While I suppose it would be a good thing if we could improve our prison system, so far as ordinary convicts are concerned, we ought not to treat men who have good national records, excellent records in some cases of work done for the nation, as low-class criminals.  A man like Sean Russell could stand up as a citizen and be honoured in any assembly in Ireland for his work for the Irish nation and for Irish freedom.  No one in this House could throw a stone at him.  Neither he nor those associated with him should be treated as low-class criminals, and that is what is being done under the orders of the Minister. I know what his record has been.  I cannot speak of the records of all these men, but I know that Aidan Sweeney, if he is anything like his father, must be a good type. 
     There is no Prisons Board now, and the Minister is directly responsible for all that happens in the prisons.  Perhaps it is that he is not cognisant of all that happens inside these prisons.  In case he is not, we have raised this matter to bring to his notice what is going on.  We say that it is not to his credit, that it is not to the credit of the present Ministry, either collectively or individually, that it is not to the credit of the Free State that citizens such as some of those to whom I have referred should be asked to associate with low-class criminals, should be locked up for a period of 140 days in jail without liberty and without being able to take exercise because they refused to work with these low-class people.  That is not good enough treatment for them, and against it we protest. 
     
      
       A very serious element in connection with this question is that the facts have not come out in the answer given by the Minister. My evidence is first-hand.  The treatment of this class of prisoner was varied by the authorities on the 23rd September.  Up to that date, some slight degree of association was allowed.  It was of a very mild   kind.  During the recreation hour they walked close together in single file, but on the date I have mentioned an attempt was made by the prison authorities to separate them and to insist upon their being more with the criminal prisoners&mdash;in any case, to prevent them having that amount of association&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is it not usual to allow the Minister ten minutes to reply? 
     
     
      
       That is so. 
     
     
      
       As a result, the prisoners refused to take their recreation as they wanted to have exactly the same treatment as they had up to that date.  The result was that they were kept in solitary confinement for eight weeks.  After the first week, Sweeney was taken away and put with the juvenile criminals.  After the eighth week the Visiting Justices called and saw them.  They gave them to understand, in conversation, that they would have the same kind of association as they had before. They agreed to come out and take exercise.  When they went out they met Chief Warder Sugrue who asked them what they meant.  They explained what their impression was. They asked that Sweeney could join them.  They were ordered back to their cells by Chief Warder Sugrue, and when they did not go they were forced back by other warders. Sweeney, who is only 18 years of age, has been suffering from stomach trouble for the last four weeks.  He gets attacks of cramps. McGuinness has not been able to sleep properly for the last three months. 
     
     
      
       The speech which Deputy O'Kelly has delivered, to use no stronger words about it, appears to me to be a thoroughly discreditable speech, and a thoroughly discreditable speech to the party which he is temporarily leading.  He is wrong in his facts, and the principles which he put forward to-night are certainly principles that should not be put forward by anybody who has accepted the   Constitution of the State and sworn allegiance to it as the Deputy has. Let us get down to facts.  He stated that these people were kept in solitary confinement, that they are not in good health, and that they were not allowed out of their cells to exercise. These statements are inaccurate&mdash;every one of them.  As regards not being allowed out of their cells, that is inaccurate; and as to their not being in good health, with the exception of Fitzgerald, who is in bad health, that is inaccurate.  Aidan Sweeney was sentenced on the 22nd July and Patrick McGuinness was sentenced on the 19th July.  In both cases they had firearms in their possession, Sweeney having a small arsenal of firearms. 
     
     The trouble began on the 12th September.  These men who had gone out to exercise as usual refused to exercise.  Sweeney and McGuinness had joined up with three other prisoners &mdash; McCabe, Kelly and Moran&mdash;who have since been released. These men, I do not know whether the Deputy will call them political prisoners or not, were doing a term in prison for kidnapping an insurance agent.  Sweeney and McGuinness seemed to regard them, because they were in prison for a crime of violence, as being persons fit to associate with.  On that particular day McGuinness did not go out to exercise at the ordinary time because he was detained having his finger prints taken.  The other people refused to leave their cells unless they were accompained by McGuinness.  When the finger printing was completed McGuinness was sent to the workshop.  He refused to work seeing the others were not there, and he returned to his cell. That was the beginning.  On the next day this group went out to exercise he declined unless they were allowed to exercise in their own way and with no other prisoners in the yard.  Never has Sweeney made a complaint about individual prisoners working beside him.  They refused to leave the yard and had to be forcibly removed to their cells.  They again resumed taking exercise until   the 20th of the same month, when as a result of obstructing other prisoners by jostling them and marching abreast of them they had to be forcibly removed to their cells. 
     It was then decided to separate one of the men who had kidnapped the insurance agent, for he was looked upon as the ringleader of the group.  He was segregated, and the others refused to take exercise or do any work and they have remained in that condition from that time.  That is as far as Sweeney and McGuinness are concerned.  Russell was also convicted for having firearms. He has refused to exercise. Mooney was convicted for having a revolver and a land mine in his possession. Russell had in his possession bombs and ammunition.  They have declined to work.  Fitzgerald was sentenced on the 24th March, 1925.  He escaped from prison in November, 1925.  He was recaptured to serve the rest of his sentence which began on the 14th October. He is in the prison hospital. He has a permanent cough.  It appears his health went down and he lost enormously in weight during the period of his escape and recapture. As far as Fitzgerald is concerned, I have nothing further to say.  He is in hospital receiving ordinary prison medical treatment. Sweeney is treated as a juvenile, and is receiving extra diet and other differences of treatment which junior adults receive.  These men are not confined to their cells.  They can go out and work and receive the ordinary prison discipline.  They have been advised by the Visiting Committee and the Governor to go out and work.  If they injure themselves by confining themselves to the prison cells that is their own deliberate choice.  They are free to go out and exercise if they like.  If they will not do so, and if they suffer, the suffering is upon their own heads.  Deputy O'Kelly said these men were sentenced because they had firearms in their possession, and they should not be treated as ordinary prisoners.  I do not know the distinction between ordinary criminals and extraordinary criminals. 
     
     
      
       Ask the Vice-President. He can give the distinction. 
     
     
      
       I know that those who have firearms have them for the purpose of using them. Men who have bombs have them for the purpose of using them.  Those persons who have bombs for the destruction of property, and firearms for the destruction of human life I look upon as exceedingly dangerous types of criminals.  The Deputy has said that the doctrine which they hold, and which the Deputy now seems to admire in them, the doctrine of using physical force in this country, is a doctrine which is to be upheld. 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       Somebody has said certainly.  Is that the view of the Party?  I am glad at last the cat is out of the bag.  Is it the view of the Party that persons are entitled to upset this established State by force of arms?  Our doctrine is that they are not.  If there is to be any alteration in the Government or Constitution of the   country it must be done through the medium of the ballot box, and through no other medium. 
     
     
      
       A new doctrine. 
     
     
      
       We are not going to have a recurrence of the happenings we had in this country a few years ago&mdash;the turmoil, disturbances and loss of human life that apparently the Deputy and his Party would like to see again.  The Deputy said that the doctrines these men now hold are the doctrines which members of the Front Bench preached.  That is wrong.  That is an utterly inaccurate statement. Never have members of this Front Bench preached that a Government elected by the Irish people should be upset by force of arms.  That is a doctrine which Deputies opposite preached for a time, and which I thought when they came into this House they had abandoned. 
       The Dail adjourned at 11 p.m. until 3 p.m. Thursday, 20th February. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Licensing Acts Revenue, Co. Wexford. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance to state the total amount collected in revenue duties under the Licensing Acts in Co. Wexford during the year 1929, also the amounts collected from the same source in each of the four towns, Wexford, New Ross, Enniscorthy and Gorey, during the same period. 
     
     
      
       The revenue accounts are not furnished in such a way as to give the information required.  The particulars asked for could only be obtained by the compilation of special returns, involving the expenditure of a considerable amount of time, and the consequent expense would not be justifiable. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Employment-Exchange Results. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce to state the number of vacancies notified at and filled through Employment Exchanges in the Saorstat in each year since 1922. 
     
     
      
       The number of vacancies notified at and filled through Employment Exchanges and Branch Employment Offices in each year since 1922 is as follows:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Year 
             Period Covered 
             Vacancies Notified 
             Vacancies Filled 
           
         
         
           
             1922 
             (31/12/'21 to 1/1/'23) 
             19,761 
             17,592 
           
           
             1923 
             (2/1/'23 to 31/12/'23) 
             17,003 
             15,381 
           
           
             1924 
             (1/1/'24 to 29/12/'24) 
             17,651 
             15,940 
           
           
             1925 
             (30/12/'24 to 29/12/'25) 
             16,598 
             15,464 
           
           
             1926 
             (30/12/'25 to 3/1/'27) 
             32,618 
             20,966 
           
           
             1927 
             (4/1/'27 to 2/1/'28) 
             19,292 
             17,303 
           
           
             1928 
             (3/1/'28 to 31/12/'28) 
             21,020 
             18,700 
           
           
             1929 
             (1/1/'29 to 30/12/'29) 
             16,805 
             14,830 
           
         
       
     
     In addition to the above figures,   931 demobilised members of the National Army were placed in employment by the Resettlement Section of the Employment Branch during the period 31/7/'23 to 6/12/'26. 
   
   
     Written Answers. - Dublin Port and Docks Board Expenditure. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce to state in respect of each year since 1923 (1) the total expenditure of the Dublin Port and Docks Board, showing separately capital expenditure, expenditure on revenue accounts and wages paid; (2) receipts from tonnage dues, dues on goods, cranage, towage, rents and interest, etc.; (3) tonnage dues for ton of register tonnage at Dublin, Belfast, Cork, Derry, Liverpool and Glasgow, and (4) the net register tonnage entering the Port of Dublin and the number of vessels entering the port. 
     
     
      
       The only information available to me on these matters is the information derivable from the accounts of the Board.  From those accounts I can give the following particulars:&mdash; 
       (1)  The Total Expenditure of the Dublin Port and Docks Board, showing separately Capital Expenditure and Expenditure on Revenue Accounts.  The Accounts do not disclose the total amount of wages paid. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             1924 
             1925 
             1926 
             1927 
             1928 
           
         
         
           
             Expenditure charged to capital Account 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
           
           
             28,355 
             40,501 
             24,106 
             7,092 
             25,322 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     Aggregate Capital Expenditure to 31st December, 1928, £2,453,136. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             1924 
             1925 
             1926 
             1927 
             1928 
           
         
         
           
             Expenditure Charged to:&mdash; 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
           
           
             Revenue Account 
             183,238 
             189,011 
             184,119 
             189,956 
             184,544 
           
           
             Unappropriated Receipts Account 
             6,107 
             19,252 
             14,696 
             5,597 
             10,866 
           
           
             Custom House Docks and Warehouses Account 
             37,218 
             34,801 
             28,355 
             32,721 
             28,036 
           
           
             
             
             226,563 
             243,064 
             227,170 
             228,274 
             223,446 
           
         
       
     
     
       
        (2) Receipts from tonnage dues, dues on goods, cranage, towage, rents, interest, etc. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             1924 
             1925 
             1926 
             1927 
             1928 
           
         
         
           
             Receipts:&mdash; 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
           
           
             Tonnage dues 
             86,455 
             79,464 
             80,143 
             79,840 
             74,874 
           
           
             Dues on goods 
             100,631 
             91,782 
             91,185 
             94,053 
             86,925 
           
           
             Cranage 
             5,110 
             5,189 
             7,630 
             9,356 
             7,283 
           
           
             Towage and Salvage 
             3,771 
             2,151 
             9,112 
             3,947 
             2,330 
           
           
             Rents and Wayleaves 
             5,418 
             4,829 
             4,941 
             4,917 
             7,434 
           
           
             Interest 
             4,629 
             7,453 
             8,986 
             8,351 
             11,030 
           
           
             Miscellaneous 
             3,041 
             4,336 
             4,522 
             5,821 
             3,798 
           
           
             Custom House Docks (Storage, etc.) 
             45,817 
             40,573 
             37,846 
             40,650 
             34,865 
           
           
             Unappropriated Receipts 
             1,564 
             320 
             18 
             174 
             50 
           
           
             
             
             256,436 
             236,097 
             244,383 
             247,109 
             228,589 
           
         
       
     
     (3) Tonnage dues per ton of register tonnage at Dublin, Belfast, Cork, Derry, Liverpool and Glasgow. 
     The following are the principal classes of tonnage dues on vessels at present in force:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Dublin 
             Belfast 
             Cork 
             Derry 
             Liverpool 
             Glasgow 
           
         
         
           
             d. 
             
             
             d. 
             d. 
             
             
             Inwards. 
             Outwards 
           
           
             61⁄2 Vessels from ports in Great Britain, Ireland and the Isle of Man. 
             From 21⁄2d.(less 5%) to 6d. (Net.) 
             41⁄2(Deepwater quay dues payable if such a quay is used, 3d.) 
             71⁄4 
             (a) 27/32d. to 1 11/16d. (b)  5d. to 111⁄2d. (c) 11⁄4d. to 2 5/6d.(All above rates are less 5%.) 
             21⁄2d. 
             21⁄2d. 
           
           
             d. 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             101⁄4 Vessels from foreign and colonial ports 
             1S. (Net). 
             Cargo Vessels,1S.(Deepwater quay dues payable if such a quay is used, 4d.) 
             Cargo Vessels,1S. 11⁄2d. 
             (a) 3 3/8 to 41⁄2d. (b)  1s. 8d. to 2S. 8d. (c)  5d. to 8d. 
             6 2/3d. 
             6 2/3d. 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             Liners, &amp;c. 1⁄2d. (with free entry on homeward voyage). 
             Liners, 1⁄2d. 
             (All above rates are less 5%.) 
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     NOTES.&mdash;Liverpool: 
     ( a )  Harbour rates chargeable on vessels which use the River Mersey only. 
     ( b )  Dock tonnage rates (inclusive of both Harbour and Wharf rates) in respect of vessels using the Mersey Port Board's Docks. 
     ( c )  Wharf rates on vessels chargeable where stores or passengers are conveyed to or from the Mersey Board's Piers, Quays or Landing Stages to or from vessels which do not enter a Dock. 
     (4)  The net register tonnage entering the Port of Dublin and the number of vessels entering the Port. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Year 
             Net register tonnage (excluding Trawlers) 
             Number of Vessels (excluding Trawlers) 
             No. of Trawlers 
             All Vessels Total 
           
         
         
           
             1924 
             2,272,443 
             6,207 
             362 
             6,569 
           
           
             1925 
             2,138,009 
             5,608 
             186 
             5,794 
           
           
             1926 
             2,062,646 
             4,386 
             379 
             4,765 
           
           
             1927 
             2,271,856 
             5,672 
             303 
             5,975 
           
           
             1928 
             2,298,929 
             5,465 
             299 
             5,764 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Acquisition and Division of Mayo Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when the Ballykinava Farm, now held by the Irish Land Commission, will be divided among the tenants who hold uneconomic holdings in the adjoining townlands. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission propose to divide the lands of Ballykinava Farm amongst the approved allottees at the end of this month. 
     
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state the cause of delay by the Irish Land Commission in dividing the lands known as Actons, Bridgemount, Belcarra, Begleys, Lisnolan, Balla, Algiers, Togher, Hollymount and Poolavaddy on the Lynch Blosse Estate, Balla, and if he will state when these lands will be divided. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission propose to put the scheme for the division of the lands at Bridgemount acquired from Mr. G.H. Acton into operation next month. 
       Schemes for the division of Mr. J. Begley's farm at Lisnolan and of the lands of Togher the property of Mr. A.J.J. Algie are in course of preparation and will be expedited as much as possible. 
       The lands of Poolavaddy, Lynch Blosse Estate, are let under grazing agreement to 31st March next, and the Land Commission hope to be in a position to divide the lands as soon as the grazing letting expires. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware that Bloomfield Demesne, Ruttledge Estate, Hollymount, was acquired by the Irish Land Commission over five years ago for the relief of congestion, that the lands are still let to a grazier, and if he will state when the Land Commission will divide this demesne, which contains over 400 acres. 
     
     
      
       A share of the division of the lands of Bloomfield Demesne has been postponed pending consideration by the Ministry for Education of a proposal for the acquisition of Bloomfield House with a view to the establishment of a residential school of hotel catering and general household management.  The project has now been abandoned and the Land Commission will have the lands divided as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state the number of times the large grazing ranches held by Mr. James Cowan at Knockroe and Knockadorraghy were inspected by Land   Commission officials during the past five years, the cost of such inspections, and if the Land Commission are going to acquire those lands, which contain about 750 acres. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Knockdorraghy and Knockroe were inspected and valued once during the past five years, but negotiations subsequently took place between Land Commission Inspectors and the owner with a view to agreement as to the terms for the acquisition of these lands. 
       Mr. Cowan requires to be provided with a holding in exchange for the lands of Knockdorraghy, which are subject to Land Purchase Annuity, and the Land Commission have the matter under consideration but are not at present in a position to state when lands will be available which can be offered to him in exchange. 
       The acquisition of the lands of Knockroe is being considered in conjunction with the lands of Knockdorraghy. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what steps are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the large grazing ranches, which contain over 800 acres, held by Mr. John McEllin at Brownhall, Ardboley and Barneygreggaun. 
     
     
      
       The acquisition of the lands referred to is under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will now state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the lands known as Hollymount and Lehinch Demesnes for the purpose of relieving the acute congestion which exists in the parishes of Kilcommon and Crossboyne, Co. Mayo. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Lehinch Demesne and Hollymount Demesne, containing approximately 752 acres, are the subject of proceedings under Section 24 (3), Land Act, 1923.  The owner has objected to acquisition, and has also exercised his right   under Section 24 (4) (b) of the Act to be provided with a new holding equally suitable and of not less value, and in the circumstances the matter can only be dealt with by way of exchange. 
       The Land Commission are not at present in a position to state when lands will be available which can be offered to owner in lieu of his lands in Co. Mayo. 
     
   
 