 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Trustee Savings Banks Assets. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has had under review the position of Trustee Savings Banks in the Saorstat, with particular reference to the fact that the assets of such banks held by the British National Debt Commissioners are invested entirely in British Government securities, and that interest is allowed only at the rate of £2 17s. 6d. per cent. per annum on payments made by the banks to the said Commissioners, and if it is the intention of the Government to introduce legislative proposals with regard to these banks in the present Session of the Dail. 
     
     
      
       The position of the Trustee Savings Banks in the Saorstat is at present under review having regard to the anomalies associated with the investment of their funds and their supervision. It is hoped to introduce legislative proposals with regard to these banks before the Summer recess. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tariff on Woollen and Worsted Tissue. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether any report has been received from the Tariff Commission on the application for the alteration of the tariff on imported woollen and worsted tissues by the reduction in the exemption limit; and, if not, when it is anticipated such report will be ready. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative. The Tariff Commission are unable at present to indicate when their report on this application will be ready. 
     
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that there is some urgency in this matter arising out of the fact that, owing to the reduction in the price of cloth, grades of cloth which were not intended to be exempted from the tariff are now, in fact, exempted and imported duty free and that the importation of cloth has in consequence increased very considerably to the detriment of the Irish woollen mills? 
     
     
      
       I will bring the matter to the notice of the Minister for Finance.  I am not personally aware of what the Deputy says. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Hawkers' Licences. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Revenue Commissioners are demanding a hawker's licence of £10 from poor people who sell fruit, chocolate and sweets at hurling and football matches in Kilkenny, and who bring their goods to the sports grounds by an ass and cart; if he will state on what grounds this demand is made, and if he will see that such people are not required to pay such licence. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that payment of hawkers' licence duty is being demanded in the circumstances stated.  If the Deputy will furnish particulars of any case in which such demand has been made the matter will be inquired into and the Deputy informed of the result. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Betting Bill, 1930. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when he expects to circulate the Betting Bill, 1930. 
     
     
      
       It is expected that the Betting Bill, 1930, will be circulated before the end of the week. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Land Stock. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the percentage of land stock held in Ireland, and what proportion of this is held by organised bodies. 
     
     
      
       According to the figures furnished in the British Finance   Accounts for the financial year 1929-30, it would appear that on 31st March, 1928, 6.787 per cent. of the total amount of Guaranteed Land Stock, Guaranteed 23⁄4 per cent.  Stock and Guaranteed 3 per cent.  Stock then outstanding was inscribed in the books of the Bank of Ireland at their Dublin and Belfast offices.  It would be impossible to state what proportion of these stocks so inscribed is held by organised bodies. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - An Ghaedhilg in Obair an Rialtais. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid an bhfuiltear ag griosadh na Seirbhiseach Stait chun obair idir na Rannaibh&mdash;leitreacha, srl.,&mdash;a dheanamh tre Ghaedhilg, agus an bhfuil aon bhunadhas leis na raflai adeir go bhfuil sean-oifigigh ann ata ag iarraidh cosc a chur le fas na Gaedhilge in obair an Rialtais. 
     
     
      
       Mar ta an freagra an-fhada cuirfear 'sa tuarasgabhail e. 
       Maidir leis an gcead chuid den cheist, tugadh orduithe i dtaobh feidhm do bhaint as an nGaedhilg i ngno oifigiuil, mar leanas:&mdash; 
       (1)  Badh cheart freagra i nGaedhilg do thabhairt ar ghach litir i nGaedhilg a gheibhtear, o dhuine den phobal, i n-Oifigi an Rialtais.  Ar an gcuma gceadna, ma's i nGaedhilg a tugtar sloinne no seola an te a scriobhann litir, badh cheart an sloinne no an seola a bheith i nGaedhilg sa bhfreagra chomh maith. 
       (2)  Aon fhogra a bhaineann le post a bhfuil eolas maith ar an nGaedhilg riachtanach do, badh cheart e 'fhoillsiu i nGaedhilg amhain. 
       (3)  Badh cheart fuirmeacha chun litreacha d'admhail a bheith i nGaedhilg amhain.  Fuirmeacha eile a tugtar amach o Rannaibh Stait, a bhfuil taithighe ag an bpobal ortha (mar shompla, admhala ar airgead), badh cheart iad san, leis, a bheith i nGaedhilg amhain, chomh fada agus is feidir san. 
     
     
        (4)  Oifigigh san nGaeltacht, nuair a bhionn einni i dtaobh gnotha oifigiula le radh aca, pe aca i gcainnt no i litir e, le duine den phobal a bhfuil Gaedhilg aige, badh cheart doibh an Ghaedhilg do tharrac chucha. 
     (5)  Oifigigh ata ar treimhse thastala i n-aon Roinn, badh cheart go dtabharfai gach caoi dar feidir doibh ar an nGaedhilg do labhairt i gcursai oifigiula.  Chuige seo, i n-aon Bhrainnse no Rannog 'na bhfuil oifigeach ar a thastail agus 'na bhfuil Gaedhilgeoiri ar a chomhoifigigh no ar na h-oifigigh ata os a chionn, badh cheart go labharfaidis sin Gaedhilg chomh fada agus is feidir e, nuair a bhid ag tabhairt orduithe beil do no ag cur sios ar chursai oifigiula leis. 
     Ta se mar dhualgas ar ghach oifigeach, pe aca ata Gaedhilg aige fein no na fuil, cabhru sa mheid ata da dheanamh chun na Gaedhilge do leathnu sa Stat-Sheirbhis, agus ta cursios fe leith ar an dualgas san i gCearclan don Seirbhis ar fad. Maidir leis an dream a thainig isteach sa tSeirbhis tre chomortasai a raibh an Ghaedhilg riachtanach doibh, ta se curtha 'na luighe ar lucht na Stat-Sheirbhise, sa Chearclan cheadna, nach leor don dream san an meid Gaedhilge a bhi aca cheana do chimead, ach gur ceart doibh iarracht a dheanamh ar feabhas do chur ar a gcuid Gaedhilge; agus nach mor doibh a thuisgint a thabhachtaighe ata eolas maith ar an nGaedhilg sa mheid go mbaineann se le n-a ndul-chun-cinn sa tSeirbhis. 
     Maidir leis an dara cuid den cheist, nior chuala aon rafla de'n tsort go ndeinneann an Teachta tagairt do. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Buncrana Pier. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether, in view of the large amount of unemployment existing in Buncrana area, he will arrange for an additional number of men to be employed in connection with the construction of Buncrana Pier prior to Christmas. 
     
     
      
       
          Arrangements are being made which it is hoped will permit of more men being employed at an early date, keeping in mind the necessity for efficiency and economy. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary take steps to see that additional men are employed?  In view of the unemployment existing in that area, will he do something to see that employment is given before Christmas? 
     
     
      
       We are giving attention to that point, but it is not always possible to give effect to it. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that slow progress is being made in the construction of the Pier, and that if an additional number of men are employed it would expedite the building? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Croghan River (Offaly). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the Office of Public Works have received the necessary Statutory Resolution from the County Council of Offaly, together with a petition under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, in respect of the Croghan River; and, if so, what progress has been made, and when a scheme is likely to be prepared. 
     
     
      
       The Commissioners of Public Works received in September, 1929, a petition, together with the necessary resolutions, from the Offaly County Council for the drainage of the Croghan River. 
       With regard to the second part of the question the petitions received under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, are dealt with, as far as possible, in the order of priority according to the date of their receipt.  The inspection of this district will be carried out at the earliest possible moment, but in view of the many petitions which reached the Commissioners before the Croghan petition and have not yet been examined, the Commissioners are unable to indicate at present when the inspection is likely to take place or whether, and if so, when, it will be possible to prepare a scheme for voting on by the occupiers of affected lands. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dundalk Post Office. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether he will state (a) how many applications for promotion were received, and how many promotions were made, from the staff of the Dundalk Post Office during the past eight years; (b) whether the number of such promotions compares favourably with other similar provincial offices in the Saorstat, taking into account the length of service and proficiency of the staff eligible for promotion at that office; (c) upon what grounds was an officer recently appointed to the Postmastership of Castleblayney, in preference to local candidates, with considerably longer service, and good departmental records; and (d) whether he will endeavour to see that, in view of the stagnation of promotion at Dundalk, due consideration will be given to applications for promotion from officers at that office who are qualified in every respect. 
     
     
      
       It is assumed the Deputy refers to postmasterships, as applications are not, as a general rule, invited for other promotions in provincial offices.  The information sought is not readily available and its preparation would involve some delay.  In any case it does not seem necessary as promotions to postmasterships are not made on a local basis.  Such posts are advertised in &ldquo;Iris an Phuist,&rdquo; and are open to the Service as a whole.  The qualifications of all applicants are carefully examined and compared, and the best qualified officer is selected. Applications from the staff of Dundalk Post Office receive equal consideration with those from other centres. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Participation of Co. Hospitals in Sweeps. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will consider introducing proposals for legislation to amend the Public Charitable Hospitals (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1930, to permit county hospitals to participate in such sweeps and in the divisions of funds therefrom, and so to enable such hospitals   to provide modern hospital equipment, etc. 
     
     
      
       As I understand the matter, county hospitals are already eligible to participate in sweepstakes organised under the Public Charitable Hospitals (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1930, provided that the conditions laid down by the Act are fulfilled.  Several county hospitals appear, in fact, as prospective beneficiaries in the scheme for a sweepstake on the Grand National recently presented to me.  Apart from that, however, I may say that I do not propose to introduce any amending legislation on the subject.  The Principal Act was not, as the Deputy will remember, a Government measure. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Proposal re Cement Factory at Clare Castle. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state whether his Department has yet considered the proposition put forward in respect of the starting of a cement factory at Clare Castle, County Clare, and if he will state at what stage that consideration now is, and when a decision is likely to be reached. 
     
     
      
       I have received a copy of a printed statement issued by the Fergus Reclamation Syndicate, Limited, outlining in general terms a basis for a scheme for the erection of a cement factory on lands owned by that Syndicate, but have not been asked for any decision about it.  There is nothing in the statement calling for a decision by me.  The only matter which would be for consideration by my Department if the scheme were developed, is a suggestion that the Trade Loans Guarantee Acts might be used to finance the undertaking.  No application for a guarantee under the Acts has as yet been received.  It should be clearly understood that the Government has no intention of erecting a cement factory itself; its investigations are confined to ascertaining the conditions under which a reputable organisation having sufficient experience   of cement manufacture and the necessary large financial resources would be prepared to build and operate a factory in whatever locality that organisation considered most suitable for the purpose. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister not think it proper to investigate the possibilities of establishing a cement factory in any suitable place?  And as to the suitability of the deposits for that manufacture, would he give the assistance of his Department to any project of the kind? 
     
     
      
       The assistance of the Department is at the disposal of anybody who cares to investigate this matter.  Certain investigations have already been made.  The departmental investigation is mainly based on information supplied to it by organisations which seek to build a cement factory financed by themselves.  We are not disposed to direct people to any particular locality. 
     
     
      
       I am not saying that the Minister should direct people to any particular locality.  What I am trying to do is to inquire whether the Minister's officials would be available to any organisation, whether it be a company or any other organisation, that would be anxious to have an industry started, whether they would be available to make the necessary investigations, analysis, and other things of the sort. 
     
     
      
       The Department's resources and experts are at the disposal of anybody who cares to avail of them, but the Department cannot give expert advice on that matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Payment of Unemployment Benefit. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why it is that applicants for unemployment benefit have six waiting days instead of three as formerly, and if he is aware that the extended period of waiting is an unnecessary hardship upon those seeking benefit. 
     
     
      
       Except for the short period between 8th November, 1920, and 30th June, 1921, applicants   for unemployment benefit have been subject to an initial waiting period of six days ever since the first establishment of unemployment insurance eighteen years ago.  Any hardship which the waiting period may cause is not unnecessary, because the finance of the scheme is based on six days, and would have to be altered in essential particulars if that period were reduced. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Number of Registered Unemployed. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce to state the number of persons registered as unemployed on July 1st and November 1st, or nearest dates, distinguishing as to male and female, and the number of such persons in receipt of unemployment insurance benefit. 
     
     
      
       On the 30th of June and the 3rd of November, 1930 (the nearest dates to those mentioned in the Deputy's question), the numbers of persons registered as unemployed were:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             30th June, 1930: 
             Males 
             15,596 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             Females 
             3,349 
           
           
             3rd November, 1930: 
             Males 
             18,472 
           
           
             
             
             Females 
             4,518 
           
         
       
     
     During the weeks ended on the same dates the numbers of persons paid unemployed benefit were:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             30th June, 1930: 
             Males 
             8,465 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             Females 
             1,596 
           
           
             3rd November, 1930: 
             Males 
             9,603 
           
           
             
             
             Females 
             2,036 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - National Health Insurance Acts. 
     
      
       (An Clar) asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state what was the total number of persons insured under the National Health Insurance Acts for the years 1928, 1929 and 1930, or, if the latter half of 1930 is not available, the number insured under the National Health Insurance Acts for the first half of the year 1930; also the number exempted from National Health Insurance during those three years. 
     
     
      
       The figures were as follows: 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1928 
             412,700 
           
         
         
           
             1929 
             417,577 (estimate) 
           
           
             1930 
             416,881 (do.) 
           
         
       
     
     
        Of these figures, the 1928 figures are final.  The others are only estimated and they are referable to the 31st December each year. 
     The number of persons holding certificates of exemption and not included in above figures was:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1928 
             803 
           
         
         
           
             1929 
             804 
           
           
             1930 
             *Nil 
           
         
       
     
     * The class of exempt person was abolished by the National Health Insurance Act, 1929. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Sanitary Conditions in Carlow Towns. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he has received reports from the responsible medical officers of health regarding the unsatisfactory sanitary conditions in Callan, Tullow, and Muine Beag, and whether he will now afford improved financial facilities to the local authorities concerned to enable them to proceed forthwith with the provision of adequate sewerage schemes in the towns mentioned. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  It is not clear what improved financial facilities are sought. Advances out of the Local Loans Fund for the carrying out of such works are available. 
     
     
      
       Is there any possibility that these facilities will be improved under the Relief Schemes Grant? 
     
     
      
       The grant under the relief schemes will be applied strictly to the relief of unemployment. It would be undesirable that it should be applied any other way, that is, relief to any particular district that would not normally come to another district. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister mean that there is no unemployment in these centres?  I can assure him that there is as much there as in any other small town. 
     
     
      
       No.  I mean that the presence of unemployment will determine the extent to which the relief grant will be applied there.  I understood   the Deputy to suggest, apart from the question of unemployment, that the relief grant would be voted to these schemes. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that from the public health point of view alone, apart from unemployment, in two of the towns, Muine Beag and Tullow, the conditions are most primitive and injurious to the health of the people?  There is no water supply in Tullow, while in Muine Beag there is no sewerage scheme but a water supply. It is disgraceful. 
     
     
      
       The disgrace is under the noses of the local authorities responsible for dealing with the matter.  We cannot apply different principles in dealing with these matters in one area as distinct from the rest of the country.  The matter has been under consideration by the local authorities but for one reason or another they have not yet decided to act.  If they do wish to act the money is available under the Local Loans Fund. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - School Children in Co. Galway. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether, in view of the hardships inflicted on children attending school and the people living in the village of Boherbanagh, Newbridge, County Galway, he will see that steps will be taken to have a road made and bridge erected into that village, owing to the health of all concerned being endangered. 
     
     
      
       I understand this matter is receiving the attention of the Galway County Council. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Salary of County Surveyor (Co. Tipperary). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the basis upon which a salary of £800 was fixed as remuneration for the office of County Surveyor, Tipperary North Riding; and further, if he is aware that a rate of sixpence per mile travelling expenses for this   office is an exorbitant charge on the ratepayers. 
     
     
      
       The salary fixed was £700 per annum, rising by annual increments of £20 to a maximum of £800 per annum.  The basis upon which the salary was fixed was the value of the public duties the post involved. The answer to the last part of the question is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister think it is fair to mulct the ratepayers of Tipperary with this charge of sixpence per mile while in Leix and Offaly men occupying a similar post have fivepence per mile?  Does the Minister realise what sixpence a mile means to the average countryman? Why, a hackney car in Dublin would hardly charge sixpence per mile.  These men have to travel about 500 miles a week and, worked out at sixpence a mile, that means £12 10s. 0d. for travelling expenses.  That in itself is a nice salary. 
     
     
      
       If it has been found necessary&mdash;but it has not&mdash;for the new engineer in North Tipperary to travel 500 miles in the week, his work there in the very near future will, I hope, render such extensive travelling unnecessary. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if the speedometers on the motor cars are subject to a check? 
     
     
      
       Probably the Deputy knows whether or not that is the case in Co. Westmeath. 
     
     
      
       The travelling expenses there amount to some £300 a year. 
     
     
      
       Why does not the Minister accede to the salary and travelling expenses fixed for this officer by the County Council?  What was the Minister's reason for sending down for particulars of the action of each councillor in connection with this appointment?  I must say the Minister's attitude was almost in the nature of a threat. 
     
     
      
       I feel sure the local authorities and Deputies interested   in the matter will find satisfactory my judgment and the judgment of the Department in this matter of fixing a salary; they will find that judgment sound when they see the quality of the work that will be done under the new conditions.  The other question is a different question, and I do not know anything about it at the moment.  Perhaps the Deputy will put down a separate question on that matter. 
     
     
      
       To my mind the judgment of the County Council and each county councillor should have been relied upon.  This whole matter is very different from what the Minister thinks.  The County Council are the custodians of the ratepayers, and they have a pretty shrewd idea as to what the ratepayers can afford.  The salary they fixed should have been agreed to. 
     
     
      
       How long ago is it since the Minister fixed the rate for travelling expenses for local officials?  Has there been any revision of that rate? 
     
     
      
       The amount to be paid by way of salary to a County Surveyor depends largely on the extent and the nature of the work he will have to perform.  Arrangements for paying travelling expenses are not uniform in all counties.  In the first place, some counties desire to fix the rates in a particular way.  Other counties may desire to fix them in another way.  The Department deals with these matters individually. 
     
     
      
       Does not the Minister claim the right to control the allowances made to local officials for the use of motor cars while engaged on public duties?  I thought that was the function of his Department? 
     
     
      
       We do control them in a reasonable way. 
     
     
      
       There is no uniform system. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if the Deputy knows much about the minds or the workings of local bodies. If he does he would understand that there are many matters on which it is impossible to get uniformity when you   have a number of local bodies with circumstances differing in different localities.  In so far as the Department thinks uniformity is desirable, it helps to bring about a certain amount of uniformity.  In the matter of fees and salaries there is sufficient uniformity for all practical purposes. Because some Deputy thinks that fivepence per mile should be given as a travelling allowance to a County Surveyor as against sixpence, or because some County Council may think that fivepence a mile would be sufficient, does not mean that there are chaotic conditions or that there are real differences in standard. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Travelling Expenses of Officers in Department of Agriculture. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will state what is the present allowance for travelling expenses to officers of his Department, and upon what basis has it been fixed; and, farther, what readjustments, if any, are made in the present scale when there is a fall in transport costs. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy appears to be under a misapprehension in the matter. No allowances are given to officers of the Department of Agriculture in respect of travelling expenses, actual expenditure upon travelling by rail or other public conveyance being recouped to such officers, as in the case of the State service generally.  There is, accordingly, no question of basis in the matter, save that officers are allowed different classes in railway travelling according to their rank in the service.  In regard to the concluding portion of the question, the matter of readjustment does not arise, seeing that any fall in the cost of travelling automatically leads to a corresponding reduction in expenditure upon travelling. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the inspectors of creameries are getting sixpence a mile? 
     
     
      
       Certainly not.  They are paid only their outlay.  They buy a ticket and the money is refunded to them. 
     
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if there is any officer in this Department who has a car and for whom there is a rate laid down of so much per mile? 
     
     
      
       I do not think there is an outdoor officer who uses a car of his own.  If he hires a car he makes a bargain and the money is refunded. 
     
     
      
       Is not the Minister aware&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There may be officers, but I am not sure.  I can say that ninety-eight per cent. of the officers travel by train.  Of course, there may be an officer who uses his own motor car. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Fogarty's question specifically asks for the rate of allowance paid in the Minister's Department. The Minister says he does not know if he has an inspector travelling about in his own car or if such a man does get an allowance. 
     
     
      
       There can be no doubt as to what Deputy Fogarty asks.  He asks me if I will state what is the present allowance for travelling expenses to officers of my Department and upon what basis has it been fixed, and, further, what readjustments are to be made in the present scale when there is a fall in transport.  My answer to that, is that he is paid outlay.  I answered that question without adverting to the point the Deputy raises.  I doubt if there is such an officer in the Department. There may be officers of the County Committees who go round in motor cars, but none of the headquarters' staff goes round in motor cars.  I am aware of the usual method of travelling of officers of the Department. In all cases they are refunded outlay. If they get cheaper tickets on the railways, the refund is smaller.  If the Deputy wishes me to ascertain if there is an officer who uses his own motor car on this work, I will make inquiries. 
     
     
      
       Surely an inspector going to the creameries will not be brought by the train to the very door. He will have to walk from the station to the creamery. 
     
     
      
       Usually the inspector is   not a wealthy man.  He hires a motor-car and he gets a refund. 
     
     
      
       What becomes of the man who has his own motor car, and who gets it repaired?  Is not that repair work met out of travelling expenses? 
     
     
      
       I completely overlooked that point.  If the Deputy is anxious to know whether any officer of the Department uses his own car, and if he is anxious to find out what allowance is made to such officer, I will gladly make the inquiries.  The Deputy can put the matter by way of question. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Iarrataisi fe Acht na dTithe. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh an ndearfaidh se ce mheid iarrataisi a fuair se fe Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht) agus an meid aca in ar hudaruiodh deontaisi. 
     
     
      
       Ta 10,918 iarrataisi fe Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht), 1929, fachta go lathair na huaire agus ta 226 deontaisi udaruithe. 
     
     
      
       An feidir leis an Aire a radh an meid de'n 226 in a bhfuil an obair tosnuithe? 
     
     
      
       Ni feidir, ach ta fios agam go bhfuil an obair tosnuithe in a lan acu. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Housing (Gaeltacht) Act. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state the number of applications which he has received for grants under the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929, and the number of dwelling-houses which have been built under that Act in each of the following counties: Donegal, Clare, Cork, Galway, Kerry and Mayo. 
     
     
      
       The total number of applications received to date for grants under the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929, was as follows:&mdash;Donegal, 1,905; Clare, 187; Cork, 1,233; Galway, 2,563; Kerry, 1,981; Mayo, 2,217.  As the time taken to build completely a house   under the scheme is between a year and 18 months, very few houses have been completed up to the present. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say how many houses have been built? 
     
     
      
       I do not know that there are any.  Under the scheme it is supposed to take between a year and eighteen months to complete a house. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say how many houses are in course of construction? 
     
     
      
       I might have ascertained that if the Deputy had asked me that. If he had put down that question I would have found out how many. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say if there is any possibility of extending the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act to Kilkenny and other parts of Ireland? 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say if he has got any applications from Louth? 
     
     
      
       I should have notice of that question.  Of course, I was not asked that in Deputy Cassidy's question. But, as a matter of fact, I do think that there have been applications from Omeath.  I gave the number with regard to the counties for which I was asked and Louth is not one of them. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tionnscail Tuatha. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       Tailte agus Iascaigh an ndearfaidh se ce mheid airgid do chaith an Roinn ins na bliadhanta, 1928-9 agus 1929-30 (a) ar fheabhsu an iascaigh agus (b) ar dheantuisi na tuatha. 
     
     
      
       Se an meid airgid do chaith mo Roinn-se ar Shaothru Iascaigh agus ar Thionnscail Tuatha i rith an da bhliain 1928-29 agus 1929-30 na:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             1928-29 
             1929-30 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
             £ 
           
           
             Saothru Iascaigh 
             17,101 
             15,450 
           
           
             Tionnscail Tuatha 
             15,065 
             15,395 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Oibreacha Leasuighthe. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh an feasach do nach bhfuil tabhartais   airgid ar bith le faghail fa choinne oibreacha leasuighthe &mdash; bealaigh mhora, droichid, diogacha, etc.&mdash;ar dteacht do na duithchibh talaimh faoi sheilbh Coimisiuin an Talaimh: agus an feasach don Aire go bhfuil mishasamh mor leis an riaghail seo go haithrid san Ghaeltacht; agus an dtabhairfidh an tAire geallstan an dlighe athrughadh sa chruth go dtig tabhartais airgid a chaitheamh ar na duithchibh seo i ndiaidh seilbh bheith ag Coimisiun an Talaimh ortha. 
     
     
      
       Ni heol do Choimisiun na Talmhan aon Riaghail den tsort da ndeanann an Teachta tagairt do bheith ann.  Ta comhacht aca fe Achtanna na Talmhan airgead do chaitheamh chun tailte a cheannaigh siad d'fheabhsu agus ni ceaptar gur ga aon atharu do dheanamh ar an dli na ar an nos ata ann fe lathair.  Le seacht mbliana, do chaith Coimisiun na Talmhan £60,621 (Tri scor mile, se chead agus aon phunt fhichead) ar oibreacha feabhasuithe i gContae Dhun na nGall amhain. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Laragh River Bridge. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what was the amount of money spent in either May or June, 1927, on procuring material to make a bridge across Laragh River, County Cavan, at the townlands of Killnagarbit and Longfield. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission cannot trace the expenditure by them of any money on procuring materials for the bridge referred to, but further inquiry is being made into the matter. 
     
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary tell us how many inspectors have been engaged on this work since 1927? 
     
     
      
       No, but I have just told Deputy Cole that further inquiry is being made into the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Springfield Farm (Tipperary). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is   aware that the late owner of Springfield Farm, near Tipperary town (Miss O'Dwyer), communicated with the Irish Land Commission with a view to the division of these lands (about 130 acres); whether the Irish Land Commission sent inspectors to inspect the lands, with a view to division, and what was the report of the inspectors thereon; whether he is aware that these lands are practically surrounded by uneconomic holders; and whether, in view of these facts, he will have the whole matter reopened with a view to the acquisition of these lands among the people who cannot get land elsewhere. 
     
     
      
       Miss Winifred Dwyer, the tenant of the Springfield Farm, which is pending for sale under the Land Act, 1923, applied to the Land Commission for permission to subdivide the holding, and whilst this application was under consideration, sold her interest in the entire holding to Mr. William McCarthy, of Carrca House, Tipperary.  The Land Commission, having fully investigated all the circumstances of the case, decided to resell the holding to Mr. McCarthy, and do not propose to reopen the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Ballyphilip (Co. Tipperary) Lands. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he has taken any, and, if so, what action, regarding the lands of Ballyphilip (near Killenaule), County Tipperary, on the old Going Estate, non-resident lands, now held by Messrs. W.P. Hanley, Lanespark, Thurles, who have extensive ranches; whether he is aware that this extensive tract of land gives practically no employment, and that it is very much required for distribution among local uneconomic holders and landless men of the district. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have still under consideration the question of the acquisition of the lands of Ballyphilip, formerly the property of the late Mr. E.A. Hughes.  The circumstances of the lands are being fully investigated, but it is not possible at this stage to state whether the lands will be acquired. 
     
     
     
      
       Is it a fact that there was an inspector sent down and that he reported favourably on this case&mdash; that is, to the effect that there was congestion in the area? 
     
     
      
       The inspector reported on these lands quite recently.  I do not know whether the report has reached the office or not.  As a matter of fact, I do not think it has. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Compounded Arrears of Rent. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware (a) that the Irish Land Commission are now adding to the purchase price under the Land Act, 1923, amounts in excess of the compounded arrears of rent, and (b) that this excess is even being added in respect of persons who had paid their landlords up to the passing of the Land Act, 1923, leaving no hanging gale. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy appears to be under a misapprehension.  No amounts in excess of the compounded arrears of rent properly due and payable by the tenant are added by the Land Commission to the standard price of holdings purchased under the Land Acts, 1923-9, and in every case the addition of compounded arrears of rent is made only after due notice to the tenants concerned, who are thus given an opportunity of objecting to the amounts proposed to be added if they disagree with the amounts returned by the owner. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Stoney Estate, Westport. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state why James Joyce, Rockfleet, Carrowbeg, Westport, a tenant on the Stoney Estate, is not yet vested, and if there is any likelihood that he will be in the near future. 
     
     
      
       The holding of James Joyce, referred to by the Deputy, is at present being dealt with for the purpose of having a purchase agreement completed by him with a view to vesting the lands in him as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       It is nearly time that the purchase agreement should be   completed as this case has been pending in the Irish Land Commission offices for the last 22 years and it is now full time that it should be dealt with. 
     
     
      
       As far as I am aware we have been trying to get James Joyee to sign a purchase agreement for the last three years at least. 
     
     
      
       What was the reason why he refused to sign it? 
     
     
      
       That is a different question. 
     
     
      
       It is a different question, but I think there must be some grave reason for his refusing to sign it.  It is full time that this matter should now be fixed up after 22 years. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Co. Galway Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will supply the following particulars (1) the amount of land at present held by Mr. Harry Burns in County Galway; (2) the amount held by him in other counties, and (3) the number of acres taken over by the Land Commission from him in the different years from 1921 to 1930. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Burns is the owner of 411 acres of lands purchased under the Land Purchase Acts in County Galway, and he holds 1,627 acres of land as a tenant on the Pollock Estate in County Galway.  The Land Commission have no information of any other lands held by Mr. Burns, either in County Galway or in other counties, and they have not taken over any lands from him in the years stated. 
     
     
      
       I understand that Mr. Burns is paying about £1,900 in rates to the Galway County Council.  I have been informed that since 1921 no land has been taken from him.  I know that the Parliamentary Secretary told me in this House about a year ago that the Land Commission were taking over his farm.  They had done nothing at all in it yet.  They have, as a matter of fact, fixed him up in it and left it to him. 
     
     
      
       Negotiations are in progress at the moment with a view to the   acquisition of certain lands from Mr. Burns. 
     
     
      
       In this case negotiations have been in progress for five years.  Will the Parliamentary Secretary tell us how many more years are these negotiations to continue? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - O'Rourke Estate (Co. Galway). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state what steps the Land Commission are taking to relieve the remaining congests in the O'Rourke Estate, Clonberne, County Galway. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are taking proceedings towards the resumption of certain holdings on the Estate of C.T. O'Rourke, Co. Galway, with a view to their utilisation for the relief of congestion. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Co. Galway Estate. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state what progress has been made by the Land Commission towards the acquisition of Mr. O'Connor's lands at Pallas and Ballydoogan, Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       The holding of Mr. John O'Connor, comprising 630 acres of the townland of Pallas and 207 acres of the townland of Ballydoogan, purchased by him under the Land Purchase Acts, is at present the subject of negotiation with the owner with a view to acquisition. 
     
     
      
       I got the very same reply to this question from the Parliamentary Secretary in April last.  I wonder would the Parliamentary Secretary speed up that case as there is terrible congestion in that area? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Beresford and McGregor Property (Co. Kerry). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when he intends completing the vesting in the tenants of the Beresford and McGregor property, Killorglin, County Kerry. 
     
     
      
       The particulars of the Beresford and McGregor estate (Record   No. 3,6306) have been lodged in the Land Commission by the owner, but the estate has not yet been reached in its turn to be dealt with, and at the present stage it is not possible to say when the holdings will be vested in the tenants. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Drummond Estate (Kerry). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when his Department intends to mark out the boundaries and construct the necessary bog passages for the 86 tenants of the Drummond Estate, Beaufort, County Kerry. 
     
     
      
       Regulations under the provisions of Section 21 of the Irish Land Act, 1903, and Section 42 of the Land Act, 1923, were framed by the Land Commission with a view to providing the tenants referred to with rights of turbary on bogs within the ambit of tenanted holdings on the Drummond Estate.  Some of the bog owners have given notice that they desire to bring a legal action to test the power of the Land Commission to make such regulations, and the definition of the boundaries of the turbary plots and the construction of the necessary bog passages have had to be deferred pending the result of this action. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Roe Estate (Cavan). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether it is proposed to acquire for distribution the lands at Ballyconnell, County Cavan, known as the Roe Estate. 
     
     
      
       The question of the acquisition of the lands referred to is under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       Could the Parliamentary Secretary give us any idea as to the cause of the delay in this case? 
     
     
      
       Just the ordinary difficulties that take place in all negotiations for the acquisition of land. 
     
     
      
       What is the normal time that must elapse before the Land Commission   can give a decision in a matter of this kind? 
     
     
      
       The circumstances in connection with each estate vary, and the length of time that the negotiations occupy depend entirely upon the circumstances of each case. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary state if the acquisition of these lands has been under consideration for the past eighteen months, and if any progress has been made? 
     
     
      
       Oh, yes, considerable progress. 
     
     
      
       Has the Land Commission decided to take any steps in the distribution of this land? 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission has not decided on this particular case yet. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Kerry Turbary Claim. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware that an assurance was given at the time of the vesting of the farm held by Jeremiah Healy, McCartie Estate, Kerry (Receivable Order No. of farm 85/8985), that Healy, the tenant, would be allotted the usual acreage of turbary, and that this tenant has repeatedly complained to the Irish Land Commission that he has no turbary, and if the Minister will now send down an inspector to investigate this claim. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Jeremiah D. Healy signed a purchase agreement with the Congested Districts Board, dated 1st November, 1918, for the purchase of his holding on the townland of Headford, together with an appurtenant right of turbary on a plot containing 3a. 0r. 33p. on the holding of William Murphy and others on the townland of Coole. 
       His holding was vested in him, together with the right of turbary, on 29th July, 1921. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Collis Estate (Co. Kerry). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware that an assurance was given by   his Department in October, 1929, that the 250 acres situated in the Collis Estate, Tieraclea, Tarbert, Kerry, would be taken over by his Department and distributed amongst the people who are agitating for its division; whether this estate has been acquired; and, if not, if he will state the reasons why. 
     
     
      
       The question of the acquisition of the lands referred to by the Deputy is still under consideration, and at the present stage the Land Commission are not in a position to say whether they will be acquired. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dail Loan. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when he proposes to repay the amounts subscribed to Dail Loan by Patrick Carey, Lurgan, Lustia, Leitrim P.O. (£1); Lawrence Gibbons, Lustia, Leitrim P.O. (£1); Bernard Quinn, Lustia, Leitrim P.O. (£1); James Moffat, Drumboylan, Leitrim P.O. (£1); Matthew Kenny, Drumboylan, Leitrim P.O. (£1); Bartley Moffat, Drumboylan, Leitrim P.O. (£1); and James O'Brien, Lurgan, Lustia, Leitrim P.O. (£1). 
     
     
      
       The claim of every subscriber who made application in writing within the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription will be dealt with in my Department as speedily as possible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tenancy of a Co. Kerry Farm. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state when it is the intention of his Department to finally determine the tenancy of the farm at present held by Michael Donoghue, Coomacullen, Clonkeen, Killarney Estate (Colonel Sugrue), and if he is aware that this farm was formerly held by the present occupier's father. 
     
     
      
       The holding referred to by the Deputy appears to be on the estate of J.M. Sugrue, Record No. S. 2263, particulars of which have been lodged in the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923.  The matter referred to in the question will be inquired into by the Land Commission   when the estate is being dealt with in its turn. 
     
   
   
     Question on Adjournment. 
     
      
       In view of the unsatisfactory answer given by the Minister for Local Government to Question 16 to-day and owing to the urgency of the matter I wish to give notice that I shall raise the matter on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       Before the Deputy wastes the time of the House by raising the matter on the adjournment I should like to know does he understand that he wishes to raise a question as to the neglect of the Local Government Department in respect of a matter over which the Galway Co. Council has complete power? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  But two years ago a relief grant was passed by this House and this was one of the matters about which I made representations.  Nothing was done then and nothing has been done since then and I think it is up to the Minister to see that this case is looked into as it is one of the worst in Ireland. 
     
     
      
       We shall take the notice provisionally and see what can be done before the adjournment. If it is a matter for the Minister we shall take the notice. 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation Bill, 1930&mdash;Committee. 
     Bill passed through Committee; Report Stage to be taken to-morrow. 
   
   
     Private Business. - Public Business. 
     
      
       We propose to-day to take down to No. 3 inclusive on the Order Paper and that Public Business should not be interrupted at 9 p.m. for the taking of Private Deputies' Business. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask the President if it will be possible to provide Government time this Session for the discussion of the motion in my name dealing with the report of the Tariff Commission on the application   for a duty on packing and wrapping paper? 
     
     
      
       I shall look into that matter and see if I can give the Deputy an answer after questions to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       May we take it that if Private Deputies' time is taken this evening time will be given later on instead of it? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy I think has forgotten that I gave twice the usual Private Members' time last week. 
     
     
      
       There was no guarantee that we were foregoing our rights. 
     
     
      
       I gave a whole day last week.  Whereas all that was due was 31⁄2 hours, I gave 71⁄2 hours.  If there is time I undertake to consider the matter, but I think I ought not to be pressed having regard to the boundless generosity that I have shown. 
     
     
      
       I do not think there was any generosity in the matter, because towards the end of last Session Private Members' time was taken up to a considerable extent by the Government. 
     
     
      
       For which you thanked God. 
     
     
      
       We have not got our rights back yet.  I think that if Private Members' time is taken we ought to get a quid pro quo. 
     
     
      
       I shall give very favourable consideration to that. 
       Ordered: That Public Business be not interrupted at 9 p.m. for the taking of Private Deputies' Business. 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Land Bill, 1930&mdash;First Stage. 
     Leave given to introduce a &ldquo;Bill entitled an Act to make provision for the early vesting of holdings in the purchasers thereof under the Land Purchase Acts and for that and other purposes to amend those Acts and the Local Registration of Title (Ireland) Act, 1891, and also to make provision in respect of the variation of certain tithe rent charges and variable rents.&rdquo;  (Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Lands and Fisheries (Mr. Roddy). 
     
      
       When will the Second Stage be taken? 
     
     
     
      
       Thursday of next week. 
     
     
      
       I think a fortnight at least ought to be given before taking the Second Stage of such a very important measure. 
     
     
      
       If we are asked on Thursday for longer time we shall be prepared to consider the matter. 
       Second Stage ordered for Thursday, December 4th. 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Supplementary and Additional Estimates. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance to consider Supplementary and Additional Estimates. 
   
   
     Private Business. - Vote No. 57&mdash;Railways. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £7,750 chun ioctha an mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun iocaiochtanna fe Acht na mBothar Iarainn, 1924, fen  Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act , 1883, etc., agus chun cricheanna eile a bhaineann le hIompar in Eirinn. 
       That a Supplementary sum not exceeding £7,750 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st March, 1931, for payments under the Railways Act, 1924, the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc., and for other purposes connected with Irish transport.&rdquo; 
     
     The details of this Vote are set out in the paper itself.  The latter portion &mdash;EE&mdash;giving details, shows that a certain sum had been voted last year, of which £2,000 was the final instalment but the conditions under which that instalment were to be paid were not satisfied and, consequently, the £2,000 lapsed.  It is now proposed to have this £2,000 re-voted, the conditions having now been fulfilled.  In addition to that we are asking the Dail to assent to the payment of a sum of £5,750 to meet the losses in working in the year 1930.  These are the usual payments made to the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway in respect of the   working of three Government lines in Co. Donegal.  The sum of £5,750 is given on the usual conditions: (1) that it is a maximum sum and may be sealed down if conditions allow; (2) that the Government of Northern Ireland advance an equal amount. 
     
      
       While it is my intention and the intention of other Labour Deputies to vote in favour of this Supplementary Estimate, at the same time I would like to ask the Minister whether he is in a position to make a statement in regard to the negotiations taking place for some time between the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway and the L.M.S. (Northern Counties Committee) and the Great Northern Railway Company with a view to the Co. Donegal Joint Railway taking over the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway.  I should like to know if the Department was represented at these negotiations, and further, if it is the intention if these negotiations are successful, for the Minister's Department to introduce the necessary legislation to give effect to any alterations that might be necessary.  Also if such a Bill is introduced is he prepared to have inserted a clause adequately safeguarding the position of the employees both of the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway and of the County Donegal Railway? 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to make any statement with regard to the negotiations which the Deputy alleges are going on. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say if his Department is represented at those negotiations? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest that this is a matter for the railway companies concerned? 
     
     
      
       What is the matter? 
     
     
      
       The question of the proposed absorption of the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway? 
     
     
      
       I do not know anything about the negotiations to which the Deputy refers.  I have no official information about them. 
     
     
     
      
       Nothing whatever? 
     
     
      
       No official information about them. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister, in view of the fact that there is a possibility of the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway being taken over by two companies, one of whose headquarters is outside the Saorstat, would it not be the duty of his Department to be represented at these negotiations, to safeguard not only the interests of the employees but also the interests of the travelling and trading community in the Co. Donegal. 
     
     
      
       Nothing can be done in regard to Government-owned railways without myself having some say in the matter.  I can come in on the proper occasion but I am not in at the moment. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       [ An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Vote No. 69&mdash;Electrical Battery Development. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £25,000 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun Taighde agus Forbairte maidir le Baiteri Leictreachais. 
       That a sum not exceeding £25,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending the 31st day of March, 1931, for Electrical Battery Research and Development. 
     
     The ordinary paper has been circulated in connection with this matter which states that issues will be made from this grant to the Minister for Industry and Commerce on his certificates as to the sums required by him from time to time.  It states further that this grant, together with grants amounting to £5,300 in the aggregate, made for the same purpose in previous years will be repayable at such times, and on such terms, and conditions, as the Minister for Finance, after consultation   with the Minister for Industry and Commerce, may determine at the date of the advance or subsequently. It is further stated that sums amounting to £3,900 have been advanced from the Contingency Fund, and a corresponding amount of this Vote is required to enable repayment to be made to this fund.  The situation, therefore, is that at this moment I am asking for £25,000 for electrical battery research development, and I am indicating, while asking for that, that £3,900 has already been spent and of this sum of £25,000, £3,900 is required for the purpose of making a repayment to the Contingency Fund from which fund I got £3,900 for this purpose. Previously I had got from the House £5,300&mdash;£300 on a separate Vote in March of this year and £5,000 previously which was also by way of being a repayment at that time to the Contingency Fund.  I had been able, previous to that date, to get from the Contingency Fund a sum of £5,000.  The sum of £25,000 which is now brought before the House does not mark by any means the end of the expenditure that we may have to face in this matter. 
     I should like to divide that sum of £25,000 in this fashion:&mdash;The £3,900 for the repayment I have already mentioned; the rest is divided into two sums; a sum of £15,000 and a sum of £6,000 of which the latter is for contingencies and to cover certain possible payments by way of indemnity to the G.S.W.R. Co., for expenditure that they will incur and have agreed to incur on behalf of Celia, Ltd., which is the Company I have set up to deal with the development of what has come to be known as the Drumm Electrical Battery.  The other item of £15,000 is for the payment of salaries, office expenses, for the construction of new batteries, for railway and road tests for this battery. 
     The finance of the battery to date is that a sum of £5,300 is being spent and I am asking for an additional £25,000. I want to point out, however, that I am only asking for that sum at this time as I believe that the third item of £6,000 is the full tot of expenditure that I may incur between this and the end of the financial year in respect of   expenditure to be incurred by the railway company on my behalf in connection with this development.  I can see ahead in connection with the development of the battery payments to the railway company to the extent at least of £20,000 more.  I limited my figure to £25,000 instead of making it £45,000 because if I asked for £45,000 I could not expend under the subhead in payments to the railway company anything more than the £6,000 to which I have referred. But I think the Dail ought to be informed that the expenditure envisaged at present is not £25,000 but nearer to £45,000, in addition to which I have already spent £5,300. What the people are being faced with at present, as between past expenditure, and what I see in figure is a sum of about £50,000. 
     The purpose of this Vote can be stated simply enough.  It is for the development of the battery about which I first spoke to the House a couple of years ago.  It is a development that has been carried on through the agency of a company called Celia, Ltd., formed by me in the year 1928 for the purpose of carrying on this development.  There have been certain changes in the company which I want to refer to immediately before I go into the history of the whole matter.  I need not go into the very distant past with regard to it. The origin of this dates from the late winter of 1927 when Dr. Drumm came to me and announced that he thought he had a discovery with regard to a storage battery of a particular type. He announced further that feeling, as some people have expressed it more recently, quite quixotically disposed towards the State in so far as he has got a certain amount of educational advancement through the State, and feeling that he should put his discovery at the disposal of the State because it seemed to be a good rounding off of the Shannon scheme, he made an offer that if I liked to advance a certain sum of money I could acquire the rights in this discovery and in return he would devote himself to the development of the idea.  If again I advanced and financed the thing to a certain stage he would devote himself to the exploitation commercially of this battery.  Dr. Drumm and myself   had certain negotiations covering a period of the winter of 1927 and the first month of 1928.  By degrees an arrangement was hammered out and come to as between us which gave me the majority control in this development. 
     In June, 1928, a company called Celia, Ltd., was formed.  In August, 1929, I made, not a very fundamental change in the formation of that company, but in fact a very radical change took place.  At that time, the development had advanced so far that I felt I must have much more easy touch with the discoverer and those intimately associated with him in the development than I could get through the medium of the company, and I persuaded the company to appoint Professor Drumm, Mr. Fay, Professor Nolan, of University College, Dublin, two of them as managing directors and the other more or less as chairman associated with them to carry on in more intimate association with myself the developments that had then reached a certain point.  The company has been carried on really by the two managing directors and Professor Nolan acting as Chairman, in collaboration with myself as from August, 1929.  That company is now undergoing another reconstitution when it will emerge lessened in number and comprising only four people instead of six as previously, two nominated by me and two nominated by the discoverer, one of my nominees having the right to become Chairman and having a casting vote and so ensuring complete control of this. 
     The development of the idea itself has progressed apart from these changes in the company formed to take charge of it.  In the very early stages, in the early part of 1928, and even after the company was formed, developments proceeded along certain lines.  I got the best technical advice both from the electrical standpoint and the legal and patent standpoint I could have about the matter.  Basing myself on the advice I received, I proceeded in the middle of that year to form this company and progressed with the company for the whole of that year.  Through the good offices of Dr. Coffey, President, University College, Dublin, the laboratories of   that college were given over to certain of the professorial staff who had at that time become interested in this discovery&mdash;notably Professor Nolan, Professor of Physics in that college, and Professor Taylor, who were especially interested, and by their help a certain amount of development was done of a laboratory and research type during the period of 1928. 
     I said, when speaking of the company itself and the change that occurred round about the summer of 1929, that I felt that the development had advanced to a point at which we should get more intimate association with those who were working in the matter than I could then get in the company.  I need only say now that in the early part of 1929, and even in the late part of 1928, there was not the completest agreement amongst the members of the company as to how far the development of this discovery should be pushed.  Luckily for me, and, I think, for the country, the technical people on the committee at that time stood firmly by the idea and buttressed me strongly in supporting the view that the development should be pushed further than it had at that point gone. Certain changes came about in regard to things we were working on and certain patents had to be fortified by additional patents. 
     In the end of 1929 I made the changes of which I have spoken.  I had associated in the most intimate way with the development Professor Nolan, Dr. Drumm himself, and Mr. Fay.  About that time I came to an arrangement with the Chairman of the Great Southern Railways Company, Sir Walter Nugent, that he would allow certain constructional work to be carried out at the Inchicore Works.  At that time, not having a sufficient amount of money in hands granted by the Dail, I could not make any definite promise to him, but I promised that if the whole matter came to nothing, if it collapsed, I would seek the authority of the Dail to indemnify him against any losses which the company might have suffered from expenditure on this constructional work.  The Chairman of the railway company had the courage to take the risk involved in that and put a certain portion of the works at   Inchicore at the disposal of the discoverer. We got to a certain point towards the end of the year 1929.  Development was proceeding smoothly. Everything was working out as had been forecasted.  The scheme seemed to be developing well and the constructional work was proceeding, at Inchicore. With regard to practical demonstrations of the advantages of the battery, in the early part of 1930 I again thought that I should fortify myself with further advice on the technical side, on the purely scientific side, and after a good deal of cogitation I was advised that Professor Allman of the University of London represented the best advice in the electro-chemical world which I could avail of. 
     I made contact with him, and he came here in the middle of January of this year, the arrangement being that he was to come here to examine this discovery on the spot, and, if he thought that it was worth pursuing, he was to write me a preliminary report, and to follow it up, after certain investigations had been made, with a final report.  He came here on the 14th of January, and one of the best guarantees which I have had of the final success of the discovery was the fact that, after being at Inchicore for a certain number of hours he was able to declare to me in my room that he could then write me not merely a preliminary but a final report, that he completely agreed with the claim made by the inventor, and that it was an extremely novel and practical proposition. He gave me the completest guarantee which any man could ask from an expert that success was bound to follow this development.  About the same time, when we had got into smoother water, I decided to get advice on another matter, namely, a report as to the practical application of the discovery to working conditions.  I established a Traction Committee, consisting of Mr. Fay, Mr. Morton, Engineer of the Great Southern Railways Company, and Mr. Monahan, Engineer of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs.  I asked them&mdash;in conjunction with the Technical Committee, Celia, Ltd., and Professor All man&mdash;to follow the developments that   were taking place, to give me reports regarding them from time to time, and to indicate the best way in their opinion in which the invention could be brought to success.  Professor Allman eventually sent me in writing what he described as his complete report.  It is of a very technical type. The claims made by the discoverer were segregated under a certain number of heads, and in regard to certain of them which had reference not so much to the scientific side but rather to application, he consulted a colleague of his in London University.  His final report fulfilled and carried out most of the promises he had made in my room to me on the 14th of January. It gave me every hope that this development would be a success.  Early in that year we decided&mdash;it was really decided for me by the Traction Committee and the other group&mdash;that it was better not to dissipate our energies in trying to develop along three or four different lines, but to concentrate completely on development for railway use in the country, while we did not lose sight of the fact that the discovery had uses outside railway development. 
     As I say, it was decided to concentrate almost completely on railway development. We did so, and with the help of the railway people and under the supervision of Celia, Ltd., and in accordance with the wishes of the Traction Committee, a certain type of coach was prepared, of which most Deputies have heard.  Demonstrations were given on that coach towards the end of July and the beginning of August of this year.  To these demonstrations were invited technical people of different types.  While I can mention the name of Professor Allman, as he was engaged by me to write a report, I am not at liberty to mention the names of others who came, but I am at liberty to quote their views generally in regard to the invention. 
     On the first point of novelty, I heard nobody express any opinion other than that this discovery of Dr. Drumm is of the most novel type.  One continental expert expressed himself in this way: that it was a platitude to say that no scientific man had written   of any development such as this, but that it was equally true to say that no scientific man had been working along the lines of Dr. Drumm's advance. That point of view has been corroborated by many technical people, or rather by a certain number of technical people who came here.  I make that correction because the number of technical people who came was not big.  Many of them had reports of it and were intrigued by what was going on and asked to be allowed to come over later.  Nobody has yet questioned the novelty of this discovery nor has anyone ever questioned its practicability.  There is only one thing outstanding, only one thing left to be proved, and when it is proved, we can confidently claim that we have got here a discovery of first-class importance. The one matter outstanding is the question of the life of this battery.  When I say that it is outstanding I do not want to have any doubt cast on that matter.  I do not want people to believe that we have any reason to think that the tests in regard to the life of the battery which are now going on will not be successful. We have progressed to the point at which I am able to declare with a certain amount of confidence, but not absolute assurance, that we will get a very long life out of the cell. 
     If that question is answered in our favour, we have got something in the way of battery development which no country has, as yet, achieved.  Tests are going on with regard to the life of the battery, and I do not think that these tests can be shortened in any way.  We are progressing as speedily as we can.  In addition to the actual cells at the rear of the coach, which runs on the line at Inchicore, there is a cell which is being subjected to a certain kind of laboratory test sufficient to test the life of the battery. It is being tested for twenty hours out of the twenty-four.  It has been tested for twenty hours out of every twenty-four hours' cycle for the last four or five months and has stood up to every test.  It shows no sign of depreciation, although the life test that is put on it is something that is pretty serious.  I am asking for this sum of £25,000 to meet salaries and expenses, the   construction of batteries for rail and road tests, to meet contingencies and to cover payments by way of indemnity that I may have to give to the Great Southern Railways Company for certain expenditure by them in the near future.  In this again I am acting on joint advice.  I am acting as a result of the report received from the Traction Committee on the one hand and from Celia, Limited, on the other, as it has been constituted since August, 1929. 
     It has been recommended to me that we should get two double coaches, each capable of seating about 100 passengers, to run for suburban traffic around Dublin&mdash;a double coach weighing about 75 tons, including the weight of the battery itself, so designed that it will have an acceleration rate of about a mile per hour per second and capable of a maximum speed of from 50 to 60 miles per hour.  It has been represented to me in discussions I have had with both committees that these coaches, built in this way, and charged in a very short space of time, will give us all the advantages of third rail electrification, and will give us these advantages with an amazing reduction in the cost that would attach to third rail electrification.  Meantime, while these coaches are being built for service in the suburban areas in the neighbourhood of Dublin, the life test on the single cell will still continue. I am acting in this connection again both on the recommendations of Celia, Limited, in the form which I have described it and the Traction Committee. 
     In regard to another side of the question, the patents side, a fair amount of money has had to be spent to secure protection of the patent type in a number of countries.  We have covered twenty-four countries in all. In this connection, I have had the advice of probably one of the best legal firms the country has, added to the advice of the best firm of patent agents I could get in England.  They have always worked under the supervision of Celia, Limited, and myself, and, where necessary, the Traction Committee. Patents have been taken out and we have covered ourselves in certain   ways in twenty-four countries, and, under the rules of the international convention, a certain period is allowed in which we can seek protection in the countries covered by that international convention.  I am not at liberty, inasmuch as patents have been applied for and have not yet been granted in a number of countries, to go into the technical side of the question.  I can only put it to the Dail, that in asking for a sum of £25,000, I should make the case that in all I have done I have depended on the best expert advice I could get.  I have described where I got these experts, and mentioned some of them who were there by name.  I have said, and I can say with absolute accuracy, that in the development which I am now seeking I am acting on the advice of these particular people. 
     I do not know if the Dail would like further technical information.  Some technical information cannot be given at the moment as, as I have already pointed out, patents have been applied for in certain places and have not yet been granted.  There may be certain other technical information that could be given, but I am not disposed to give information merely for the interest of the Dail; I am disposed to give it only if it is demanded to fortify the Dail in its opinion that this sum of £25,000, in addition to another £25,000 next year, is reasonable to carry out the development which has been carried on and which I have tried to describe.  That information can be asked for in the course of the discussion, and I can then see how much of it I can supply.  I have given what I consider to be sufficient information to warrant the Dail in passing this Vote, and I would not like to be forced to give any information beyond what I have already given. 
     
      
       I move that the Estimate be referred back for reconsideration. In doing so, I would like to make it clear that Deputies on these benches are not opposed to the voting of money for electrical battery research and development.  We sincerely hope that the invention, which has been described as the Drumm Battery, will be successful and that the   very high hopes which were held out by the Minister in relation to it when he first described it to the Dail will be realised.  Perhaps, however, it would be no harm to remind members of the Dail what exactly the hopes held out were.  The first statement made in relation to the invention to the Dail was made by the Minister on June 13th, 1928.  He stated then: 
       &ldquo;I do not hesitate to say here that I believe railway electrification at a very cheap cost is quite close upon us.  I think there will be quite a considerable portion of the railways in this country, the main lines, electrified.  I am founding my opinion entirely upon the invention being successful and on the experiments carried out to date, and in judging what has been proved with regard to this invention.  I can give an estimate in this way.  I am told that the electrification of the main line running between Dublin and Cork under the ordinary conditions of overhead line or third rail would amount to £1,000,000.  If this invention works out successfully, giving the best estimate, we can make the cost, multiplying it by two, and it can be carried out for less than £80,000.&rdquo; 
       An invention which, if successful, would produce benefits of even a fraction of the value of those described by the Minister, would be a very great asset to the State, and any party which impeded or prevented the development of the success of that invention would have to take a very great responsibility.  We, on this side, very readily agreed to vote a sum of £5,000 for the development of the inventions before we were even aware of the nature of the invention. 
     
     We considered then, and still consider, that it would be a good thing for the State if it had available funds to enable promising inventions to be taken up by the State and thus retained for it.  We have at no time impeded the Minister in his efforts to push the development of this battery. We are now, however, asked to vote another £25,000, and we are duly warned, if we do so, that we are accepting a moral liability to vote an additional   sum of £20,000 some time in the future.  While £45,000 is a very large sum of money, it would not be at all too large to expend to secure all the advantages outlined by the Minister in a statement to this House in June, 1928.  It is, however, well for the Dail to remember that apart from that statement and the statement just made by the Minister and certain highly technical reports furnished to the Press in relation to experiments carried out in Inchicore, it has no reliable information concerning the invention. We do not think the Dail should be asked, or if asked should agree, to vote any further sums for the development of this battery until more definite and much more reliable information concerning its potential value as a commercial proposition has been given. For that reason we are moving the reference back of this Estimate to secure that the voting of this money will be postponed until the Dail has received a report from an independent technical committee on the following matters:&mdash; 
     (1)  whether a valid and sustainable patent exists or can be obtained for the invention; 
     (2)  whether such a patent is or is likely to be property of commercial value; 
     (3)  whether the proposed method of financing the invention is sound from the point of view of the State. 
     Obviously, the information asked for, which does not include the revelation of any technical secret, should be at the disposal of the Dail.  The Minister would, in our opinion, be well advised to postpone the consideration of this Estimate until such information is available.  He cannot ask us to accept his unsupported statements concerning the value of this invention. 
     
      
       Unsupported! 
     
     
      
       Or to accept second-hand reports from unnamed experts. 
     
     
      
       Unnamed experts! 
     
     
      
       One chemist has been mentioned, Professor Allman, I think. I have not seen his report. 
     
     
     
      
       Who is unnamed! 
     
     
      
       I did not say he was unnamed. 
     
     
      
       You must correct your statement. 
     
     
      
       I said the Minister made reference to a number of reports received by him from unnamed experts. 
     
     
      
       I am inclined to base this entirely on Professor Allman's report. 
     
     
      
       When Professor Allman's report is submitted to the Dail we will be in a position to discuss it. I do not think he has given the Dail any information whatever which would enable it to make up its mind whether or not it is a good investment for the taxpayer to put another £25,000 or £50,000 into this invention.  The previous statement made to this House by the Minister in June, 1928, has been shown by events to have been at least premature. 
     
     
      
       How have events shown that? 
     
     
      
       I do not know exactly what the Minister means by the term &ldquo;very close upon it.&rdquo;  I take it it means at least two years. 
     
     
      
       No.  Have you any idea how long patents take to work out? 
     
     
      
       I have a fair idea.  I also have a fair idea of the meaning of English words. 
     
     
      
       What time did Edison take to work out any of his discoveries? 
     
     
      
       I am not quite sure, but I will look it up if the Minister wants it. 
     
     
      
       Ten years is the average. 
     
     
      
       We suggest, however, that the Dail demand from the Minister a report from some independent technical committee on the points I have mentioned, whether or not there is a valid patent for the invention or whether such patent can be obtained,   whether the patent if obtained is or is not likely to be property of any commercial value at all and whether the proposed method of financing the invention is sound from the point of view of the State.  The committee I have in mind would consist of the President of the Institute of Electrical Engineers or his nominee, the Chief Engineer of the Southern Railways or his nominee, and a Circuit Court Judge, together with a patent agent and a person of commercial experience nominated by the first three.  If satisfactory answers to the three questions I have indicated were forthcoming from such a committee then the Dail would be quite justified in voting public money to further this invention.  If such satisfactory answers, however, cannot be obtained then it is obviously desirable that no further expenditure should be undertaken or that no more good money should be sent after the money that has been already expended. 
       Let me be quite clear that I do not question at all the technical value of the invention.  I have no information concerning it, and if I had would not be competent to judge it.  I am concerned only with its possible commercial value, and it is in relation to its possible commercial value that I want information given to the Dail.  If the Minister takes the attitude that such information will not be given, that he must in effect be given a blank cheque, then I am prepared to divide the House upon this amendment. 
     
     
      
       I would like to emphasise what Deputy Lemass has said. The really significant points to bear in mind in this discussion are whether there is or is not a sustainable patent for the invention, and whether, if such patent exists, it has any commercial value.  There is nothing in the statement of the Minister that should have any more weight with the Dail than these two factors. 
     
     In regard to the question of commercial value, we have had cited here the name of a very eminent professor of electro-chemistry, but we have not heard a single statement from an independent electrical expert witness who is prepared to put his name to that statement as to the value of this invention.   So far as the technical world is concerned&mdash;those who are not closely associated with the invention&mdash; the only facts they have to go on are the statements which have been issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce, and these statements have been very unsatisfactory from the technical point of view. 
     We are dealing with a storage battery.  The two critical things, so far as the discharge of a storage battery is concerned&mdash;in this case a battery primarily intended for traction purposes&mdash;are the half-hour rate of discharge and the three-hour rate of discharge. There is no reason whatsoever, so far as I or anybody else can see, why the half-hour rate of discharge and the three-hour rate of discharge for the battery at present under test should not be published, and in relation to these two rates of discharge the following figures should be given&mdash; the cell voltage at the beginning of the discharge, the cell voltage at the end of discharge, and the mean voltage during the discharge, and, in addition, the total energy, or, as it is called, Watt hour output at the rate concerned. In the statement issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce on the 22nd August, and of which the Department was good enough to give me a copy, we have the total output of the battery during the whole test given, but it would have been better, and scientifically more valuable, if the statement had given the Watt hour output at the end of each discharge. 
     There is also the question of the charging of the battery, because it is by the relative proportions of the output during the discharge and the input during the charge that the working efficiency of the battery is to be determined.  Again, in that case the two critical rates are the normal rate of charging the battery and the highest practicable rate of charging it. For these values also there should be published the cell voltage at the beginning of the charge, the cell voltage at the end of the charge, the mean cell voltage during the charge, and the total Watt input at the rate concerned. These particulars are the essential data which are required in   order to enable any electrical engineer, no matter how eminent or how humble, to form any opinion that is worth the breath with which it is uttered upon the value of this invention. None of these factors have been given in a definite precise way in any of the statements issued on behalf of the Department of Industry and Commerce in relation to this invention. Since we are told that the battery is to be applied principally for traction purposes, we ought to be told also the overall dimensions and the weight of the cell. 
     If any member of the House turns to the statement issued on the 22nd August he will see that this battery, it is claimed, has a fifty per cent. higher voltage than existing alkaline batteries.  I went into the figures published by the Minister and I found that the average voltage of the Drumm Battery during discharge was about 1.58 volts per cell, that is on the assumption of a figure which I am going to question later.  My figure is based on the assumption that the average voltage during discharge for the whole battery was 122 volts, as given in the official statement.  There were 77 cells in the battery, and dividing 122 by 77 we get 1.58 volts per cell.  The statement made here was that this battery has a fifty per cent. higher voltage than existing alkaline batteries.  I have practical experience of an alkaline battery where the average voltage during discharge is 1.2 volts per cell; add fifty per cent. to that and you get 1.9.  So far as the Drumm Battery is concerned, therefore, it has not an average voltage fifty per cent. higher than that particular battery has.  I do not want to be taken as attacking the Drumm invention at all.  I am at present concentrating upon the statements issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce to show that on these statements this House, without the advice of an independent person, is not competent to form an opinion as to the commercial value of this battery. 
     The next point, as has been said in this report, is that the current efficiency is 95 per cent.  I took the trouble to examine and to make an analysis   of the figures issued on 22nd August by the Department of Industry and Commerce in relation to the demonstrations&mdash;I will not call them tests&mdash;which took place with the battery.  I find, in my opinion, the average ampere-W. hour efficiency during the average run under test, that is the 17 miles run which was by far the most numerous of the journeys taken on that day, was 93.6 per cent., as against 95 per cent. claimed by the Ministry and assumed by the Department for the purpose of certain calculations which were made in this statement of the 22nd August.  That is not a very material difference, but it does indicate that there is something wrong with the statements that have been issued by the Minister or with the tests which have been taken.  I prefer to conclude that the error is in the statement issued by the Minister; nevertheless that error does exist. 
     There is a rather more important one.  The average efficiency of the battery, as calculated according to the expression given on page 2 of the statement of 22nd August, is in the following form: The efficiency of the battery is equal to 100 multiplied by 122 multiplied by 95, the whole divided by 152 multiplied by 100.  I am not much of a mathematician, but I would like any Deputy in the House to take down these figures and check the calculation with me.  The answer to that expression given in this official statement is 75 per cent.  I worked the figures out just for curiosity, because I was approaching the thing from another angle.  I find in actual fact that the expression is equal to 76.25 per cent.  That is all leading up to this.  That on the coach upon which I had the pleasure of riding there was no instrument of sub-standard accuracy, no such scientific instrument as would be used in an ordinary commercial engineering test, to enable any independent observer to secure the data necessary for him to form any opinion as to the merits of the battery driving the coach.  There was, for instance, no accurate volt-meter, no recording volt-meter measuring and recording the continuous voltage of that battery during the period when   it was being charged and during the period when it was being discharged. There was no ampere-hour meter measuring current input.  There was, it is true, a Watt-hour meter measuring the output of the battery, but remember, the two significant factors you want in order to calculate the efficiency of the battery are the energy put into the battery and the energy taken out of it.  We had an instrument to measure the energy taken out of the battery, but we had no instrument to measure the energy put into the battery.  So far as that was concerned, we simply had to take the figures supplied to us. 
     What I have said in regard to the measurement of the energy output and input applies also to the quantity of current, the ampere-hours, put into the battery.  That leads me to this conclusion: that as there were no figures given for the terminal voltage at the beginning and the end of the charge and discharge, and as there was no means that I could see of accurately calculating the energy put into the battery, then certain figures issued by the Minister in the course of his statement were chosen in order that they might work out in a certain way.  I have great doubts, having checked the expression given in his statement and having found that it gives me 76.25 instead of 75 per cent., which is the apparent answer published in the statement, as to whether the average voltage of that battery was 122 during discharge or whether it was 152 during charge.  I have the very gravest doubts whether in ordinary circumstances the battery has 95 per cent. ampere efficiency. 
     Any doubts, however, which I may have, or which anybody else may have, can be quite easily resolved by having an independent technical investigation such as we are now asking for. What objections are there to having that investigation?  Secrecy cannot be urged.  I would like the House to fasten upon that fact, that it is no longer possible to plead secrecy in regard to the development of this battery.  The Minister has stated that there have been no less than 24 patent   applications in at least 24 countries in the world.  With the exception of one country, that in which the originating application was made, 12 months after the date of that, the first application, the patent specifications are thrown open to public inspection.  The first patent application was made on 22nd March, 1929.  I would like the House to bear that date in mind, because on the following day the Minister came to the House and stated that he had secured an assignment of the patent for the invention. There was no patent in existence at that time.  The day before there had been lodged an application for a patent.  It was either a serious application or else was a worthless application. But it was merely an application accompanied by a provisional specification, and an application accompanied by provisional specification, except from the viewpoint that it does secure a certain date to the inventor, is practically valueless as commercial property. 
     I happen to have in my hand an officially-printed copy, which anyone can buy at the Patent Office in London, of the original provisional specification lodged in connection with this battery on 27th March, 1929, and the complete specification as afterwards accepted on 29th September, 1930. That was the first patent application lodged by the Minister, and the patent has not been sealed upon it yet.  When the Minister came to the House asking for £5,000 he told it that he had an assignment of a patent.  Possibly the Minister, speaking in some haste, may have unwittingly slipped into an error. I should like to impress on the House that though, so far, we have spent a certain amount upon a battery, we have not secured a patent for it yet.  Now, as to the value of a patent based upon this specification, I want to say on this matter that already, in the British Patent Office, there have been lodged, either in the names of J.J. Drumm or Celia, Limited, 11 applications, eight for batteries and three for railway electrification.  It will be interesting just to consider what has happened to the first of these applications.  The first is the one which was lodged on the 27th March,   1929.  That was the first application for a patent lodged by James Joseph Drumm and Celia Limited, &ldquo;for Improvements in or Relating to See ondary or Storage Batteries.&rdquo;  Subsequently, on 26th March, 1930, an application was lodged in the Free State Patent Office for the same invention. That specification was in due course thrown open to public inspection and a certain gentleman inspected it and wrote an article upon it.  There were then claimed no less than 9 specific and separate improvements in the battery, and there were, in addition, two general claims covering the other improvements.  These claims were duly examined by the British Patent Office, and, as everybody knows, the British Patent Office examination is not the most stringent in the world, is not, for instance, like Germany or the United States.  It only concerns itself with its own records for a number of years past. Other patent offices, such as those of Germany, make much more strict searches.  At any rate, there were nine separate and distinct claims in the original specification as lodged in the Patent Office in December, 1929.  Ultimately the nine separate and distinct claims, all with one exception, were struck out, and we are only left with a claim that I should like the House to consider for a moment.  This claim is for an alkaline storage battery of the type referred to wherein the positive electrode consists of a mixture of metallic silver or silver oxide and ceric oxide, and the negative electrode comprises the usual oxides of iron or cadmium or a mixture thereof.  Now, what the House has to fasten its attention upon are these two points: that the claim was for a positive electrode of the type referred to here.  It was definitely a claim for a positive plate. In the original specification there was also a claim for such a plate associated with a negative plate of zinc. 
     Let the House fasten itself upon these two things, the positive plate, and associated with it a negative plate of zinc.  The claim for the positive plate is there.  It was allowed to stand, but the claim for the zinc negative was struck out.  I believe that the claim for the zinc negative plate was covered   by the specifications originally submitted and published many years ago. 
     We have seen what happened to one of these eight patents for storage batteries.  What happened to the others?  Five of them since 27th March, 1929, have been definitely abandoned. One of them is still in an uncertain position, and the last is the one for which an application under the International Convention was lodged in the Irish Patent Office on 29th August, 1930. 
     I would like the House, for the moment, to consider that invention.  The specification lodged in the Irish Patent Office on 29th August, 1930, is open to public inspection by any person who cares to go up there and read it.  According to the Minister, it is now open to inspection in 22 other patent offices in the world.  I took the trouble to go up and inspect this application, and here is what I found in it.  The invention consists in an alkaline storage battery &ldquo;in which the actual material consists of zinc plated out of liquid electrotype on to a suitable metallic surface, and in such form that it readily re-dissolves in the electrolyte during discharge so behaving completely reversibly.&rdquo;  And in the course of the specification it is also stated &ldquo;the nature of the invention does not in any way depend on the type of positive plate.&rdquo;  What I want the House to bear in mind now is that this invention, the invention according to the application filed in the Irish Patent Office on 29th August, 1930, is based upon a negative plate which consists of &ldquo;zinc plated out of liquid electrolyte,&rdquo; and that the specification disclaims that it has any dependence upon any type of positive plate whatsoever. 
     This is not the original invention for which the Minister stated he had a patent when he came to the House on 28th March, 1929.  It is absolutely and entirely different.  It is based solely upon a zinc negative.  I say that in the first patent application acquired one of the claims was for a positive plate of a certain type associated with a zinc negative, and that the British Office, which is not one of the most rigorous in the world, examined and rejected that claim.  I wonder what chance the present patent application,   dated 23rd August, 1930, which is based solely upon a zinc negative, has of getting through. 
     It is for the House, before it votes this money, to have a definite enquiry made by a person or persons competent to form an opinion as to what chance that patent has of getting through.  I am not impugning in any way the merits of Dr. Drumm.  He may have started this investigation entirely independent of the work of other men.  It is one of the hardships which often befall inventors that when they have brought their invention to a practical conclusion they find that its fundamental principles have been anticipated by other persons. There is an extreme danger, a very grave danger, in this case.  We are at least encroaching upon a series of researches made by one of the greatest inventive minds in the world, researches and experiments extending over a period of ten years made by Edison before he put on the market what is known as the nickel-iron alkaline battery.  The discovery of that battery was a masterpiece of scientific research.  In 1900 Edison withdrew himself from commercial life, and for three years he shut himself up in a laboratory in an endeavour to find a battery which would supersede the lead battery, with which we are all familiar and which held the field unchallenged since 1882.  There was an earlier development of it in 1860.  In the course of the research, looking first of all for the positive plate in his battery, Edison tested every single element or substance that he considered would be useful to him for the purpose he had in view.  He tested it&mdash;and this is the point I am making against the battery specification with which this Vote of £25,000 is associated&mdash;against zinc.  He tested copper, nickel, lead, and every other possible substance that he thought might suit his purpose as a positive plate.  He tested it, using zinc as a negative plate.  He thought he had succeeded, and in 1903 he definitely began to manufacture batteries. In 1905 he stopped making these batteries and he went to the laboratory for another five years.  He again began the procedure of research,   and in 1910 he patented the nickel-iron battery.  In the course of his three years' previous investigation he carried out no less than 50,000 experiments, the results of which were duly noted and every one of which was docketed. Upon some of them applications for patents were filed in the United States Patent Office and a number of these were based on the use of zinc as a negative plate. 
     I am not in a position to make any search, but we earnestly ask the House not to vote the money until they receive a report from an independent technical committee consisting of a nominee of the President of the Institute of Electrical Engineers, some prominent scientific person, and a competent patent agent.  These persons would make a report as to the value of the invention and as to whether any patent is in existence or is likely to come into existence which could be sustained.  That is the case, and I think it is a reasonable case.  I do not think the House can escape its responsibility in this matter.  Naturally the Minister is optimistic and enthusiastic. I think the House has reason to be grateful to the Minister for the enthusiasm and persistence with which he has fostered Dr. Drumm in this matter. But, granted all that, though it may be the Minister's privilege to be optimistic, it is the duty of the House to be cautious.  There can be no harm done by having an independent investigation. There is now no veil of secrecy.  That has been rent in every patent office in the world.  Every person interested in the invention has gone into the patent offices and asked for the specification.  They have studied it and copied it.  If there is going to be any merit or value in the invention, everything relating to it must have been stated in the patent specification.  If there were any concealment, and if the Minister or Dr. Drumm has withheld anything from the patent specification, the patent, when granted, would be absolutely worthless.  One of the conditions required to secure a valid patent is that the inventor must make a full disclosure. If the inventor has made a full disclosure, in that case everything he has to tell is known to the people who   are interested in the invention.  If he has not made a full disclosure, then so much for his patent.  There is nothing to be gained by secrecy, and there is no reason for undue haste.  Much more useful tests could be made in the work shop or laboratory than in running trains up and down between Bray and Westland Row.  Much more valuable scientific tests could be made in the laboratory, and, in fact, that is where the tests should be made.  What I saw at Inchicore was not a real scientific test; it was simply an ordinary advertisement boost.  That is the impression it made upon me.  Anybody who has had anything to do with engineering, or has any knowledge of electrical batteries, knows that electrical batteries have been used in order to drive vehicles.  That was what we saw at Inchicore, and that is as far as our experience on that occasion carried us. There can be no question of secrecy, and if there is a really sustainable patent for this invention, surely the House is entitled to demand a report upon it from an independent committee. 
     
      
       Is Deputy Flinn not going to speak on this matter?  He spoke about it in Kerry, and I would like to hear him here. 
     
     
      
       You have enough to be going on with.  Just take a note of what you heard. 
     
     
      
       We would like to hear Deputy Flinn, or any rough diamond talk either. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister likes we will postpone the debate. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Flinn was very keen on this matter, and it is strange he is not here to discuss it. He surely had notice of it. 
     
     
      
       Take notice of what you heard. 
     
     
      
       It is hard to get some Deputies to learn anything. 
     
     
      
       Both Deputy Lemass and Deputy MacEntee tried to make it clear that as far as we are concerned   we are not out to stunt any possible development of an invention, be it the Drumm or any other invention.  We are not out to stop any development that will tend to the good of this country.  I am anxious to find out whether the Minister is aspiring to the position of the greatest showman in the present age, or whether he is really genuine in trying to help this invention for what it is worth.  I want to say at the outset that I think the Minister deserves great censure for the claims he made at the introduction of this particular invention, because he has done Dr. Drumm a great deal more harm than any criticism that could ever be made.  He has put the inventor in the position of trying to come up to what the politician has professed.  Then the Press bring out big posters about five or six more Shannon schemes in order to take advantage of the Drumm battery&mdash;a lot of nonsense, and they know it is nonsense. If they were honest in giving the public any information or any hopes about the possibility of this discovery, they would at least go cautiously and give us some idea as to what has actually taken place.  The Minister for Justice goes down to Mayo and gives the people a long dissertation on the Drumm Battery and practically insinuates that in a very short space of time those of us who are not pensioners already will become pensioners out of the royalties accruing to the country from this battery&mdash;all absolute nonsense when the people want to get some facts about the invention. 
     
     We should refer this Estimate back for further information, such as has been demanded by Deputies Lemass and MacEntee, for these reasons: the Minister referred to the original directorate of this Celia Company.  I am not quite clear, and I do not think the House is quite clear, as to whether these directors left Celia, Ltd., or were dismissed by the Minister.  I think it is only reasonable to suppose that if the Minister in setting up Celia, Ltd., picked his men to become directors, including Dr. Drumm, in the month of June, and he either dismissed them or they left in the month of August, there   must have been something wrong. Surely with all these roseate promises as to this battery there would be no time to quarrel or dissociate the directorate from the Minister.  I should like to know something more about that.  I should like to know is it a fact that, prior to the Minister coming here for the repayment Vote to the Contingency Fund of £5,000, he had actually advanced from that Fund £10,500, and that £5,500 had been surrendered by the directors who are no longer directors?  Is that a fact?  Why was it sent back by them?  Of course, we shall probably get no information as to that.  I make the statement that I have been informed that £10,500 was actually advanced from the Contingency Fund and that £5,500 had been secretly surrendered by these directors who are no longer there.  There must be some reason why that was given back. 
     In going through the debates we get very many interesting points.  Until the Minister came along nobody knew anything about this invention except himself. After all, we are not in a laboratory or in a university.  We are not students or professors engaged in speculating or in tests on a certain discovery or leading up to a certain discovery. The position the Minister wants to put us in is that we should go on giving him the money for this invention for the purpose of making further tests&mdash;keep testing the thing and we will see where we will end some day. When the Minister came for a Vote for £5,000 it had been taken from the Contingency Fund.  He indicated that £3,000 was the original amount paid for shares and that we were holding the majority of shares in this company. I took the trouble to send down to the office for the registration of business names yesterday and I find that the company is registered for £1,000, which I admit means nothing. But I find that the original directors are still recorded there as being directors, notwithstanding the fact that the Minister changed the directorate in August, 1929.  At least he might have seen that the names were changed. The Minister also gave us a list of the present directorate.  At least he mentioned   three.  He did not mention the fourth.  The fourth, I believe, is Mr. McElligott of the Department of Finance.  Why was that name left out? Mr. Fay and Mr. McElligott are both on the Shannon Board.  They are also in this Drumm Battery. 
     
      
       Who is on the Shannon Board? 
     
     
      
       Mr. Fay and Mr. McElligott. 
     
     
      
       Since when? 
     
     
      
       Very recently. 
     
     
      
       Is that the extent of the Deputy's information? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I am wrong. Is it a fact that Mr. McElligott is on this directorate? 
     
     
      
       Keep to the Shannon Board. 
     
     
      
       No.  We will come to the Drumm Battery.  We shall come to the Shannon Board another day. The Minister talked about the great offer the G.S. and W.R. were making him personally&mdash;that they were going to take the risk of expending certain money and putting certain labour and plant at the disposal of this company towards the development of the invention, on the understanding that they were to be recouped if the invention were a failure.  I do not see where any risk comes in, because whatever they lay out they are going to get back. We should be given, apart from the technical side of the matter, some figures as to what has happened the original money.  How much of it was used by the inventor in experiments and material?  How much in directors' fees and other salaries?  Let us know what is happening.  Give us some idea as to how much of this £25,000 is going to be so spent, and our liability up to the present to any railway company for services already given, or labour or plant placed at the disposal of Celia, Ltd. 
     
     I think the Deputies would be well advised to agree to refer back this Vote until certain information is placed at their disposal.  As has been   pointed out, there is no danger of the invention melting away into thin air if this money is held up for a short period.  Let us get an independent committee to look into it and report upon it.  These experts the Minister refers to, with their secret reports, and reports that he could not very well give very much information about, with the exception of one person, do not mean anything.  The experts' report that was published meant nothing. The ordinary man, who has very little electrical knowledge, wants the information Deputy MacEntee asked for&mdash; what is the actual input into the battery, and the output, so as to get an idea of where we stand with regard to the battery commercially. 
     The Minister in a previous debate stated in answer to a question of mine on the 20th February, 1929&mdash;I am quoting the Official Debates, column 668&mdash;&ldquo;I may answer that this £5,000 was not the limit.  It is very difficult to be precise in this matter because I should not like to confine myself to the £5,000.  If some additional monies&mdash;a couple of hundred pounds&mdash;were required I would not say that I would not go beyond it.  I will answer the Deputy this way.  If the thing becomes a commercial success undoubtedly there will be required a big amount of money to have the thing launched on a big commercial scale.&rdquo; 
     Now we come to the stage where it is not a commercial success.  The question is still in the balance as to whether it is going to be what is claimed for it or whether it is only going to be part of it.  Yet the Minister comes along and asks for £25,000 with the promise that he will call later for another £15,000 or £20,000.  It is still in the experimental stage; we were not told what would happen.  As to the provision of these coaches which are to travel between Bray and Westland Row, as Deputy MacEntee pointed out, the Minister has admitted that the life test has not been concluded.  Why should he not conclude the life tests before going further and building more batteries and carriages?  Let him conclude the life tests.  Then, if satisfied that that is right, and that he   has something he can patent he can go ahead and come along and say: Here are the facts and we are going to develop this. 
     We have now a directorate consisting of the inventor, Dr. Drumm, Mr. Fay of the Department of the Minister himself, Prof. Nolan, and Mr. McElligott, and I think we are entitled to some more information before we allow this new Civil Service Department to get the money and spend it in an experiment of this nature. Nobody is more keen than Deputies on these benches to see an invention of this kind becoming a success, but let us go about it in a reasonable and business-like manner, and not like a lot of students getting down this bottle and that in order to make various tests.  After all the Minister has claimed a lot for this and certain of his colleagues and members of the party opposite have gone around the country and talked of this invention as creating a new era of prosperity and happiness in the country though they did not know a single thing about it.  They know as little as we do about it.  We are just looking to get what information they have.  I hope the House will have the good sense to refer this matter back until the Minister gives us the information required. 
     
      
       (Cork): It is deplorable to find that any proposition coming from the Government or from the Government side of the House is always viewed with suspicion and distrust by the Opposition.  I am not a professor able to discuss this question of a patent, but I am a plain citizen of the Free State, and I consider it would be a very small thing indeed if this Dail did not support the Minister in his motion for this addition of £25,000.  Must we always be dragging in politics in every little matter that turns up for the welfare and the future prosperity of the country?  The last speaker was as petty as if he was discussing some miserable thing about the improvement of a harbour in his own constituency.  He never seemed to look at the fact that if this patent is successful, not alone will it bring honour to the inventor of it, but that   it will bring honour to the Saorstat. It will show that the old genius and the old talents and the old ability of the race we spring from are not extinguished. With the increased facilities for education in our great Universities, and with the additional provision for further education coming into the very cabins of our poor people, are we to deny any opportunity to those who have the pluck to go forward with a patent that will be of service to the country and say that this progressive Dail has no welcome to bestow upon it? 
     
     
      
       I hesitate to rise after the speech of Deputy Sheehy. He has said almost everything I wanted to say.  This motion of the Minister's is a yes or no motion.  The Minister is entitled to a blank cheque or he is not.  If he is entitled to it, let us decide it one way or the other. Deputy Briscoe told us there were no experts in this House who knew anything about it, yet he wants us to refer it back to a committee of people who know nothing about it. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass read out the names of a number of experts that were suggested.  I refer the Deputy to that list. 
     
     
      
       With regard to what has happened up to the present, I agree to a large extent that this invention, which I and every other Deputy hope will come to a successful issue, has had far too much publicity up to the present.  I do not want to fix any blame, but it must have been very disturbing to the inventor to look at the newspapers every morning and see what they were saying about his invention, which, up to the present, has not proved a commercial success.  I do not presume to know anything about electricity, and I am not going to display my ignorance by touching on that question.  But if this invention is to be a commercial success I hold it is necessary that the Minister should get the time required to prove whether the battery is of such a kind as to stand up against other types of power. For this reason I think it would be a very ungracious thing for this House, having regard to the fact that there is   a possibility, and I hope a probability, that this Irish inventor is going to do something that nobody has thought of, to refuse this Vote.  From the Minister's statement it is clear that he is working on novel lines which no other scientists in the world touched upon.  I think it is a very small thing, even if it involved £50,000 to back a man whose brains are working along independent lines which no other scientist in the world is working upon.  If there is a reasonable hope of bringing this to a success I do not care whether the amount is £50,000 or £100,000, it should be voted. 
     
     
      
       What authority is there other than the Minister's statement for saying that this invention is one of extreme novelty and that Dr. Drumm is working along independent lines? 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to take what the Minister says if he makes that statement on the credit of himself and his Government, and if he is wrong, then the people will know what to do. 
     
     
      
       You prefer to take his view rather than that of scientific investigators who will make a report. 
     
     
      
       Rather than small people who try to interfere in matters they know nothing about. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Briscoe and Deputy Sheehy have succeeded to a certain extent in dragging this question down to the level of political play-acting. In approaching the consideration of this proposal my attitude towards it is this: I want, in the first place, to confess that this House unanimously gave initial encouragement to the Minister on the first occasion that he brought a Vote forward for a certain sum that he asked for at that particular period.  If I were to look at the development of this invention merely from the point of the extent to which labour would be displaced by the success of a scheme of this kind I should say right away that was good reason to vote against the whole proposal.  But we have to look at the national rather than the localised point of view, and to the   effect it will have upon the Shannon scheme as a whole.  I agree that Deputy MacEntee asked some very pertinent questions, and I would like to have them answered in a clear and definite way.  I want to say that Deputy MacEntee made his case in a nice way, and from the point of view of a man who knew something about the business.  I do not, however, like the proposition that the question should be referred back to a committee. I would, personally, prefer to put my confidence, in a matter of this kind, in whatever Minister might take the responsibility for initiating the proposal, and I would say that in exactly the same way if Deputy MacEntee occupied the position now occupied by the Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
       I am not going to admit that the President of the Institute of Civil Engineers is the ablest engineer in the world, but the position is not given to him for that particular reason.  I would be inclined to say that one in the position of the Minister for Industry and Commerce should, if he made careful inquiries, be able to get persons who would be regarded as the best men to consider a matter of this kind. I do not like the personnel of the committee, and while I would like to give further support to this discovery I would also like to hear the Minister replying to two or three of the important questions put to him by Deputy MacEntee. 
     
     
      
       So far as I can understand the attitude of Deputies opposite, it seems to me that while they are opposing this Vote they desire to demonstrate that they are not opposed to the Drumm battery.  Their arguments indicated, to me at any rate, that they are unable to make up their minds as to whether they are in favour of it or not.  I think their position is summed up in Deputy Sheehy's statement that they seem to have a good deal of suspicion about it.  Deputy Briscoe stated that the Dail is not a laboratory where work of this kind can be tested, but I think that the Dail ought to take a more serious view of work of this kind.  During the last two years to my knowledge several applications have been made to various Departments   by prominent Irish experts who are interested in various patents, but for certain reasons many of them could not be considered.  We have, however, the Drumm battery developed to its present state, and it is very surprising to me that any Deputy should suggest that it should be turned down, inasmuch as it would be turned down if the Dail refused to vote money for the work.  I think the Dail should agree that money is well-spent when you have a body of Irishmen coming forward and engaging in work of this kind.  Deputy MacEntee may be an expert, but Deputy Lemass and Deputy Briscoe, like myself, are not experts. I think that we should give the men who put their brains and energy into this work every support.  I think that money spent in that way is well-spent, because it gives a chance of work to young Irishmen who otherwise would have to go abroad.  In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister whether the same policy that has so far been in operation at Inchicore will be adopted in the future and whether as far as possible work in connection with the development of the battery will be carried out there. 
     
     
      
       Objection has been taken to voting this money until Deputy Lemass gets his curiosity satisfied by having the matter referred to an independent technical expert committee to report whether a valid and sustainable patent exists or can be obtained for the invention.  Let me say in answer to Deputy O'Hanlon that I am taking full responsibility for it in so far as any political head of a Government Department can take responsibility for a technical matter. If this is a failure, I will count myself a failure.  If it can be proved afterwards that by reason of any lack of care on my part I went into this matter without being buttressed at every point by expert advice then I shall count myself a failure.  I take the fullest responsibility and I take it away even from Dr. Drumm in that matter.  In regard to the demand for a committee of experts I have not put this forward on my own responsibility or on that of Dr. Drumm, whose opinion may be alleged to be biased. I have not put it forward, basing it   on the opinions of the people around me, who it might be said would be leading me into a trap and giving me wrong advice in a matter in which they would be expert, out of pure friendship.  I have around me Prof. Allman and I challenge anyone to say that he is not the best electro-chemist whom England can produce.  I have around me Prof. Nolan, Professor of Physics in University College, Dublin, and if anyone can say that a better Professor in that line can be found in Ireland I want him to be produced. 
       We are told to get a committee consisting of somebody from the Institute of Electrical Engineers and an engineer from the Great Southern Railways.  Do the people who talk like that know that the Mr. Morton, to whom I have referred as being on the Traction Committee, is the Chief Engineer of the Great Southern Railways? Do those who talk so glibly about the Institute of Electrical Engineers know that Mr. Monahan, who is also on the Traction Committee, is an electrical engineer and a past-President of that Institute?  All these people have joined in giving reports and in putting forward recommendations on which I am acting. 
       Deputy MacEntee has given us a perfect example of the terrible danger a little knowledge can be on certain things.  He wants to have an independent committee, a technical committee, and Deputy Lemass joins him in that.  What is Mr. Morton? Is Mr. Morton not acting in an independent fashion?  He is certainly technically equipped.  Is Prof. Nolan not independent?  Is Prof. Allman not independent?  Are they all giving me an opinion, which they do not hold themselves, just because they are associated with me in this matter?  If my reputation falls, much more will theirs fall because they are tied up in this as much as I am.  We are asked whether a valid and sustainable patent exists or can be obtained for the invention. Who is going to determine that?  The people who are to determine that are the Patent Controllers in the different countries in which we made our applications. 
     
     
     
      
       Have you not received certain objections from these patent offices in respect of the patent applications you have lodged? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy passed an examination to enable him to be appointed as a patent agent and should know a little more about the subject than he does. 
     
     
      
       It does not matter about that.  You cannot speak without being personal. 
     
     
      
       I am answering the Deputy.  The Deputy has a certain reputation as a patent agent. 
     
     
      
       I have not. 
     
     
      
       He puts up certain submissions here and asks people to believe them because of his experience. Does he not know that occasionally people claim things in order to find out whether they can be patented or not, not expecting them all to be accepted, because clearly if their claims are struck out they are struck out also against all other people, and they cannot be elevated afterwards as patent rights.  The Deputy knows that, or if he does not he is more simple in such matters than one would expect.  Yet, knowing that, he made a statement here in order to cloud people's judgment on that matter. Does the Deputy think that in all applications that are made we expect to get everything for which we ask? Is that the normal procedure in regard to patent applications in every country?  We know that scores and scores of things are asked for in order to envelop the application and to see what will be declared open to the world, as well as to the individual, who wants to see that he is not enclosed by other patents.  The Deputy knows that is the explanation of that simple circumstance; yet he quotes it here in order to cloud people's judgment. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister want an answer now? 
     
     
      
       Not after the length of time during which I had to tolerate the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       You do not want to hear the answer. 
     
     
     
      
       No, not on the lines on which the Deputy has already spoken.  Who is going to determine whether a valid and sustainable patent exists?  That will be determined hereafter; you are going to wait until all previous applications have been judged.  You are going to wait until the Patent Controller has decided, or else you are going on to the second leg of this&mdash;whether such a patent is or is likely to be property of commercial value.  I said that we had the best legal and technical advice we could get &mdash;a certain firm of solicitors in this country with a certain knowledge of these matters, and the best patent agents that we could get in England&mdash; and they told me that a sustainable patent could be obtained.  What more could they have told us?  Again, I suppose because I am paying fees to a firm of agents, their judgment will be queried.  That firm of patent agents, people engaged in patent work, whose reputation depends on the accuracy of the information they give in particular circumstances, are going to give me wrong advice because I happen to have engaged them for the purpose of working this thing out! We are asked whether such a patent is likely to be property of commercial value.  Who can best decide that?  Is it to be a Circuit Court Judge, who is to form portion of the committee?  Is it going to be the chief engineer of a railway concern, or a man who has been chosen from the Institute of Electrical Engineers? The chief engineer of the Great Southern Railways sent in a report in which he advised me that I should go along the lines on which I am proceeding here.  He is joined in that by Mr. Monahan, at present chief engineer in the Department of Posts and Telegraphs, and Past President of the Institute of Electrical Engineers. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is aware that he is speaking of reports which we have not seen.  The Minister can take responsibility for his actions, but not for ours. 
     
     
      
       I am taking full responsibility for what I am saying, and these people can challenge me if I am saying anything in conflict with their recommendations. 
     
     
     
      
       What did you say in June, 1928? 
     
     
      
       What did I say in June, 1928?  If it is the statement about railway electrification which is referred to, I said something which, if the Deputy queries it, I am going to prove.  Supposing I did say something which is now inaccurate, and if I quote two experts now, are my words not to be believed? 
     
     
      
       You did not quote experts. 
     
     
      
       I am quoting them to show that I am proceeding along the lines of development they suggested and I am backed up by them in that.  That is the general tenor of their report.  I am to ask a committee to decide whether the proposed method of financing the invention is sound from the point of view of the State.  We did not hear any suggestions of any other method of financing it from the Deputy.  The Deputy did not give us anything in the way of constructive suggestion; nothing but a lot of destructive criticism came from him. I am to ask a committee whether the proposed method of financing it is sound from the point of view of the State.  Again, the Traction Committee and Celia Ltd., as I described Celia Ltd. from August 1929, up to date, have recommended that I should go along these lines.  They do not say it is the best method, because that was not before them.  They recommend that I should get certain coaches built, and I do not know how it could be financed by the State except by getting the Dail to vote a certain amount of money. 
     
     
      
       What did you say in 1928? 
     
     
      
       I said that a certain discovery had been under examination, that &ldquo;further investigations are being made, and there are still further experimentations in connection with it.&rdquo;  I further stated: &ldquo;I do not hesitate to say here that I believe railway electrification at a very cheap cost is quite close upon us; I think there will be quite a considerable proportion of the railways in this country, main lines, electrified.  I am founding   my opinion entirely on the invention being successful, on the experiments carried out to date and judging by what has been proved with regard to this invention.&rdquo;  I also said that if this invention works out, certain things would happen.  I submit that the whole statement was very hypothetical. I say again now, after two further years' experience, that that was a very reliable estimate which I gave of the cost, in the future, of the electrification of the main line between Dublin and Cork. 
     
     
      
       The kernel of the statement is: &ldquo;Judging by what has been proved.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       What had been proved up to July, 1928. 
     
     
      
       I am quoting from the debates of the 13th June, 1929. 
     
     
      
       What had been proved then? 
     
     
      
       Exactly, what led me up to the further point to which I have got now. 
     
     
      
       And what was that? 
     
     
      
       At any rate whatever it was, it enabled me to make that statement.  I still abide by that statement. 
     
     
      
       You have not got beyond that point. 
     
     
      
       What point? 
     
     
      
       You have not got beyond what was then proved. 
     
     
      
       We have distinctly. 
     
     
      
       What had you before you then? 
     
     
      
       I had the results of the various reports of the people who were interested in the matter, the reports of the experts, not the dishonest stories promulgated by dishonest papers, of which the Deputy spoke. 
     
     
      
       The statement that the Drumm battery was a success unqualified. It is not a success yet. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not know anything about it. 
     
     
     
      
       I know all about it. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is in the outer darkness as far as this is concerned and is looking for the light. Because the Deputy has not light he is content to describe this more or less as a failure. 
     
     
      
       I have not described it as such yet. 
     
     
      
       The Party that would like to land us into all sorts of experiments into wheat-growing, that does not want tariffs examined by anybody, that wishes to upset the whole economic fabric of the country without examination, wants to have an examination&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is the rest of the Minister's statement as true as that? 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;wants to have a sum of £25,000 for a certain purpose examined by a new committee of experts after I have told them that two committees have already sat upon it and that one individual expert outside these has also reported in favour of it. 
     
     
      
       Will these reports be published? 
     
     
      
       They will be published in good time, but they certainly will not be published for the purpose of enabling members of the Party opposite to make up their minds whether they should vote for this sum of money or not.  They will not be published because they contain very definite technical matter, which I am not going to give away at this moment. These people have made certain recommendations to me and I can come to this House looking for this money and say that I am backed by them in asking for it.  Deputy MacEntee asked for a lot of information.  The difficulty about the Deputy is that he did not ask for the information at the proper time.  We ran three series of public tests in the early part of August.  At the end of the first, which was carried out in the space of a few days, we published a report, and we specially announced with regard to the second test, that we were more or less confining applications to see the   coach to technical people.  We had a definite purpose in all that.  We did certain things.  We had the coach built for a certain purpose and what was going on was evident to certain technically minded people if they took the trouble to ask questions.  We published a report on what we thought emerged from the test and we invited a number of technical people to come along to the second test.  I do not know that there was amongst the people at the second test any man who was so dumb as Deputy MacEntee when he got his opportunity to get information.  Most of the people who came along had the first report with them and they asked all sorts of questions. 
       They asked no questions with regard to the first report and what was then going on.  Most of them were not quite satisfied.  Deputy MacEntee kept silent.  He not merely did that, but he must have kept his eyes closed. The Deputy made one statement here to-night that he was there in that coach, and one of the things he vouched for here himself was that there was no way of measuring the charge and discharge.  There was.  It was obvious to anybody who looked around the place, and it was certainly clear to be demonstrated to anybody who asked about it.  The Deputy was just simply content to close his eyes or was not sufficiently appreciative of what was in that coach to recognise what was going on.  He went away unsatisfied because he had not the technical capacity to ask the proper question. 
     
     
      
       I may say this, that I did ask.  I did point out to a certain person that certain things were not there, and I was promised that after two or three weeks&mdash;some people were going away on holidays&mdash;I would have another opportunity of witnessing a test. 
     
     
      
       And the Deputy asked for the other opportunity. 
     
     
      
       I did not presume to fix a test for my own convenience. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy saw that there were other runs, and he did not bother. 
     
     
     
      
       I must say that since the 22nd August I have not seen any other public announcement, or announcement of any sort, that there was another series of tests that might be witnessed by outsiders. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has not seen that the coach was running since with certain people on board? 
     
     
      
       I have seen a casual statement in the Press that the coach made other runs.  I was not aware that I might ask to be present. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy did ask to be present on another occasion. 
     
     
      
       When it was conveyed in the Press that if I did make such a request I would be permitted to be present. 
     
     
      
       It is a matter of shyness really that is responsible for the Deputy's lack of information. 
     
     
      
       I would not say shyness. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy asked a lot of questions.  I am not going to answer these questions.  I have not the technical knowledge to answer them.  They were put up as a sort of elementary type of questions, the answers to which should be readily forthcoming.  Are they the sort of questions that Professor Allman would ask Mr. Morton or that Mr. Monahan would ask Professor Nolan and that they would insist on being answered before they would sign a report? 
     
     
      
       Possibly that Mr. Monahan would ask Mr. Morton. 
     
     
      
       Or the other people, too. 
     
     
      
       They have asked; the information is available, and there is no reason why it should not be given. 
     
     
      
       There is no reason why it should not be given to people who ask for it at the proper time and at the proper place. 
     
     
      
       That is here and now. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy heard it it would make as slight an impression   on his mind as it would make on mine.  The Deputy cannot urge that it would help him to make up his mind. The answers to the questions on these technical matters would be such that they could not possibly have any meaning for the Deputy.  They would only have meanings for technical people and neither the Deputy nor I is technical in these matters.  We could not form any opinion on them. 
     
     
      
       We are both in the position to get technical advice. 
     
     
      
       We are both in a position to get technical advice.  I have got it.  But there are three definite reasons why certain technical information cannot be given.  Deputy MacEntee talked about the veil of secrecy being torn aside and did his best&mdash;I want to say this deliberately&mdash; deliberately to damage this discovery. 
     
     
      
       Anything I said could not affect that discovery, good, bad, or indifferent. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy did his best to damage it.  What is the meaning of the Deputy's long oration about Edison and the years he had spent; how he had tried out zinc as one item? What was the conclusion to be drawn? That if Dr. Drumm depended on zinc then he was a fool to go ahead and that this Dail was a fool to back him. That was the effect that the statement would produce upon the ordinary person listening to the Deputy, and it was given out for that purpose.  He talked also of the patents put in, that some of them have been abandoned, that there was a big series of them thrown about, one following the other.  Again, if the Deputy was speaking from any experience&mdash;and in this particular capacity he has more experience than anybody else in the House&mdash;he knows that that again is the modern method.  When a patent is being looked for one advances by a series of steps and it is only in the last step that the full effect of what is being sought is made apparent to the technical mind.  The Deputy knows that.  He knows from the statement I made that there had been certain   things applied for and apparently abandoned.  The statement was made advisedly to damage this whole thing and it is the complete aim of the Party opposite to damage this thing. 
       I wish Deputy Flinn had been here for I should like to ask him what he meant in Kerry, if it were not anything else than a deliberate attempt to savage this whole thing that made him speak in the way in which he did. Deputy MacEntee, I think, was with him at that Kerry meeting.  Deputy MacEntee heard him. 
     
     
      
       No, I did not hear him. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is luckier than I thought he was.  The Deputy must have read it, at any rate. 
     
     
      
       The Minister need not read it to us now. 
     
     
      
       I am not sure that I cannot quote what the Deputy said as being a matter relevant to this debate, seeing that the Deputy has, with his usual discretion, stayed away from the debate which he must have known was coming on.  I will leave that to another occasion.  If I add what he did say to what Deputy Briscoe said and to what Deputy Lemass said to-day it becomes quite clear that the whole aim and object of the Party opposite is to destroy any effect that this country may get from this discovery because incidentally this Party may get some credit from this discovery. 
     
     
      
       How is it going to do that? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Briscoe talked about the country.  I said in my opening statement that I had a company&mdash;Celia, Ltd.  There were certain directors.  The names of the directors could be obtained by anybody who cared to look them up.  As a matter of fact they had appeared in the Press.  I said that in August, 1929, I had made a change in that company.  I said that the company was in process again of being reconstituted. I said that in the early part of 1929 the committee were   not at one in the recommendations that they were inclined to make to me as to progressing along a certain line that some of them wanted to develop. There were originally six directors in Celia, Ltd., three nominated by me and three nominated by Dr. Drumm, two as well as himself.  I held 51 per cent. of the shares.  Later in 1920 one of Dr. Drumm's nominees retired from the Board, sending me a letter at the time at which he did retire to the effect that he wanted to transfer his shareholding to me, and that he wanted it to be noted that at that time he had come to the conclusion that the battery was going to be a success. 
     
     
      
       Quote the letter. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy disbelieve this? 
     
     
      
       You made several statements in the course of the debate. 
     
     
      
       The insinuation is that I am giving the House wrong information. 
     
     
      
       That you are putting your own interpretation on them. 
     
     
      
       There could not be any other interpretation of this letter. 
     
     
      
       Why not give the letter then? 
     
     
      
       There cannot be any other interpretation of the letter that I have got than what I am saying, and no ignorant insinuation of the Deputy will drive me any further. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a point of privilege that when a Minister quotes from a document and is asked to read it he should do so? 
     
     
      
       The Minister did not quote from any document, but in any event the practice is when a Minister quotes from an official document it should, unless the Minister pleads privilege, be laid on the Table. 
     
     
      
       I have stated what that Director said to me.  I stand by it.  That is the gist of his letter.  I am not quoting, and I will not produce the letter.  If the Deputy thinks I am saying anything that is wrong he has   an easy way of finding out and he can confront me with a contrary statement hereafter, but until the Deputy has that statement he should try to keep himself in hand. 
     
     
      
       If the suggestion is that I am to go to these people and get them to contradict what has been said, I am not going to do it.  It is not my business. 
     
     
      
       It is only the Deputy's business to make an ignorant insinuation which is in line with the Deputy's talk previously, and I do not mind.  That was late in 1929.  I think it was in the early spring of this year that one member of the company asked to be allowed to resign.  He had asked to be allowed to resign at least twice before and on that third occasion I accepted his resignation.  The company in the form in which I hope to have it reconstituted will consist of four directors only.  The two people who disappeared from the old directorate and those who are left, one being a nominee of mine and the other a nominee of Dr. Drumm, are in favour of this development.  They want to see it succeed along the lines on which we are travelling.  I did not think it right to keep a man who had got an official position any longer on the directorate, and I asked for his resignation.  Dr. Drumm asked for the other resignation. Three of these were my nominees, two Dr. Drumm's, and he had a right to ask for his nominee's resignation at any time and could have insisted on it much earlier.  We have quite definitely their support in what we are doing.  That is the transmutation of the Company. 
     
     
      
       You had two more directors. 
     
     
      
       There are four to be on the new Board. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that originally there were six, only two of whom are now there? 
     
     
      
       Two of the original six, yes. 
     
     
      
       One is Dr. Drumm, and the other Professor Nolan. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  The Board   will be reconstituted and will emerge with four.  There has not been a change in the directorate to date.  The company has not been transformed. Certain directors have gone, but the company has not been transformed. The statement of the original directors can remain for the next three or four hundred years.  That does not affect what I can do in the meantime as regards the establishment of the new company.  There is going to be a new company set up.  There will be new directors and a new agreement made as between myself and Dr. Drumm.  It is through that company that I intend to work the particular development I have in mind&mdash;a development that has been recommended to me, and for which I want this £25,000. 
     
     
      
       How many civil servants will be on the new board? 
     
     
      
       One. 
     
     
      
       There are four now.  Is not that so? 
     
     
      
       What does the Deputy mean by &ldquo;now&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       The Minister took the original directors off. 
     
     
      
       As a matter of fact, there was an extra director co-opted. If the Deputy has any plain question to ask I will answer.  What is he suspicious about? 
     
     
      
       The more the Minister's narrative is interrupted, the less I can understand of it.  We ought not to have any interruptions. 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that Deputy Briscoe has not the right to ask questions? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has just stated he is prepared to answer questions. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Briscoe, in fact, has no right to ask questions while the Minister is speaking. Neither has anybody else.  From the point of view of the House, the speech the Minister is making is difficult to   follow.  It is a technical question, and for that reason difficult to follow for a person like myself who has no special knowledge in the matter.  I think most Deputies are in that position, and it would be very much more satisfactory if the Minister were allowed to speak without interruption. 
     
     
      
       I ask the House generally to take the view that Deputy O'Hanlon took, that here is a responsibility in connection with this matter, and that the responsibility, as far as this House is concerned, is mainly mine.  The Deputy tied up the Executive Council to it.  I suppose they can be tied to it in the end, and judgment can be passed hereafter if our conduct is wrong.  I say that we have got the best possible information.  The only thing is that the House is not in possession, and I do not intend to put it in possession, of the technical facts that come from the reports.  Also there is a necessity for secrecy yet, and that secrecy I am not going to break. 
       Deputy Lemass wants a technical committee to decide certain points. That independent technical committee, split into two portions, has been set up.  The reports are here, and on foot of the reports I ask the House to vote this money.  I take the responsibility of saying, in the particular way in which I have said it, what these reports contain, and I say that they give us the best hopes possible that this is going to work out.  We have got advice on every point appertaining to this application.  It is a very small sum of money to ask for, to help a development from which so much may be expected. To object to it on the grounds that it needs examination is not in accordance with the view of people who want to land this country into all sorts of imaginable expenditure without any examination. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister a question?  Is the invention not complete as far as the battery is concerned? 
     
     
      
       I do not know what that means. 
     
     
      
       Has it not got to the stage of lodging the complete specification for the battery? 
     
     
     
      
       I have lodged a number of specifications which, when added together, are complete. 
     
     
      
       There are only two petitions.  One has been accepted and another one is pending.  There are only two which you can take with any certainly as being actually in existence. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what the Deputy means by &ldquo;any certainty.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I know that five have been definitely abandoned. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Is the complete invention exposed in those specifications? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Do you propose to lodge another? 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Those specifications.&rdquo; What does that refer to? 
     
     
      
       The one lodged on 27th March, 1929, and the other one which was lodged on the 29th October, 1929. 
     
     
      
       There are a number of patents lodged. 
     
     
      
       These are the only two that are really effective.  Five have been definitely abandoned.  The Minister can take that as being correct. 
     
     
      
       I will take nothing the Deputy says as being correct. 
     
     
      
       The Minister asked me another question.  He asked me was it not usual to make claims in a patent specification in order to see whether these claims could be subsequently sustainable or not in any specification which might be lodged later. Did the Minister not ask me whether that was the practice?  The Minister asked me that and I said it was, and what is the effect?  The application was lodged on 27th March, 1929.  In it, among other things, a certain positive plate was claimed in association with a zinc negative.  The Minister's contention   is that that claim was put forward in order to see whether some other person had claimed it or in order to preclude some other person from claiming it later. 
     
     
      
       No; that was not my explanation. 
     
     
      
       Then what was it? 
     
     
      
       Deputy MacEntee is now adopting the question and answer role. 
     
     
      
       The Minister asked me to answer certain points and, as I did not want to interrupt his narrative, I thought I would wait until the end.  The Minister asked me a question and I said the fact was that a certain claim did not appear in the patent specification accepted.  Now, with my very limited knowledge&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       I made it clear to the House that I had not made a search, but I considered that the House should insist on a search being made.  I do not ask the House to rely upon me in this matter, but I ask them to insist on some person, independent of the political situation in this country, making a thorough search, such a search as, with my limited resources and knowledge, I could not make.  That search should be made in order to satisfy people in regard to a patent based on a zinc negative, which Dr. Drumm's patent in the form now before the public would be.  I am justified in asking the House to take that suggestion into consideration. 
     
     
      
       The question I was anxious to ask is the question that has been put by Deputy MacEntee.  As one who knows nothing about batteries except that they work&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Sometimes. 
     
     
      
       Sometimes they do not. 
     
     
      
       Well, they work for a certain time.  I am anxious to know if this invention is now complete except for a test in regard to its life. 
     
     
     
      
       The only point remaining open is with regard to its life. 
     
     
      
       Where is the need for secrecy to be observed? 
     
     
      
       That is quite a different thing. 
     
     
      
       Surely there should be some information as to what constitutes the positive and the negative plates and the electrolite in the battery.  All these points have been determined and have been published in the specification. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is wrong. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister tell the House why the last application for a patent for a storage battery was lodged on 6th December, 1929?  There has not been one lodged since.  Is the position, therefore, that the preliminary investigation for the purpose of preparing a patent specification has now been completed? 
     
     
      
       I would not like to say that. 
     
     
      
       Are we to take it there is some further experimental work on a different principle since 6th December, 1929? 
     
     
      
       There is experimental work going on all the time. 
     
     
      
       With reference to the practical application of the battery? 
     
     
      
       And a great deal more. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister has reports in connection with this battery, why does he withhold them from the House? 
     
     
      
       The House would not understand them. 
     
     
      
       When we ask for reports here it is not with the idea that every Deputy will understand them. We had in our minds the outside public who are capable of understanding them and will be capable of forming judgment on what the Minister and the House are doing.  It is not to satisfy a justifiable curiosity on my part or on   the part of Deputy Lemass that we ask for those reports.  It is to satisfy the justifiable curiosity of the taxpayer outside. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I might be permitted to ask Deputy MacEntee a question.  I would like to get an explanation from him as to what he meant when he talked about a committee which had no bearing on the political situation at present before the country.  Does he mean that the Drumm battery has some connection with the Republic or the non-payment of land annuities? 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether I am entitled to answer an intelligent question like that. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not entitled to do so. 
     
     
      
       It has been alleged by speakers on the opposite side and by the Minister that we have approached this and other matters in a spirit of political bias.  We want you to submit this invention to the examination of those who cannot be suspected of having contact with any political party in this country. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy wants us to take it for granted that his Party does approach this question as a political question. 
     
     
      
       Just as you do, Deputy. 
     
     
      
       I have been informed that originally the sum of £10,500 was advanced, of which amount £5,500 has been repaid. 
     
     
      
       Originally I asked the Executive Council for £10,500 and they granted that sum.  Eventually, when we came to discuss this matter, we decided that £5,000 was enough to carry on. 
     
     
      
       A sum of £10,500 was handed to Celia, Limited. 
     
     
      
       It was handed to me, but, if it was handed over, any part of it not used was recovered. 
     
     
      
       I am not saying that any of it has gone astray. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy dare not say that any of the money has gone astray, whether or not he would like that were so. 
     
     
      
       A sum of £10,500 has left the Contingency Fund, and £5,500 was handed back.  Was there any reason given by the Minister when he was giving back that money? 
     
     
      
       Any reason given to whom? 
     
     
      
       Did not the Minister put it at the disposal of Celia, Limited? 
     
     
      
       I am not sure on the technical point. 
     
     
      
       I am sure on that particular point. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has made so many statements that I hate to discredit him.  I asked originally for £10,500, and at a particular period I made up my mind that £5,000 was sufficient.  I am now asking for much more than that sum. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Estimate be referred back for reconsideration&rdquo;&mdash; put and negatived. 
     
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the Estimate be reduced by £10.&rdquo;  This proposal is moved in order to enable the Dail to consider the suggestion that this money is to be given as a grant-in-aid and will not be accounted for in detail to the Comptroller and Auditor-General, nor will any unexpended balance of the sums issued be surrendered at the close of the financial year.  The Dail has decided to vote this sum of £25,000 for electrical battery research and development without insisting on getting any information which would lead it to decide that it would be justified in so doing.  As it has decided not to ask for that information, we think that it should ask that the Comptroller and Auditor-General be informed of the way in which the money is expended.  Deputies who are continually prating about their desire to secure rigid Governmental economy and proper control over all financial administration should, in our opinion, support this amendment.  The fact that   they should do so is no indication that they will do so. 
       This £25,000 is to be expended. This money is being passed out of the Central Fund and the Dail is to have no further control over it.  Not merely will the officer of the Dail have no voice in checking any irregularities concerning the expenditure of that money, but, in addition, any part of this money which is not expended for the purpose for which the Dail voted it will not go back into the Exchequer. If £25,000 is to go for this purpose, it should go in the same manner as we vote money for other purposes, and the Comptroller and Auditor-General should have the accounts submitted to him for audit and any unexpended balances should be restored to the Exchequer. If additional sums are required, in consequence of the surrender of any unexpended balance, then the Minister can come to the Dail again, and in view of the docile nature of the Dail to-day he can be quite certain that he will get any money he will ask for in the future.  We move this amendment and we trust it will be passed.  The Minister has given no explanation whatever as to why this big sum which is being voted should not be accounted for by the Comptroller and Auditor-General in the ordinary way.  In the absence of that explanation and in view of the way in which this money has been voted we feel that this amendment should commend itself to the majority of the Dail if the majority are anyway sincere in the professions they make on public platforms. 
     
     
      
       I was wondering what brought about, some time ago, the change in the Minister's mind with regard to the sudden love he got for having moneys audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General plus the Public Accounts Committee.  The Minister was usually antagonistic to having accounts audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General, but that antagonism was turned into love for them when he was discussing this matter in the House previously.  On the 28th February, 1929, the Minister talked about this money and the manner in which it would be accounted for.  He said: &ldquo;I   think the method I adopted is quite unusual, but I think it suits the purpose fairly well.  I got money advanced to me from the Contingency Fund. That money has to be repaid to the Fund.  Actually I hope that by the time that Vote comes to be inquired into in detail I will have a great many more details to give to the Public Accounts Committee, to the Comptroller and Auditor-General, or to the Dail than I give at the moment.&rdquo;  Again, in column 666, the Minister said: &ldquo;The most sobering thing in life is to know clearly that whatever you are going to do you are going to be called to answer for it quite soon and publicly.&rdquo;  In fact he was thinking he would have to submit to the criticism of the Dail and the public at large a statement based on an examination of the items and based on his expenditure.  In column 668, the Minister again referred to the fact that the accounts would be subject to the Comptroller and Auditor-General. What I want to know is&mdash; Why this footnote&mdash;that the money should be given as a grant-in-aid for the purpose of bringing it out of the scope of the ordinary methods&mdash;should be inserted there?  That is to say, that the expenditure would not have to be submitted to the Comptroller and Auditor-General or to the Public Accounts Committee for examination. 
     
     The Minister was quite anxious in February, 1929, when we were giving him a blank cheque to account for that blank cheque later.  Now, when he is asking for a much larger amount, he is asking for it with a blank cheque. It is a much larger sum, and he is establishing the principle that all future sums advanced for the development of this particular invention will not be subjected to the audit of this House.  I hope that the members of this House will have the good sense to keep this money within the authority of the House for examination at a future time as to how this money has been expended, and how much of it has been expended.  I feel very sorry after what the Minister himself said in February, 1929, that the House should now take away the opportunity which he was so anxious to give it when that sum was first being voted.  He then   said that on a future date an audit would take place, and that the Comptroller and Auditor-General plus the Public Accounts Committee would be able to examine in detail anything he has done in the matter.  He is now taking that away, and in taking it away he will, therefore, take away from the purview of the House that authority, and then we will find ourselves in the position that we were in with the Shannon Scheme, without any information of any kind whatever.  I hope the House will keep this power in its own hands. 
     
      
       On another occasion, when this Estimate was being considered, I pointed out that the company was to be formed under the direction and aegis of the Minister; that there was going to be one Civil Servant representing the Minister for Finance, and another gentleman associated with the Shannon Board.  I asked was there any reason why the expenditure should not be subject to the audit of the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  I do not see any practical difficulty in the way.  If there is not any practical difficulty in the way, why dispense with that control?  I mean that we ought to have some definite reason before we agree to the terms of this footnote, that is that the expenditure of the Vote will not have to be accounted for to the Comptroller and Auditor-General. 
     
     
      
       It is the usual method when a grant-in-aid is being voted to put in a footnote similar to this.  Deputy Lemass has talked as if he were very angry with the House for what it has already done, and after reading a little lecture to them for being so docile, he himself did not vote against this Vote of £25,000.  There are scores of cases in the Estimates in which grants-in-aid are given in the same way as this is being given, where the expenditure of the money is not subject to the control of the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  The fact that the unexpended balance at the close of the financial year is not handed back does not mean that the money will be handed over to anyone that I or the company may like.  The accounts will be audited, and the expenditure of this   money will have to be justified in the ordinary way. 
       It is quite impossible to carry on a business proposition under the control of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. A sum of £5,200,000 in the case of the Shannon scheme was removed from the control of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, and it was done for this reason: that once the Comptroller and Auditor-General is brought in, there is an accounting officer who investigates every item before it is brought forward.  There is to be preliminary sanction before any expenditure is incurred and the whole thing must be the subject of audit and criticism.  This is a business transaction, and it is clearly the type of business into which the Comptroller and Auditor-General should not come.  In this case that officer will have one limited function, and that is to see that not more than the full sum voted is granted and that that money goes to the proper person.  There his functions end and there they should end. There could not be any question of any possibility of a business proposition being brought under the control of that officer.  There would possibly be the ordering of material by way of urgency and then there would possibly be the delay with regard to Customs.  Again there is the setting up of a staff that may have to be changed according to the necessity of the discoveries.  The bringing in of the accounting officer would mean a check on each of these acts and consequent delay.  This money will be issued to me.  It will be issued by the Minister for Finance.  The issues will be made to me and I assume responsibility for the whole thing.  I myself will have to answer for it here in the ordinary way.  As for what Deputy Briscoe says about the £5,000, what I said then still applies to the £5,000 and the £300.  I do not want it to apply to this Vote or to this particular sum.  I do not think that anybody who looks upon this as a business proposition will dispute the attitude I am adopting.  Deputies should clear their minds of suspicion and remove the evil in their hearts with regard to it. 
     
     
      
       Impossible. 
     
     
     
      
       Deputies must get down to regard this as a business proposition to be dealt with in a business way.  There is no sane man amongst them who would contend that the Comptroller and Auditor-General should be on the job. 
     
     
      
       I wonder if the Minister will table the accounts of this company as they are issued from time to time? 
     
     
      
       I will do whatever I think is necessary to justify myself to the House. 
     
     
      
       It is not only the Minister who must be justified, but those who agree to the Vote.  I think they, at any rate, will be in a stronger position if the Minister promises now that he will table the annual accounts of the company. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister not recollect that when the Bill which gave him power to accept the estimate of the inventor was going through, he himself indicated the Comptroller and Auditor-General as the Dail's safeguard against any undue use of the powers which he got in the Bill?  That Bill gave the Minister very wide powers.  Members of the Dail were slow to confer them on him, but he asked for them on the understanding that the Dail would retain the right to check the accounts through its officer. 
     
     
      
       I should like to have that quoted. 
     
     
      
       It was quoted by Deputy Briscoe. 
     
     
      
       The circumstances are dead against that. 
     
     
      
       I do not see that at all. These were the circumstances.  That Bill was discussed and passed on the understanding that the Comptroller and Auditor-General would have a check on the manner in which any money was expended by the Minister in consequence of the powers conferred upon him in the Bill and, in addition to the check, that a report would be submitted to the Dail.  Now the Dail is asked for £25,000, over the expenditure   of which it will have no check, and in respect of which its officer will not submit any report. 
     
     
      
       It is a private company. It is not bound to issue any statement to the Dail.  I presume it will send a statement of accounts to the Minister.  Will the Minister table that statement? 
     
     
      
       It will be under my control completely. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister table that statement? 
     
     
      
       I shall have to consider what I shall do when I see&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       When you see the accounts? 
     
     
      
       When I see how the development goes. 
     
     
      
       What are the rights of Celia, Ltd., to sell this invention? 
     
     
      
       Whatever right I give them. 
     
     
      
       They can sell them to-morrow, and the Dail cannot stop them? 
     
     
      
       If I give them the right. 
     
     
      
       The Minister and the company could sell the invention for a shilling and as far as the Dail is concerned there is no power to stop it. 
     
     
      
       And the Comptroller and Auditor-General would be on top of me.  Cannot he stop it? 
     
     
      
       In what way? 
     
     
      
       What is the use of the Comptroller and Auditor-General? 
     
     
      
       There is no other machinery except the intention of the Minister, and he has not even expressed the intention of bringing this matter up again in any form whatever. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister say that the reason he objects to the Comptroller   and Auditor-General in this, as a business concern, is because no expenditure could be incurred without first having his sanction? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       What did the Minister say? 
     
     
      
       I said there would have to be an accounting officer and that he would bring the whole thing under the ordinary financial regulations. 
     
     
      
       There are grants-in-aid to various institutions, and the Comptroller and Auditor-General has the right to go and audit the accounts. These institutions do not object and do not feel that it interferes in any way with the progress of their business.  I want to make this statement quite frankly and boldly to the Minister.  The Minister is just getting in the thin edge of the wedge, and he has the audacity to say that when the last time he gave an assurance that the Public Accounts Committee would be the controlling factor he meant that only for the £5,300. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       What did the Minister say? 
     
     
      
       It would have reference to everything except this. 
     
     
      
       I refer to the fact that the Minister on the last occasion when the advance of £5,000 was given gave an assurance to the House that anything he would do would be accounted for subsequently to the Public Accounts Committee or to the Comptroller and Auditor-General, or both. Now he says that he meant that only for that particular £5,000. 
     
     
      
       No, I said it related only to that. 
     
     
      
       It means the same thing. 
     
     
      
       By no means.  Obviously I could not say anything about a sum of money which at that date I had not got. 
     
     
     
      
       If he reads what he said he will find I am right.  He is only quibbling now, and trying to cod the House.  He said that any money advanced under this would be accounted for to the Comptroller and Auditor-General, he spoke of £5,000 plus a possible £2,000.  Now he says it referred only to the £5,000 then under discussion.  The Minister does not want this money audited because he cannot stand over it.  That is the position. 
     
     
      
       I like the Deputy's honest indignation springing from his great financial reputation. 
     
     
      
       He does not want it audited. 
     
     
      
       I do not want the Comptroller and Auditor-General brought into this, because I say that the system of the Comptroller and Auditor-General's Office and a commercial proposition are incompatible. You cannot have an ordinary commercial organisation and the ordinary scheme of the Comptroller and Auditor-General's Office. 
     
     
      
       Does that apply to the Trade Loans Guarantee Act? 
     
     
      
       It would apply to the Comptroller and Auditor-General looking after the details of the expenditure of the money given out under the Trade Loans Act. 
     
     
      
       He will be able to examine them at some time. 
     
     
      
       That is a different thing. 
     
     
      
       He will never be able to examine this. 
     
     
      
       The Comptroller and Auditor-General certainly has no function with regard to the day-to-day business arrangements of any money guaranteed under the Trade Loans Act. It would be quite as foolish to put him in on that as in on this.  The Deputy has chosen a very good example, from my point of view&mdash;he has blundered into it. 
     
     
      
       He has not blundered. 
     
     
      
       He will be in this one exactly the same way. 
     
     
      
       How? 
     
     
     
      
       Choke down your righteous indignation for a minute. The Comptroller and Auditor-General will be able to see that this money goes to the proper quarter, and that nothing more than that will go, and that it will be in accordance with this particular Vote.  What does he do when moneys are guaranteed under the Trade Loans Act?  He sees that the money has been granted in accordance with the Act, but he does not follow that money down through the details of the business. 
     
     
      
       If a trade loans guarantee is called upon to be paid, then he has the right to examine the whole of the items of expenditure by the concern to which the money was given. 
     
     
      
       The Comptroller and Auditor-General has not the right to follow that money into the details of the business.  No business could be carried on under the Trade Loans Act in that way.  It would be a terrific handicap to get a grant through the Act if the Comptroller and Auditor-General's office had to be in on the details of expenditure of the money granted.  The Deputy knows that. This is exactly the same case.  There are other grants-in-aid such as Deputies referred to, and the Comptroller and Auditor-General does not come in on them.  I hold that he should not come in on this for the reason I have stated. 
     
     As to the point raised about the previous moneys, I got a grant of £5,000 to be repaid to the Contingency Fund.  I got a similar grant later of £300 as to which I think there was no discussion.  The only discussion was on the grant of £5,000 that was repaid to the Contingency Fund, and on an amendment to the Patent and Industrial Bill which I brought in round about the same time.  If Deputies read that debate they will see that in answer to Deputy Good I said that whatever was being stated with regard to the future I was talking always on this basis that it did not apply to the present invention because I said I had already got money from the Contingency Fund and hoped to get more as the necessity arose, and I have since got it.  The Deputy says   I am trying to say now that my remarks applied only to the £5,000. My remarks applied to the £5,000 because that was all that was before us at that moment, and my remarks could not have applied to any other sums because I had not got them. Surely that is a clear case.  I say distinctly with my knowledge now of the development that I can make a division.  The Comptroller and Auditor-General can inquire into the original £5,000, how I came by it, and how it was used.  He can follow that up and it can be brought before the Public Accounts Committee.  The point that was being talked of that time was raised by Deputy O'Kelly as to whether or not there was going to be a frequent and continual use of the Contingency Fund.  In the end a certain amendment was proposed to the Bill I brought in.  I put a suggestion to the House which was accepted, that there were novel circumstances; that it was the first use made of the Contingency Fund in this way, and instead of trying to establish rules the House should wait until the Comptroller and Auditor-General investigated what he could investigate, which was the £5,000, and the Public Accounts Committee had time also to listen to what he had to say and report to this House.  That is all before the Comptroller and Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee. I am asking specially now that when we have got to the commercial side of this, the Comptroller and Auditor-General should not be brought in.  Deputy Lemass thinks it is a safeguard, and in answer to a question admitted that it is no safeguard on the particular point raised.  If I had power to sell this invention for the sum of one shilling to-morrow, and if I give these rights to Celia, Limited, Celia, Limited, could sell, and the Comptroller and Auditor-General could not stop the sale.  I am told that the great function of the Comptroller and Auditor-General is that through him, and through him only, this question can be raised.  Deputies are not so ignorant of the procedure of this House as to say that that is the only   way in which it can be raised.  There is the Appropriation Bill and the Central Fund Bill into which everything is brought and on which a discussion can range on anything. 
     
      
       Will the Minister give us a promise that he will at least table the annual accounts of the company? 
     
     
      
       I shall consider that question. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister table the terms of the agreement between him and Celia, Limited, and tell the House whether any, and, if so, which directors of that company are in receipt of directors' fees or other remuneration for services rendered? 
     
     
      
       I shall consider the question of the account.  Some time or other, I have no doubt, accounts will have to be produced by an outside firm of auditors dealing with this matter, but when they will be produced is a matter I can look into and bring them before the House on what I think is the proper occasion.  They will be called for from time to time, and from time to time I can refuse them if I get the support of the House.  As to the agreement, I do not think any public purpose will be served by tabling that at this moment.  If the Deputy tells me the special point on which he wants information, I will see if I can give it. If he has any doubt as to whether I still hold the controlling share, I can satisfy him.  I do not think there are many more details of the agreement that I would publish&mdash;I do not think it would serve any useful purpose.  As to the fees point to which Deputy Briscoe adverted before in a rigidly conscientious way, up to date, the only person who has been in receipt of anything corresponding either to a fee or a salary has been the inventor himself.  I propose that hereafter the directors of Celia, Ltd., should be paid.  It is unfair to take one man like Professor Nolan to give services of the type he has given and not to have him remunerated in some way.  When I say that only one person, namely, the inventor, has been paid to date, I want it to be understood, of   course, that there was a clerical staff of some kind.  That was the old situation. I by no means say that that is going to be so in the future.  In fact, I am going to insist upon a change. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister will explain what this quotation from his own speech means: &ldquo;Actually I hope that by the time that Vote comes to be inquired into in detail I will have a great many more details to give to the Public Accounts Committee, to the Comptroller and Auditor-General, or to the Dail than I can give at the moment.  I do not think the thing will have to remain secret for anything like   so long as that.&rdquo;  What does that mean? 
     
     
      
       That eventually I will supply all these to the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Just so many nothings. 
     
     
      
       Unless the Deputy thinks that telling all the details to the Dail means so many nothings. 
     
     
      
       You have told none so far. 
     
     
      
       I think I have. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Estimate be reduced by £10&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 45; Nil, 76. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Fahy, Frank. Fogarty, Andrew. Geoghegan, James. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John.  
             Hayes, Sean. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Broderick, Henry. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Colohan, Hugh. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Corish, Richard. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Edward.
 Murphy, James E. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. 
             Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard.
 O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies G. Boland and Allen; Nil, Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       On the main question, I intend to make it quite clear that the allegation that in putting forward these amendments we were actuated by hostility to the Drumm invention or by a desire to impede its development is unfounded.  I am convinced that if any damage has been done to the prospects of that invention it will be in consequence of the attitude adopted by the Minister for Industry and Commerce this evening.  Despite the dubious methods which the Minister thought fit to adopt, we heartily trust that the hopes which he held out with respect to this battery in July last year will be realised.  Our desire in putting forward the amendments was to prevent the Dail from being steamrolled into a wrong position and a dangerous precedent being established. Now that the amendments have been defeated, we will support the Vote. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Vote No. 70.&mdash;Relief Schemes. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £300,000 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun sintiuisi i gcoir foirithinte ar dhiomhaointeas agus ar ghatar. 
       That a sum not exceeding £300,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st March, 1931, for contributions towards the relief of unemployment and distress.&rdquo; 
     
     Relief votes have been passed by the Dail in previous years and on certain occasions substantially larger sums than that now asked for were voted.  The largest sum voted was in 1924-25, amounting to £500,000.  It is felt that in the present circumstances the sum now asked for is ample to do all that can be done in this way to relieve such exceptional unemployment and distress as exist and that it is quite adequate to meet the situation. The reports that are available do not indicate that there are the difficulties in the country that were here, say, in 1924-25.  The variation in the registered number of unemployed, as compared with previous years, is very small and, while undoubtedly the economic situation has been adversely affected by the weather, the position generally is not at all of the alarming sort which we experienced on one or two previous occasions.  In addition to this sum which is now being voted there are, of course, large amounts in the various Votes which tend directly or indirectly to promote employment. There are large sums in the Office of Public Works Vote for new works and additions to the extent of about £420,000.  There is available in the Local Loans Vote for improvement works which will be carried out by local authorities a sum of £550,000. There is a vote of over £140,000 for drainage.  There are housing grants in the Local Government Vote to the extent of £217,000.  The Land Commission has available for improvements on estates a sum of over £211,000.  Under the Gaeltacht housing scheme a sum will be available for grants of £60,000.  Under the heading  &ldquo;Forestry&rdquo; a sum of £43,000 is available for cultural operations.  In addition, there is a substantial sum in the Property Losses Compensation Vote which will be expended on the erection of buildings. 
     Broadly speaking, the amounts available for works which give direct employment do not fall very far short of £2,000,000.  In addition, there will be an outlay in connection with the operations of the Electricity Supply Board of a substantial amount.  There are, of course, big allocations from the Road Fund amounting to a sum of £850,000.  In addition to the £550,000 which I have already mentioned in connection with grants-in-aid to the Local Loans Fund, there will be a further sum available of over £100,000. There are, as I have said, very big sums provided out of votes for the provision of employment which will actually provide employment for very large numbers of people.  The relief votes have been expended in the past, so far as the main portion of them was concerned, partly through the Local Government Department or local bodies and partly through the Land Commission.  Local bodies have been given percentage grants to enable them to carry out certain works.  For instance, a local authority contemplating, say, a new water scheme has been induced to go ahead by being given a free grant of 25 per cent. or some other proportion.  In that way a good deal of employment has been procured and good work has been done. 
     The Land Commission has expended money on drainage schemes, various improvement schemes such as the making of bog roads, and other minor works.  Sometimes in the desire to expend the whole of the relief grants before the end of the year, there may have been mistakes made and not quite the best value obtained for the money spent in all cases.  We desire as far as possible in this instance to make sure that the fullest value will be got for all the money expended, and we propose that, if there is any proportion of the sum which cannot be expended before the end of the year, it shall be re-voted and that any works which are undertaken shall be completed.  In one or two cases it happened that the   works were not completed, and while they were not altogether useless their value was not so much in the incompleted stage as it would be in the completed stage.  In this instance we will make an attempt to map out the expenditure so that we will not start on a larger scale than can be carried out with the sum mentioned in the Estimates. If that cannot be carried out before the end of the year then the proper proportion of the Vote will appear again in the Estimates to enable the works to be finally completed. 
     Another factor which has been already mentioned, in addition to the effects of the bad harvest weather, which induced the Government to propose this Vote to the Dail, was the fact that there are indications that the areas in which receipts of money from America is an important item are likely to suffer this year.  Many reports have come to the Government, and they seem to be true, that the same sum will not be available owing to depression in America as had been available in other years.  That would be a factor in considering the geographical distribution of the grant so far as it can be controlled. Of course, so far as the amount in urban areas is concerned, it cannot be very well controlled. 
     In certain districts either the local authority has no scheme or they moved too late to enable anything to be done. In the year of the first Vote, 1924-25, the amount actually expended was £385,000 out of a total grant of £550,000.  Of that, a sum of £133,600 was paid out in grants to local authorities.  A sum of £186,000 was expended by the Land Commission on these improvement works such as drainage, bog roads and the actual improvement of the estates.  An additional £23,000 went to the Forestry Department for doing extra forestry work in that year.  The remainder was spent in smaller schemes. There was a fuel and schools meal scheme that year which cost £16,800. In the year 1925-26 the actual amount expended was £336,000.  Of that, local authorities got £175,500, and the Land Commission expended on improvement work £137,000, while the Forestry Department got £11,500.  Then in the   year 1927-28 the amount expended was £101,000 odd.  Public Health schemes absorbed £48,900 and improvement works by the Land Commission £51,480. 
     
      
       When the President first intimated to the House that it was his intention to introduce the Estimate, he said that it was of course a temporary expedient to meet a temporary situation.  I suppose there is no doubt that it is nothing more than a temporary expedient.  We can all agree on that, but that it is a temporary situation is something on which we at least beg leave to differ with the President. 
     
     As far as we can judge, we have in this country for several years past a position in which a very large number of our people are unemployed and our complaint is that the Executive Council, instead of dealing with this situation as a whole and adopting constructive plans which would be a permanent remedy, were satisfied now and again when things got particularly bad to adopt temporary expedients such as this.  The President in his statement painted in very glowing terms the position of this country, and those of us who are at all in contact with the people know that that picture is not justified.  We know that at present and during the last seven or eight years the economic conditions in our country certainly do not deserve to be characterised by the terms that were used by the President.  Of course, the members on the opposite benches are anxious to make it appear that under their benign rule everything has been splendid in this country.  They have been talking all the time; when facts have been pointed out to them they said&mdash;&ldquo;Oh, we have just turned the corner.&rdquo;  The very fact that a Vote like this is at all necessary is a proof that the President does not believe his own statement, that he does not believe that the picture he has painted is justified and that he feels compelled, because he knows the public do not believe it either, to come along and introduce a Vote of this particular kind.  As I have said, the position is such that it   justifies the House in passing a Vote of this kind.  But it also justifies us in censuring the Executive because steps have not been taken which would lead to a permanent cure.  When motions like this were before the House before we tried to make our position on the matter clear, to make it clear that we believed it was the duty of the Executive to see that those who were prepared and willing to work and were out of work not through their own fault would be given a livelihood.  In other words, that work, or an equivalent if work cannot be found, should be provided for the citizens who are entitled to a livelihood. 
     In making our criticisms we have tried time after time to indicate that there was a direction in which we could move and provide that employment. We have indicated that if we concentrated on producing for ourselves the things which we are at present giving employment to the foreigner to produce, we could give employment to a number larger than the number we have had at any time unemployed, and that if that plan were adopted we would very soon with our present population and relatively undeveloped resources get into a position in which temporary expedients and doles of this sort would not be necessary.  The President in making his statement wanted to blind us to the facts of the situation, that during the last six or seven years our population has diminished, that the land under tillage has diminished, that the number of head of cattle has diminished, and that our output of wealth has gone down by an amount which is, at least, five and a half millions yearly.  Instead of meeting these figures and either explaining how they could be consistent with this state of prosperity which he spoke of or of meeting them in any other way he simply avoids them and tells us that the adverse trade balance, for instance, has gone down from something like 19.2 millions, which I think it was, in the peak year&mdash;to a little over 10 millions.  I think the reduction was 47 per cent.  If that diminution of the adverse trade balance was accompanied by increased production then we could believe perhaps that a satisfactory state had begun to be reached.  But it is not accompanied   by increased production.  It is accompanied by a diminishing production.  It is reduced at the same time that we have diminished production.  When we examine it we find it is much more likely to be explained by a diminished standard of living than by causes on which we can congratulate ourselves. The fact is that the standard of living is going down, that our people are being driven out on account of that and on account of the fact that a large number of them can get no livelihood at all. 
     When we see, for instance, the milch cows being sold out, when a farmer sells out his stock&mdash;which is the basis of the principal industry, the one which is most favoured by the Government&mdash;we can come to one conclusion only, and that is that the pressure of circumstances forces him to part with the material for future production.  I cannot read into it anything else, and when that is so we cannot see how it is that the President can find such comfort in the fact that the adverse balance of trade is reduced.  As a matter of fact, the total amount of the visible adverse trade balance since the present Executive came into office since 1923, let us say, has been £98,000,000.  The greater part of that corresponds to a reduction in national wealth.  That, taken in conjunction with the diminution of wealth caused by emigration, which has totalled up something between £200,000 and £240,000 in the time, represents a sum which is really colossal if we try to put it in figures at all and try to understand it; and every year while that is taking place we have got this special drain to which we have time and again called attention, the land annuities and the other sums paid out here year after year and, in our opinion, unnecessarily. When we realise that the burden of those payments on our people represents a burden which is relatively greater than the burden of the war reparations upon the German people, we ought not to be surprised when we really examine the situation, and not paint a picture of it for the purposes which the President has in mind, that the real examination reveals a very serious situation for this country. 
     
        There is very little use in repeating things.  We have said here from these benches time after time, that with the present constitution of the House it does not matter what we say, it is not even taken to the public who would be the masters of the majorities in this House.  All we can hope for is that by repetition little by little the people may come to take a real interest in the situation as a whole.  Each citizen looks upon the situation more in regard to his own self than in regard to the community as a whole.  That is quite natural.  Those who are particularly badly hit are scarcely conscious of the fact that the state in which they find themselves is shared by their neighbours and that it really demands an effort on behalf of the whole population and in particular an effort by the Executive, who should give the lead in this matter, to get us out of that situation.  Small doles and temporary expedients of this sort are not the way to tackle the situation in which we have found ourselves. 
     What will £300,000 do, even granted that it is administered as carefully as it can be?  Count it in the amount of wages, in the support that it is able to give.  The statistical bulletin of the League of Nations shows that in all probability at the present time, taking the way in which the figures have moved for months past and in previous years, the present number of unemployed as given in those figures ought to be something like 27,000.  That is those who are in insurable occupations. Suppose there were no more unemployed in this country and suppose you were to give as small an amount relatively as £2 a week, how long would this £300,000 support a family dependent on these people?  A very short time indeed&mdash;probably not six weeks. If this was really a temporary situation in which six weeks' relief to the people who were registered on the unemployed list were given, then a Vote like this would be a real boon and would be justifiable of its own account, but it is not, and the question is, whatever people benefit to the extent of £2 a week, when the six weeks are up is anything further going to be done?  Is the President prepared to come along with a further Vote in six weeks' time   to meet the further needs of those whom this is intended to relieve?  There is, as far as I can see, no effort being made by the Executive.  They have put their faces definitely against the only direction in which we can see permanent relief can be granted.  The effect of this temporary expedient will lapse after six weeks if it goes nearly meeting the present need.  If the full amount were spent weekly in giving maintenance or employment, taking the smallest figure at which we can take our unemployed, it would maintain them only for six weeks.  Is it not time that we had something more than this?  I feel we will never tackle this question properly until we make up our minds that we have a definite duty to look after these people who are starving at present.  In every direction there is work of a valuable character to be done which would increase our productive powers for the future and give us a sort of capital asset for the future.  It will take money, no doubt. It will take a big combined effort of the whole community to carry these enterprises out, but they are well worth it.  There is a shortage of houses. Why not instead of giving doles and grants set out to give employment to the building trades and at the same time provide for our people the houses without which they cannot be efficient members of our community?  There is work for one large section of the community, and I believe it would be more economical for the State to start on big schemes of that kind, to be continued for a considerable period, than it will be trying to tinker with a serious situation in the way the present Executive are tinkering with it. 
     Then there is the question of reclaiming land.  There is still a large amount of land that can be reclaimed. At present, perhaps, in the depressed state of agriculture it may not be immediately valuable property, but there is no doubt it can be made so for the future.  It is increasing the natural wealth of the country.  It is very much better than giving sums out as they are being given out at present in a way which does not get the best results, to say the very least of it.   It is doubtful what the result may be.  In fact, in many cases the results are quite the opposite from the results we want to secure, but with constructive work, with the question of housing, with the question of reclamation of land, with the question of providing proper sanitary systems for some country towns, works of that particular character with a definite object in view and with plans for a continued period in advance are all very much better than these haphazard temporary expedients the Government is putting forward&mdash;I will not say constantly, even this temporary expedient is only resorted to when they are really pushed to it.  As I have indicated our attitude to this matter so often, there is very little use in speaking to benches when you are satisfied that there is going to be no response from the majority; there will be probably others speaking about the particular manner in which this money will be administered and as far as I am concerned I will simply say that I am dissatisfied with this particular way of dealing with the question.  I will vote for it, but I vote for it simply because it is better to keep people for six weeks than not to keep them at all, even the number that would be affected by this, but I still maintain it is not the way to deal with this situation. 
     
      
       I am glad that the Government have recognised that there was a necessity for putting this Vote on the Estimate and bringing it before the Dail.  I was glad to hear the Minister in introducing the Vote make the statement&mdash;and I think it was new coming from him&mdash;that generally speaking, very good work was done in the past by means of these Votes.  Usually when the plea was put from these benches for a Vote of this kind we had the argument that work of this kind was usually uneconomic, that the money was not spent economically, and much the same thing has been stated by the leader of the Fianna Fail Party who has just sat down, that it was his opinion that good results do not follow from money spent in this way.  I do not agree at all.  I do not think there is any justification for that statement and if good work   does not follow the fault is not inherent in the system of giving grants but in the administration.  I must say that I was thoroughly disappointed with the Minister's opening speech, and with the lack of information he gave to the House as to the method in which he proposed to have the money spent.  He told us what was done on previous occasions.  But&mdash;whether he overlooked it or not I do not know&mdash; he did not state in what particular direction the money was to be spent. Perhaps the Minister would see his way to say whether it is to be, generally speaking, spent in the same way as before? 
     
     
      
       More or less; yes. 
     
     
      
       That is what I wanted to know, because I would say that, generally speaking, the method in which the last Relief Vote was spent was about as satisfactory a method as could be adopted.  There is no doubt that there are many schemes which local authorities would wish to put into operation, but which they are afraid as it were to tackle owing to the burden which these schemes would place on the immediate ratepayers. While I have not always a very great amount of sympathy with the point of view expressed in that way, and while I believe that it is not a question of the burden on the rates so much as the service that was given, I do feel that the principle of a grant of this kind acts as a kind of stimulus as it were to the local authorities to go ahead with very useful work which otherwise they might neglect for a very long time.  In that way these grants are specially useful.  I do think they do act as a stimulus to the local authority to engage in the work of striking a rate in order to do work which otherwise they would not be inclined to tackle.  As we know from experience all through the country, especially in the matter of sewerage and waterworks and sanitation generally, there is a great deal of work now to be done. 
     
     This work is very pressing.  So far as this grant will give an encouragement to that kind of work it will prove extremely useful.  The other class of work which has been done under the   previous schemes has been necessary and useful work too.  These are works which in the main are in the nature of improvements to estates.  Bog roads have been mentioned on many occasions. They would not be the kind of roads that the county council would make.  There are many other directions in which this money could be usefully spent and at the same time serve the purpose for which it was originally and really intended, that is, to give employment to a number of people who are unemployed.  I include amongst these small farmers and the sons of small farmers, who are unemployed all through the country as a result of the various circumstances which prevail at the present moment. 
     Reference has been made to the bad harvest and to the depression in prices and how these things have affected the small farmer.  We know, too, that between 600 and 700 railway men have been dismissed or are about to be dismissed from their employment in the Great Southern Railways.  These are men employed on the permanent way &mdash;men of the general labourer type. That adds to the normal unemployment that exists in the country.  I should like to say here, and I do not think it is necessary to repeat it, that we on these benches, just as the Fianna Fail Party, never regarded these grants given in this way as anything more than a temporary expedient.  We do not regard them as a solution of the unemployment question.  It is not true to state, as has been stated by a prominent member of the Fianna Fail Party quite recently, that the outlook of the Labour Party is bounded by relief grants.  There is no justification for a statement of that kind.  We have on many occasions put forward the arguments which have just been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition; we put these arguments forward long before the Fianna Fail Party came into this House.  Very important solutions of the unemployment problem have been put forward by us. We believe that a permanent solution could be found if it were tackled in the right way.  We put forward the argument that even if industry were organised to provide employment for the general mass of our people there   would be always times and periods in which there would be a greater or lessor number of men unemployed.  There ought to be some provision whereby on occasions of this kind work would be provided for the unemployed, work which would be a benefit to the country as a whole.  We think it is not difficult or impossible to get matters so arranged that that can be done. 
     There is not a great deal more to say on this matter.  The necessity for a grant is admitted on all sides of the House.  There is not much use in going into details or suggestions as to how the money should be spent, because we know the lines on which the previous money was spent, and we have it now, generally speaking, that this money will be spent on the same lines.  I was glad that the Minister made it quite clear that it would not be necessary to rush the expenditure so that all the money would be spent, or as much as possible of it, before 31st March next.  That undoubtedly was a flaw in the previous grants.  There was a tendency under those grants that the schemes would be rushed without having received the proper consideration that they should receive.  I do not think that that will be done on this occasion, because I believe that the money will be largely expended on schemes which were put up perhaps three or five years ago to the Government, and which are already there waiting to be financed.  I think that spending a certain amount of money on a scheme, and leaving that scheme uncompleted afterwards because it had not been completed before 31st March, was a thoroughly uneconomic way of dealing with the matter.  I do not say that that was done on a great many occasions, but it happened on a few occasions.  I heard of roads to be built, and these roads were built up to the last quarter of a mile, but because that portion remained uncompleted they are quite useless since.  I know of one such road.  All the money expended on that road is quite useless because of its not being completed. What the Minister said when introducing the Estimate is satisfactory in respect to this matter of the completion of schemes after 31st March.  The   Minister told us that schemes will not be left uncompleted because the end of the financial year has come before the work has been finished.  I do not think it is necessary for me to enlarge on this matter any further.  The necessity is admitted, and the grant has been made.  I agree with Deputy de Valera that this grant will not go very far.  I do not think it will meet the position that exists at the present time.  I believe that owing to the factors which have been mentioned there will be very considerable distress, especially along the west and south coast, because of the failure of the usual letters and cheques that come from America, but, such as it is, I welcome the action of the Government in making this grant. 
     
      
       There is no doubt that since last July up to the present we have had the most awfully wet weather that I suppose the majority of us have ever experienced.  I can look back to a good many years, and I can remember no year worse than the present except the year 1879.  In that year there was this difference, that it rained about the same number of days, or longer, than at present, but, unlike this year, the crops that year did not ripen at all.  I saw at that time wheat cut down, close to me, unripe.  That did not happen this year.  In fact, in some areas the position has been deceptive.  Some districts have been hit very severely, while others close by have not come off quite so badly.  I speak as a farmer myself, and I do a fair amount of mixed tillage and other kinds of farming.  I confess that in my estimate as to the way in which the crops were affected that I was quite wrong. 
     
     I managed to get some oats cut with the reaper and binder.  It was standing up better than in many other years.  In fact, there was not one bit of it down.  Nevertheless, when it came to be threshed the yield was only a little more than half of what it was last year.  I thought my hay would be ruined.  I had a great many acres lying for weeks unturned on the ground.  I thought it was absolutely done for.  When it came to be gathered together a great deal of it had not the appearance of being wet   at all, even after four or five weeks. In the case of hay that I had partly made up it was a very different story. It fermented and was not very much good.  Nevertheless, I have been able to get it in, and all of it, in a way, will be usable.  Again, in regard to potatoes, with many people it appeared as if everything would be ruined and that the crop would be very bad.  The contrary has turned out to be the case, and there has even been an increase made upon last year.  Of course that does not apply everywhere.  It applies more to high ground.  Those who unfortunately, had low-lying ground for tillage have a different story to tell. Another curious thing is that some of the very small people who, perhaps, had an acre under oats, did very much better than people like myself, who had a very much larger portion of tillage. I allowed two men to have their oats threshed along with mine.  They had about ten barrels apiece.  Their oats were infinitely better than mine, though I had a great deal more assistance than they had; they probably did all the work themselves.  They were men with three or four acres each. 
     It has been a terribly bad year, and this applies more especially to the towns than to the country.  I do not think there is such widespread poverty as in the year 1924-25.  At the same time I am sure that there is a very great deal.  I judge by the number of applications that I have received, and I consider that the poverty is not so great as in 1924-25.  I know that there is great distress in very many places. I have seen oats cut like hay and bundled together&mdash;not at all made up in stooks.  Kildare is an exception, but I know that that condition of things in other parts of the country is far from uncommon.  I have no doubt that there is a need for assistance, and the Government are going on the right lines in recognising the necessity and voting money for the purpose.  I agree with Deputy O'Connell that the money ought to be spent on objects that will last and that will be of service to the country.  I hope all the money will not be devoted to the roads. There are drainage and sewerage works that are badly required in some   country towns.  Such works will be of lasting benefit to those towns.  In my own area, I know that the towns are suffering more than the country.  That is the case so far as Kildare is concerned. Though this money may not be sufficient, at the same time the Government are wise in not issuing a larger sum of money at first.  The amount can always be increased and, if it is shown to be necessary, I have no doubt that if the matter is brought to the Government's notice there will be no failure on their part to see that distress is alleviated as far as lies in their power to alleviate it. 
     
      
       I am sorry I could not say that the constituency from which I come is without distress.  The clearest indication of distress is the gradual rise in home help.  I fear that this year it will rise.  Of course that has been caused largely by want of employment during the summer season. The farmers were unable to carry out their usual work; in fact they were unable to carry out ordinary work owing to the poor weather, and the result was that labourers were unable to earn anything in a good many places.  Home help seems to be in greater demand. 
     
     My reason for rising on this occasion is for the purpose of asking the Minister to consider a scheme that has been mentioned here for the last two or three years.  I refer to a water supply and sanitary scheme for the town of Oldcastle.  The area of charge for that scheme, which is practically prepared, is a peculiarly poor area.  It is an area that suffered very severely in the last season.  A grant in that case would, no doubt, help to bring this scheme to a successful end.  I think that the ratepayers who are to be assessed will practically refuse to pay owing to poverty and hardship; at least they will make such a protest as will damn the scheme.  I know that the people are protesting with very good reason. I do not think that they are able to meet the extra expense.  The greater part of the locality that is charged is very poor.  The town which I have mentioned is noted for its fairs and markets.  Probably the largest fairs in County Meath are held there, but   the people who will be charged in the Oldcastle district are not the people who will go to those fairs, nor are they the people who will get whatever business or profit comes to the town.  The people who benefit in that way are mostly those who come long distances I mentioned the scheme on a former occasion.  I realise it is absolutely necessary that something should be done for that town.  It has no water supply, it has no sanitary conveniences. The existing position is that the people who will be made liable are unable, especially after the present year, to meet the extra rate which will be struck.  My only reason for rising was to mention that, and I trust the Minister will apportion some part of this money to that scheme. 
     
      
       I am glad the omission in the speech of the Minister for Finance as to how this particular grant will be spent has been repaired by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.  I hope we will get more information from that Minister as to how the money will be allocated, and as to the manner in which it is proposed to spend it.  I hope also that the Minister will be willing to receive suggestions as to the manner in which the money could be expended.  I am anxious to suggest that the money should be made available as quickly as possible.  I hope the Minister will take steps to ensure that at least a couple of weeks' wages will be paid to unemployed people before Christmas.  The period round Christmas and immediately following it is unusually hard. That is the time when want in the home makes itself more felt.  Perhaps the Minister will see the wisdom of making an effort to provide something for that period, and perhaps he will see that the money will not be alone earned but paid before Christmas.  I am glad that the Minister has realised the necessity for meeting a particularly bad situation in the country.  I welcome this grant very sincerely. 
     
     I would like to endorse what Deputy O'Connell has said.  We never considered at any time that measures of this kind were anything like a permanent solution of the problem.  We consider   it rather a reproach to us all that such measures as this have to be taken.  We have come to realise that expedients of this kind are necessary, not alone in this but in other countries where grave depression prevails.  They help to tide over a bad situation until some permanent solution comes along. There is great need for the expenditure of money on different works in the country, and that need obtains very much in rural areas.  As regards my constituency.  I do not subscribe to a statement made here last week relating to the extent of unemployment in some of the towns.  I assume the towns referred to were Kinsale, Bandon, Clonakilty, Bantry and Skibbereen.  It was stated that approximately 7,000 people were idle.  That statement is ridiculous; it is futile, hurtful and dangerous to make foolishly exaggerated statements of that kind.  It clearly demonstrates that the person making them has little knowledge of the actual conditions prevailing.  There is admittedly serious unemployment in that area, but it is ridiculous to suggest that in my town, where the population is 1,400 or 1,500, there are 1,000 people idle.  There are probably 100 or 150 idle.  Those people are in a bad condition, and I have reason to know it.  The same thing applies to the other towns I have mentioned.  There is an unemployed population of decent respectable people.  They are anxious and willing to work if only they can get employed.  It is on their behalf that we appeal to the Minister to devote a considerable portion of this money to useful work in this district. I regret that, and I think this House must have some responsibility for the fact that no provision has been made for it.  I hope, as a result of this Vote, that some effort will be made to give them some hope in the immediate future. 
     I am particularly concerned with a good many rural areas in West Cork. Unfortunately, public works carried out by local authorities rarely afford any effective relief in these areas.  I am concerned with a population of rural workers, a great many of whom are unemployed for most of the year and some of them casually employed with local farmers who are very little   better off than themselves.  Their position is extremely bad at present.  As has been stated, that is reflected also in that constituency by a fairly substantial increase in the amount paid in home assistance.  The problem in the rural areas in that constituency is urgent, and that is why I can see no great hope in the suggestion made by Deputy de Valera that in the expenditure of this money we should proceed along well-thought-out and well-planned lines.  We cannot afford to wait.  Well-planned housing schemes and other public works requiring thought and deliberation will hold us up too long, because the position arising out of the bad harvest and the persistent unemployment in most rural areas will compel us, if we are going to do anything to relieve the situation, to do it quickly and to do it in the absence of any elaborate or well-planned scheme, as has been suggested. 
     The point I am making has been established out of the mouth of the Minister for Finance when he referred to a sum approaching two millions available from other Votes for the direct or indirect relief of unemployment. That sum is not very much good.  Perhaps I should not say it is not very much good, but what I do say is that it is not possible to avail of it readily.  Take the Local Loans Fund. A substantial sum is available in that Fund for water and sewerage schemes, etc.  The Minister for Local Government knows very well that the advocacy of schemes of that kind on local authorities is a particularly difficult one.  One is continually met with the cry that no more burdens can be put on the harassed taxpayer, and every effort to promote works of this kind is obstructed, delayed and hindered.  Consequently, money of that nature for the relief of an urgent and dangerous problem such as this is not as useful as if it were available for direct expenditure in a short time.  I should like to see the Minister arming himself with further power if necessary to end menaces to public health that exist in a great many small towns, and some fairly large towns, and taking authority and power to deal with such matters from the public health point of view.  I do not suggest that he should throw over   altogether considerations of expense, but, bearing in mind, as possibly he is anxious to do, the demands and the needs of public health, he should put what pressure he considers necessary on authorities to have work of this kind executed.  Perhaps the best pressure he could put on would be to allocate from this Fund certain sums in aid of schemes already in course of completion. I think it would be inadvisable to wait for two or three months until local authorities have planned out schemes for the expenditure of money. As the Minister has stated, money has been voted on other Votes for the erection of Garda barracks and national schools.  Money of that kind is not spent quickly.  More than once we have seen money for public works of that kind re-voted in a subsequent Estimate.  It is not much good to stress the fact that money of that kind is available when there is no chance of having it spent immediately, because the kernel of the situation is that it is urgent and that provision ought to be made in accordance with the urgency of the situation. 
     In that connection I should like to express the hope that the Land Commission will get a free and generous hand in spending money in the rural areas under this Vote.  I am anxious to pay a tribute to the work carried out in the rural areas by the Land Commission in the years mentioned by the Minister.  We have heard a lot in this debate, as we have heard often in this House before, about a poor return.  I have had a very wide experience of the way in which the Land Commission expended money during that time and I saw not a very poor return, but a very good return given for the money. 
     I saw works of useful public importance that could never be carried out by local rates and the proof of the fact that these works were useful and necessary was that in many portions of West Cork the County Council took over the works which had been executed by the Land Commission. And very often I have heard general tribute paid to the necessity and value of the work carried out.  With regard to the expenditure of money by the Land Commission, I hope the Minister   for Finance will consider wiping out some of the irritating restrictions and regulations affecting the spending of money by the Land Commission.  For instance in previous years the Land Commission would be precluded from spending money on estates that were vested.  I suggest that in order to get the best value out of this grant, and to make certain that it is going to be effective in the worst districts, and relieve the most deserving cases, regulations of that kind should be wiped out, and that the Minister should take steps to make certain that the best results will be got from the expenditure of this money by taking the right type of districts and the right type of cases for improvement. 
     There is very little else that I need add to what has already been said by other Deputies.  I would ask the Minister to notice the fact that, as Deputy O'Connell said, there are in many portions of the country schemes incompleted, although the money available in past years was spent on them. Works of that kind which were only half-finished ought to be again taken in hand.  They offer a very ready opportunity for spending money.  There are quite a number of such works in the constituency that I come from.  I have no doubt there are similar works in many other constituencies.  I do not want to mention any particular scheme. Matters of that kind are details which might be attended to afterwards, but I do hope the Minister will consider the necessity of finishing works of that kind.  I say again I welcome this realisation of the position of the country.  I am anxious to pay a tribute to useful and valuable work under a similar Vote in the past, and I feel that the expenditure of money of this kind in a direct and freehanded manner by a Department enables them to come in directly and do the work in hands, which justifies amply doing the work in that particular way. 
     
      
       It has been most unfortunate that the unprecedented wet season has caused serious losses, and of course consequent unemployment. Farmers and people generally through the country are greatly disheartened,   and are asking themselves is it ever going to stop raining.  There has been very serious loss of crops of hay, of potatoes, and oats, and in a great many cases it is the poorest people and the people who can least afford it that met with these losses, those people living on the lowland and on the poor land.  I would strongly advocate here that when this money is being allocated, some of it at least ought to be given to the relief of flooding.  I know many people cut off from the main road, or the bog road if you like, that are simply prisoners in their own houses, surrounded by water on all sides.  I do not think that people realise how serious it is.  If you travel by train from here to Mullingar, or on to the West you will find that the country is a regular sea, and it is getting more serious every day. 
       I admit that I am not quite sure as to the procedure and I would like the Minister to make it perfectly clear what the procedure would be by the county councils or the public boards or any other body making a claim for portion of the money.  Time is slipping along.  We are running into December and we all agree that whatever money is allocated it ought to be given two or three weeks before Christmas. There are many schemes already passed by the local boards.  There are housing schemes and sewerage schemes and there are also buildings in connection with mental hospitals, such as houses for attendants, in the constituency that I come from.  I hope sanction will be expedited, because beyond doubt they will give very useful and necessary employment.  I do not see that there is anything further to be done than for the Local Government Department and the other Departments to sanction loans and plans, and the Land Commission as well. 
     
     I would like to have some explanation with regard to the procedure, because there is a meeting of the Westmeath County Council to-morrow and I would like to be able to put them in a position to make application for the grant, because if it is not done to-morrow it cannot be done until after Christmas.  I do not want to exaggerate the position at all.  We all see the condition the country is in at the present   time due to flooding.  It is very serious.  There have been very grave losses and grave sufferings, and I strongly appeal to have this money put into circulation as speedily and as soon as possible, because it was never worse wanted than at the present moment. 
     
      
       Ta vota i gcoir £300,000 os ar gcomhair anois agus is doigh liom gurab e an rud ata in intinn an Rialtais na togha mor a bheith ann i gcionn se miosa no mar sin.  Bhi droch-fhoghmhar ann gan amhras agus ta bochtanas agus gantanas i ngach aird den tir de bharr an droch-fhoghmhar sin.  Ach is beag cabhair bheidh ag dul do na daoine is boichte as an meid seo. Is e mo thuairim go mbeidh an ga is mo leis an airgead seo, do reir an Rialtais, ins na haiteacha ina bhfuil an cuid is mo de na daoine in aghaidh an Rialtais.  Nil an Rialtas acht ag iarraidh dha ean a mharbhu le haon chloich amhain. 
       Ni mar gheall ar an droch-fhoghmhar i mbliana ata bochtanas sa tir; anuraidh, agus an blian roimhe sin, bhi an bochtanas ag meadu.  Thug an tUachtaran oraid uaidh seachtain o shoin ar staid na tire agus rinne se iarracht a chur ina luighe orainn go raibh an tir ag dul ar aghaidh go hiongantach agus go raibh an sgeal nios fearr i mbliana na bhi se anuraidh agus nios fearr an bhliain sin na an bhliain roimhe sin.  Acht ni mar sin ata an sgeal, do reir tuarasgabhala na Roinne Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli.  Teasbanann an Tuarasgabhail sin go bhfuil nios mo daoine ag fail cabhartha sa bhaile fa lathair ona Bordaibh Puibli ar fud na tire na bhi. Is doigh liom go raibh an sgeal mar an gceanna an bhliain roimhe sin.  Ni chruthuionn sin go bhfuil an tir ag dul ar aghaidh in aghaidh na bliana, mar adeir an tUachtaran. 
       Deir an Tuarasgabhail seo, leathanach 114, 
     
     &ldquo;There was an increase in the number of persons in receipt of home assistance in the year ended March, 1927, as compared with March, 1926. In the Dublin, Balrothery, and Rathdown Unions representations were made as to the existence of exceptional distress.  Upon the application   of the Dublin County Council and the Commissioners of the County Borough of Dublin made in pursuance of Section 13 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, as regards the Dublin Union, and of the Dublin County Council as regards the Balrothery and Rathdown Unions, the Minister, by order, authorised the respective Board of Guardians of these unions to administer relief out of the workhouses on certain conditions for the periods herein specified.&rdquo; 
     Taisbeanann sin go raibh an sgeal dona go leor ar feadh na bliana sin agus ta an sgeal ag dul in olcas.  Do reir an Tuarasgabhala ceanna, leathanach 116, caitheadh £393,909 sa bliain 1924 chun cabhair do thabhairt do dhaoinibh sa mbaile agus an meid ceanna beagnach ins na blianta 1925 agus 1926.  Sa bhliain 1927 caitheadh £415,890 ar an gcabhair cheanna.  Do reir na figiuiri seo, nilimid ag dul ar aghaidh cho maith agus adeir an tUachtaran agus nil nios mo daoine ag fail oibre, o bhliain go bliain, mar adubhradh seachtain o shoin sa tigh seo. 
     Ar leathanach 118, deir an Tuarasgabhail seo &ldquo;from the foregoing table it would appear that the expenditure on home assistance is above the average in the seven counties&mdash;Clare, Cork (including Cork County Borough), Kildare, Louth, Waterford (including Waterford County Borough), Wicklow, Limerick County Borough, and in the Poor Law Unions of Dublin and Balrothery. The higher expenditure in the County Boroughs of Cork, Dublin, Waterford and Limerick was due to the greater poverty and distress that existed therein.  In County Louth, the increased expenditure was incurred in the towns of Dundalk and Drogheda owing to unemployment in these areas.&rdquo; 
     Breagnuionn an Tuarasgabhail seo gach rud a dubhairt an tUachtaran mar gheall ar bhreis oibre a bheidh ar fail ag na daoine agus mar gheall ar staid na tire o bhliain go bliain.  Ta Tuarasgabhail nios deanai na sin agus taisbeanann se sin an rud ceanna.  Do reir an Tuarasgabhala sin&mdash;an treas Tuarasgabhail on Roinn   Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli&mdash;&ldquo;The numbers at the end of each of the four years preceding 31st March, 1928, in comparison with the numbers on the 1st October, 1913, receiving assistance, were as follow:&mdash; 
     Home assistance cases, 1924-25, 21,650; 1925-26, 22,606; 1926-27, 23,649; 1927-28, 25,100.  Children boarded out: 1924-25, 1,907; 1925-26, 1,906; 1926-27, 1,894; 1927-28, 1,890.  In institutions: 1924-25, 18,113; 1925-26, 17,244; 1926-27, 17,281; 1927-28, 17,290. 
     &ldquo;It will be seen,&rdquo; adeir an Tuarasgabhail, &ldquo;that whilst in recent years the number in institutions and the number of children boarded out show little variation, home-assistance cases increased steadily, and that the total number of outdoor and indoor cases before 1927-28 exceed the figures for 1913 by 600.&rdquo; 
     Sin e an dul ar aghaidh ata ann! Sin e an solus ata ag teacht ar an tir de bharr obair an Rialtais.  Ta Appendix insan leabhar ceanna agus taisbeanann sin an dul ar aghaidh ata i mBhaile Atha Cliath.  I ndeire na bliana 1925-26 bhi 8,103 daoine ag fail cabhartha sa bhaile i mBaile Atha Cliath; sa bhliain 1926-27, bhi 8,755 ag fail cabhartha sa bhaile; sa bhliain 1927-28, 10,030.  Taisbeanann sin an t-adh ata ar an tir.  Do reir na Tuarasgabhala ceanna, ta an meid daoine ata ag fail cabhartha insna contaethe ag dul i meid feasta.  I gContae Chabhain, i gContae Chorcaighe Thuaidh agus Thiar, i gContae Dhun na nGall, i gContae na Gaillimhe, Ciarraighe, Liadhtruim, Luimnigh, Muigheo, Muineachain, Tiobrad Arann, Portlairge, Contae na hIarMhidhe agus Contae Loch gCarmain, ta an uimhir ag meadu.  Acht a be an cabhair a fuair na daoine seo, b'fheidir go mbeidh siad ocrasach agus, leis an meid cabhartha a fuair siad, b'fheidir go raibh siad ocrasach. Is leir on meid sin nach adh ata ar an tir, acht mi-adh o chuaidh an Rialtas i gceannas. 
     Ta figiuiri eile insan Tuarasgabhail sin go mba mhaith liom e leigheamh amach acht ni doigh liom go mbfiu e sin do dheanamh.  Is furrus an fhirinne d'fheiceail o na figiuiri do leigh me amach cheana.  Nior mhaith liom an   sgeal do dheanamh nios measa na mar ata se.  Ta se dona go leor agus nilim acht ag leigheamh na figiuiri ata insna Tuarasgabhala do chur an Rialtas amach.  Cuireadh amach na Tuarasgabhala seo ag an Rialtas agus taisbeanann siad gur breaga a bhi an tUachtaran dha innsint nuair a dubhairt se, seachtain o shoin, go raibh an tir seo nios fearr na bhi se cupla bliain roimhe seo, agus go raibh si nios saibhre na a bhi le tamall fada.  Ni ag dul ar aghaidh atamuid acht ag dul ar gcul.  Ta i bhfad nios mo daoine ag fail cabhartha o na Bordaibh Puibli in aghaidh na mblianta.  Ni theigheann na figiuiri nios deanai na dha bhliain a shoin acht is doigh liom go bhfuil an sgeal nios measa anois na a bhi se dha bhliain o shoin.  Do reir an meid eolais ata agam ar Chathair Bhaile Atha Cliath, ta an sgeal nios measa na mar bhi. 
     Dubhairt an Teachta de Bhulbh tamall o shoin gur shaoil se nach raibh an sgeal chomh dona agus a bhi, toisc nach raibh an meid daoine ag teacht chuige no ag sgriobhadh chuige ar lorg oibre.  Ni mar sin ata an sgeal liom-sa.  Gach seachtain ataim sa bhaile, ta a lan daoine ag teacht chugam ar lorg oibre agus ta a lan eile ag sgriobhadh chugam agus is doigh liom go bhfuil an sceal ceanna le hinnsint ag gach Teachta ata ina chomhnuidhe i mBaile Atha Cliath. Ta staid na Cathrach go dona.  Ni creidim go raibh se nios measa aon bhliain le n-ar gcuimhne.  Do reir an meid daoine ata ag teacht chugam agus ata ag sgriobhadh chugam, ise mo thuairim go bhfuil an sgeul ag dul in olcas.  Ni feidir liom obair d'fhail do nios mo na a deichiu cuid de na daoine a thagas chugam.  Nuair a bhi an tUachtaran ag cainnt, dubhairt se gurab e a thuairim gur leor £300,000 don ocaid seo.  Ni chreidim gur leor e.  I mBaile Atha Cliath amhain ta gadh leis an meid seo, agus da mbeadh £300,000 ar fail bheadh gadh leis ar fud na tire.  Ma roinnfear an meid seo, £3,000,000 idir na 26 contaethe ni bheidh acht tuairim £11,500 ag dul do Bhaile Atha Cliath.  Ni feidir moran congnaimh do thabhairt do na daoine bochta i mBaile Atha Cliath leis an meid sin.  Ta suil agam go scapfar an t-airgead seo ins na haiteacha ar fud   na tire ina bhfuil gadh leis; acht ta suil agam nach ndeanfar dearmad ar na daoine ata diomhaoin i mBaile Atha Cliath.  Ta fhios agam go bhfuil cuid aca ag fail cabhartha nach bhfuair siad roimhe seo.  Ta cuid aca ag fail 2/6 no 5/- sa tseachtain agus cuid eile 15/- Acht is beag 15/- d'fhear agus bean agus triur no ceathrar paisti.  Ta na milte daoine ann ata bocht agus ocrasach agus ta gear-ghadh leis an deontas seo.  Ta fhios agam gur feidir leis an Rialtas an t-airgead seo do roinnt agus e do chaitheamh ar rudai fiuntacha. Thiocfadh leis an Rialtais a lan rudai a dheanamh ar son slainte na ndaoine ar fud na tire.  Ta uisce glan agus a lan nithe eile de dhith ar na bailte beaga acht ta fhios agam freisin go bhfuil gadh le cuid maith den airgead chun teacht i gcabhair na ndaoine i mBaile Atha Cliath.  Is feidir cuid maith den airgead seo a chaitheamh ar son slainte na Cathrach agus ta suil agam nach ndeanfar dearmad ar mhuintir Bhaile Atha Cliath nuair a thiocfas an t-am chun an t-airgid do roinnt. 
     
      
       I welcome this Vote inadequate though it is.  I think the amount should have been three times what the Minister has put before us. My colleague, Deputy Wolfe, said he was glad the Minister was only looking for the amount in the Vote.  He said if that amount was found not sufficient to cope with the distress that prevails that the Minister could bring in another Vote and ask the House to pass it.  I hope that is true, that the Deputy has inside information on that point and that in three months' time we will have the Minister coming forward with a Vote for another £300,000. 
     
     
      
       You are an optimist. 
     
     
      
       I am not an optimist. We all know that another Vote will be necessary to cope with the unemployment and distress that exist throughout the country.  We are all well aware that, during the winter, a number of small farmers and labourers in the rural districts will be out of employment. The failure of the harvest will hit them very sorely.  It is our duty to think of them, as well as of the large numbers that are unemployed   and suffering acute distress in the towns.  I hope the money proposed to be voted will be made available as rapidly as possible, and that work will be started at once.  If we talk about sewerage and water schemes, I am afraid that will only mean delay.  If such schemes are to be gone on with, I think we should be looking for more money.  The sum of £300,000 is little enough to start immediate work.  The Kildare Co. Council on Monday last, in discussing this Vote, decided to ask for a grant of £15,000.  They made that demand on the grounds that the amount of home help paid out by their Board of Health is almost three times as large as the amount paid for the same purpose in other counties of similar size, valuation and population. I hope that when our County Council come to put their schemes before the Minister that he will consider them sympathetically. 
     
     Our county surveyor has given a list of some useful, necessary and urgent work that could be carried out at once. I have before me a list of 11 or 12 schemes, the estimated cost of which is £12,600.  Nine of these are road schemes, estimated to cost £1,000 each. The areas in which these works are proposed to be carried out take in the whole county and their execution would help to relieve the unemployed population in these centres.  There is a drainage scheme estimated to cost £600.  Another scheme deals with the diversion of the Liffey by cutting across the horse-shoe bend on the road near Ballymore-Eustace.  The estimate for that is £3,000.  I do not know that that is a very pressing work or that it could be gone on with at this season of the year, but as far as road-work is concerned that could be undertaken at once.  I might mention that we have 1,000 tons of stones lying on the side of one length of road, but we cannot get them rolled as we have no funds. I hope that when these schemes are put up to the Roads Department that they will deal with them favourably. The Minister in bringing forward this Vote of £300,000 was well aware that it was only a sop.  I would ask him to consider the question of bringing forward another Vote in the month of February.  If steps are taken at once   to deal with the present Vote, the amount of money in question will, I can assure the Minister, be expended before February as far as Kildare is concerned.  On previous occasions we got money under these grants, and we got through the work that we undertook in a satisfactory way.  The work was carried out without any slackness under the direction of our capable county surveyor.  We promise to give a good return for the money we get under the present grant and to expend it as quickly as possible. 
     
      
       Deputy O'Kelly says he has very good proof that the reason for this Vote being introduced is that inside of the next six months there is going to be a general election.  The proof that he gives is that he does not see any great difference between the distress this year and the year before when there was no Vote.  For people of a suspicious mind, the Deputy certainly has very full grounds upon which to base such a statement, because the fact is that there is very little difference in the amount of distress, or the amount of unemployment, this year as compared with last year or the year before. 
       The question of home assistance has been touched upon.  Looking at that question through the different counties with a view to seeing whether, under the eyes of the local authorities charged with the responsibility for relieving distress, there is an amount of distress that would warrant more action on their, part this year than last year, we find if we take the amount of assistance given to able-bodied, or the number of cases of able-bodied dealt with in different parts of the country and exempt the counties of Meath, Kildare, Wicklow, Wexford and Clare, that there is no material difference between the circumstances of this year and last year in the matter of assistance to the able-bodied. 
     
     
      
       How do these counties stand?  Are they high or low? 
     
     
      
       Some are not high compared with others.  It has been suggested that the amount of home   assistance is increasing in the country. Deputies who serve on local bodies and who happen to discuss these matters here from time to time generally do find that they make complaints against local bodies to the effect that they do not give sufficient assistance in certain cases.  Increases given by local bodies when dealing with home assistance to the infirm and sick poor are rather a credit to our country than a reflection on it.  It is a credit if the sick poor and the infirm poor are getting proper attention.  As regards assistance to the able-bodied, with the exception of the counties that I mentioned, the amount given in that way is more or less on the same lines as last year.  In the case of some counties there is an improvement. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): Could the Minister give the amount? 
     
     
      
       I can give the number of cases dealt with. 
     
     
      
       What I want is not the number of cases but the amount given. 
     
     
      
       In Wexford at this time last year, 174 were being dealt with.  Now the figure is 230.  That is for the whole of the county board area. In Wicklow there has been an increase from 377 to 415; in Kildare, from 88 to 118; Meath, 11 to 33; and Clare, 66 to 107. 
       I have the actual amounts only in the case of Meath and Wexford, where there have been increases.  In Wexford there has been an increase from £49 to £67; in Meath, from £38 to £62. On the home assistance side, as far as figures go, and as far as reports of home assistance officers and the superintendents of home assistance officers go&mdash;and there are 312 covering the whole country, who report monthly on economic conditions&mdash;there is not a distressed position shown that is different from last year.  If this Vote is introduced this year, it is because of the circumstances of the harvest, and of outside countries that may have a bearing on our condition here during the winter, suggesting potentialities of distress within the coming months that are greater than the distress that existed during the winter of last year. 
     
     
        A question has been raised as to how the Vote will be allocated.  As far as the allocation of the Vote goes the Land Commission and the Department of Local Government will be the two principal disbursing bodies. The amounts have to be decided in the light of further examination of the position of distress, as shown in the urban and rural districts.  The Minister for Finance will have something to say to the Land Commission and to the Department of Local Government on that. So far as the latter Department is concerned, the expenditure of the money will have some relation to the condition of unemployment existing in a particular place.  The fact that a sewerage scheme or a waterworks scheme in any particular area has been held up, because people were dissatisfied to spend money on it, will not necessarily be a case for giving a grant out of the Relief Fund, in order to get the work done now, except there is unemployment in the area that would warrant the giving of the additional grant there.  I sympathise with Deputies who raised the point that further powers are necessary in the Department of Local Government in order to deal with these matters, and I also sympathise with those people who have difficulties with regard to the area of charge.  One county spreads the area of charge for these things over the whole county. 
     I have been giving consideration to the matter, and I propose to put before the House within the next few weeks, so that, if possible, we can make use of it in certain counties in connection with work done and assisted by this relief scheme, legislation that will enable the County Council to strike a small rate, say, not more than one penny in the £, for the purpose of guaranteeing a small lump sum to a local body as a contribution to the cost of a water scheme.  At present we have either to put the charge on the townland, dispensary district, or the rural district.  Very many people know that when a charge is laid on a dispensary district it is often a very heavy charge, maybe 2/- or 2/6 in the £, and may fall on the rural part of the dispensary   district, which benefits only in a very remote way from the work carried out.  It benefits more than the rest of the county, but certainly not as much as the urban district for which the work is carried out.  I think it should be possible that a small charge would be put on the county at large at the desire of the local body, and a small charge on the dispensary district, while the main burden would fall on the urban authority itself.  I mention that in reply to some suggestions that were made here. 
     As to the general question suggested in Deputy O'Connell's motion, that the Government should forthwith proceed to start schemes of sewerage and drainage, I would point out that there has been a very considerable amount of work going on for the last three or four years, and, while on the one hand desiring very much that proper water supplies should be brought to urban districts, and proper sewerage systems made available, on the other hand the Department of Local Government is concerned with the amount of money that would be borrowed, so that it would not rise above the capacity of the local body to bear the loan charges. At present, on schemes amounting to £737,000, work to the value of £349,000 has yet to be done.  There are at present in the Department schemes outlined and likely to be sanctioned, amounting to, say, £300,000 or £400,000, while in the near future there are schemes the extent of which run to an expenditure of £530,000. 
     
      
       Will they be all completed before the end of the financial year? 
     
     
      
       I am speaking of sewerage and water-works in connection with the present situation and drawing attention to the dimensions in capital of the amount of the works now going on, or that are in process of being considered.  It is worth calling attention to the fact that if we take the amount of loans sanctioned for housing, public health works, the Small Dwellings Acquisition Act, for the years 1910, 1911, and 1914, the years for which I have the figures available for the whole of Ireland, and compare them with the expenditure   under a comparable heading in the Free State for the years we have got the figures for, they are rather striking. For the whole of Ireland, the loans sanctioned in 1910 under these headings amounted to £601,000; 1911, £363,000; 1914, £493,000; 1923, £205,000; 1924, £132,000; 1925, £175, 000; 1926, £1,038,000; 1927, £812,000; 1928, £405,000; 1929, £1,101,000; 1930, £1,000,000. 
       The capital indebtedness of our local bodies in respect of works of this class has gone up from £14,672,000 in 1923 to £16,000,000 in 1928, and the tendency is to rise, so that a watch must be kept to see that we do not, in certain areas at any rate, go beyond the capital capacity of the local bodies. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say what is the comparative increase in the local rates? 
     
     
      
       I know that all that enters into it.  I suggest that these are figures that Deputies ought to have in mind.  I suggest that is a reply to Deputy O'Connell in connection with his motion, but the Government is not called upon to initiate or to make provision forthwith for these. We have been making provision for a very long time and local loans are available.  Apart altogether from that expenditure every month, this year, looking back as far as May, there have been a greater number of men employed on roads than were employed last year.  The last figures I have are for the middle of September, when 15,400 were employed as against 13,600. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would answer a question in reference to those figures.  Do they include drainage? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The figures for the Barrow Drainage would not come into that. 
     
     
      
       No.  They do not include all the borrowings, only the borrowings under housing, public health works, the Small Dwellings Act and all that. 
     
     
      
       Are public health works for public institutions included? 
     
     
     
      
       It does not include expenditure on workhouses and it does not include expenditure on asylums.  I took the figures that were comparable with the figures I was able to quote for the whole of Ireland.  So, as I say, it does not represent the total borrowings under all our headings, but it represents the total borrowing under housing and public health works.  If anybody is interested in the total borrowings I can give them under general headings. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to press the Minister for information that is not necessary, but surely he should have available the comparative figures regarding roads. 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       Will you quote them? 
     
     
      
       For what purpose? 
     
     
      
       For the purpose, if you like, of supporting that argument. 
     
     
      
       I am talking of capital moneys available for the carrying out of works and for the giving of employment. 
     
     
      
       At the expense of the ratepayers? 
     
     
      
       We are dealing with employment. 
     
     
      
       Which is a national problem. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy wants to make a point that the country can afford more of this expenditure he probably is quite right, but the Deputy knows that there is an outcry against the figures at which rates are at the present moment.  Each county supports a rate of its own, different on land and on other hereditaments.  I simply want to point out that there are very big sums of money&mdash;they have been increasing from year to year&mdash;being spent on employment locally and that generally this Vote is introduced, not because there is a more serious relief position at the present moment than there was last year or the year before, but because the tendency is towards more distress later on in the winter than there was last year or the year before. 
     
     
     
      
       The Executive Council invariably faces this problem of unemployment through the Minister for Industry and Commerce. We find them invariably dealing with this matter in a certain fashion.  To paraphrase him very generally, the Minister says the estimates put forward by the members of the Labour Party and the other Party who object to his calculations are exaggerated and incorrect.  When we suggest that there are scores of thousands unemployed, living in wretched poverty, ill clad, ill fed, badly housed and with insufficient warmth because of want of employment, he refuses to believe it.  He says: &ldquo;Because I have no means of knowing it, it does not exist,&rdquo; and it is on that basis of logic he proceeds to examine the position.  You can prove anything on that basis of logic, &ldquo;because I do not know it, it does not exist.&rdquo; 
     
     We have brought forward here every year to us the bogey of the live register. We have been told about it that it is the one serious record that the Government can produce to show the length, breadth and height of unemployment in the country.  He asks us seriously to believe that the numbers of unemployed, according to his own definition of unemployment, are set out in that live register, and he describes unemployed people as people capable of working, willing to work, available for work, genuinely seeking work and unable to get work.  There is a good deal of &ldquo;work&rdquo; in that definition, and if the Minister was as well able to work work into his schemes as he is into his speeches, we probably would be able to go a good deal further.  If we proceed with his logic we probably will destroy the live register. He says, &ldquo;I do not know of any unemployment other than is on the live register.&rdquo;  If we do away with the live register we do away with unemployment. He asked why did not the unemployed write to him, and tell him that they are unemployed.  &ldquo;Why do not they get an envelope and write to me and tell me they want work?&rdquo; I do not want to suggest to the unemployed that they ought to write to the Department and make their case fully felt, but I do suggest to the Minister   for Industry and Commerce that there is very little use in writing to the Department of Industry and Commerce and getting your name registered in the live register so as to be totted up and trotted out as the number of unemployed. If that is the only reason why they should write, then the Minister has very little reason to ask them to write.  But I do suggest to the unemployed that they ought to write to the Minister, not so as to get a live register, but that they might help to get a live Minister to attack the problem of unemployment. Despite all that has been said by way of argument, he says that 20,000 represents the volume of unemployed in insurable occupations.  That is what the Minister for Industry and Commerce says is the number of unemployed in insurable occupations, and the President tells us that the position of the country is so serious that it is proposed to have a sum of £300,000 for relief of unemployment, and that a considerable portion of this will be utilised in providing employment in rural areas.  That is to say, outside the 20,000 that the Minister for Industry and Commerce is aware of, there are thousands in the rural areas that the Minister for Industry and Commerce knows nothing about.  There are in the rural areas, according to the President himself, thousands of people who are in need of employment, and that the Minister for Industry and Commerce has no cognisance of.  I am prepared to give the Minister for Industry and Commerce credit for trying to get a full register of the number of unemployed, but I am not willing to give him credit for facing the problem of unemployment when himself and the President make two different statements. Even if we do take 20,000 that the Minister for Industry and Commerce represents as unemployed, it gives something like ten weeks work at 30s. a week to the number of unemployed. There is no need of asking me how many men.  You can work it out for yourself from the number of unemployed and the money proposed to be spent. 
     If you take the President's figures and add them to the Minister's figures   you have something like a month's or five weeks' employment for the people who are unemployed in rural and urban Ireland, at 30s. a week.  Does anybody suggest that is any attempt or any gesture towards the cure of unemployment? I did not think it was possible for us to come down to the discussion of local matters on this Vote, though it has been done and allowed to pass; but I think that we might reason from what we are intimately acquainted with to the general position in the country.  In my own constituency&mdash;I do not like trotting out this matter, as I am sure the people whom I represent would not like to have it trotted out, but it is necessary to make the position clear&mdash;in the half-year ended March, 1930, there was expended £6,187 in home assistance Two thousand six hundred and thirty-two people had to be assisted, and yet we are told there is no serious unemployment in that constituency.  I suppose the Minister for Industry and Commerce would tell me that because he does not know of these people, of their general wretchedness, hunger and deprivation, that they do not exist. 
     The Minister for Industry and Commerce, or some other Minister, will, no doubt, twit us with not putting forward some tangible proposition for the relief of unemployment.  There is in existence our recent solution for the problem of unemployment.  There is in existence a proposition that we are prepared to stand over for the relief of unemployment, and the solution of the other problems that this country is faced with.  We can probably make the Minister for Finance a Christmas present of a copy.  Putting the matter generally, does not the Executive Council know of the wretched housing conditions in the urban district?  Does it not know of the wretched conditions in towns and villages throughout rural Ireland, that in towns and villages that are not urbanised there are lanes of houses, the proper cure for which would be to burn them because they are a disgrace to anything calling itself civilisation?  There is nothing like proper conditions, no separation   of the sexes, so that the rearing of children can be carried on decently within the walls of these wretched houses.  We are asked what is our remedy for that.  Why is there not a general national scheme for the construction of these houses?  Why is there not legislation to give somebody power to start these schemes?  Why is there not provision for the extension of loans for the preparation of these schemes?  Surely the Minister knows all these things.  He knows of the sanitary conditions that prevail in some of the towns and villages in rural Ireland outside the urbanised towns, and he knows that a general scheme ought to be prepared in order to tackle these things that are beds of disease.  The wonder is that they have not started more disease already throughout the length and breadth of the country. 
     
       [An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. 
     
     That brings one to the point that the urban districts must certainly be looked after just as well as the rural. The extent of unemployment in urban districts is serious, just as unemployment in the rural districts is serious. What was done in previous years ought certainly not to be done again.  I have in mind one thing where in a wide area the people had to travel eight or nine miles to go to a town where large fairs are held.  A certain Department undertook the making of a road that would take about four or five miles off the distance the people had to travel.  A grant was given, the road was made halfway and then left there.  It is no use to anybody.  I think it was started for the purpose of giving work and to provide facilities for the people in that area. 
     I am not satisfied that £300,000 is going to do much.  It is merely a vote on account if you like.  The Government ought to bring forward some means by which employment can be given to men permanently and not in this piece-meal and dole-ful fashion. 
     
      
       In connection with this Vote I want to protest against the statement made by Deputy Shaw in this House on 19th November, in which he said: &ldquo;I hope that any of it that is   given by way of providing employment will be spent on drainage schemes.  A considerable amount of money has been spent on the roads and not enough in my opinion on drainage.&rdquo;  It is most unfair that Deputy Shaw or any other Deputy should specify one particular way in which any portion of this Vote that may find its way to a particular county should be spent. 
       Deputy Shaw may have a drainage scheme of his own in his own locality, but that is no reason why he should ear-mark whatever portion of the money that goes to Westmeath for that particular scheme.  He may have roads as smooth as glass passing through Mullingar, but I think the Minister for Local Government has been made aware that it would practically take £150,000, or half of this Vote, to put the main roads in Westmeath into order.  We have numerous main roads from Mullingar to Cavan and to other towns which are in a scandalous state of repair.  While I do not say that the money should be spent on any particular road, I do say that it is most unfair on the part of any Government Deputy to say that no money should be spent on anything but drainage.  I hope that the County Westmeath will get more generous treatment than it did on the occasion of the last Vote. On that occasion Westmeath got £1,000, whilst other counties got from £10,000 to £20,000.  As a condition of the getting of that £1,000, Westmeath was told the County Council would have to borrow £2,000.  That Council already had an overdraft of £40,000. It has one of the highest rates in the Saorstat.  To keep down that overdraft and to meet interest charges on the various loans is a big task for that Council, and it should not be told that a condition of getting this grant would be that it would have to borrow further. 
     
     The Ministry, in giving the grant, should take into account the finances of the county.  They should also take into account the main roads and the interest and redemption charges on the loans every year.  I do hope the Minister will be more generous in his allocation to Westmeath this year.  I hope when the grant is given out that there   will be no undue delay about it, and that whatever benefits accrue from it will accrue in the hardest months of the year&mdash;December and January.  The Minister referred to the question of home assistance.  I have repeatedly got from his Department figures for home assistance administered in the various counties during the years since the Saorstat was first set up.  I will deal with my own county in particular. The amount spent there in home assistance in 1922-3 was £4,500.  The amount spent this year, or rather the amount that we estimated for, was £11,300.  That will probably be exceeded by £2,000.  The Minister is wrong in saying, at all events as regards our county, that we are more generous in the giving of home assistance.  We would like to give more, but we have not enough to go round.  I question the Minister's figures about the 33 able-bodied persons getting relief in Meath and 100 somewhere else.  In my own locality there are more than 100 able-bodied men needing relief.  I would like to know how the Minister got these figures.  Very often it is not the able-bodied person that comes to the relieving officer.  It is his wife.  I am convinced that these figures as to able-bodied assistance are incorrect.  My own experience tells me that.  I question the Minister's statement that the large increase in home help is due to more generous treatment by boards of health. 
     The Minister gave some figures about capital due on the loans during the various periods for the relief of unemployment. As regards housing and so on, he also gave us figures as to sums due on loans raised for these items. He said that a sum of £200,000 was raised in 1914, and £300,000 in 1915.  He then gave us the total indebtedness as being in the vicinity of £16,000,000.  I would like to know from the Minister what was the total indebtedness in regard to these local loans when the Free State Government took over affairs in 1922.  He did not enlighten us on that matter.  I do not think the capital expenditure since the Saorstat was set up was anything like the capital expenditure raised in the previous years. The loans raised before the coming of   the Saorstat were raised on much more advantageous terms than the loans now being raised.  This is a very serious matter in connection with housing.  The general rate of interest for loans under the Labourers Acts ranges from 21⁄4 per cent. to 23⁄4 per cent.  Such advantageous terms are not being got now, and it is up to the Minister to get the same terms as his predecessors got for the purpose of solving the housing problem and giving employment. 
     Deputy Hogan referred to housing conditions.  I believe you could cut down the expenditure on tuberculosis treatment to one quarter if you dealt with the housing question.  How people live in hovels in the rural as well as the urban areas is a mystery.  How they are not annihilated by disease, diphtheria and tuberculosis, in far greater numbers than they are is a great tribute to the sturdiness of the Irish race.  You could cut down the expenditure on tuberculosis and other less malignant diseases that fill the county hospitals every winter if you dealt with the housing problem.  Incidentally you would be solving the unemployment problem.  The matter of sanitation has been spoken about.  As long as the present Ministry are in office the sanitary conditions of Irish towns will never be dealt with.  They will remain as they got them. 
     When this money is being distributed it should be distributed in an equitable way.  It should not be ear-marked for any particular district, but should be spent in the areas where the greatest unemployment lies.  Unemployment is rampant all round, in the rural as well as the urban areas.  The first consideration in the allocation of the money should not be the utility of the schemes but rather the amount of relief given to human beings. 
     
      
       The trouble about this condition, which the President has described as temporary, is that the first one hundred years of it are the worst. As a matter of fact this condition is endemic and these temporary remedied merely tide the Government over their political situation, do a certain amount of good, but do not remedy the situation in a fundamental way.  One has   only to cast one's eye over the periods since 1924 to see that almost every year there has been a vote for relief schemes.  The total amount voted for that period has been something like £847,000.  It is true, as the Minister for Finance pointed out, that all the money voted was not expended.  I make out that about £633,000 has been expended.  In the year 1927-28, of the £150,000 voted slightly less than £50,000 was not expended.  In the year 1924-25 of the £500,000 voted £164,000 was not expended.  That makes a total of £214,000 unexpended.  That taken from the total amount voted shows that £633,000 has been expended in that period on relief schemes. 
       All these schemes are necessary because the Government has the wrong point of view.  It has been dependent in its attitude of mind upon the British point of view.  It has done nothing to protect Ireland against the great syndicates which exploit this country, which sell their goods here and against which individual enterprise has no chance.  It is the duty of the Government in a small country to give such a form of protection&mdash;I do not speak in terms of tariffs generally &mdash;in the safeguarding and watching over of small industries that we will not be like a naked man amid armed men as regards the development of our industries; that we will not be in the position of people unarmed against these powerful corporations.  Further than that, the Government has never been able to get away from what is called the laissez faire school of economics.  Because of that view-point there are countless schemes for the development of industries which have been dried, cured and hung up in the Department of Industry and Commerce because the Government do not consider it is their duty to do anything to foster these industries.  They have never made any attempt to approach the banks to see whether they would advance money to support those industries. There is no policy in that direction. They are entirely dominated by influences and interests which are outside this country and so it is that from year to year the taxpayer has to pay for the worst results because of their lack of a proper policy. 
     
     
        The figures of unemployment do not altogether indicate the low condition of the vitality of the people.  In Waterford City recently I discovered that many school children are really not able to do their work because they are ill-fed.  Their parents are not able to feed them properly, so that they are not able to learn their lessons.  I was told by one who knows it, that it is killing the teachers trying to teach children of that sort.  That is a very good indication of the low economic vitality of the people.  It is due to the fact that their wages are low, that they are employed at casual labour, and so on.  That is not what one would have anticipated and would expect in this country which it is so often boasted is an infant State which is growing strong, and should be prospering in industry.  It is certainly not the result which Arthur Griffith looked forward to when this State was established.  One would have anticipated at least the development of industries, and that this condition of low vitality would have been removed by the growth of these industries. One of the reasons usually quoted as an excuse for the present conditions is that they are world conditions. That phrase &ldquo;world conditions&rdquo; is absolute cant.  There is a country which has suffered just as bad weather and which is largely an agricultural country, but also industrial. Because its industries are well-balanced and because it has a national policy of finance which will not allow interference from outside, instead of at present having a large amount of unemployment that country is looking, or was two or three months ago looking, for 20,000 workers to do work.  I refer to France, a country which is never referred to by those who speak about world conditions of depression. 
     It is at this balance between industry and agriculture that the Government should have aimed, but it has not done so.  I need not labour that point as it has been dealt with before. I should, however, like to point out that some years ago an appeal was made from this side of the House for some united action; that some effort should be made by all parties, that   an economic council should be set up. That economic council was not set up; no attempt was made to establish a neutral body which could look to the economic interests of the country and to them alone.  Now the opportunity for such a thing is gone, and we can only hope that in the near future the Government which refused to establish that will be swept out of office, and give place to another Government which will come with fresh ideas to supplant that which is now the hoariest Government in Europe, because the Cumann na nGaedheal administration happens to be the oldest one in Europe. 
     I think that a suggestion which was made before and turned down by the Government is worthy of repetition and would not cost very much money. The suggestion was that a small amount of money should be devoted to the advertisement of Irish industries, and be used in some way to bring before the eyes of the Irish people the industries which are in existence.  If that were done it might absorb a certain number of the unemployed in productive industries.  An effort of this sort was made by the business men of Waterford and, although they had very little means, it was done with some small result and it gave some sort of fillip to local industries.  I suggest that a small portion of this money should be devoted to something of that kind.  If it were only by way of experiment I believe it would justify itself in results. 
     The Minister for Local Government referred to prospects being bad, and said that that was the reason this grant is made.  Prospects undoubtedly are very bad.  We are drifting into a position which could hardly be very much worse.  Calculating very roughly from the figures mentioned by Deputy de Valera, we must have lost in purchasing power since 1923 at least £130,000,000, which has flowed out of this country in respect of the unfavourable trade balance, of the annuities gone out of the country for which we get no return, and of emigration.  There is depression in America which is going to reduce enormously the amount of money which comes to this country every year and upon which some districts,   including some districts in the County Waterford, depend almost entirely. There is depression in English industries, which is going to have tremendous reactions here.  People with money to invest invested it in English industries and were backed up by the Irish banks.  Now they are just hanging on in the desperate hope that these industries will come back again. Depression in that respect is going to effect all the people employed by these persons here.  There is going to be a general reduction in the standard of living of those who are usually referred to as the better classes.  I refer to those who have some money invested and are not merely living upon earnings. The people that they employ are going to be thrown out of employment. Then we have the reduction of farm stock, which is a reduction in essential capital.  Farmers are crying out for relief.  We have all received to-day a resolution from an association of farmers claiming relief in respect of overhead charges&mdash;rates, annuities, etc. They complain, and I have heard the complaint made publicly, that the sheriffs and bailiffs are seizing their goods and selling them at a rate which is totally out of proportion to their value.  In some cases the most outrageous things are being done by the bailiffs.  These things are all going to produce results in the near future.  Is £300,000 going to meet all the difficulties of that situation? 
     There is a great deal to be said for the contention that this £300,000 is voted in the same spirit in which, long ago in the old Dublin Corporation, money used to be voted for the purpose of repairing roads just before an election in order to capture votes&mdash;a kind of political souperism.  It is demoralising to have recourse to doles of this sort; demoralising from the political point of view and from the general economic point of view.  The Minister for Finance compared the year 1924-5 with the present year.  He said that this year we have not had to have as large a Vote as in 1924-5.  In that year the amount voted was £500,000, of which only £336,000 was spent.  At that time there were in the country at least 100,000 people who since then   have emigrated, and it is with the smaller population that the Minister has now to deal, so that the comparison is vitiated by the worst element of impoverishment that occurred since. 
     [ An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
     Complaint has been made on several occasions in this House that distinction is drawn between different citizens in the country when it comes to giving out this work.  In road work in Waterford on certain Government schemes ex-soldiers were always given the preference. That creates a most unhealthy condition in the minds of the people.  It perpetuates the war feeling and makes people feel that the Government are still carrying on a kind of economic civil war in the country.  It creates a morbid state of mind and it makes them almost incalculable as to what people may do in certain circumstances. Now I would urge very strongly upon the Government that they should remove all distinction in the administration of these grants and the administration of the Road Fund; that they should administer it indifferently and without any distinction as to different politics.  We have had recently an example of an attempt made through the police to find out how many of a certain political colour were being employed in the Electricity Supply Board, so that we had evidence from that that the Government were still going on with this foolish policy of creating bad blood in the country. Although we are obliged to vote for this grant because there is no way out of it&mdash;it is a matter of sheer, absolute necessity, to tide the people over the coming period&mdash;at the same time, one does feel it is not getting us away from drifting towards poverty.  Some one in the House referred to the South Sea Islanders who live by taking in each other's washing.  We will be reduced to the position of doing nothing else except taking in each other's washing, and that washing is shrinking to such an extent and is getting into such a state of rags that soon very little of it will be left. 
     
      
       Daoine do bheadh ag eisteacht leis an dream ar   an dtaoibh eile den Teach, ceapfadh siad nach ndearna aon duine ariamh ar an taoibh seo den Teach aon bhlas ar son na ndaoine mbochta.  Ceard a rinne siad-san?  Ta a fhios ag an tir go leir e.  Dubhairt an Teachta Sean T. O Ceallaigh go raibh an tUachtaran ag innsint breag faoi dhonacht na tire acht ise mo bharamhail go mbeadh brod air-sean agus ar na Teachtai ata ar aon taoibh leis da mbeadh an tir seacht n-uaire nios measa, agus da mb'fheidir an t-Uachtaran agus a mhuinntir fein do chur faoi chois.  Ta a fhios againn go bhfuil nios mo gradh Dia i ladhaircin an Uachtarain na ata ina dhream fein go leir.  Is mor an gar go bhfuil na daoine bochta againn mar meireach na daoine bochta ni bheadh tada le radh ag an dream taoibh thall. 
       Ta brod orm-sa gur thug an tAire Airgid an vota seo isteach.  Deanfaidh se maith an domhain do na daoine go leir.  Boithre chuig na portaigh agus chuig na cladaigh do dheisiu, stadanna beaga le haghaidh na mbad do dheanamh&mdash;ar a leitheid seo d'oibreacha do caitheadh an t-airgead a tugadh amach cupla blian o shoin.  Rinne se maith an domhain mar is mo duine gur bhain se an cliabh da dhruim agus codhladh na hoiche do dhaoine eile nuair a bhi fhios aca go raibh a mbad sabhalta insna stadanna do rinneadh.  Nil a fhios agam airgead ar bith do caitheadh le mo chuimhne go ndearna na daoine an oiread ar a shon, mar bhi a a fhios aca go maith ar ar mhaithe leo fein e Im' bharamhail-se ba cheart a leitheid seo do dheanamh gach aon Gheimhreadh, mar is as rudai beaga mar seo a thaghas 'chuile mhaith agus ni as rudai mora go gcloisimid gleo mor futha agus gan tada da bharr. Ta a fhios ag na daoine le n-a ndeanamh agus ta fonn ortha iad do dheanamh. Ba mhaith liom-sa da bhfuigheadh Aire an Iascaigh cuid den airgead seo mar ta go leor oileain sa tir go ndeanfadh stadanna beaga go leor maitheasa doibh agus do chuirfeadh se na daoine go mor chun cinn ag deanamh na ceilpe agus ag cruinniu na cairrigine ata fa dheire ar a chosaibh. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Vote of £300,000, but my opinion is that the amount will be inadequate to meet the demands of the unemployed   at the moment.  We have been told that the number of the unemployed is not as high this year as last.  I asked a question hero last week as to the numbers of the unemployed registered at the labour exchanges in the counties of Longford and Westmeath.  The answer I got was that in the county of Longford there were 59 persons unemployed. I wonder what Deputy Connolly will think of that.  In the County Westmeath I was told there were 570 unemployed.  I have been through that constituency lately, as other Deputies have been, and I can assure the House that unemployment in the constituency I represent is very rife, particularly in the large towns.  I am sorry to inform the House that the woollen industry in Athlone is not doing as well as we would expect.  The cause of that is the increased tariff which has been imposed by the United States Government upon the products of that mill.  This will have a reaction on numbers of other people who are dependent on workers in the mill.  Yet we are told that there are no able-bodied people receiving home help assistance in the County Westmeath or only a small number.  That is not true, at any rate, of the towns I visited.  Longford is in an appalling state through unemployment, yet I am told there are only 59 unemployed in the whole county.  The town of Ballymahon is in a worse plight, with bad housing accommodation, no employment, no street lighting, no sanitation of any kind, and no waterworks.  All the towns round about are similarly situated.  I did not hear the Minister moving this Vote and I do not know what class of work this money is to be allocated for.  The roads, as far as I know, in the County Longford are certainly not a credit to the county council.  The roads in Westmeath are better but they deserve more attention, and this grant will be welcome to the road workers in Westmeath. 
     
     There is one class of road to which I would like to call attention, and these are the roads which are called cul-de-sac.  They are of public utility, but they do not come within the meaning of the Act.  Such a road leads to a particular place and ends there, and hence we are prohibited from making   these roads.  There are also a number of bog roads that should have something done for them by the Land Commission. Waterworks and sewerage schemes are very necessary, but we are told that it is only where schemes are already prepared that anything can be done under this Vote.  I hope the Minister will give this matter attention, and see that something is done for the making of such roads as I have mentioned.  Drainage is very necessary, and should be carried out in Westmeath and Longford.  I hope the Minister will let us know what schemes of work should be prepared to receive attention, so that the work could be put in force before Christmas. 
     
      
       The Minister for Finance, in introducing this Estimate, said that the sum was adequate and ample to deal with the distress which he believed existed.  I do not think there is a Deputy in this House would agree, no matter to what Party he belonged, that the sum is either ample or adequate to deal with even a fraction of the unemployment and distress as they exist and affect the smallest farmers and the unemployed workers in the towns.  Last week, we had a debate on the economic position in the Twenty-six Counties, and a Deputy informed the House that in every part of the country distress existed to an extent that, despite the President's juggling with figures, could not be gainsaid. 
       To-night, in introducing this Supplementary Vote, the Minister for Finance gave a pretty artistic exhibition of what juggling with figures can do in throwing out a smoke-screen calculated to deceive Deputies into the relief that this unemployment question is being tackled to the extent of £2,000,000.  There is very little use in the House setting itself down to take a serious view of this important question if it does not face the facts as they exist, and if there is not an effort irrespective of Party propaganda or political kudos to tackle the problem as a serious issue and not one on which debating points might be scored by one section of the House or another. 
     
     It is well also, when dealing with a   problem of this nature and when considering a Supplementary Vote of £300,000, that the House should go back over the years and take stock, if I may so call it, of the position that we were promised in 1921 and that which exists to-day.  Fiscal automony was going to secure an absolute Utopia in this country.  We were supposed to have obtained freedom to achieve freedom, but we find, eight years afterwards, that it is freedom to starve for a large section of the population.  The contrast between the activities of this State and its Ministers, on the one hand, and the mass of unemployed citizens in the towns and of the small farmers whom the bailiff has hit hard, on the other hand, is one that will not be met by the provision of an inadequate sum of £300,000.  We have developed in the Twenty-six Counties into the dumping ground for the whole world.  We have in our unemployment and emigration a national menace of paramount importance.  No less an authority than Father Cahill, whose book, &ldquo;Ireland's Peril,&rdquo; would be an interesting volume for the Minister if he took it home and studied it, states: &ldquo;The central social evil in Ireland in reference to which almost every public evil must be considered....  Nothing so well illustrates the deplorable condition to which this misgovernment and social injustice have reduced the nation.&rdquo; 
     Has the Cabinet during the Recess done anything to frame a policy to meet the spectre of unemployment? After five months' adjournment Deputies were entitled to expect, when the Ministry met the Dail after such a long holiday, that some policy would have been evolved to tackle the question, not on the lines of super-doles or attempts to make the ordinary unemployed citizen feel that he was getting something for nothing, and make him more demoralised and degraded, but on the lines of some reproductive scheme.  What, however, do we find? We find that year after year, winter after winter, the only solution put forward by the Executive Council is based on the idea of &ldquo;live horse and you will got grass,&rdquo; and &ldquo;here is a few weeks' work to keep you quiet for Christmas; get ahead and something will happen.&rdquo;  If the Executive   Council cannot produce a better solution than that of a provision of constantly recurring Votes of £300,000 or £100,000 for the relief of unemployment, then it is time that some other body of men took the job in hand. Surely that is not a proper way to tackle the problem.  Surely for eight years, with all the resources of the State at their disposal, with the assistance of the officials, and with all the brains of this young Ministry about which we hear so much, some national programme should have been put before the Dail when it reassembled last week.  We find, however, that there is no such programme in the President's statement to deal with the problem, but that the usual promises have been made that the various Departments will spend money on road schemes and so forth.  Our experience of three years in this House has led us to believe that by the time these schemes mature there will be a lot of people wondering why the Dail wasted so much time in talking about unemployment and distress, and will be wondering where that £300,000 has disappeared to. 
     We find the great contrast of which I spoke existing in this State.  While on the one hand we have receptions by the dozen, magnificent representations and establishments in all the capitals of the world, ambassadors in every country, while we have money to enable jumping teams to be sent to foreign countries, while we are represented at the League of Nations, while the boom in stocks and shares is treated by the President as a magnificent proof of our prosperity, and while he states that the unemployment figures have been reduced by 50 per cent.&mdash;while we hear all that, we know that in reality the situation was never so bad.  Anyone who has any experience of the country knows that no amount of juggling with figures and no amount of rosy promises in regard to road schemes and so forth will get over the fact that this winter, according to no less authority than the &ldquo;Cork Examiner,&rdquo; is going to prove a very hard time for our people and that this £300,000 will be by no means adequate. It is only equal to about £10,000 for each county and is not equal to the   starting of even one big road scheme. Surely, as Deputy de Valera said, if the Government took this question seriously and if they agreed with the doctrine that it is the duty of the State to provide work they would tackle it on a national scale.  They have not done so. 
     With this £300,000 and the £2,000,000 promised to be spent by the various Departments there ought to be a constructive programme in regard to housing and public health schemes.  The Government should embark on big schemes and make them a basis to go on with.  Instead of that, however, they are only tinkering with the problem and this money will be thrown. away in many cases.  While I welcome this sum of £300,000 as being better than nothing and while I am prepared to vote for it, I want some guarantee from the Minister that while these schemes are maturing and while the red-tape regulations are being got over the people will not be allowed to starve.  We know that three years ago when the last grant was made there was so much red tape to be got over, so many letters to be written to the Departments, especially the Local Government Department, that by the time sanction was obtained for such schemes, Christmas had gone and we were well into March.  I hope that we will get over that this time, that the Minister will scrap all this red tape and adopt such a slogan in connection with the sum of £300,000 as &ldquo;winter rations for the unemployed,&rdquo; and give them money rather than keep them tossing about from day to day in the hope that the schemes will materialise and then find out that they have not materialised until it is too late. 
     We have the other problem to consider&mdash;namely, that there should be no discrimination in the allocation of work under these grants.  A few days ago I asked the Minister for Justice whether it was a fact that a circular was issued from the Commissioner's Office of the Garda Siochana asking for particulars about members of the I.R.A. who got employment under the Electricity Supply Board.  The Minister admitted that the circular was issued, and said that he thought that it was quite right to issue it.  In   other words, the Minister considered that the policy of his Department in relation to certain people should be to ostracise them, to prevent them getting employment, to force them to take the emigrant ship, to get out or starve.  If this grant is to be allocated on national lines to relieve unemployment there must be no discrimination, and men of all armies&mdash;British, Free State and Republican&mdash;should be entitled to work.  There is no reason why all these men should not be given an opportunity of earning money to tide them over the winter months.  I hope that when the money is allocated no discrimination will be made, and that there will be no penalisation of any section of the community because of any political opinions which they may hold.  The &ldquo;Star&rdquo; says that we can have no economy except at the expense of our social services.  Ministers state that this Vote is adequate to deal with distress.  I think that the sooner the Dail gets down to facts and realises that the voting of these recurrent grants is really useless, and is only tinkering with the problem, the better it will be for the House, the country and the unemployed. 
     When I speak of the unemployed, I mean not only unemployed citizens in the towns, but also the small farmers and fishermen.  These three classes must receive attention if the State is to exist.  Just as a greater man than any Minister said that we were the backbone of the country, so, too, if the Ministry allows our peasantry to be extinguished&mdash;allows the bone and sinew of the towns to emigrate, and at the same time claims that this is a happy and prosperous country, no amount of camouflage can hide the facts, and no amount of hypocrisy will get away from the guilt of those responsible. I am not going to suggest schemes to be adopted in West Cork, because the various departments are well acquainted with the needs of the district.  Such schemes have been put before them on various occasions, but very little has been done to meet the needs of the district.  Certain schemes of which the Minister spoke, such as work on the main road to Cork, and other roads of West Cork, could be got under way.  I hope that the   Department of Local Government will change its mind in regard to the steam-rolling of the road from Cork to Kinsale, and in regard to the water supply in the Irish-speaking district of Ballingeary schemes which I suggested, and which were turned down by the Minister six months ago. 
     There is no doubt that schemes in the nature of building schemes could be started by the Government giving grants and loans.  An effort could be made to give housing loans which would be utilised for the double purpose of providing houses and giving employment.  If this money is doled out in small schemes, no reproductive return may be expected, and the object for which the grant has been given may not be attained.  I think that the Minister should consider these points very carefully, and take the lesson that other countries have learned.  He should learn the lesson that whilst the people for a time may exist on national sentiment, and whilst the people for the moment may be carried ahead on a wave of enthusiasm hoping to achieve a certain political object, as in other countries, that wave may subside, and if something is not done that spiritual feeling will die very quickly, and will give way to a greater feeling, a greater call, the call of the stomach, the call for bread.  If this country is allowed to develop on the lines along which some other countries have developed, and if we have the refusal of a responsible Executive to deal with the situation and to examine the problem caused by a world-wide depression, not on the lines of doles or soup, there may come a greater urge, and a greater power outside the Dail may deal with Ministers and the Dail, and settle these questions of unemployment once and for all. 
     
      
       Dubhairt an Teachta O Mongain, tamall o shoin, gur mhaith an rud go raibh na daoine bochta ann mar adhbhar cainnte do na Teachtai agus dubhairt se freisin gur mhor an naire e a bheith ag caitheamh droch-mheasa ar an Uachtaran.  Dubhairt an tUachtaran, seachtain o shoin, go raibh staid na tire nios fearr na a bhi bliain o shoin. Agus conus mar ta an sgeal againn?  I   Mi Iuil, 1929, bhi 17,126 daoine claruighthe mar dhaoine diomhaoine. I Meitheamh, 1930, bhi 18,945 daoine claruighthe agus i Mi na Samhna, 1930, bhi 22,990 claruighthe.  As an meid sin daoine a bhi diomhaoine i Meitheamh, 1930, bhi 53 per cent. ag bainnt tairbhe as an Arachas Diomhaointis agus i  na Samhna, 1930, ni raibh ach 50 per cent. ag bainnt tairbhe as. Do reir na bhfiguiri seo agus na bhfiguiri a thug An Teachta Sean T.O Ceallaigh tamall o shoin, nil an tir cho saidhbhir seanmhar agus a dubhairt an tUachtaran. 
       Da mbeadh polasai ceart economiceach ag Rialtas an Stait seo, ni bheadh gabhadh leis an ndeontas so chun cabhruighthe le lucht an ghabhtair.  Os rud e, amh, go bhfuil an gabhtar ann, is maith an rud an t-airgead fhaghail mar sheift sealadach.  Ta suil againn nach mbainfear usaid as an ndeontas agus e da roinnt, chun aon dream polaitiochta do chur chun cinn.  Is deachair an t-airgead a roinnt go cothrom ar mhuinntir na mbailti mora agus ar mhuinntir na tuatha.  Ta a fhios ag an saoghal, agus admhuightar ag an Rialtas fein e, go bhfuil na feilmeiri i gcruadh-chas i mbliana.  Ar an dtaoibh eile, ta ruin factha ag Teachtai Co. na Gaillimhe da chur in uil duinn go bhfuil na ceudta duine scurtha diamhaoin i Gaillimh, i mBeul Atha na Sluagh, i nGort Inse Guaire agus in aiteanna nach iad, on Chlochan go dti Beul Atha na Sluagh agus on Dun Mor go dti Gort Inse Guaire.  Ta bailti mora in a bhfuil seantighe lobhtha agus fothracha granna salacha leis na bliadhantha anuas agus ba bhreagh an rud e iad a ghlanadh ar son aoibhneasa na mbailti fein agus ar son slainte an phobail.  Nil d'acmhuinn na de mhaoin ag na comhairli puibli an deagh-obair sin a dheunamh acht is e mo bharamhail go dtabharfaidis fen obair da mbeadh a leath den chostas ar faghail on Rialtas. 
     
     Rud eile dhe, ta bailti mora agus bailti beaga i gCo. na Gaillimhe agus solathar fior uisce glan de dhith orra, go bhfuil ar na daoine uisce go bhfuil siol aicide innte d'ol.  Ta a fhios san ag Roinn an Rialtais Aitiula, oir is minic a rinneadh tagairt don sceal i dtuarasgabhail na ndochtuiri.  Maidir   le camrai agus gleus camraighe, ta bailti mora sa chonndae ceana agus ni thig liom a radh go bhfuil aon phlean glantoireachta acu cor ar bith.  Taid chomh dona san go mbionn an drochbholadh le mothu ionnta le linn an bhrothaill.  Nuair a deuntar iarracht ar an galair sin a leigheas, bionn aighneas agus argoint ann ar feadh tamaill, feuchaint ce dhiolfadh as an obair, ce an limisteir ar a dtuitfeadh an costas, coimhlint idir muinntir an bhaile mhoir agus muinntir na tuatha mordtimpeall, diospoireacht searbh ag an gComhairle Conndae, agus b'in deire an sceil go ceann cupla bliain eile.  Ba mhor an gar teacht i gcabhair do na bailti sin.  Obair tairbheach iseadh e in a mbeadh buntaiste do'n Stat i ndeire na ndala.  B'fhearr go mor mile punt a chaitheamh ar obair den tsord san na cupla ceud a roinnt in a dheontas gan tairbhe.  Nil a fhios agam an feidir na scoileanna do dheisiu le cuid den airgead seo.  Ta cuid acu agus ta siad go dona ar fad. Da dtiocfadh linn iad do dheisiu agus an costas d'ioc as an deontas so ba mbaith an rud e. 
     Ta na feilmeiri nach bhfuil acht gabhaltaisi beaga acu i gcruadhchas i mbliana, de bharr na doininne.  Ta na fatai maith go leor, b'fheidir, go foill acht nil fhios an mbeidh siad go maith san Earrach, toisc gan iad bheith abaidh agus cruadh i mbliana mar ba ghnathach.  D'fheudfai obair fhaghail do chlainn mhac na bhfeilmeiri sin tre deis a chur ar na boithribh.  Ni do na boithribh mora ataim ag tagairt, mar tugtar aire mhaith doibh sin ar fud na tire, acht do na boithribh beaga as a mbaintear usaidh ag furmhor na bhfeil meiri.  Caithtear a oiread san airgid ar na boithribh mora go ndeintear faillighe ar na mion-bhoithribh agus ar na bealaigh naisc.  Is minic lochan orra sa Gheimhreadh.  Chonnachas fein sruthan ag rith fan an bhothair, agus uaireannta tuile gan tlas orra ar feadh miosa.  Bionn ar na leanbhai bochta siubhal thrid an lochan ar dul ar scoil doibh agus an la a thabhairt ar scoil agus na cosa fuar fluich i rith an lae. B'fhearrde iad go minic bheith cosnochtaithe. Ba mhaith an rud e na loganna a lionadh pe ait in a bhfuil an bothar fa chomhtrom an talmhan agus   claiseanna a dheanadh i naiteanna eile le caoi ealuighthe a thabhairt do'n tuile. 
     Anois an t-am le crainn a chur.  Ta fhios againn nach e tuairim Aire na Talmhuidheachta gur aiteanna feileamhnacha gaorthaidh agus seanphortacha agus cliathain na sleibhthe san iarrthar i gcoir foraoiseachta. Gheibhtear giumhais ins na haitheacha sin, amh, nuair a bhiotar ag bainnt mona, agus ma bhi crainn giumhaise ann uair, deanfadh an tadhmad ceudna fas ann aris, de reir nadura. Dar ndoigh, nil an t-adhmad san analuachmhar acht ghnithear usaid de mar sin fein.  B'fhearr liomsa adhmad cruadh a sholathairt gan amhras agus d'fheudfai cuid de a chur i noirtear agus i dtuaisceart Condae na Gaillimhe. Is fior nach mbeidh proifeid le faghail as an bhforaoiseacht go ceann abhfad acht ba choir do Rialtais Stait feuchaint rompa agus bheith fadradharcach. Tathar ag deunamh usaid as tuighe cruitneachta faiscithte in ionad adhmaid i ndeuntusai airithe fa lathair, acht do reir gach cosamhalachta beidh gadh leis an adhmad mar adhbhar deuntaisi go ndeire an t-saoghail. 
     
      
       One would like to feel that the rosy picture painted by the President last week, in describing the conditions that prevail in this country, was a true reflex of the situation. But I think we all know, and the President ought to know, that the contrary is the case. All over the country meetings are being held by farmers and others pointing out to the Government the distress that prevails in their particular areas.  It is generally known that it is not at all easy to get farmers to come together to a meeting, and it is only because of the position that prevails that they are coming together now in order to explain their position and to endeavour to get the Government and their representatives generally to do something to relieve them.  As if to contradict himself, the President, after painting the picture that he did last week of the alleged good conditions that prevail in the country, proceeded to tell the Dail   that the Government were about to allocate a sum of £300,000 to relieve distress in the country.  Now there is either distress in the country or there is not.  Those of us who are in touch with the rural areas and the provincial towns know quite well that a great deal of distress prevails at the present time; that from day to day the position is not getting better, but that, in fact, in many parts of the country it is becoming steadily worse.  No one here desires to paint a black picture, but it appears to be absolutely necessary to do so in order to get the Government to realise that the country requires something to be done to relieve the distress at present prevailing amongst the people. 
       I, for one, am not satisfied that the Government, and especially the Department of Industry and Commerce, have given sufficient attention to the matter of safeguarding our industries. I wonder if the Minister for Industry and Commerce insists upon getting returns regularly from our manufacturers. I would like to know whether, when he sees any decrease in the trade of a particular industry, he takes action to secure that any trade that has been lost by an industry is brought back again.  In the case of my own constituency, I know that since the war ended in 1918 the agricultural implement-manufacturing firms there have not been doing sufficient to keep their staff employed as they should be. 
       I think the President will agree that there is not much improvement in the country from the point of view of that particular industry, especially when we find that £80,000 worth of agricultural machinery was imported into this country last year.  In this connection, I hope that when people advocate tariffs for the farming population they will take steps to see that a stipulation is made that those farmers will purchase Irish-made machinery for work on their farms.  If that were done, then so far as my constituency is concerned, there certainly would not be any need for distress grants.  I put it to the Government that that is a matter that should not be lost sight of. 
     
     Several Deputies stressed the point with regard to the unemployment register. It has been pointed out here   repeatedly that the register compiled by the Department of Industry and Commerce has no relation good, bad or indifferent to the state of affairs that prevails in this country.  Apart altogether from the position pointed out by my colleague, Deputy Hogan, who told the House that the register only applied to urban unemployed who happened to be in receipt of benefit at the particular moment when the census was compiled, and from the fact that there are surely as many more rural workers unemployed in regard to whom the Minister has no figures, there are a large number of unemployed in the urban areas who have not been employed during the last three or four years.  In consequence of that they do not expect to get any assistance from the labour exchanges and are altogether out of touch with these institutions. Therefore, they are not taken into consideration when the Minister is compiling his figures.  I am of the opinion that during the past three or four years the situation in this country has not improved in the way that the President and the Minister for Finance would have us believe that it has. 
     It is very hard to discuss the Vote before the House by reason of the fact that neither the Minister for Finance nor the Minister for Local Government has told the House how it is proposed that this money should be allocated. On the last occasion that a Vote was passed considerable difficulty was experienced by local authorities and other bodies.  They experienced considerable difficulty in endeavouring to find out from the Minister for Finance or his Department what the position was and how these grants were to be secured.  Unless the Minister acquaints the House of what the actual position is in so far as the allocation of the money is concerned, the situation will lend itself to procrastination and delay and will not do the unemployed any good, because if the money is to be used for the betterment of the unemployed, then I think everyone will agree it ought to be in circulation before the Christmas holidays. 
     Certainly the deserving poor, those who want work, who have been endeavouring to find it for a considerable time, and who cannot do so,   should be in a position to earn something decent to put them over the Christmas holidays.  In my opinion, the Minister for Local Government made some very peculiar statements. He started by seriously objecting to Deputy O'Connell's suggestion that the Government should initiate waterworks and sewerage schemes, inasmuch as that was not their business, but that of the local authorities.  To a large extent I agree with him there, as I know of many instances where local authorities neglected to do what was their obvious duty in that respect. Subsequently, however, the Minister, replying to an interjection by Deputy Davin, pointed out that the Department had to be careful of the capital capacity of public bodies.  Between the two statements one wonders where we are.  On the one hand, it is suggested that the Government are not supposed to initiate sanitary or waterworks schemes, while on the other hand the Minister points out that the capital capacity of public bodies is limited.  I would like to point out that, as far as public bodies are concerned, there is such a thing as a limitation of borrowing powers, and that that limitation has not been raised since the war.  To-day a great many public bodies have reached that limit and, when the value of money is contrasted, the position is entirely different to what it was in 1914.  I think the sooner the Minister gives his attention to that aspect of the question the better. 
     It is very hard to discuss this question in the absence of information that one would expect would have been given to the House.  I would like to know whether or not the public authorities in a particular area where relief is to be given are required to put up any proportion of the money for relief schemes, and, if so, what are the schemes that the Government propose should be carried out.  For instance, in urban areas what I would like to see done would be the preparation of sites for housing.  Anyone who has had anything to do with housing schemes recently knows that the initial expenses for levelling sites, laying down new sewers and water mains, add considerably to the rent that has to be charged the tenants.  If money   has to be borrowed for that purpose, it follows that in calculating the price of such houses those expenses have to be charged against the rents, and they make it costly on the tenants.  I would urge on the Minister that where there is unemployment in towns, and where housing schemes are about to be carried out, this money should be allocated for the clearing of sites and for the preparation of the ground. 
     The Minister also dealt with the question of the rating area for waterworks and sewerage schemes, and suggested that a rate of 1d. in the £ might be struck for that purpose.  He suggested that he would make an arrangement by which a rate of 1d. in the £ might be struck by each county for that purpose.  In my opinion that is a rather indiscriminate proposal which will not deal with the problem.  The proper way to deal with it is to have a flat county rate for waterworks and sanitary schemes.  It should be the concern of the whole county that each area should have waterworks and sanitary accommodation.  I would appeal to the Minister not to deal with this matter in a haphazard way, but to take his courage in his hands and insist that there should be a flat county rate to deal with sewerage and water schemes. We all know very well that the reason for small towns under public health authorities that are not urbanised at the moment being in an insanitary state or being without water is due to the fact that the area of charge is too small, and it is prohibitive so far as the ratepayers in that particular district are concerned.  If the Minister wants to have the small towns that are not urbanised made sanitary, and all the rest of it, he certainly should have the courage to do this.  Unless he does this, these things will not be done.  As I said at the beginning, I would like to believe that things were as the President painted them last week.  I am not a bit doubtful. I know quite well, and he ought to know, that the position is entirely different, and if we want to deal with this matter thoroughly it should be more than £300,000 that the Dail is asked to vote.  One does not like periodical doles given to the people.   One would prefer to see industry improving in the country, but it is absolutely necessary, and I hope it will be before the debate is concluded, that some member of the Executive Council should give the House an idea of how the money is to be spent, because, afterwards, if the regulations are left in the hands of two or three Departments, it will lead to doles which will not be good for the country or the unemployed. 
     
      
       I find it a little difficult to know what to say in connection with this Vote.  At the outset I understood that it was a Vote of £300,000 for the relief of unemployment and distress, but many efforts have been made by Deputies on the opposite benches to turn that Vote for the relief of unemployment and distress to a vote of censure on the Government. By some of the Deputies we are told it is a Vote for a general election.  I think, unless my memory does not serve me right, that we were told something similar in October and November, 1927.  The general election was over then, but we were told we were to have another election in the spring of 1928.  That prophecy has not materialised.  Listening to Deputies on the opposite benches one would come to the conclusion that the Irish Free State was in the position of an enlarged workhouse and nothing else. We have all some idea of the financial position of the country, and I think any man who has the courage of his convictions and has a conscience and an ambition to tell the truth will acknowledge that this State is more prosperous and is in a sounder financial position than any other country we know at present.  I heard some Deputies on the opposite benches say that the increase in home assistance was a real indication of the financial position of the people of the country. I wonder would Deputies of some experience on local public bodies have the manliness and straightforwardness to speak the truth? 
     
     The present expenditure on home assistance is no indication of the financial position.  The whole position has been created as a result of the county-at-large rating instead of district rating.   In my own county there is one union where the expenditure on home assistance, or outdoor relief as it then was, prior to the amalgamation, was £400 and now it is £1,500.  That is the result of every portion of the county being made responsible for an equal share.  What is everybody's business is nobody's business.  Prior to the change every district councillor was made responsible for the rate within his area, because we had district rating. When we had district rating it was the duty of a district councillor to see that the rate in his area was the lowest at the end of the year.  Now the ambition is to have the most money spent within the area at the end of the year.  If not, the representative is a very bad one and he will get his marching papers at the end of his term of office.  Therefore, I say that the amount expended on home assistance is not a true index of the financial position.  Admittedly there is acute distress.  I do not know but that it would be right for me to support this vote of censure on the Government, because we know that the distress is due to abnormal weather conditions and the Government have not devised some means by which the weather conditions can be changed.  That is the attitude of Deputies on the opposite benches and on other benches, that the Government is responsible for the weather conditions in this country.  Is there not a limit even to absurdity? I think that limit has been reached here this evening. 
     I have listened in vain to hear one   Deputy acknowledge that the present position is due to the abnormal conditions that have prevailed this year in the Free State.  It is acknowledged by the Government itself that the necessity for assistance has arisen as a result of the abnormal weather conditions and, to a certain extent, the terrible privations of people in America at the present time will make matters worse, because people in the Free State who received substantial sums from their friends in America in the past will hardly receive them this year. Therefore, I say that all credit is due to the Government for anticipating the conditions that may arise.  I am sure that they are as practical and as honest as ever, and I think it is not quite fair that insinuations should be made that this is a preliminary to a general election. We had that prophecy in October and November of 1927 but it did not materialise and I do not think it is going to materialise now.  I think it will be greatly to the disappointment of Deputies opposite that it is not going to materialise.  I congratulate the Government on their efforts to relieve distress.  I am sure that the money that is going to be voted will be judiciously expended, with advantage to the people concerned and credit to the Government. 
     
      
       I move to report progress. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported.  The Committee to sit again on Thursday. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.30 p.m. to 3 p.m. on Thursday. 
     
   
 