 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 10.30 a.m. 
   
   
     Order of Business. 
     
      
       I propose to take first No. 11, Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) Bill.  I presume that there will be no objection to taking a certain amount of Private Members' time to-day to enable us to deal with the Vote on Account.  I will be prepared to make good next week any time which we take to-day from Private Members' time in connection with the Vote. 
     
     
      
       In that event the Order of Business will be No. 11 first, then the Vote on Account.  The suggestion is not to interrupt the debate on the Vote if it is proceeding at 12 o'clock, and when that Vote is finished to take Private Members' business. 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that we are not going to take to-day the motion about the Imperial Conference? 
     
     
      
       We will not take that to-day. 
     
   
   
     Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) Bill, 1929&mdash;Report (Resumed). 
     Debate resumed on the following amendment:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;In page 27 to delete Rule 3 of the Schedule&rdquo;&mdash;Seamus O Riain. 
     
      
       I want to say that the Minister may have a lot of other points to make against the amendment, but last night the only point he made was that, if the amendment were carried, everyone throughout the country could ask for an inspection of his premises to see whether they were suitable.  I made a mistake, as the Minister pointed out, when I said that each application would have to be accompanied by a fee of £12 10s.  Under the Schedule £12 10s. would have to be paid if the application was granted.  The Minister admits that everyone who applies for inspection has only to pay a fee of £1 so that, after all, if this Rule 3 were deleted things would remain as they are in regard to applications.  If Deputy Dr. Ryan's amendment were carried all that anyone who wanted his premises inspected would have to pay would be £1, as they have to do at present. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Aiken made a point last night that there ought to be sufficient powers in the Bill, without these provisions for a minimum fee, to prevent what I fear would occur, actually occurring, namely, the establishment of small factories in almost every backyard in the country.  He pointed out that before a factory could be established   and allowed to operate it would have to conform to many regulations enshrined in the Bill, that that could be met under the powers in the Bill, and that that would be sufficient to prevent the springing up of small and inefficient factories.  I think that the experience of the administration of the Department of Agriculture shows that it is not sufficient. These regulations have not to be conformed with until a factory is established.  There is no doubt that prices in the pork trade fluctuate a good deal from time to time, being extremely good perhaps for a period of five or six months and then suddenly falling off.  If we have a period when prices suddenly or for a particular reason become extremely good, I do not think that there is any doubt but that there will be a very large number of applications for the establishment of dead-meat factories from areas in the country very widely separated. You do not require anything in the way of expensive plant, a very high degree of technical skill, or very expensive labour to kill and disembowel animals in a rough and ready fashion for export.  You do not require expensive plant, machinery, or labour to establish a factory that will conform to the regulations under the Bill. 
     
     These applications would come in from enterprising shopkeepers and business men of all kinds who would decide to get suddenly into the business and to hop out again the moment the prices fell.  They would be in a somewhat similar position to the pirate bus in transport which comes in at a particular moment and does not particularly care whether it is put out of business at the end of six months.  We must have sufficient staff always to meet any possible contingency, a staff that will be big enough to deal with every application.  If a very large number of applications come in and, even though a large amount of them are refused on the ground that the plant, lay-out, or position of   the factory was not as it should be, we would still have to have a sufficient number of veterinary surgeons to inspect, to carry on correspondence, and so forth.  I am advised&mdash; and I have no reason to doubt from my experience of the administration of the Department&mdash;that if we pass this Bill without some provision for minimum fees it will increase the cost very considerably of the administration of the Bill.  This Bill will cost entirely about £17,000 or £18,000, and an increase of, say, 10 per cent. would amount to no more than £2,000.  People might say that does not matter very much, but, after all, £2,000 here, there and everywhere in connection with every other scheme of administration, not only by the Department of Agriculture but by every other Department, is the sort of thing that increases taxation and increases the expenses that have to be borne by people in a particular trade or business, such as the farmers of the country, or by the ratepayers generally.  What advantage are you going to get from it? 
     People have gone so far as to say that this Bill is going to bring about a monopoly.  That is absolutely absurd.  There cannot be a monopoly in a country where there will be thirty to forty firms competing with each other for the dead meat trade.  There will always be thirty to forty first-class firms competing with each other in the meat business. For instance, the factory in Limerick has to compete with the factory in Castlebar.  The Waterford factory, the proprietary factory, has not only to compete with the cooperative factory beside it, but it competes just as strongly with the factory in Castlebar.  It affects prices at the fair of Loughrea just as much as in Waterford.  So that it can be taken that practically all the factories in this country, with some exceptions, are competing with each other, and there can be no question of a monopoly.  Neither can there be any question of the knocking out of small men as such. The small man is not going to be under any great expense.  The fees   per capita have been reduced considerably and if the Bill is to have any effect, or to increase to any extent the prices which dead meat fetches on whatever market it is to be sold, the increase, no matter how small, will be a very big increase compared with the small fees imposed per capita.  The minimum fees have been considerably reduced, but I find that the minimum fees will not in reality be paid by ninety-five per cent. of the factories.  The fees go as part payment of the per capita fees, and they will only operate in the case of five per cent. of the factories that should not really be operating as they are uneconomic. 
     I pointed out on the Second Reading of the Bill, in answer to people who feared that when this Bill became an Act and when it was administered that it would interfere with the trade in certain factories that were, in the opinion of people who spoke for them, doing good work at present, that if we did not kill off these factories Dutch competition would do it.  We are not professedly aiming at a very big business, but we cannot have business so small that it becomes uneconomic. No matter how efficient, how good the intention of the very small man, he cannot be allowed, by reason of circumstances over which he has no control&mdash;because he has not sufficient wealth, because he has not sufficient technical skill&mdash;to interfere with the reputation of our produce as a whole.  He must go, but even after he goes there will be any amount of small institutions and big institutions, and they will be well able to handle the trade.  So far as they are concerned these minimum fees do not affect them.  They will go in part payment of the per capita fees which I hold are quite reasonable.  The only effect of the minimum fee will be to prevent quite considerable costs of administration being piled up against the farmer on the one hand and the taxpayer on the other, and the cost of administration which will have no set off, in the way of helping to increase the price of the farmers'   produce or in any way to put him in a better position to meet his liabilities. I could not agree to accept the amendment.  I think the fees are quite reasonable, and I ask the Dail to agree with me. 
     
      
       The Minister in one sentence expressed a point of view with which we could not agree.  He said that five or ten per cent. of the factories that should not be operated at all will be affected by this.  That is to say that the Minister appears to agree that the small factories who would not do sufficient business to pay in the year fees that would bring them up to the minimum fees should not be in business.  That is a point of view with which we could not agree.  I think it is possible for a small factory to be a desirable thing in the country and we must insist on the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I want to know what the Deputy means by a factory? The word factory has a distinct meaning.  Anybody can start a factory if you suggest that a factory is a shed in a lane or backyard with a few hooks and knives.  That is what is happening in many places. A few fellows get together.  They have no capital but they buy a few knives and hooks. 
     
     
      
       That is the only factory that will be interfered with. 
     
     
      
       It is not a factory, it is only a shed.  To call it a factory is a misuse of the word.  They get into the trade for a month or so and they go out again.  It is neither a factory nor anything else.  The pork or bacon is not inspected.  There is no veterinary inspection. 
     
     
      
       You must have veterinary inspection under the Act. 
     
     
      
       Is it worth paying an inspector to inspect those places? 
     
     
      
       Why not give him a chance of developing? 
     
     
      
       If he develops it is all right. 
     
     
      
       How many of these so-called   factories, as Deputy Gorey calls them, are in existence at the present moment? 
     
     
      
       I had the number on the Second Reading stage. 
     
     
      
       There would be about half a dozen. 
     
     
      
       Are there any in Waterford? 
     
     
      
       There are, I believe. 
     
     
     
      
       Why does not your factory wipe them out? 
     
     
      
       I believe there are some in Youghal. 
     
     
      
       Your factory must not be efficient enough to wipe them out. 
     
     
      
       Any fellow going around with a ton lorry and gathering these things&mdash;that is your type of factory. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the words proposed to be deleted stand part.&rdquo; 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 63; Nil, 43. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Broderick, Henry. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Edward. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). 
             Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Morrissey, Daniel. Mulcahy, Richard. Nally, Martin Michael. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Derrig, Thomas.
 O'Hanlon, John F. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Ryan, James. 
             Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. McEllistrim, Thomas. Moore, Seamus. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph.
 Sexton, Martin. Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle. Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In page 28, Schedule, to delete Rule (4) (3), lines 15 to 17 inclusive, and substitute the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(3) For the purposes of this rule&mdash; 
       (a) a calf which, when flayed and disembowelled, does not weigh more than one hundred pounds shall be reckoned as one-fourth of an animal only, and 
       (b) a pig, the offals only of which are intended to be exported, shall be reckoned as one-half of an animal only.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill, as amended, be received for final consideration&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I am anxious to have the Final Stage taken to-day, because it would suit my time-table in connection with the administration of the Act. 
       Ordered: That the Fifth Stage be taken to-day. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass&rdquo;&mdash;put, and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Vote on Account (Resumed). 
     Question again proposed:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;That a sum not exceeding £7,744,365 be granted on account for or towards defraying the charges that will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March,1931, for certain public services...&rdquo; 
     
      
       Last night I was endeavouring to show to the House that no serious attempt has been made to solve the unemployment problem in this country.  There are still 40,000 or 50,000 unemployed people amongst us who are not alone deprived of work but of the means of existence for themselves and those dependent on them.  Looking around the country, instead of prosperous conditions and a fair average of material comfort amongst the working classes and the small farmers in general, I find that their standard of living is anything but adequate to secure them the means of living in decency.  Through the rural parts of Ireland to-day you find that owing to the fact of there being so little tillage that there is not enough people employed on the land to produce what the people require in the way of food stuffs that could be produced by ourselves.  The result is that all those people who depend on agriculture for a livelihood are leaving the rural parts and flocking into the towns to swell the already over-crowded centres of population.  I refer to the workers employed in the making of agricultural implements, harness makers, blacksmiths, carpenters, masons and tradesmen of all sorts.  We all know that as a matter of fact there are thousands of people who are living under conditions in this country that are not anything like what we would desire them to be. 
     
     What is the cause of this?  The cause is that we have only about one and a half million acres of land under the plough in the Saorstat. Yet we are importing into this country £9,000,000 or £10,000,000 worth of foreign agricultural produce, most of which could be produced in this country by our own people and in which we could employ not only hundreds of additional hands but thousands and tens of thousands.  Our unemployed could be put to work producing all these things that we import.  We have   these large imports of butter, bacon, beef, eggs, condensed milk, wheat, flour, and all those other things that we could produce here at home equally well.  In fact, we could produce them here as good as any country in the world.  These various kinds of agricultural produce are dumped into this country and we are sending about nine or ten million pounds of our money to give employment to workers in other countries to supply us with these goods on which, if we were doing the right thing, we could secure employment for all our own people.  We think that that is a false policy and it is a suicidal policy.  Those who bolster it up with their free trade bogey tell us that it is better for us to give up producing our own requirements and let the workers of other countries produce them for us. We are told that we should admit these duty free into our ports.  These false economists tell us that in this way we will have everything cheaper.  They tell us that by carrying out this policy everything the consumer requires will be cheaper, and that the condition of the people will be thereby bettered. Now, if that be so, it must necessarily follow that bread to-day in Ireland should be much cheaper than it is. 
     The cheap loaf cry has done more for recommending this policy to the people of England than any other political catch-word of the Cobdenites and the Smiths.  Unfortunately, we have some of their disciples in this country to-day who are trying to propagate this same policy here.  Now such a policy is impossible in such a little country as Ireland.  It would be impossible for us to compete against the foreigner.  This country has not been developed as it should have been.  I do not say that that is really due to the Government or to the people in this House.  But it was the policy in the past before this State was established, and we are still pursuing the same policy.  If the cheap loaf cry had anything in it, would   we have thousands of people unemployed in this country to-day? Would thousands of our people be on the verge of starvation?  Would it be so difficult to find employment as it is?  Would it be equally hard to maintain employment for those who are already employed?  Would our unemployment problem be so difficult to solve if there was any truth in this catch-cry about the cheap loaf and if these bogeys were not so false as they are?  This whole cry about free trade is a mockery and a delusion.  The truth is that we could produce all our own requirements in this country, and in that way we would be doing for ourselves what the free traders want others to do for us at the expense of our unemployed. 
     Do we ever realise that the spending of our money on foreign imports which we could produce ourselves is really crushing out our own people? That is what it is.  The sending out of millions of pounds annually for goods that we could produce on our own farms is crushing out thousands of our people from employment.  It is sending them to the emigrant ship to save them from starvation.  I would appeal to the Executive Council that in framing the next Budget, at all events, an endeavour would be made whereby our own people would be employed here to supply us with our requirements, those requirements that can possibly be produced here instead of giving employment to people in other countries. The result of this narrow old idea, this free trade bogey, is that instead of giving a means of livelihood to our own people, people in other countries are enjoying a measure of prosperity and comfort that our people are not enjoying. What we are doing is really pursuing an insane and suicidal policy by employing the foreigner to do our work and to supply our requirements while our own people are idle. 
     I appeal to the House to see that something is done to end this state of things.  There has been no curative medicine found for the solution of unemployment.  Let us start now   and make an attempt to end this state of things.  Something must be done for agriculture.  Something must be done to meet the case of the working farmer in this country to-day.  It is the working farmer especially that needs having something done for him.  He is in a miserable position, and he is at the mercy of every group of merchants in this and in other countries, who are prepared to give him just whatever price they desire for his crops. That price would not be sufficiently adequate to compensate him for the cultivation of the crop.  I appeal to the House, in conclusion, to make some attempt to solve unemployment. The position is full of peril to the unemployed.  I am quite serious in saying that if something is not done at once for the people, this country will go on declining until it reaches a condition of utter ruin and degradation. 
     
      
       A good deal has been said in the course of this debate about foreign capital and its effect upon the State.  My policy would be to do everything possible to attract capital and persons with capital into the country, regardless of their nationality, because what we want is to create employment.  A unique opportunity presents itself at present owing to the political uncertainty and the prospect of considerably increased taxation in England and other countries.  I saw recently a rather good caricature of the Premier of Northern Ireland, under which he was given as saying: &ldquo;Another bob on the income tax and I would be almost thinking of becoming an Irishman.&rdquo;  When the next British Budget is introduced they may be able to make an Irishman of him.  I consider that at present we have a unique opportunity here with the coming into operation of the Shannon scheme and the cheap power which it will make available.  I would advocate an intensified publicity campaign drawing attention to the great possibilities of this country.  In support of that I cannot give a better instance than that of Messrs. Guinness,   who last year almost doubled their export trade as a result of a publicity campaign.  Let us realise what that has meant in Dublin in increased employment and increased circulation of money.  No doubt the product they had to sell was the best the world could produce. 
     
     There are other outstanding products of this country which could be brought to the notice of the world in the way I am suggesting.  We have, for instance, the best horses in the world, and there are many other products of this country which are second to none.  I hold, therefore, that we should lose no opportunity of letting the world know what we have got to sell, and in that way a tremendously increased demand can be created for Irish products.  What we have to do is to bring our products under the notice of the people who have the money to buy them. Messrs. Guinness's case is a good illustration of what can be done.  I believe that if we spent more money in drawing attention to the products we have to sell, such as our butter, eggs, horses, cattle, pigs, and everything else, it would be reproductive expenditure.  The Irish Tourist Development Association is doing magnificent work in bringing a large number of people to this country who have money to spend.  They are at present seeking a grant from the Government, and I hope the Government will come to their assistance in order to enable them to make the attractions of this country as a tourist centre more widely known. When the wireless broadcasting vote was last before the Dail I advocated that more should be done by means of broadcasting to make known what we are doing in this country by means of the Shannon scheme and other things.  Now that we are going to erect a central high power broadcasting station, the Government ought to consider the advisability of removing the tax on wireless sets and parts, the revenue from which is relatively small.  In my opinion, a great deal can be done to educate the people, particularly in regard to the affairs of their own country, by means of broadcasting, and the suggestion   I make is one which should be seriously considered by the Government. 
     
      
       I was wondering if the few brief remarks I have to make would be in order, as we have passed from the question of foreign capital. Deputy Shaw, however, has made some reference to it. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy disarmed me by passing from the question of foreign capital to publicity just as I was going to intervene. However, I shall let Deputy Fahy proceed. 
     
     
      
       There is one matter which is germane to the question of foreign capital in this country, and that is the sale of foreign goods by foreign agents on the instalment plan.  My attention has been drawn to the matter by social workers, who have given me several concrete cases. One of these cases was the selling of a foreign bedstead to a woman at her own door while the husband was away and did not know of the transaction until some papers had been signed.  In that instance, a sum of £4 19s. 6d. will have to be paid for an article worth £2.  That article was of foreign manufacture and the agent selling it was a foreigner.  The encouragement of the sale of foreign goods in that fashion is mortgaging the purchasing power of the nation, perhaps not to a very large extent at present, but the custom is growing. The financial corporations that finance these people advance money at 12 per cent., and from that we can conclude what the people buying the goods have got to pay, over and above the ordinary price, for such articles. 
     
     It is a difficult and a delicate question I know to deal with, but I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the matter.  The employment given is, very often, not to Irishmen at all.  These people have papers with very large splash headings, but very often they have but a very small office which is difficult to find.  They are competing unfairly with those who have their   business in the State, and who have their rent and rates to pay; they are hitting Irish manufacturers and, as I say, we are mortgaging our purchasing power, and doing a lot of harm.  In fact this business savours rather of moneylending, because the people who purchase from those people very often do not know how much they have to pay.  Evidently whatever agreement they sign is so worded as to confuse them.  That, merely, is all I have to say, as I simply want to draw the attention of the Government to this matter. 
     
      
       (Cork): I rise to support this Vote.  I think it is time that every section of the Dail should join together: &ldquo;For the cause that wants assistance, against the cause that needs resistance; for the future in the distance, and the good we all can do.&rdquo;  The good we all can do is to pass unanimously these Votes associated with the public service.  If they are held up it will be a serious matter.  Is there any Deputy that would go so far as to hold up the Vote for education, technical instruction, old age pensions, and the Land Commission?  All these tend to give employment, and they are giving employment.  If Deputies are sincere and honest in opposing these Votes all I can say is that they are doing a great injury to the State.  This Vote will carry on the public services until August.  I imagine from the tone of the speeches I heard here, all along, that the chief cause of complaint was that there was not sufficient money to increase the public services.  I tell the Opposition&mdash;the Fianna Fail Party and the Labour Deputies as well&mdash;who are complaining of unemployment that they have a great opportunity before them of applying to the Minister for Finance when he comes before the House to get permission to float the remainder of his loan.  I am sorry, from the temper and attitude of the Dail, that he is not applying for twenty millions in place of the few he is about to ask, because if he did there is not a grievance associated with the twenty-six counties that he could   not remove, but, unfortunately, every step forward the Minister takes is met with criticism by the Opposition. 
       Let us look for one moment at countries like New Zealand, South Africa and Canada.  How have these Dominions progressed?  They did not do it by standing still.  No.  They went into the money markets of the world and got millions to develop their country.  That money is reproductive and is coming back again. It would be no bad thing if the Minister for Finance to-morrow applied for a loan of forty millions.  To my mind we have the greatest security of any nation on the face of the earth at the present time.  We are an infant but a progressive State, and if we could, but for one moment, hang up the catch-cry of Fianna Fail and Cumann na nGaedheal and let them remain hung up for the life of the present Dail, there would be a very cheerful prospect before us. Some of the representatives of the nation are here criticising small points having no breadth of view, nothing large about them, but only a narrow, miserable policy that is bringing down the State and increasing unemployment.  I hope there will be a unanimous vote in this Dail in favour of the motion of the Minister for Finance and that we shall pass with enthusiasm the grants for every service in the list and that we shall face the future with high hopes. 
     
     
      
       Ni rabhamar sasta le n-a ndubhairt an tAire inde mar gheall ar an ngreim ata ag na daoine thar lar ar thionnscail Ghaolacha. Mothuighimid go bhfuil an tir mi-shasta agus mar gheall ar ar tharla le deanai is baol go bhfuil run ag na daoine thar lar greim nios daingne d'fhailt ar gach a mbaineann le deantusai na tire.  Ta greim acu cheana ar gach a bhaineann le trachtail.  Nilimid sasta go bhfuil an tAire da riribh mar gheall ar seo agus go bhfuil se ag deanamh gach ar feidir leis chun an trachtail ata sa tir fe lathair do shaora. Ni doigh linn gur imthigh se fada a dhothain sa meid adubhairt se   inde agus eirighim anois chun seans a thabhairt don rialtas trid an Aire Airgid ath-smaoineamh a dheanamh ar an sgeul so.  Ba mhaith linn da ndeinidis rud chun stop a chur le na daoine seo go bhfuil run aca saothar agus trachtail na tire do chur fe chois.  Ta a lan diobhala a dheanamh fe lathair.  Ta rudai cheana idir lamhaibh aca.  Cuir i geas plur, gual, agus a lan earrai eile.  Ba mhaith linn da ndeireadh an Rialtas rud mar gheall ar sin, Ta run ag daoine iasachta greim d'fhailt ar ar dtrachtail agus deire do chur lei ar mhaithe le daoine nach mbaineann leis an tir seo.  Ta dream ann go bhfuil airgead aca. Ta siad ag leathnu i dtiorthaibh cile agus os rud e na fuil an tir seo cho shaibhir le tiortha eile is deacair troid a dheanamh na gcoinne. 
       Deir an Rialtas go ndeanfa siad rud eigin nuair a thiocfaidh an t-am.  Is doigh linne go bhfuil an t-am tagaithe, go hairithe mar gheall ar an bplur, nuair ba cheart an greim ata ag daoine eile ar mhuilne na tire do bhoga.  Shasodh se a lan daoine da mbeadh an tAire Airgid sasta dul nios sia na mar a dubhairt an tAire Tionnscail, agus Trachtala inde.  Ta cuid des na muilne pluir seo i gcruadh-chas.  Ta cead ag dream thar lear teacht isteach, o gach tir ach go mor mor ar gcomhursain.  Da mbeadh deire leis na muilne dheanfadh se a lan diobhala do shaol agus do bheatha na tire.  Ta beatha an naisiuin nios tachtai na saol na ndaoine.  Ni feidir linn guth a thabhairt an son an vota so muna ndinidh an t-Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala nios mo i na thaobh so agus i dtaobh ceisteanna eile.  Mas maith leis na daoine thar lear e feadfa siad a lan diobhala do dheanamh agus beidir go dtiocfaidh an t-am go mbeidh greim cho daingean san acu ar an dtir go mbeidh siad in an a rogha rud do dheanamh lei. 
     
     Da mbeadh cead agam ba mhaith liom a chur i dtuisgint gur coir go mbeadh atharu smaoinimh in obair roinut airithe den Gharda Siochana. Is doigh liom go bhfuil cuid den Gharda agus gan smacht ceart ag   an Rialtas ortha.  Is feidir le cuid aca pe rud is maith lco do dheanamh agus a lan diobhala a dheanamh. Nior cuireadh aon cheist i dtaobh obair na hAireachta san ach ba mhaith liom ceist a chur ar an Aire mar gheall air agus a iarradh ar an Rialtas athsmaoineadh do dheanamh ar an gceist agus iarracht do dheanamh smacht do chur ar a lan diobh ata ag tabhairt masla do dhaoine airithe go bhfuil tuairmi airithe polaitiochta acu.  Nilid ag deanamh aon rud ach ta tuairmi polaitiochta acu.  Ta cuid den Gharda, agus beidir nach roliommhar an dream san, agus in aiteanna mar Bhaile Atha Cliath, an Clar, agus Coreaigh, nil aon smacht ceart ortha.  Ta sean-fhocal ann &ldquo;ni bhionn an rath ach mar a mbionn an smacht.&rdquo;  Nilim i gcoinnibh an C.I.D. i gcasanna ina bhfuil se riachtanach cose do cur le haon ghniomh ata i gcoinnibh gnath-dhli na tire.  Ach rud eile ar fad isea dream polaitiochta bheith ar an C.I.D. agus cead do bheith acu daoine do chur i bpriosun uair ar bith sa lo agus deich n-uaire sa tseachtain.  Ni ceart e sin agus ba choir don Rialtas deire do chur leis. 
     Rud eile, nilim sasta leis an meid adubhairt an tUachtaran dtaobh tithe. Pe sceal e ni dearfad ach cupla focal mar gheall air.  Nilim sasta leis an sli ina bhfuil tithe a gcur suas.  Nil leath an meid tithe a theastuionn a chur suas in aon ait, agus ise an Rialtas fe ndear e.  Nil a ndothain airgid ag na daoine go bhfuil an obair sin idir lamhaibh acu.  Nil an t-airgead le fail i mBaile Atha Cliath agus in aiteanna eile.  Beidir gur mo an ga ata leis i mBaile Atha Cliath na in aiteanna eile.  Nilim-se sasta agus nilimid-ne sasta agus an fhaid na beimid sasta i dtaobh polasai an Rialtais sna nithe seo ni feidir linn votail ar a son. 
     
      
       I would like to refer, first of all, to one or two matters that were dealt with, not at very great length, but which were somewhat casually introduced, such, for instance, as the   question of coast crosion.  The Government up till quite recently definitely took up the line that they would do nothing about coast crosion.  As a result, however, of certain somewhat serious instances of coast erosion that took place, it was decided to appoint an inter-Departmental Committee to enquire into the matter.  No decision will be taken by the Government, and no pronouncement can be made by it on the matter of coast erosion, until that inter-Departmental Committee have reported. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say when that Committee will report? 
     
     
      
       I think it will be some months. 
     
     
      
       Does not the Minister see the advisability of the Committee reporting as soon as possible, in view of the circumstances that prevail along the coast?  The question is a very urgent one. 
     
     
      
       The Committee, of course, is aware of all these facts, and is dealing with the matter as rapidly as it can.  I do not think that I need say anything more on the question of rural housing than was said by the Minister for Local Government yesterday.  With regard to urban housing, within the last year we have begun to make loans to local authorities for housing purposes. So far as the smaller urban authorities are concerned, these loans will enable them to make greater progress in the matter of housing than it was possible to make heretofore.  Taking the housing position generally, it is, of course, easy to say that not enough is being done. The problem is a big one, and if it is not solved within a year or two, then anybody can say that not enough is being done.  But if we look at it from the other point of view, at the amount that has been done in recent years, in comparison to what I think I may fairly call the neglect of the problem prior to that, it must be admitted that a great deal has been done, that astonishing progress has, in fact, been made in dealing with this housing problem.   There has been no slackening off of effort on the part of the Government. I believe that a few more years will bring us to the point where as satisfactory a solution as is possible of this housing problem will come into view. 
       The main point that was discussed was what was called, in the course of this debate, the invasion of foreign capital.  To some extent, I think, we were discussing not so much the invasion of foreign capital as the coming in of foreign control, which is a somewhat different thing, because in many instances the acquiring of Irish industry is not mainly a matter of capital at all. It is a matter of people who have a wider knowledge and a greater skill, as well as capital, coming in to carry on an industry, perhaps more efficiently than it was carried on before.  The whole matter is one that is very difficult indeed.  It is very difficult to know what is the best thing for the country.  It would be quite easy to stop what is called the invasion of foreign capital, or what I would prefer to call the coming in of foreign control.  It would be easy, for instance, to do that by way of taxation.  It would be quite possible to devise a system of taxation which would make it unprofitable for any foreign corporation either to acquire or to establish industries here. 
     
     For the purposes of transition it would be possible perhaps after an interval to oblige companies if they were to continue to have the privileges of incorporation in this country to have, say, 51 per cent. of their shareholders resident and domiciled here.  If we had the point of view, taking everything into account, that it would be good for the country to stop the acquisition and control of Irish industry by outside concerns, whether that acquisition took place by the purchase of existing concerns or the establishment of new ones&mdash;once we came to that point of view it would be very easy to devise means whereby we could accomplish the purpose that perhaps some Deputies on the other side would wish to accomplish.  I do not   think all the Deputies on the other side would wish it.  I noticed that Deputy Lemass, and I think other Deputies too, indicated that the coming in of foreign capital was not a bad thing in itself.  I believe that if we had all our industries controlled, or nearly controlled, by foreign capital it would be a bad thing.  If we had the economic life of the country in its main aspects, leaving out the agricultural industry which is differently situated, under foreign control it would be bad ultimately for the interests of the whole of the people of the country. But, on the other hand, one of our great needs here is to develop industry.  I think that practically all the Deputies are agreed on that. 
     Are we going, by taking an attitude hostile to foreign capital, to hasten the development of industry? Are we going to help the country to take the long view?  Are we going to injure the country?  Deputies have said that factories like Messrs. Ford were not included in any indictment that they uttered.  That, of course, is natural, as no objection would be taken by any sensible person to the creation of a factory here by the firm of Ford's.  Nobody regards that as objectionable in any sense.  If we were now to take any stringent steps to exclude, or even discourage, the employment of foreign capital here, we would at least do this: We would shut the door to the possibility of any other firm like Ford's being established here.  If we had taken steps to make it difficult for foreign capital to be employed here we would have prevented the possibility of Ford's being established here.  If we were to take these steps to-morrow we would be preventing any possibility that may exist of factories of that sort being established in the Saorstat. We ought not, I think, do that.  I do not think the industrial life of the country has developed to such a degree that we can close any of the avenues to progress in that direction.  There are many cases in which foreign-owned factories can carry on successfully and economically here when native factories   cannot do so.  There is, for instance, in the City of Dublin a corset factory which is carrying on very successfully, extending its operations, increasing its premises, and which will be adding shortly, I believe, greatly to the number of hands employed. 
     That factory is able to carry on here and to sell its goods at the same price as the corresponding goods made by the firm in England are sold.  It is able to do so because the factory here has the advantage of patterns and designs which are prepared for the firm for its English factories.  It also has the advantages of the bulk purchases of the firm, and it is able to obtain its raw material at prices for which an independent Irish factory could not get it at all.  The consequence is that the factory is able to supply goods corresponding exactly with the goods made in the big factories across the water; it is able to get its material at the same prices as the big factories across the water; it is able to give employment here which an independent Irish factory could not, under present circumstances, give unless it were to charge appreciably more to the public for the goods supplied; that is, that its employment is given without expense to the consuming public here. If an independent Irish factory was set up, operating with the advantage of the tariff, undoubtedly if it gave the same amount of employment it would give that employment at the expense of considerable extra cost to the public.  So that in many ways we can get quicker and cheaper industrial expansion in consequence of the coming in of foreign firms.  It does not matter how many foreign firms come in, it does not necessarily follow that we will have economic domination by foreign firms, and it does not follow that it will be impossible at any time for the Government to deal with dangers that may arise out of the existence of these foreign firms here. 
     I do not like to say too much on this head lest it should be misunderstood, but it will be clear to anybody   that the firm, whatever it be, which invests its capital here, which erects its buildings, which instals its plant, gives hostages.  You may say that foreign firms, by building up great employment here, by acquiring a sort of power in the country, by the giving of employment, may in some way entrench themselves against interference.  On the other hand, firms which have large investments here are not anxious to be at loggerheads with the people of the country generally, or with the Government.  Consequently I think that it is entirely a one-sided view; it is not taking the full facts into account to suggest that because there are large numbers of foreign firms here, the possibility of the people, through their elected representatives, regulating the economic life of the country is impaired.  I think that that is entirely a one-sided view. 
     Reference has been made to the flour milling situation, first with regard to the question of a tariff.  I believe that if a tariff has been imposed a year ago we would have had exactly the same position with regard to flour milling to-day.  Perhaps we would have had this position earlier, but in any case we would have had it now.  My own belief is, of course, that Messrs.  Rank would have come in here earlier, would have come in immediately after the tariff had been imposed.  But supposing that is not correct, I am satisfied that if the need of an Irish miller to sell his mill which arose quite independently of anything relating to a tariff, as I understand, had arisen, if the tariff had been on here and a firm like Messrs. Rank had been looking for an opening here, as it would, the purchaser, I believe, would still have been Messrs.  Rank, and we would with the tariff have had exactly the same position as we have to-day. 
     I do not think that it matters a great deal who owns the mills provided that the work of flour milling is carried on.  Somebody said yesterday that if our mills were owned by foreign firms we might find in the case of a war situation that there would be no flour at all available for the people.  The real position is that,   with those flour mills situated here, if there is a war situation the Government here could direct the policy of these mills.  Undoubtedly in a war situation you would have firms such as these operating under the direction of a food controller, and I think it would not make one jot of difference, if a war situation arose, whether the owners of the mills were English, French, German, American or Irish.  The flour mills would have to be operated as the food controller, or some similiar officer, would direct that they should be operated. 
     What would be serious in connection with the acquisition of Irish mills, either directly or indirectly, would be any policy of wholesale closing.  My view is that if any firm or group of firms purchased the Irish mills and proposed a wholesale policy of closing, it would be the duty of the Government to intervene, it would be the duty of the Government to take the most ample powers by legislation, if such powers are not available at the moment, to prevent that policy from being carried out.  I do not think that the closing of certain of the Irish mills will matter.  I am satisfied, by the examination I made of the situation when the question of the proposed tariff on flour was being discussed, that certain of the mills will have to close. If we had a tariff one of the effects would have been the very speedy closing of certain mills, because the situation would have been such that there would have, been a good deal of money to be made out of flour milling, that the better equipped and the better situated mills would have extended their capacity, or that new mills would have been erected by firms like Messrs.  Rank, that the competition after a time would have been increased, and that some of the smaller, less favourably situated and less well-equipped mills would have had to go out of operation, and I would not see any objection to any trading arrangement which put mills, which were clearly uneconomic and which clearly had no future before them, out of operation. But if it meant the closing of well-situated, well-equipped mills by any   foreign combine, that would certainly call for drastic action on the part of the Government to see that that policy was not persisted in. 
     Coming back from the flour mills to the general question, I do not think we can say that it is a fatal or a menacing thing for the country to have some one industry which really would not matter owned by outside firms.  I think that the evil thing for the country would be the general ownership of all important industries by outside concerns.  An ownership by outside firms would operate in two or three ways disadvantageously to the country.  The case of Messrs.  Ford is in one sense an exceptional one.  We have there a foreign owned industry which lives by its export trade.  Normally a foreign firm coming here, either to acquire an industry or to establish a new one, would do so, or would keep it running for the purpose of supplying the home market, and consequently one of the results of foreign ownership of industries would be that they would be stunted in their growth, and would not be allowed to extend beyond what was able to supply the home market.  I am perfectly sure that if we had a sweet factory here owned by a firm in England, the factory in the Saorstat would never be allowed to develop more than to supply the home market.  It would be the same in a number of things.  I believe that if fifty or seventy years ago a firm like Messrs. Guinness had been acquired by another firm which had breweries in England, clearly the position would have been that the brewery here would never have been allowed to develop, except to the extent of supplying the Irish market, while the great export trade which Messrs. Guinness at present carry on from Dublin would never have arisen.  That is one of the great objections in normal cases to the control of industries here by foreign firms.  I believe the same thing would have applied in the case of Messrs. Jacob, who have now a great factory in England.  If they were a British firm by origin, and if they   had 70 or 80 years ago established a biscuit factory in Dublin, that factory would have been kept a small one for supplying the requirements of the Saorstat.  The English trade and also the export trade would be supplied from the English factories. I think that that is a real, and consequently an important, argument against allowing the control of Irish industries to pass mainly by any process into foreign hands. 
     Another argument against it is the concentration of higher direction in business matters outside the country. That is the other side of the picture that I have already told you about when dealing with the corset factory. The branch factory here has great advantages in being able to get designs from London, and also materials purchased in England.  The disadvantage is that you have only people who are under managers of one sort or another here, with no knowledge of the higher policy of any business, and with the possibilities of the country developing the sources of enterprise to some extent cut off. 
     There is further the fact that when industries are owned outside the country it is politically damaging.  It is a bad thing not to have in our political life the representatives of industries in the country, to have in our political life not merely representatives of the workers but representatives of the owners of industry.  If you have industries owned outside you cannot have the balance in political life that is for the common good, and that is necessary in the interests of the country if there is to be progress.  But I do not think a certain growth of foreign enterprise here need be viewed with too great alarm.  It is a thing the Government ought to watch.  If a certain stage is reached I think the Government ought to take steps to check it, but I do not think Deputies should take the view that it is going to be very difficult to check it.  My own view is that it would not be at all difficult to check.  As I said before, the real danger of the situation is that firms   which might be contemplating starting industries here which it would be well to have started might be frightened off by talk of action against the invasion of foreign capital. I think that is far the most likely thing.  For instance, I know that when the Carlow beet sugar factory was being started, one of the matters that troubled those who were going to take charge of that enterprise was the fear of political and other changes in the country, which might result in the agreement that was being made with them about the subsidy being broken at an earlier period, and finding themselves with a large sum of money sunk in buildings and plant which would be entirely useless in the absence of the subsidy.  I think generally that will be the outlook of foreign firms, and I do not think Deputies of any party need fear that foreign firms coming in are going to set out obviously to injure, to irritate or annoy the people here.  They know that if they might do some injury to the people, in case of a contest, their capital is sunk here and the people could do a great deal more harm to them.  I think, therefore, that while we want, in so far as we can, to have our industries owned here, and to have them run in all their branches by our own people, so that we may have captains of industry who will develop them when new opportunities come to expand and develop great export markets, while we want all these things, we ought not to be alarmed, we ought not to take an unduly serious view of the coming in of a certain number of foreign firms, or even of the passing over of Irish enterprises in a certain number of cases, to foreign firms. 
     
      
       Before the Minister leaves that point I would like to ask him a few questions.  The Minister mentioned three defects which he thinks appertain to the control of Irish industries by foreign capitalists. One was that it tends to keep the output of the industry here purely for the Irish market.  The second was that the higher control, and the technical knowledge connected with   the higher control, is kept out of the country and is not passed on to Irishmen&mdash;that is my addendum to what he said.  The Minister also stated that it is politically damaging for outside countries to see our industries controlled by foreigners.  I want to get from the Minister a clear statement as to at what point he thinks these defects will vitally affect Irish industries and the Irish people.  Does he think the control that foreigners have already assumed over Irish industries is bad?  Is that control a bad thing for the country, or is he indifferent as to the extent to which it has developed? 
     
     
      
       I would like to know from the Minister, since he has talked about the danger of Deputies referring to the action that should be taken in the event of foreign combines coming in, and to the effect it would have on foreigners who wished to come in, how he reconciles that statement with the action of the Minister for Agriculture in compulsorily buying out a whole industry here. 
     
     
      
       With reference to what Deputy Aiken asked, I think that the coming in of foreign firms has been good.  It is difficult to say in advance when a point would be reached when we would have to consider that it was bad, but foreign firms that have come in so far have given great employment.  The tobacco firms have given great employment, and given it without any charge substantially on the people. If home tobacco firms had given that employment, my belief is that for a considerable time they would have done it at the expense of the people, whether that expense would be in the form of inferior or unsatisfactory goods or somewhat higher prices I do not know.  Take the very big case which is the most important of all, namely, Ford's factory.  If it goes on as it is going at present, it will have a very great effect on the economic life of the whole of the south of Ireland. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is assuming that all foreign firms that   have come in have done so in order to establish factories.  The number of foreign firms engaged in manufacture here is small in comparison to the total number that have come in.  The majority of foreign firms here only engage in trade.  Does the Government view the activities of a trading firm in the same light as those of a manufacturing firm? 
     
     
      
       I think that the position of trading firms coming in is that they are of no advantage.  On the other hand, I do not know that there is very much harm.  I do not think that the disadvantages of having, say, a distributive industry in foreign hands are equal to the disadvantages of having a manufacturing industry in foreign hands.  There is the other aspect, that I do not think that a foreign distributing firm coming in confers any benefit whatever. The debate, as I understood it, was mainly centred around manufacturing firms, though distributing firms were referred to.  In reply to Deputy Aiken, I would point out that one of the reasons why we should not be too hasty in jumping to the conclusion that it was bad for the country to have foreign firms coming in, is that it is very difficult to get industries started here by home firms.  In certain cases, there have been suggestions to us that tariffs should be increased, but we did not increase them, even before the Tariff Commission was set up, when we were taking action on inquiry made privately by the Government.  We did not take action because we knew that such increase would bring in foreign firms, and we had reason to believe that Irish firms in the industry of which I am thinking about would gradually extend their operations. If we increased the tariff by 5 per cent. or 71⁄2 per cent. in that particular industry, foreign firms in considerable numbers would have come in.  A great deal more employment would have been given, and it would be hard to say where the balance of advantage would have been. 
     
     I do not believe that Irish firms in that industry would have been put   out of operation, but the possibility of their expansion into large firms would have been destroyed because the foreign firms coming in would have overshadowed them.  In a country such as this it is a great thing, whether it is foreign or native capital, to have the building, the equipment, and the technical skill, even though it is the technical skill of the artisan, developed, because, if you have that and if circumstances changed, it would be very much easier for Irish firms to develop or, if they were able to do so, to acquire existing factories and carry on the industry.  Generally, our position is &mdash;I think it was stated by the Minister for Industry and Commerce yesterday&mdash;that, while this position needs to be watched and while we need to have in mind the possibility of taking steps, it has not yet reached a point where it would at all be in the interests of the country to take any step against the entry of foreign capital or the development of industry under the control of people who are not our citizens. 
     
      
       In addition to such firms giving employment and bringing some knowledge into the country, does the Minister see no danger of having political influence exercised by these large combines?  Take, for instance, the flour-milling industry in England.  It must have almost a bigger turnover in the year than the Free State Government.  Does the Minister not think it dangerous to have political influence exercised in this country by such a combine? 
     
     
      
       The Minister referred to a particular industry which he has in mind.  It has apparently been doing well and developing, and he stated, if a tariff were put on the goods that that firm were manufacturing, that foreign firms would come in and start industry on the same lines.  Why should foreign firms be allowed to come in to interfere with an industry that was getting on well? 
     
     
      
       That is the whole point we are discussing.  If a foreign firm does not come in, the development   of the industry will go on very slowly, whereas if a foreign firm comes in in this industry you might in two or three years have, perhaps, five times the amount of employment given at present.  If no foreign firms come in, the thousand or so employees at present engaged will increase in number very slowly.  It is actually a question whether we think that factories mean nothing and employment means nothing, or whether we are going to weigh up the relative advantages of having more and better factories, some of which would be foreign-owned, or have fewer factories less well-equipped and have them all owned at home.  With reference to the question of political influence mentioned by Deputy Aiken, I do not think that, say, the flour milling combine will have any political influence.  As a matter of fact. I think that if it were doing anything here that was objectionable to any substantial section of the people it would be completely at the mercy of the forces which it would raise up against itself.  I do not like to discuss this subject at great length, as very often such matters are subject to misrepresentation outside, but if the whole flour milling industry of the country passed into the hands of a foreign combine which was charging, say, exorbitant prices, prices that could be shown to be not merely one-tenth of one per cent. but greatly above those charged outside, then that combine would be completely at the mercy of the people here.  After all, it would be a serious thing if even the biggest firm put itself into the position of forfeiting its property here or subjecting itself to drastic action. 
     
     I do not think, to take that case, that it can have any political influence whatever.  In fact, unless it were pursuing an absolutely straightforward course and giving as good service as the people in other countries were getting it would be living in fear and trembling.  Really we might as well talk about what the political influence of the landlords of the country would have been.  Suppose we had inherited the landlord system and that there was a   native government, a native police and a native army, and that the landlord system were still in existence, you might as well talk about the political influence of the landlords as the political influence that a foreign combine would have. 
     
      
       The Minister talked about the Government taking drastic action in the event of a foreign combine purchasing Irish mills and closing them down.  Would the Minister indicate what form of action the Government could take except the action they have already taken in the case of Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas? 
     
     
      
       Combines such as the one contemplated here have been the cause of international trouble before in the case of small nations, principally in America.  These small nations are supposed by the Press to have a double dose of original sin, but when the matter was inquired into, it is well known that it was found that the cause of the trouble was the interference of outside combines. I suggest to the Minister that the big danger of international complications will arise that way more than in any other way.  If the Government are forced by the operations of such a trust to tackle a problem of such magnitude, then the danger of a war would arise and the nation might not be able to defend itself against a powerful nation outside. That is the big point. 
     
     
      
       Then somebody would be talking of a tax of £1 per head on cattle. 
     
     
      
       I think that what Deputy Boland is talking about are the natural resources of the soil. Undoubtedly trouble is caused by disputes over the natural resources of the soil, say, where there is a question of oil. 
     
     
      
       A vital necessity like flour would be in the same category. The question of railways, shipping, or flour would be on the same plane as oil. 
     
     
      
       I think that is quite a different thing.  I do not know of   any case where you have international complications arising as a result of trade or manufacture.  The question of oil is a different thing. If a small country has oil and if another country gets ownership of the oil-bearing land, then the oil cannot be got anywhere else and you have the claim of the company to oil supported, but I think there is no analogy at all between that case and the case of a manufacturing concern. 
       [ Mr. Goulding rose. ] 
     
     
      
       I would suggest that the Minister should be allowed to conclude his speech and Deputies could then ask him any questions they wished. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass referred to the case of Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas.  We did not buy out Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas simply because they were an outside firm. As a matter of fact we proceeded to buy out some home firms.  I do not know whether the Minister for Agriculture produced in the Dail, but certainly he had in his possession and produced at a meeting of the Executive Council, a map showing how the creameries of the country were situated.  Around each dot which indicated a creamery on that map there was drawn a circle with a three mile radius.  His view quite clearly was that there should be only one creamery within the three mile circle, that the three-mile circle was the normal supply for the creamery, and that a farmer should be within range of only one circle. We could see instances in which one farm was within four or five circles, where there was an excessive number of creameries.  We could see that they could not be economically run where two or three creameries were dividing up the supply that should go to one creamery. 
     
     To come to the history of the thing, we did not set out to remove Messrs. Lovell and Christmas.  What happened was that we showed indications of supporting the co-operative creameries and Votes were taken here in the Dail authorising   advances to the co-operative creameries. Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas then foresaw a sort of trade war in which the co-operative creameries were going to get a certain amount of support from the Government and Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas decided to take time by the forelock. They decided not to enter on a fight, on a commercial war in which they might have lost a considerable amount of money and in which the State might also have lost considerably by giving advances to the co-operative creameries to enable them to continue the fight.  Accordingly the Government decided that that was a favourable opportunity for putting the whole creamery industry of the country on a rational basis and they bought out Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas.  They proceeded to buy out other creameries also and to carry the whole thing through. If an outside trust came in quite clearly and quite obviously for the purpose of closing factories here and supplying the goods from England, then we would be entitled in my opinion to take steps of a more penal character than were taken in the case of Messrs.  Lovell and Christmas. In that case there was a free bargain and they were bought out.  The only form of coercion brought to bear on them was that there was a certain obvious intention on the part of the Government to support the co-operative creameries, that intention having been demonstrated by Votes in the Dail. 
     On the other hand, if a combine came in, acquired flour mills and ran them for five or ten years and then proceeded, perhaps as a result of a change in its own policy, to close down the mills, the situation might be a little more difficult, and one might feel that there would be no justification for any measures that would savour of a penal character. But if some foreign flour combine bought out our mills and bought them with the obvious intention of transferring the operations to England or anywhere else, we would certainly have grounds for taking action of a drastic character. 
     
     
      
       What action could the Government take to ensure that the mills would start again? 
     
     
      
       Are we going to develop industry by a discussion of this sort?  We want to develop confidence and we want to attract capital and a discussion of this kind is not likely to establish confidence. 
     
     
      
       We certainly think so. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass can think of thousands of things we can do if we really regard the action taken as something deserving of penalties. 
     
     
      
       I can only think of one course that could be taken, that is the course that was taken in the case of Lovell and Christmas. 
     
     
      
       It is very good to hear that coming from the Fianna Fail benches.  That is an excellent remark and would be, no doubt, very reassuring. I could send the Deputy a note of two or three ways that I could think of at the moment. 
     
     
      
       I would like if the Minister will consider this in relation to some other industry&mdash;the cement industry. 
     
     
      
       The cement industry was a hopeless case.  I do not believe that that factory could have continued. It did happen that it was closed down after it had been taken over by an English company, but from all I was ever able to hear I do not believe it could ever have hoped to have carried on against the competition with which it was face to face, and if it had never been acquired by an outsider I believe the results would have been the same.  Taking this question of insurance which was also discussed&mdash;I do not know to what extent the Minister for Industry and Commerce replied to it&mdash; there is no doubt the Government examination of the thing has not proceeded to a conclusion.  There is, however, no doubt that the view about the drain on the country in connection with insurance that we see put forward from time to time in the newspapers is entirely a wrong   one.  It is very doubtful whether there is any loss to the country really in connection with foreign insurance; whether it is fair to regard the operations of foreign insurance companies otherwise than as an invisible import in which we pay the ordinary commercial sum for services rendered.  I think that view is probably the correct view; it is a view that can be supported by very strong arguments indeed. 
     
     
      
       That view is not held in England. 
     
     
      
       I do not know about that. 
     
     
      
       The Minister does know that the British Government passed an Act prohibiting foreign companies from doing business, the business of industrial insurance, in England. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister should be allowed to continue without interruption. 
     
     
      
       That does not indicate anything.  It is quite probably an invisible import, for which we pay the ordinary commercial price, in the same way as we pay a price for tea or rubber or anything else that has to be got in.  It is more than that only if excessive salaries are paid by insurance companies to their head office officials and only in the case of non-mutual firms if excessive dividends are paid to their shareholders. But if reasonable commercial salaries are paid to their officials, and, if in the case of proprietary companies, reasonable dividends are paid to the shareholders, those operations of foreign insurance companies here simply represent an invisible import for which anything that goes out of the country and does not come back is the price for services rendered.  It corresponds, in fact, with the price we pay for tea or any other import that is brought in.  That involves taking the view which, I think, is a just view, that the building up of reserves is of benefit to this country when there are substantial numbers of insurers here, just as it is a benefit to England or any other country.  I   think that is reasonable, because the upbuilding of reserves enables people who insure here to get better bonuses and better treatment in other directions. 
       Undoubtedly the reserves are invested abroad.  But if in existing circumstances you had Irish companies operating here on a large scale they would have to invest their funds very largely abroad.  Their reserve funds would certainly have to be invested very largely abroad.  I have no reason to believe that if there were investments here of a suitable character, the insurance companies that do insurance business here, though situated outside the Saorstat, would be unwilling to invest any reasonable sums in those investments.  But they cannot be expected to do so now when the investments are not available. I admit that this matter of insurance is a matter that has not been fully threshed out.  I would just like to put up as against the theory which is currently propagated that there is an enormous loss of millions a year incurred by the people of this country in the matter of sending premiums to insurance companies out of this country, that it is at least arguable that there is no loss at all; that the people simply pay in connection with insurance for invisible imports, and that they pay a certain amount for services rendered.  These services are perhaps as efficiently rendered as, and perhaps more efficiently, and cheaply rendered by foreign companies than they could be rendered by any firm carrying on operations here. 
     
     If we were, for the sake of argument, to have an insurance company carrying on operations here it is not at all certain that it would make any substantial changes in the general financial and economic life of the country.  The really correct point of view in connection with this whole question of foreign capital is simply that we have, as a people, control of the situation, that we will always have control of the situation, that it cannot pass out of our hands; that for the present the coming in of the foreign companies is causing industrial development to take place   at a more rapid rate and with greater efficiency than it would take place if we were relying entirely on home firms; that there are distinct disadvantages in the development of industry in the country by foreigners; that when the time comes to check the passing of industry here into the control of people outside the country, or when the time comes to check the establishment of any new industries by outsiders in this country, there is nothing easier than to check it; that for the present no good, but only an amount of harm, can be done by undue propaganda about the matter. The sort of harm that can be done, as I have said, is the sort of harm that would be done if Mr. Ford, instead of having established his factory, was thinking of establishing it.  There is no doubt that if to-day Mr. Ford were just thinking about putting up the Cork factory, and if we had discussions of this sort, his reaction would be to decide that he would put up his factory somewhere else.  People like that are undoubtedly very touchy, and naturally so, because the minute they put up their factory they give a hostage to the country in which that factory is situated, and they are very careful about where they put up a factory and what treatment is going to be meted out to them when they have put it up.  Consequently, if Mr. Ford were thinking of it to-day and this propaganda which is at present going on were going on, he would not set up the factory. 
     If anybody else were thinking about setting up another factory of some sort he also would be deterred. We might never hear of it, and the proposal might simply fade away and never come to light at all.  I think when people create alarm or allow themselves to be unduly and prematurely alarmed about these things, they do a certain amount of damage.  If the Government were at any time to take steps to prevent further Irish industries passing under foreign control, or if it were to take steps to prevent the initiation of new industries by outsiders,   then it would be a matter of public policy that it would have to take steps in such a way as not to injure those firms who had already come in, or who had established factories; that is, any steps it might ever take ought not to be steps with a retrospective effect, but ought only to be steps which would indicate its opinion that the process had gone far enough and could go no further. Any person who had come in heretofore or who might come in up to the time when the Oireachtas decides upon some definite steps, must be given ground to feel that what he had done in good faith would prove to be absolutely safe, and that there would be no treating of such a person in an unfair way by retrospective legislation. 
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that, according to to-day's Press, the Limerick flour mills, the best equipped in Europe, have been closed down, and will he take any steps to have them reopened? 
     
     
      
       I saw that they were closed down temporarily, as I understand, and that has happened before. I would not like to take the point of view that the Government must, as it were, take a hand in the running of an industry. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       What about the building rings? 
     
     
      
       An industry must really fight its own battles.  The Government may put on a tariff or something like that to help an industry, but if it does not do that or does not give a subsidy on a definite scale in order to help the industry, that industry must fight its own battles.  If any industry were to have its hands, as it were, held by the Government, if it were able to fall back on the Government at any time it was in difficulties, then it is clear the most undesirable results would follow.  I am clear as regards what the Government has got to do about any industry that is not, like the Shannon electricity scheme, something of a public service nature.   Any ordinary industry must be simply allowed to go its own way. If the owner succeeds, he makes his profits; if he mismanages it, he must   suffer the loss.  It is only on that basis that industry can be carried on. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 67; Nil, 56. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlan, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. 
             Hennigan, John. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Nally, Martin Michael. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Colohan, Hugh. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. Doyle, Edward. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. French, Sean. Gorry, Patrick J. 
             Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil, Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     
        Motion declared carried. 
     Resolution reported and agreed to. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Issue Out of Central Fund (in Committee on Finance). 
     &ldquo;Resolved: That towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1931, the sum of £7,744,365 be granted out of the Central Fund.&rdquo;&mdash;(Minister for Finance.) 
     Resolution reported and agreed to. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Central Fund Bill, 1930&mdash;First Stage. 
     Leave given to introduce a &ldquo;Bill entitled an Act to apply certain sums out of the Central Fund to the service of the years ending on the thirty-first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and thirty, and one thousand nine hundred and thirty-one.&rdquo;&mdash;(Minister for Finance.) 
     Bill read a First Time; Second Stage to be taken on Wednesday, 12th March. 
   
   
     Private Deputies' Business. - Oireachtas (Payment of Members) (No. 2) Bill, 1928&mdash;Second Stage&mdash;(Resumed). 
     Question again proposed: &ldquo;That the Bill be now read a second time.&rdquo; 
     
      
       The Bill now under the serious consideration of the House is a very plain and simple measure.  I am perfectly certain that no one is more astonished than Deputy Thrift, who introduced it, at the widespread ramifications of the debate which it has occasioned.  Lest the House may have forgotten it, I shall read the operative clause of the Bill:&mdash; 
     
     Section 2 (1) of the Oireachtas (Payment of Members) Act, 1923 shall be amended by the substitution of the words &ldquo;Dail Eireann&rdquo; for &ldquo;the Oirechtas&rdquo; and by the addition at the end of the section of the words &ldquo;and to each member   of the Seanad an allowance at the rate of £200 per annum.&rdquo; 
     In plain and simple words, the purpose of the Bill, as it appears upon the face of the measure, is to reduce the salary or allowance of Senators from £360 to £200 per annum.  There does not appear to be very much more in it than that.  Yet, I think that in this case appearances are deceptive, as in the course of the debate the Minister for Industry and Commerce prefaced the speech which the House had the pleasure of listening to on this day fortnight, and again on last Wednesday, with a remark of this kind: &ldquo;Accustomed as I am to diatribes from Deputy Flinn&rdquo;; and then proceeded to deal with &ldquo;the unction and self-sufficiency&rdquo; of a Deputy.  He then proceeded to discuss the number of first preferences which a Deputy had received when elected to this House. He even went further afield than that and dealt with the record of a Deputy during the Great War.  He proceeded then to comment upon the fact that certain members of the Seanad enjoyed the good fortune of not having one little bit of their hypocrisy paraded.  Having gone for a little while to the Seanad, he came back to this House and proceeded to discuss where the money of a certain Deputy is lodged.  Of course, to my obtuse mind it is not clear what these questions had to do with this Bill, but they must have something to do with it.  These questions must have arisen in some one way or another out of the measure, and Deputy Thrift, no matter how he may disclaim the honour, is the proud progenitor of every one of these grandchildren of his intellect. Having considered the Bill, and the speeches made in regard to it, I find myself in a certain difficulty in continuing the debate.  I should like to discuss every one of the issues which the Minister has raised, but the moment I attempt to discuss them I find myself in conflict with the Chair. 
     
      
       Not until the Deputy has been allowed thirty-five minutes. 
     
     
     
      
       The Leas-Cheann Comhairle will remember that if I was allowed thirty-five minutes, it was thirty-five minutes in a vain attempt to discuss this question.  The Bill, to my mind, is a simple one upon which any Deputy could immediately make his attitude known and I am in favour of the Bill.  While no doubt these issues which Ministers have introduced in some one way or another are germane to the purpose of the Bill, yet I find that in this debate the application of the rules of order are so subtle that a plain man like myself could not, either with decorum or credit, discuss the issues which Ministers have raised.  In view of that, I do not propose to trouble the House further than urging it to accept the Bill and to support it not only on this Reading but through all its stages. 
     
     
      
       I am opposing this Bill for reasons different to those expressed by other Deputies.  I think we should not cut the allowances of Senators without at least considering the allowances of Deputies. During the course of the debate the amount of time and service given by Deputies was compared with the amount of time and service given by Senators.  If I may be allowed to make another comparison it would be this: The allowance to Deputies is exactly 90 per cent. of the allowance made to members of the House of Commons.  If we take into account the length of the British parliamentary session and compare it with the length of our session the allowance made to Deputies here is a good deal higher than that made to members of the House of Commons. Besides the distances Deputies have to travel to Dublin is, in many instances, shorter than the distances British members have to travel to London, for instance the Scottish members.  If we were to cut the allowances of Senators so as to make a saving of £10,000 a year&mdash;the figure mentioned by Deputy Thrift&mdash; it might be possible to make nearly an equivalent cut in the allowances of Deputies which would mean, altogether, a saving of £20,000 a year.   I know £20,000 would not mean a lot in our national finances, but it would be a step in the right direction and it might, possibly, open the way for a further reduction of expenditure. &ldquo;Every mickle makes a muckle&rdquo; and £10,000 here and £5,000 there might run into a large sum. 
       I agree, more or less, with the Chamber of Commerce, the Farmers' Union and other public bodies, who are continually, and loudly, calling for reduction of taxation, both local and national, yet I am opposing this Bill, because I do not think it goes far enough.  If the allowances of both Deputies and Senators were included in this Bill, and the Bill were passed, it would, at least, show a desire for national economy on the part of the Dail.  Deeds speak more than words. 
       Then arises the question: if £360 is a little high for the allowance how would you arrive at a fair figure? A Committee of this House, which would be monetarily concerned, would hardly be the best machinery to fix the allowance.  I quite recognise the question arises, what would be fair and equitable, and what would not be undemocratic, and give an opportunity to all parties to be represented in this House?  The British House of Commons has a Labour Government at the present time.  We have a Labour Party here in this House; but I take it that most of the men who represent Labour here are not dependent upon their allowance for their livelihood.  I would be sorry any such persons should be representatives of Labour in the House.  Take farmers, business men and others in this House. Their allowances are not their only source of income.  At least I would be sorry that either business men or farmers or anybody else would be represented by persons who were not able to earn anything outside their allowance in this House. 
       My view is that, in the case of a person coming into the Dail, the allowance he receives should be such as to cover his expenses.  An allowance to that extent would mean that he would not be altogether compensated, from the monetary point of view, for the sacrifice he makes in coming here. 
     
     
     
      
       I would like to congratulate Deputy Thrift on having introduced a Bill which, apparently, defies criticism.  The Bill has now been under discussion for many hours, and so far, I think, it can be said that nothing in the way of reasonable criticism has been advanced against it.  No one will deny that Deputy Thrift made a strong  prima facie  case for the Bill, and that the task of those who opposed the Bill should have been to find fault with that case and to show how the Bill is unworkable.  Instead of that, we have had a great deal of vulgar abuse, far more than the usual amount of irrelevant talk, and nothing at all in the way of pointing out where Deputy Thrift's case fails.  It is, I think, a very poor tribute to Deputy Thrift, who during all the years that he has been here has been not only a strong but one of the most determined supporters of the Government, that when he makes a reasoned case for a considerable reform, his friends in the Government make no attempt to treat that case seriously.  Apparently, their philosophy is: as we cannot find fault with the Bill, as we cannot point to any big flaws in it, we will at least show that Deputy Thrift is in shocking bad company, and in that way we will weaken the support which the measure is obviously entitled to on its merits. 
       We have the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Industry and Commerce&mdash;the Castor and Pollux of the Government front bench &mdash;both coming out and making, apparently, the best possible case they could.  After all that, we find that the criticism of the Minister for Agriculture only amounted to this: 
       I say this Bill should not be supported until some attempt has been made to meet the problems that arise not only in connection with Senators' and Deputies' allowances, but until there comes a realisation here that there should be some value for the allowances paid. 
     
     
        The Minister does not attempt to say when the House is to consider that question.  He does not even promise what he will do to bring about the realisation that he speaks of.  He does not say whether there is to be further consideration of this proposal this year, next year, or in ten years' time, and yet we know that all over the country there is a tremendous cry for economy.  We know that this saving of £10,000 would have a very big effect on the country, that it would have a great moral effect in that it would reduce, to some extent, the cynicism that is rapidly growing with regard to this Assembly and to its personnel.  Is it always to be a case of: &ldquo;To-morrow we will consider means of economy, but the time has not yet come?  We admit the case for economy all right &mdash;everybody has to say that&mdash;but there is a slight flaw in this proposal and at the present moment we are not prepared to consider any means of dealing with that flaw.  You will have to wait.&rdquo;  The people who are crying out, and deservedly crying out, for some economy in the expenditure of this State are just to get that message to-morrow or the next day. 
     Is there a single farmer in Deputy Mathews' constituency or in any other constituency who, having read this debate up to the present, would not make up his mind that those opposing this Bill are opposing it for anything but legitimate reasons? The Deputies who have opposed the Bill up to the present have not attempted to show that any greater injustice would accrue to Senators through the passing of this Bill than, relatively, accrues to many Deputies at the present time.  It has not been denied that the expenses of a Deputy are far in excess of the expenses of a Senator, that the duties of a Deputy call for a greater expenditure of time and money than the duties of a Senator.  It has not been denied that a Deputy's bill for postage, keeping in touch with his constituency, and so on, makes a very considerable inroad on the £360 a year   he receives.  I venture to say this, that taking an average over five years, taking into account the expenses that a Deputy is put to at two elections during that period of five years, that his allowance of £360 a year is reduced to not more than £200 a year.  Certainly that is the case in regard to a considerable number of Deputies.  I do not know what the position is with regard to Cumann na nGaedheal Deputies, because I do not know how election expenses are dealt with by that Party, but in the case of a considerable number of Deputies in this and other parts of the House, if one takes into account the expenses that they are put to as a result of two elections over a five-year period&mdash;that is, supposing a man is unfortunate enough to be elected to this Assembly a second time&mdash;their net allowance during those five years would certainly not be more than £200 a year. 
     The Joint Committee appointed to consider this matter unanimously reported that there was no case for increasing Deputies' allowances at the moment, that in the present economic circumstances of the country £360 a year was as much as the State could afford.  The Minister for Industry and Commerce made great play with Deputy Lemass for having agreed to this phrase in the principal resolution passed by the Joint Committee: &ldquo;That the existing economic circumstances of the State do not permit of any increase in the allowances paid to members of the Dail.&rdquo;  The Minister did not attempt to say what he found wrong with that sentence, but apparently he thought it was very damning to the case Deputy Lemass made, because he went on to say that the implication was there that in other economic circumstances the Deputy would be in favour of larger allowances being paid.  I wonder is there any one here who would say that in different economic circumstances larger allowances than are being paid at present might not be justified. The different economic circumstances that Deputy Lemass had in mind might mean a State in which you had a 100 per cent. increase in production.  Yet the Minister for   Industry and Commerce thinks that because of that phrase in the resolution passed by the Committee that he made a wonderfully strong case against Deputy Lemass. 
     It shows how hard pressed was the Minister, usually so prolific in debating points, but not so often in sound arguments, for a case against this measure when he had to fasten on that particular phrase. I think one of the strangest cases made against the Bill was that by Deputy Law, who comes from a very poor constituency and who has frequently shown his great interest in the problem of the poor people who form the great bulk of the population of that constituency.  Further, he has been a member of the mother of Parliaments, as he has so often reminded us, and as he is an occasional contributor to the &ldquo;Irish Statesman&rdquo; he is obviously a very distinguished man of letters.  Here is his apologia for supporting the measure. 
     Secondly, and this weighs very much more, I do not like to be a Judge in my own Court.  The chief value of the reduction is not going to be the amount of money you are to save.  As a matter of fact, such reduction in the allowance as the Bill proposes to Senators would be a trivial matter in itself.  The value, if any, as a moral value would in my judgment be negatived by the encouragement given to that meanest kind of parsimony only too prevalent in this country which consists in jealousy at the advantages enjoyed by the other fellow. I do not like the idea.  If this were a Bill of a general scheme for the reconsideration of the whole matter then certainly my feeling would be entirely engaged in support of it.  But I do not like the idea to be a party here, without further and more elaborate consideration of the whole matter from top to bottom, than is afforded by this Bill to taking money away from my neighbours while I claim to retain myself in full possession of the emoluments appertaining to membership of this House. 
     
        I hardly think all that verbiage would be much consolation to the unfortunate people in the Gaeltacht in Donegal.  It is surely the vaguest excuse, the strangest type of apology that was ever uttered by a responsible Deputy.  Deputy Law, mark you, goes so far as to speak of the moral value of this Bill, but yet he does not refer to the tremendous moral value that would accrue if the measure was passed&mdash;the tremendous encouragement which would be given to the people to think that at least this Assembly had some little interest in giving them a chance to live in their own country, and that it was somewhat true to its pretensions to being the people's Assembly, and that it did not turn its back on any proposal which offered a reasonable case for the saving of public money.  I think that Deputy Thrift has made a big case for this measure.  In my opinion, the saving of that £10,000 would be very valuable in itself and valuable morally.  Ten thousand pounds spent, say, on organisers who would endeavour to get support for Irish industry all over the country would be sure to result in a very big increase in production, and it would, in that way, have a cumulative effect, for it would mean that employment was being developed, which again would lead to development of other employment.  Again £10,000 might be spent with advantage, say, on the fisheries in helping to provide boats for the unfortunate fishermen who are at present going out in miserable boats in which it is unsafe to trust human life.  Or £10,000 could be spent, say, on improving communications to the islands adjoining the coast, which would be a great boon to the unfortunate inhabitants of these places.  These considerations, however, are turned down by two leading Ministers and by the spokesmen of the Party opposite. 
     We are told that until certain adjustments can be made&mdash;the vaguest thing in the world&mdash;that until a problem that is one of the most difficult with which this House is faced, that of trying to adjust payment in proportion to service rendered   to this House can be attacked, there should be no attempt to make a saving.  Let no one be mistaken about what the magnitude of the task that the Minister and Deputy Gorey say is necessary before this Bill should pass, that is, that some attempt shall be made to meet the problems that arise not only in connection with the allowances of Senators and the allowances of Deputies in order that there should be some value for the allowances paid. That is surely putting away reform until we are dead and gone, because we must first have all the urgent business of the State disposed of.  We would want to have a whole blank session before we could say that the House had time to consider that question.  No question that has been considered here would take more time than that would take.  If I might make a prophecy, I would say that after all the time that could possibly be spared had been spent on it anomalies would still remain, and there would remain the fact that some Deputies and some Senators were drawing bigger allowances than they should relative to the services they render.  The argument of the Minister and his followers is a dishonest argument and should not be used in connection with a Bill that has so much to recommend it.  I would like the House to show they so regard it by passing this Bill by a big majority. 
     
      
       I wish to make one or two remarks, as I do not want to record my vote without stating my reasons for doing so.  I am sorry that this Bill, which has been introduced solely for economic reasons, has been used by both Parties to have, so to speak, a shot at each other.  The Minister for Finance has repeatedly invited us to put forward suggestions with a view to economy. Now that this Bill has been introduced with that object in view, I am sorry it has been side-tracked.  The point at issue has been carefully avoided.  One Deputy in his speech devoted himself to the question of suspicious minds, and said it was introduced at a very peculiar moment. I would ask the Deputy to look back on the time since he came   here in 1923, and ask if there could be found a more appropriate time for the introduction of such a Bill than that at which Deputy Thrift introduced it after six months had been spent in discussing the Seanad. 
     
     It had been decided to do away with the mode of election to the Seanad and that Senators were to be elected practically by this House. The result of that was to do away with all expenses connected with elections to the Seanad.  We know these expenses were very heavy.  If the elections were to be continued on the old lines there would be no reason to introduce the Bill, for under the old system of election a candidate for the Seanad would spend on an election not merely one year's allowance but two or three years' allowances.  It will be remembered that one candidate at an election spent £200 to secure 2,000 votes. I contend that if elections to the Seanad were continued in the same way a year's allowance would not be sufficient to defray the cost of election. We believe it has been introduced for the sake of economy.  We find that the average attendance at the Seanad comes to about 42, which would give an average of £8 10s. per head per sitting.  A sitting of the Seanad usually occupies one and a half hours.  The members are brought to Dublin&mdash;carriage paid, so to speak&mdash;in first-class carriages for a sitting lasting one and a half hours, and they get £8 10s.  We propose to reduce the allowance to £4 15s. per sitting.  The allowance paid in the Northern Senate is £2 a sitting and second-class travelling, so that I think it will be seen we are very liberal.  Of course, the Labour Party say that this is an unreasonable proposal. I think if appointments to the Seanad were put up for competition we would have plenty of candidates, and I do not think they would be confined to the monied class.  I think there would be no attraction for that class whatever, but that there would be solely an attraction for the middle-class man who wishes to earn £200 or £300 a year.  The Bill was introduced for economic reasons alone and we contend that it   was introduced at a very proper time. 
     
      
       In accordance with the method followed by other States we decided to have two Chambers. Every State, I think, has decided to compensate its Parliamentary representatives for the work they have to do.  If you want to have the work of the State done cheaply even in these days men can be got to do it for nothing in both assemblies.  But would that be a desirable thing? What we want to get in this assembly, and also in the Seanad is the best ability that can be got from every class of citizen.  As the means of all classes are not alike Parliament in its wisdom has decided that a certain sum should be fixed as an allowance, so as to enable those who have the ability but not the means, to come forward to serve their country.  An amount has been fixed here which it is generally agreed is about the lowest that will enable a Deputy or Senator to leave his work and come up from distant parts of the country to do the work of the State.  All members of the Seanad do not live in Dublin.  Some of them have to come from distant parts. They have to leave their work as they are liable to be called up to meetings at any time.  Although the demand on their time may not be so great as that for the work in the Dail, still there is uncertainty as to when they will be compelled to leave their business and come to Dublin to attend meetings.  Because at certain times their work may not be very heavy it does not follow that they may not have at other times a great amount of work to do.  In fact Senators have often to sit when the Dail sittings have concluded to clear up work that was not sent to them while the Dail was in session.  I do not see any strong reason why there should be a differentiation in the allowance to Senators as compared with Deputies.  I do not think any case has been made out for the Bill and I do not think there would be a real saving.  If it is only money that is to be saved that can be done by not paying Deputies or Senators.  A considerable amount would then be saved, but it would be necessary to   consider whether that step would be for the benefit of the country.  No matter how we may desire to economise, economy in that way would be extremely bad, and I do not believe that even the most prudent minded would think it in the best interests of the State to make any such change in the allowances given to those who are doing the work of the country. For these reasons I intend to oppose this Bill.  I think it would be contrary to the spirit of the age to pass it, as it would be going back on what has become an established practice, that members of the Oireachtas who have to do most important work, whether in the Seanad or in the Dail, should get proper remuneration to enable the best talent available to be brought to the service of the State. 
     
     
      
       I think a decided advance has been made in to-day's discussion.  Up to this, Deputies had not settled down to discuss this Bill, but to-day everything that has been said has been relevant.  When we come to the discussion of the Bill on a business basis, it strikes me that those who opposed it ran away from it.  The Bill was brought before the House by Deputy Thrift, and he explained its purpose in a clear and unmistakable manner.  Yet those who oppose it have offered no reasons to show that what he said was incorrect. Even Minister brought us into the by-paths of Party funds.  Looking over the debates, we find that even Deputy Gorey advanced arguments that might be advanced in its favour, and he then turned round and said he would vote against it. Deputy Mathews, for whom I have the greatest respect&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       Well, I find him a very sincere man&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You want notice of that question. 
     
     
      
       I have never found him dangerous in any respect, and for that reason I do not think I can say anything else. 
     
     
      
       He is harmless. 
     
     
     
      
       He is like Caesar's wife. 
     
     
      
       I think I am entitled to my opinions.  Deputy Mathews indicated that he was opposing the Bill, but the arguments he used were surely in support of it; they did not contain anything which would show that the Bill should not be considered. He argued that it should be deferred until the allowances of both Houses had been considered. We have before us a very concrete case.  As was indicated a few moments ago, this matter has been brought before us because during the past year the House made a considerable change in the method of election to the Seanad, and, to put it very briefly and perhaps crudely, it amounts to this, that a would-be Senator has only to get hold of eleven votes and his seat is secured. Against that, in former times he had the whole Saorstat as the area from which his votes were drawn, and there is no comparison whatever between the expenses now and before. Deputies on all sides of the House&mdash; Government, Fianna Fail, Labour and Independent&mdash;have indicated at various times that they believe that every endeavour should be made to reduce the cost of government, consistent with efficiency.  Here is a measure which, as Deputy Thrift has pointed out, will effect a saving straight away of £10,000 and will not impair the efficiency of the Seanad to the slightest degree. When the Constitution amendments were going through, we were indebted to Deputy Davin for the trade union rates that the Seanad had, and even taking it on that basis, the lowest on which we could take it, unless this State has money to burn there is no argument for continuing the present rate. 
     
     I suppose it would be impossible to discuss this Bill adequately without making a comparison between the Seanad and the Dail.  In comparison with the Dail the Seanad has fixity of tenure on office varying from three years to nine.  It was the experience of Deputies a short time ago that the Dail remained in office for only a few months, when another election came on, with the attendant expense, so that in that respect there   is no comparison whatever.  If a person knows that his tenure of office is to extend to a certain time he may be able to make arrangements to carry on his other business during that time, but if he does not know what day he will take up a newspaper and find that the Dail is dissolved he is in quite a different position. 
     
      
       The Deputy will be worse off next time. 
     
     
      
       Then again it has been said that because the Seanad is doing useful work its members should be paid this allowance.  The promoters of this Bill have never said that the Seanad is not doing useful work; it is doing useful work, work of a character which, I think, is very useful to the country, but we can visualise what was in the minds of those who were framing the Constitution and allowing for a second chamber.  The Seanad, as we understand it, was to be composed of men with more or less mature minds, who could come to their work with the for and against of every Bill boiled down.  If they cared to read the debates of this House they had at once the whole gist of a measure, and they could then, in a very brief time, with their more mature minds, examine it and suggest any improvements that they thought should be made.  Again, there is no comparison whatever between the spade work that has to be done in the Seanad and the spade work that has to be done in this House.  A measure comes in fresh here, is discussed in all its bearings and from every viewpoint, and it passes out more or less a finished article, so that when the Seanad considers it the amendments that they can suggest are usually of a minor character. 
     
     The argument has been used that because in the Constitution it was suggested that the allowances for all should be the same these allowances should not be interfered with now.  I suggest that the framers of the Constitution in fixing this matter had not the advantage that the Dail has to-day in discussing this measure.  It was the simplest thing at the time to make the allowances the same, but in   the light of the experience of the years we have gone through we can measure the Seanad's work, its responsibility, and what it really costs. Surely after reviewing the method of election, after reviewing the amount of work which Senators perform and taking into account the work that they have to do outside the House, it is open to us now to consider what should be done in respect of this matter.  Some people brush it aside and say: &ldquo;There is no use in beginning at this point; it is too insignificant.&rdquo; If we are to reduce expenditure from its present high point we must begin somewhere, and I suggest that the only sensible course for the House to take is to consider the Bill on its merits.  When we have decided about that let us take up Deputies' allowances, let the case be put for and against them and if it is found that we are not worth our money and that a similar step should be taken here, then let us accept that. 
     I think it was put up by both Ministers who opposed the Bill that because Deputies took their allowances it was a bad argument for considering anything else. 
     Surely nobody can seriously put that forward.  If it is the law of the State that a certain amount shall be allowed to Deputies, surely a Deputy would be a fool or a hypocrite if he said that he would not take it.  The sensible course is to consider the matter, and in the light of the criticism of it to come to a proper decision. 
     Deputy Wolfe, when speaking to-day, as we can well understand, took high ground in the matter, and in substance said that it should be beneath the dignity of this House to offer anything less to Senators to compensate them for the work which they do.  We cannot take such a detached attitude towards even filthy lucre.  This money is the current coin of the realm, and it is for us to say whether it is enough or whether it is too much.  This question was camouflaged when it was first brought into this House.  The proposal was, by the amendment, to consider the whole question of allowances to Senators and Deputies   together, but then, to make it better, the allowances of Ministers were brought in as well.  That was really camouflage.  It was merely brought in, to my mind, to queer the pitch. One can understand another attitude taken up by some Deputies who do not want to support the Bill.  Perhaps we may give them credit, like the unjust steward in the parable who said that he could not dig, and to beg he was ashamed, and say that they had some foresight for the future, and thought that the Seanad should be reserved as a sanctuary, some haven of refuge into which it might be possible to enter for three to nine years. 
     There has been no serious objection to the Bill, and no reason of any substance has been given as to why we cannot consider the Bill and see whether the £200 proposed is the proper figure, or whether it should be a little more or less.  Let this proposal be discussed on its merits; let us give a decision on the matter, and then we can tackle other things. The Minister for Finance, I am sure, in a short time, will be picturing to us how he has been going through Departments with a huge axe chopping off unnecessary expenditure. Let us begin that ourselves.  Let us try the axe ourselves and then we can wholeheartedly support the Minister in his lopping off.  I think that the Bill should get a Second Reading.  If there are any amendments proposed later on, they can be inserted in due course, but I think the Bill is worthy of Second Reading and of the support of the House. 
     
      
       It is my intention also to support the Second Reading of the Bill.  In doing so I should like to say that I do not support the Bill with any intention of belittling those who at present are members of the Seanad.  I am quite aware that there are men there at present who are an ornament to the Second Chamber and who have given many years' service to the country.  It is from a sense of duty, and also from a sense of consistency that I am more or less compelled to vote for the Bill.  It has been argued here that the saving will be very small.  I have yet to   learn that this country has become so enriched that it can afford to make little of a saving of even £10,000.  Before proceeding any further, I would like to make, for the information of Deputies, a little comparison as between the cost of representation previous to the setting up of the Free State and the cost of representation to-day.  If my memory serves me right, the total representation of the thirty-two counties was somewhere in the neighbourhood of 105 or 106.  Assuming that the salary paid at that time was £400, the total amount of salaries then would be about £42,000.  The representation of the Free State alone to-day comprises 152 Deputies. I am not exactly sure of the number of Senators, but I will say roughly about 60.  That would mean that you have over 200 representing the twenty-six counties. 
       In order to make an equitable comparison we must also consider the representation in Northern Ireland, even though it is detached from the Free State.  The whole thirty-two counties were one entity previous to the setting up of the Oireachtas.  I think at the present moment I would not be far wrong in estimating the total representation there at 100.  Therefore, if we take the total representation for the thirty-two counties at the moment it would amount to about 300 legislators. Assuming that the average salary is £360 per annum, the cost of representation, as far as the whole of the thirty-two counties is concerned, would be somewhere in the neighbourhood of £90,000.  The cost of the Free State representation, exclusive of that in Northern Ireland, would be somewhere about the figure of £72,000. 
       I consider that is a matter worthy of consideration in dealing with this Bill and I think it would be well if we gave the country some intimation or some ground for the belief that what we say outside we mean to do inside the House.  I move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate accordingly adjourned. 
       The Dail adjourned at 2 p.m. until Wednesday, 12th March, 1930. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Dail Eireann Loan Refund. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the cause of the delay in issuing Savings Certificates to Rev. Patrick Lydon, P.P., Shrule, Co. Mayo; Ml. Kavanagh, James Murphy, James O'Hara, Michael McGreevy, E.J. Mullen, John Gavin, Thomas Duddy, John Kelleghan, and Patrick Freehan, who have made several applications for payment. 
     
     
      
       The claim of any subscriber who applied in writing before the expiration of the prescribed period for repayment of his subscription will be dealt with in my Department as speedily as possible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Written Answers. - Secondary School Scholarships. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state the results of the last examination for scholarships from the primary into the secondary schools in each county in the Saorstat in the following form, viz.:&mdash;(a) the number of pupils in attendance at the primary schools between the ages of 12 and 14; (b) the number of pupils who competed for scholarships; (c) the number of pupils who qualified for scholarships; (d) the number of scholarships offered, and (e) the number of scholarships obtained. 
     
     
      
       The enclosed statement gives the number of pupils between 6 and 14 years of age on the rolls of the national schools in the counties of the Saorstat on the 30th June, 1928&mdash;the last date for which the figures are at present available&mdash;and particulars with regard to the last examination (1929) under the schemes of scholarships, tenable at secondary or vocational schools, for boys and girls between 12 and 14 years of age who fulfil the required conditions. 
       SCHOLARSHIPS IN SECONDARY AND VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS. 
       PARTICULARS AS TO THE AWARDS IN CONNECTION WITH EXAMINATION HELD IN 1929. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             (a) 
             (b) 
             (c) 
             (d) 
             (e) 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             No. of pupils between ages of 12 and 14 on rolls of National Schools on 30/6/28 
             No. of candidates who competed for Scholarships 
             No. of candidates who qualified for Scholarships 
             No. of Scholarships offered 
             No. of Scholarships obtained 
           
           
             Carlow 
             1039 
             14 
             4 
             8 
             4 
           
           
             Cavan 
             2686 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Clare 
             3043 
             31 
             12 
             12 
             12 
           
           
             Cork County 
             9101 
             68 
             13 
             13 
             13 
           
           
             Cork City 
             2446 
             42 
             15 
             10 
             10 
           
           
             Donegal 
             5045 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Dublin County 
             3778 
             98 
             26 
             26 
             26 
           
           
             Dublin City 
             9223 
             198 
             61 
             20 
             20 
           
           
             Galway 
             5734 
             23 
             6 
             6 
             6 
           
           
             Kerry 
             5739 
             103 
             34 
             20 
             20 
           
           
             Kildare 
             1677 
             32 
             9 
             10 
             9 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             2379 
             38 
             15 
             7 
             7 
           
           
             Leix 
             1506 
             33 
             14 
             8 
             8 
           
           
             Leitrim 
             1969 
             8 
             2 
             1 
             1 
           
           
             Limerick County 
             3359 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             
               
               Limerick City 
             1159 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Longford 
             1325 
             52 
             7 
             5 
             5 
           
           
             Louth 
             1946 
             9 
             1 
             5 
             1 
           
           
             Mayo 
             6370 
             38 
             10 
             10 
             10 
           
           
             Meath 
             2073 
             25 
             9 
             4 
             4 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             2041 
             49 
             10 
             6 
             6 
           
           
             Offaly 
             1681 
             23 
             4 
             10 
             4 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             2678 
             90 
             17 
             12 
             12 
           
           
             Sligo 
             2223 
             46 
             8 
             7 
             7 
           
           
             Tipperary North 
             4268 
             24 
             8 
             10 
             8 
           
           
             Tipperary South 
             28 
             15 
             8 
             8 
           
           
             Waterford County 
             1533 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Waterford City 
             806 
             25 
             10 
             6 
             6 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             1626 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
           
             Wexford 
             2929 
             24 
             2 
             9 
             2 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             1682 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
             &mdash; 
           
         
       
     
   
 