 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 10.30 a.m. 
   
   
     Rotunda Hospital Mastership&mdash;Deputy's Withdrawal. 
     
      
       Last night, while discussing the Estimate connected with Government grants to certain of the Dublin hospitals, a statement was made by Deputy Little that he was informed that the present Master of the Rotunda had changed his religion so as to secure election to the Mastership; and further, that the   Charter of the Rotunda Hospital contained a provision which banned a Catholic doctor from being elected to the Mastership.  These may not have been the Deputy's exact words, but I think they convey the meaning of what he did say.  I am authorised by the present Master of the Rotunda to say it is a foul lie to mention that he ever changed his religion, either in order to secure election to the Mastership or for any other reason whatsoever; and secondly, there is no provision in the Charter of the Hospital limiting election to the Mastership in any way whatsoever because of any religious beliefs that the candidates for office may hold. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should not have used the words &ldquo;foul lie.&rdquo;  He simply wants to draw attention to a certain statement. 
     
     
      
       What I have mentioned is a statement made by the Master of the Rotunda. 
     
     
      
       No matter who makes the statement, Deputy Sir James Craig should not use the words &ldquo;foul lie&rdquo; here. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw those words. 
     
     
      
       I am glad to be able to offer an unreserved withdrawal of the statement that the present Master of the Rotunda was obliged to change his religion in order to fill that position, and I offer a frank apology for having wounded his feelings in the matter. 
     
   
   
     Wild Birds Protection Bill, 1929&mdash;Report Stage. 
     
      
       I beg to move amendment 1: 
       In page 4, line 65, Section 8, to delete the words &ldquo;three months&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;fourteen days.&rdquo; 
     
     The general opinion in the House was that a sentence of three months' imprisonment would be unduly heavy for an offence under this Act.   The period has been altered in other sections and I suggest that fourteen days would be an ample term of imprisonment. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       I move amendment 2: 
       In page 6, First Schedule, after the words &ldquo;Finch (all kinds)&rdquo; to insert within the brackets the words &ldquo;except bullfinch.&rdquo; 
       This deals with the question of the bullfinch.  There was a considerable difference of opinion amongst persons who are masters of bird lore. Some thought that the bullfinch should be a bird preserved under this Bill.  On the other hand a considerable number seemed to think that the bullfinch does such a very considerable amount of damage, especially to young fruit trees, that it is a bird that, in spite of very beautiful appearance, should not be protected. It is a matter upon which I, of my own personal knowledge, can state very little to the House because I have got only the average country-reared man's knowledge of the habits of birds.  I cannot say that I am in any way an expert.  Weighing up the views put before me and the weight of opinion that seemed to be behind them, I came to the conclusion that bullfinches ought not to be protected under this Bill.  It is a matter upon which the House, if it so wishes, should have an opportunity of expressing its opinion. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 3: 
       In page 6, First Schedule, after the words &ldquo;Tit (all kinds)&rdquo; to insert within the brackets the words &ldquo;except great tit and blue tit.&rdquo; 
     
     I am also informed that these two birds, the great tit and the blue tit, are birds that should not be preserved, especially the great tit, because it does a great deal of damage. I believe it kills some small birds and   especially does damage to bee hives; it is a great destroyer of that very useful little animal, the bee. 
     
      
       Will the Minister indicate the difference between the blue tit and the great tit? 
     
     
      
       The difference would be much the same as between the golden plover and the green plover. 
     
     
      
       Might not the blue tit be a great tit? 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In page 6, Second Schedule, to delete the word &ldquo;bullfinch.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Bill, as amended, received for final consideration.  Fifth Stage fixed for Wednesday, 28th May. 
     
   
   
     Civic Guard (Acquisition of Premises) (Amendment) Bill, 1930&mdash;Committee and Final Stages. 
     Bill passed through Committee Stage without amendment and reported. 
     Ordered: That the remaining Stages be taken to-day. 
     
      
       I move: 
       &ldquo;That the Bill be received for final consideration.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I might be allowed to say a word about this matter.  I am aware that throughout the country there are numbers of Garda barracks that have been left derelict.  In Westmeath-Longford I saw one a few days ago, and it seems to be quite derelict.  The roof is off that barrack.  I would like to know from the Minister if that barrack is the property of the Department of Justice, or does it come under the Board of Works.  I suggest to the Minister to make inquiries, and to see if any use can be made of these derelict barracks. 
     
     
      
       Some of these barracks are private property and have been surrendered to the owners.  Others of them are State   property and have been vested in the Board of Works.  The Board of Works will make every effort they can to secure tenants for these barracks. I am not sure to what particular barrack the Deputy refers, but I am aware that there are two barracks closed in Longford-Westmeath. Possibly the Deputy means Killashee. 
     
     
      
       Milltown-Pass. 
     
     
      
       I could not tell the Deputy at the moment whether that is private property or whether it is a barracks that has been erected by the Board of Works. That is a matter more within the knowledge of the Board of Works than within that of my Department. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
     
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. - Vote No. 54&mdash;Fisheries and Gaeltacht Services. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh Marta, 1931, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh agus seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara na hOifige sin. 
       &ldquo;That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st March, 1931, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Lands and Fisheries and of certain services administered by that Office.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       This vote is required for the purpose of enabling my Department   to put into operation certain proposals in regard to the future development and better organisation of the kelp industry on the Western sea coast.  I have already referred to the matter in this House.  It is also intended to carry out on a substantial scale certain experimental operations in Connemara on the treatment and marketing of carrigeen moss which, if they are successful will, I anticipate, promote better conditions and considerable development in this particular industry also.  These two industries are mentioned in paragraph 160 of the Gaeltacht Commission Report.  The conditions in the kelp industry for a number of years have not been satisfactory. There is a belief amongst the kelp makers that they are not being fairly treated by the buyers. This belief, whether justified or not, has resulted in a considerable amount of adulteration taking place and this adulteration has reacted both against the buyers and the makers. 
       As a result also of this belief, the making of kelp has in many places been abandoned and in many other places considerably reduced.  It is quite easy to understand that, because the making of kelp is a very laborious task.  Roughly speaking, it is necessary to gather 41⁄2 tons of the seaweed, save that and burn it in order to produce a ton of kelp. Furthermore, in some instances the kelp has to be carted fifteen or sixteen miles to the market or place of sale.  Naturally, people along the western coast are not going to engage in so laborious an undertaking if the market is precarious either in demand or in price.  If, however, there exists an assured market at a fair price, the industry could be established on a much wider basis with great advantage to a very large number of families, who would be very glad of this means of supplementing the family budget.  The seaweed which is the basis of this industry can be fairly looked on as one of the natural resources of the west coast and therefore should be exploited as far as possible. 
     
     
        The Minister for Industry and Commerce has, for some time past, been co-operating with me in the achievement of this purpose, and I am glad to be able to say now that a satisfactory market has been obtained for all the kelp that we can produce.  It gives me the greatest pleasure to make this announcement because it was rendered possible almost solely by the interest and intervention of a Deputy of this House whose reputation is a sufficient guarantee of his ability to carry through successfully any commercial enterprise to which he may set his hand.  His sympathy for the people of the Gaeltacht is very well recognised by all who know him.  I am confident that this announcement will be an equal source of gratification to Deputies of all Parties in this House.  The possession of an assured and satisfactory market enables my Department to proceed with the measures which we had in mind for the improvement generally of the industry with some greater degree of confidence.  The marketing of the kelp is very important. After the market a very important consideration is that the kelp maker should be enabled to have some knowledge of the value of his commodity. In the past it was only the buyers who had that knowledge, and no matter how straightforwardly such a transaction might be carried out, the person dealing in the dark had always some doubts. 
     I propose that in future each kelp maker shall be furnished with a docket showing the iodine content of the kelp, the percentage of iodine being the principal index to the value of the kelp.  The analysis for this purpose will be made at the time of delivery of the kelp to the Department's agent.  The method has been devised with the assistance of the State chemists, and it is known as the colorimetric test.  A sample of the kelp is taken by a method which will ensure that it is a representative sample, and carbon bisulphide and nitrosulphuric acid are added in predetermined proportions.  The result is to liberate the iodine, the quantity   of which is measured by the degree of intensity of the colour of the resultant liquid when compared with ascertained standards.  This method does not possess the degree of accuracy of a laboratory analysis, but it will provide a good working test for the information of the kelp maker.  It will have the advantage of being made on the spot and in the presence of the owner, if he so desires.  Ordinarily the test will be made by the Department's agent, but for this year we propose that the agent shall have the help of a chemist in the working of the test, such chemist to be nominated by the State Chemist.  Neither the agent nor anybody else will have any personal interest in obtaining anything but an absolutely fair test.  If, however, any kelp maker should be dissatisfied with that test he can, for a small fee, have a laboratory analysis of his kelp made by the State Chemist. 
     I hope that this measure, which will ensure a fair deal all round, will greatly assist in putting an end to adulteration of kelp.  Adulteration will be a crime, not against the Government or the buyers, but against the general body of kelp makers.  We propose to deal very severely with any person detected of adulteration.  We are certain from the plans we have laid that it will be almost impossible to escape detection. We propose, if anybody is detected of adulteration, to exclude him permanently from the industry.  The analysis to which I have just referred will be for the purpose of determining the quality of the various lots of kelp as between the kelp makers. The kelp will be sold on the basis of a laboratory test of a bulk sample made in the State Laboratory or under the direction of the State Chemist. 
     The arrangements for the sale and the price will be arranged by the Department, acting as agent for the kelp makers.  This arrangement will enable the transaction to be carried through on terms of greater equality, so far as the kelp maker is concerned, and this advantage will be felt to a greater extent in those more remote places where   there is less existing organisation. This Estimate is for the purpose of enabling payments on account to be made immediately on the delivery of the kelp&mdash;that is, when the kelp is delivered and before it is sold by the Department.  That will enable an advance on the final settlement to be made to the kelp-maker, and I anticipate that in the great majority of cases these payments on account will be larger than the former total payments which they got for their kelp.  That is the broad outline of my proposals.  There are other improvements of detail. 
     In establishing the centres at which the kelp is to be received regard has been had to the convenience of the kelp-makers.  I am anxious, as far as practicable, to avoid the carting of kelp long distances if more adjacent points of shipment can be availed of.  Assistance has been given at several points in effecting certain improvements in the gathering and curing of the weed.  At Quilty, for instance, assistance has been given in cutting a passage through a reef of rocks in order to avoid a long journey to the saving grounds.  At Pullaheeney certain land near the shore is being drained.  These expenses are being met out of other Votes. Research has been carried out as to the value of certain weeds for kelp-making and as to the best methods of burning, and these experiments will be continued.  The results of these experiments go to show that the most satisfactory method of burning is to reduce the weed to ash, either on the level ground or in a raised kiln.  It is the simplest and easiest plan.  There is in some quarters a belief that the kelp weighs less in ash than when made into slag.  There is no justification for that belief.  The weight is about the same, and the kelp as ash is more acceptable to the majority of buyers and therefore commands a better price.  I am anxious to encourage, therefore, the method of reduction to ash rather than slag, but at the same time we are not making it in any sense compulsory that that should be done.  Where they desire   to reduce to slag, we will allow it, but we believe that in a short time they will find that it pays them better to adopt the other method. 
     I also propose to have certain experiments carried out this year to see whether the cutting of the weed from boats at certain states of the tide during the summer-time would have better results than gathering the weed as it is washed in.  In any event it may help to add to the amount produced.  I know that in other countries that method is adopted.  The portion of this Estimate relating to the kelp is £40,000. The remaining £4,250 is required for the purposes of the experimental work relating to carrigeen moss. The total output of carrigeen moss in the past has not greatly exceeded 100 tons, and we believe that under favourable conditions some 700 tons could be gathered on the west coast alone.  If better prices were obtainable, I have no doubt that this quantity could be got.  We are hoping to improve the prices by improving the condition and cure of the carrigeen and the method of marketing. Analysis shows that in quality the Irish carrigeen is superior to that obtained on the Continent, but that it is not so well cured and graded. 
     This year it is proposed that the carrigeen in Connemara should be brought to one centre, at which the curing will be carried out in the manner in use in the United States of America.  A Deputy, not the Deputy to whom I have already referred, has put at the disposal of the Department a spread ground for the purposes of curing.  I would also like to say that the agents who are helping us in this experiment are doing so at a very nominal fee. An advance of ? per stone will be paid to the carrigeen gatherers. The normal price which they got in the past was roughly 1/- a stone, so that the advance that will be got this year will be 50 per cent. greater than the total payment in the past. When the carrigeen has been cured and dealt with in the manner proposed and sold, any further profit will be distributed to the gatherers.   The best selected carrigeen is sold in the United States of America as a food and for medicinal purposes. That of a lower grade is used for industrial purposes in the making of paints, pastes, chemicals and similar goods.  I propose to see whether the carrigeen properly cured and graded can be marketed similarly.  If in this way improved prices could be obtained the industry, which can be engaged in by all members of a family, might be elevated to a position of considerable importance in the economics of the Gaeltacht. 
     
      
       When this supplementary estimate was first spoken of, we thought it was to be under the heading of fisheries development because on the main vote under this heading the Minister, as reported in column 2232 of the Official Report, stated that the rules of the new Sea Fisheries Co-operative Association were ready and would be submitted to the Dail in a week or so.  Two months have now elapsed and the rules have not yet been placed on the Table of the House.  He also stated that a Bill would be placed before us setting out the manner in which the new Association should function.  I must say that we feel disappointed that no steps have been taken to tell the House what further developments have been made in this matter.  We can only hope that before the Recess the Minister will place some definite information before us to let us know exactly what is being done. The reason I want to emphasise that is that it was stated by the Minister that the amount which is made available for fishery development in the ordinary way was reduced by £8,470.  That is under the ordinary schemes of the Department.  Therefore it was anticipated that during the financial year this Association would be able to take definite control of sea fisheries. 
     
     We are thoroughly in favour of the new project.  It is an index of what can be expected when you have men who are acquainted with conditions   in the Gaeltacht and with the business side of the particular industries that affect it.  Furthermore, it is an example of the vast importance to a poor community of an industry which might appear small to city people.  A sum of £20,000, £30,000, or £40,000 if distributed amongst the poorest communities on the western seaboard will undoubtedly be of enormous benefit, particularly as it will be a regular source of income.  I take it from the Minister that the amount which it is now proposed to grant will be in the nature of an advance. It would be useful if the Minister could tell us what proportion the advance bears to the total value of the kelp.  He stated in his speech on the main vote that about 5,000 tons would be collected this year. That would be about £9 per ton of an advance. 
     In the appropriations-in-aid it is estimated that £44,000 will come in and I am anxious to know whether the Minister is quite certain that it will come in.  I take it that £9 does not represent anything like the value of the kelp when marketed, although it may be a considerable proportion and that the amount laid out for appropriations-in-aid is quite safe.  It would be a great mistake if, when you estimate that your income is going to be a certain amount anything happened subsequently to reduce that.  For example, the kelp &mdash;the Minister told us&mdash;will be paid for in the first instance on the basis of a test, but it will be sold on the basis of a much more detailed test. Therefore there will be obviously a margin of loss between the two tests which might amount to anything. 
     
      
       It might be a margin of gain. 
     
     
      
       It might be a margin of gain if worked properly, but I just want to see that the appropriations-in-aid are not over-estimated.  There is to be a definite guarantee to the purchasers of this kelp, the people at the other end of the transaction, that the kelp, I take it, will reach a certain content or that, at any rate, it will be according to sample.  For that   reason, there will be a great responsibility on the agents.  Unless the suppliers of kelp are brought into touch with the whole scheme and are made clearly to understand that the question of weight no longer counts, that, as in the case of sugar beet, it is the content that counts&mdash;they will then probably enter into the spirit of the thing&mdash;it will be possible that there will always be a number of individuals who will be ignorant of these facts and will attempt to carry out some tricks at the expense of the whole scheme.  It would be a pity to jeopardise the development of the scheme and the possibility of the people benefiting. 
       I would suggest that the widest possible information should be given to the suppliers of kelp and that some effort should be made to instruct them.  Officers who are at the disposal of the Department in other branches could be sent round to explain to the people how the scheme is going to work, how exactly they are going to be paid on content and to point out that honesty is the best policy.  Are we to take it that the agents will be local business men who will be responsible for collecting the kelp?  If that is so, I have no doubt that the agents will be able to give a lot of assistance in connection with the provision of kilns and in connection with the use of boats where it may be cheaper to employ boats to collect the kelp.  There is undoubtedly a great field in connection with marine weeds in general.  I hope the Department will, if necessary, place money at the disposal of the State chemist or whoever is responsible for investigating these matters.  It is suggested that there are many other uses to which sea-weeds might be devoted, that they could, for instance, be used for basket-making of a certain kind. Probably when the scheme is got going properly it will be in one way or another a very big source of revenue to the people. 
     
     The point about carrigeen moss is also very interesting as is the fact that the Minister can assure the House that he will be able to raise the price to such an extent that he   will be able to give as a first payment what was formerly considered a big price.  That he will be able to give that as an advance shows what can be done when the effort is no longer conducted on haphazard lines by individual businessmen who undoubtedly do their best but who have not that feeling of security that a State Department naturally has and who cannot have these resources of research and organisation that this House can place at the disposal of the Gaeltacht if it wishes. I can only hope that the experiment will prosper and that we shall have more supplementary estimates of this kind. 
     
      
       Is maith liom fa dheire go bhfuil ceann ag teacht ar an obair seo.  Do reir mo bharamhla-sa, ce's muite d'Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht), se seo an rud is fearr da ndearna an Dail o cuireadh ar bun i.  Ta mise ar aon intinn leis an Teachta O Deirg sa meid adubhairt se faoi rudai beaga do dheanamh do mhuinntir na Gaeltachta. Siad na rudai beaga seo a dheananns maitheas don Ghaeltacht. Ta go leor Teachtai sa Dail seo agus ni thuigeann siad an Ghaeltacht agus ni thuigeann siad ce'n bealach a d'fheadfai aon mhaitheas 'theacht as na rudai beaga; ach deirim-se gurb' iad na rudai seo i dteannta a cheile a chuireann bail agus slacht ar an nGaeltacht agus gurb' iad seo na rudai is fearr a fheileas di. 
       Dubhairt an Teachta O Deirg go mba cheart daoine do chur thart le heolas do thabhairt do na ceilpeadoiri. Silim gurb' i cuthaileacht an Aire e fein do mholadh ro-mhor nar leig do a radh go raibh seo dh'a deanamh aige le sgathamh maith cheana.  Ta a fhios agam-sa go bhfuil, mar do chuaidh daoine o n-a Roinn thart ar fud Chonamara agus do labhair siad leis na ceilpeadoiri agus le muinntir na haite agus go haithrid leis na sagairt, agus ta a fhios agam nach bhfuil ceilpeadoir i gConamara nar chuala faoi na daoine seo. 
     
     Anois faoi'n gceilp.  Is ri-mhaith liom go bhfuil an tAire ag dul dh'a ceannach i ugar do bhaile agus nach   mbeidh, feasta, ar lucht doighte ceilpe i do thabhairt na milte treasna na fairrge 'na gcuid bad agus annsin fanacht seachtain no, b'fheidir, coicis go dteagadh na ceannuightheoiri. Tar eis a gcuid aimsire do bheith caithte mar sin ag na daoine bochta seo b'fheidir nach mbeadh oiread airgid acu ag dul abhaile doibh agus a cheannochadh a mbricfeasta. 
     Faoi'n sceim nua seo ni bheidh ar cheilpeadoir an turas sin do thabhairt. Ta me cinnte nuair a gheobhas na ceilpeadoiri cothrom na feinne o na ceannuightheoiri go dtabharfaidh siad na seacht gcothrom uatha.  Roimhe seo nuair a bhiodh an Sasanach agus an Franncach ag ceannach na ceilpe is beag an luach a gheobhadh duine ar bith ach an te a bheadh mor le lucht a ceannuighthe &mdash;is cuma ce'n sort stuif a bheadh aige. 
     Is maith liom go ndubhairt an tAire go mbeadh baint eicint ag Teachta amhain as an nGaillimh leis an gceannach seo, mar da mbeadh banna ag teastail o cheilpeadoir bhocht bhi a fhios aige go mbeadh an rud ceart.  Eisean an t-aon bhanna amhain a d'iarrfadh se mar ba leor a ainm.  Nuair a bhi se dh'a ceannach cheana rud ar bith a gheall se do na daoine do thug se doibh e le croidhe na feile&mdash;mar is dual do. 
     Pe ar bith brod ata orm go bhfuil an tAire ag deanamh rud eicint faoi'n gceilp, ta seacht mbrod orm go bhfuil se le rud eicint do dheanamh don charraigin.  Obair i seo a d'fheadfadh na mna agus na gasuir oga do dheanamh agus bionn an seasur ann an t-am ceadna a bhionns na laetheanta saoire ag na gasuir scoile.  Mar sin deanfaidh se go leor maitheasa.  Anois le blianta ni raibh na daoine ag failt ach o 9d. go 1s. an chloch.  Ta an tAire ag tabhairt 1s. 6d. doibh de leim agus is iad na daoine a ghlanfas agus a phiocfas an charraigin a gheobhas 'chuile phighinn den airgead sin.  Ni measfar an droch rud leis an rud maith feasta agus ta me ag ceapadh go ngabhaidh an charraigin an oiread eile ar a laighead amach annseo.  Pe   ar bith ceard a ngabhfas si ni h-ag an bhfear lar a bheas an brabach ach ag na daoine a shaothruigh e. 
     Ta mo bhuidheachas agus buidheachas Chonamara ar an Aire faoi'n obair seo do chur ar bun.  Ta carraigin dh'a piocadh i n-aiteacha eile freisin i gContae Chiarraighe, i gContac Mhuigheo, i gContac an Chlair agus i gContac Shligigh ach as na haiteacha sin go leir do thogh an tAire ceanntar s'againne don obair sin i mbliana, agus geallaim dho go dtabharfaidh muinntir Chonamara 'chuile chongnamh dho. Ba mhaith liom an chaoi a labhair an Teachta O Deirg faoi'n cheist seo ach ma bhionn aon lucht le fail ar an obair seo i mbliana ni h-ar mhuinntir Chonamara a bheas se. 
     Ni fheadfainn suidhe sios gan focal do radh faoi'n fhear a chuir bun agus barr leis an meid ata deanta le bliain don Ghaeltacht, se sin an Runai nua, E. O Brolchain. 
     Teasbaineann se go glan an rud is feidir a dheanamh ach an marcach ceart do bheith sa diallaid, marcach go bhfuil fios a ghnotha aige. 
     
      
       Mar a dubhairt an bheirt Theachta ata tar eis labhairt, is maith an rud an meid seo airgid do chaitheamh sna limisteir bhochta san Iarthar.  Is maith an sgeal dos na daoine annsin ata ag bailiu ceilpe a chlos go mbeidh luach nios fearr 'na an luach a bhi acu go dti seo le fail feasta. 
       Deirtear go bhfuil tairbhe le fail as carraigin fosta agus go bhfuiltear ag obair i gColaiste annseo chun a fheiceail ce'n sli is fearr chun a coiriu do chur chun cinn.  Ba mhaith liom iarraidh ar an Aire a fheiceail go mbainfear triail as ag Cillmachoda agus aiteacha mar e. Ta a lan solaisti&mdash;luach na milte punt&mdash;ag teacht isteach san tir, dathanna deasa orra agus iad milis go leor ach gan moran maitheasa ionnta.  Da mbainfai triail as carraigin i gCillmachoda b'fheidir go mbeidhmis in ann ar gcuid carraigin do dhiol san tir seo agus gan bheith ag brath ar Ameirice. 
     
     Ta daoine ann ata ag suil le rudai mora breaghtha ar son na Gaeltachta.   Is maith an rud, do reir mo bharuil-se, tosnu leis na rudai beaga. &ldquo;Deineann triopall beart.&rdquo;  Ta na deantuisi beaga so ag tabhairt congnamh do mhuinntir na Gaeltachta agus molaim an tAire mar gheall ar an sceim seo agus ta suil agam go gcuirfear i gniomh i sul i bhfad. 
     
      
       The total original Estimate passed for fisheries and Gaeltacht services was about £47,000, and this Supplementary Estimate, which is about £44,000, practically doubles the original Estimate.  I congratulate the Minister, and I think this venture, like others the Government undertook, will be a success. When Government ventures are first mooted there is a certain amount of adverse criticism, but looking at the Shannon Scheme and the Carlow beet factory, when we recollect the nasty things that were said about them, I think any impartial person must admit that they have been a success, and that the Government must be clapped on the back for undertaking them.  I am very glad to see this system of co-operative marketing for the kelp and carrigeen industries coming into being.  The net cost of this new Government venture is practically nil to the taxpayer. I am not a pessimist, and I believe this scheme is going to be a success.  Iodine is, from the medical point of view, perhaps one of the most important products used in medicine or surgery, and its use is becoming more widespread.  There is scarcely a member of the House who has not at some time or other marvelled at the almost miraculous power that iodine possesses.  I would go further than is proposed and ask, why should we not have an iodine factory established, perhaps in the West?  In the area of Cape Finisterre, in Spain, the people are keeping a dozen iodine factories going constantly as a result of their industry. Perhaps I am looking too far ahead, and that we should be content at present to make this scheme for the gathering, curing, grading and transporting of seaweed a success. 
     
     Another very important product of the sea which costs nothing to grow,   as nature provides it, is carrigeen moss.  In my own sphere I use carrigeen moss, and I find it excellent for pulmonary troubles, winter coughs, chronic bronchitis, and even pulmonary tuberculosis.  It is largely an unknown plant, but when properly cooked and tastily served it is far and away better than any blancmange or cornflour.  I would suggest that carrigeen moss should be advertised, and that the medicinal properties it possesses should be made known to the people.  I also think that there is a great opening for an export trade in carrigeen moss.  At least one Irish chemist is making products from it.  We all know that in the sea there are a multitude of metals and other chemical bodies in solution, and in carrigeen moss there are a great many different metals and chemical bodies, which from a medicinal point of view form a very valuable food.  I congratulate the Minister and his Department on their work, and I am sure that this happy departure they are now undertaking will be a great success. 
     
      
       I scarcely knew whether we were in a surgery or in the Dail while the last Deputy was speaking.  I agree that carrigeen moss and iodine are very useful, and if we used more of them and had less to do with doctors we might be a great deal better off.  I scarcely venture any criticism of this Estimate, because our experience of the Minister and his Department for the past seven or eight years has been very disappointing.  I think that there has been no more disappointing Department than that of Fisheries. In every part of the Gaeltacht and in the fishing districts it has been our experience that, whatever little hope the people might now have of other Departments, even of the Land Commission, they have lost all hope of getting assistance in the fishing, the kelp and the carrigeen moss industries.  I hope that they and I will be pleasantly disappointed in the near future.  We will wait to see on this occasion if the Minister will carry out the undertaking that he has given to-day.  I   trust he will.  But it has lately come to my knowledge that the Minister and the Department could not altogether be blamed for their inactivities in dealing with this matter before. I have discovered that other Ministers&mdash;perhaps the Executive Council as a whole&mdash;were entirely opposed to the schemes for the Gaeltacht which were suggested. 
       In the West of Ireland, and particularly along the Sligo coast, the carrigeen moss industry will be found to be a paying venture.  Perhaps the greatest need that there is in that industry and in the kelp industry is for co-operation amongst the workers.  Up to a few years ago we had that co-operation to a large extent; the workers were forced to co-operate because they had in the fishing industry to get men together to man the small boats, and in the carrigeen moss industry and the kelp industry they had to work in little bands to make any venture a success.  But in recent years that spirit has been almost killed; there is very little co-operation among them now, and I think that the greatest difficulty the Minister will find will be to get the people working in these industries to co-operate so that they will be a success.  I have hopes that if the matter is taken up in a whole-hearted way these industries can be made a great success and can bring in fairly good earnings to the workers along the coast.  We would like to hear a little more about the efforts that are being made with regard to the fishing industry.  Are we to take it that a statement will be made about the Board that it is proposed to set up? 
     
     
      
       My Estimates have already been discussed, and it is hardly relevant to this discussion to deal with anything except what is in this Estimate.  I will answer very briefly Deputy Derrig's question. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister will do so I will be satisfied. 
     
     
      
       We have in this Estimate   another instalment of the fruits of the very hard work which those of us who are in touch with the Gaeltacht know has been put in by the Department of Fisheries during the past twelve or fifteen months.  It has come to us in instalments. The first instalment was the provision of houses in the Gaeltacht. We had another instalment in the work done in the reorganisation of home industries, a third instalment in the promised plan for the revival and development of our fisheries, and we have another to-day in the plans for the extension of the kelp industry.  However the criticisms passed upon the Department of Fisheries in the past may have been justified, I do not think that we have any reason to be dissatisfied with what has been done during the last twelve months.  I do not believe there has ever been so considerable a change in the work of any Department as has come over the Fisheries Department during this particular period.  I think it is only fair that we should note that.  I think it is pretty clear although it may not be acknowledged openly, that this is realised on the benches opposite, because I have noted with great pleasure, as I am sure the Minister has, the friendly and temperate criticism which has proceeded from those-benches in this debate.  It is fairly evident, I think, that the Minister can count on friendly co-operation and help from political opponents in making this scheme a success. 
     
     There is one aspect of it which I should like to emphasise.  Deputy Derrig spoke of the importance of small laboratories in the Gaeltacht. That is a point which I have stressed more than once in this House.  I have found in some quarters, especially amongst people not personally acquainted with the Gaeltacht, a disposition to despair, a notion that we can perhaps keep it as a kind of curious enclave for people speaking Irish, and that, except as a kind of zoo, it is of very little value.  I do not say that people use such downright language about it, but I have   found that kind of disposition.  Let me tell those who think and speak in that way that that is an aspect which does not commend itself to dwellers in the Gaeltacht.  I have always entirely dissented from the view that conditions in the Gaeltacht must necessarily be so bad that the only thing to do, if you are to keep the people at all, is either to get them out of it altogether or keep them, as I say, as some curious creatures in a menagerie.  I entirely dissent from that.  I believe that, given suitable measures of assistance, the people can live as happily and as well in the Gaeltacht as in any other part of the country.  I am sure we are not going to help the Gaeltacht if we attempt to build up on foreign foundations. The wise policy is, I am quite certain, the policy which has been pursued by the Department of Fisheries during the last twelve months&mdash;that is to say, we should build upon what is native to these districts.  We should build on the industries which are already there, on the hand-spinning, the hand-weaving and the fisheries, on the reclamation of land, and on such industries as kelp, which are native to the district, to which the people are accustomed and for which all that is required is a certain measure of assistance in teaching, in instruction and in organisation.  That is what, as I understand it, is provided here. I think that we dwellers in the Gaeltacht have every reason to congratulate ourselves on this proposal and I am quite certain, whatever we may say here, that, without distinction of party, the members for the Gaeltacht will give to the Department in their work cordial support and approval. 
     
      
       Ta an oiread sin raidhte cheana ag na Teachtai eile nach ga dom-sa moran do ra, ach o labhair dochtuir ar an taoibh eile caithfidh mise mo bharamhail do thabhairt freisin.  San chead ait, ba maith liom a ra go bhfuilimid lantsasta go bhfuil an tairgead seo le caitheamh sa Ghaeltacht.  Is maith an sgeal e seo.  Taimid ag fanacht agus ag feitheamh le rud mar seo le fada   an la agus ta se in am agus thar am e seo do dheanamh.  Dubhairt an Teachta O Deirg go mba cheart e daoine do chur amach leis na ceilpeadoiri do mhuineadh agus leis an sgeal a d'innis an tAire annseo indiu do mhiniu doibh.  Dubhairt Teachta eile go raibh sin deanta ag an Aire cheana.  Ma's fior e sin, nior chuala cuid againn aon cheo faoi go foill. Ma ta se ar na daoine seo dul thart agus dul i gcomhairle leis na sagairt paroiste, niior chualamar aon chainnt air sa gceanntar in a bhfuilim-se 'mo chomhnuidhe.  Ma ta daoine le dul amach o oifig an Aire chun an sgeal a mhiniu do na daoine, ta suil agam nach rachaidh siad go dream airithe ar bith ach go rachaidh siad thart imease na ndaoine uilig.  Ta suil agam freisin, nach mbeidh aon bhrabach le fail as an sceim seo ag aon dream no ag aon chumann no ag aon taoibh aithrid ach go mbeidh gach uile dhuine mar a cheile. 
       I should like to have a little more information on a few points mentioned in connection with this Vote. The Minister told us that an iodine factory was to be set up, but we did not get any more information.  We were not told, for instance, whether the iodine is to be refined and exported. The Minister could have given us a good deal more information if he liked, and the people are very anxiously waiting for it.  Deputies on these Benches would like to know more about this factory; how far the work will be done in the factory, in what state the iodine will be exported, and things like that. 
     
     There is one point to which I hope the Minister will pay special attention. I do not know anything about the South and the North, but when he is appointing agents in the West I ask him particularly not to appoint any shopkeeper.  We are sick and tired of the shopkeeper element in the West&mdash;the gombeen type. They have always got the best out of everything which came from any Government.  No matter what Government was in power, they always got a bigger share than anybody else.  They have the people in these areas entirely in their power.  Most people in the parishes of Carraroe   and Rosmuck, where this scheme is going to be worked out, are in debt to the shopkeepers to the extent of £10 or £20 each.  It would be a terrible thing if the shopkeepers were now to be given the right to have all the dealings in this kelp.  It would mean, of course, that the bills would be gradually paid off, but very little money would be received by the people themselves for the first four or five years until all the arrears were cleared off.  Probably by that time other debts would have accumulated.  It would be a very serious matter in the West if the shopkeepers were given control of this business as agents. 
     I do not know what the agents' remuneration will be or how they are to be selected.  We were given no information whatever on that subject.  There is a feeling in my district that shopkeepers again will have control of this, as they had control of other matters under the Congested Districts Board and during the British regime.  If this is going to be made another opportunity for the gombeen men in Connemara, I would rather oppose the Vote.  I hope the Minister will state definitely, if he is going to send down men to buy this kelp, that he will employ non-party people who do not belong to any political movement. 
     
      
       Where would you find a non-party man in Connemara? 
     
     
      
       There are plenty of them.  There are very cute men in Connemara, and it would take you all your time to find out the politics of some of them.  In any case people of the type I suggested can be found. but prominent supporters of Cumann na nGaedheal should not be appointed as agents or buyers or given control; and it should not be said: &ldquo;This is a Cumann na nGaedheal business.  We are doing all this for you.&rdquo;  We are all paying for this matter.  It is all on the public estimates. That is the sort of thing that would be spread as it was spread in connection with other questions where money was spent. Let no prominent member of   Cumann na nGaedheal or Fianna Fail or the Labour Party have anything to do with this kelp business.  If possible give it to the people who have nothing to do with these movements.  I asked the Minister to state definitely that he will not at least allow gombeen men to have anything to do with it. 
     
     
      
       I certainly welcome this Estimate as I would anything else for the betterment of the people of the Gaeltacht.  But I would like to point out that the people on the south coast of Ireland have no tradition of the kelp industry at all. Kelp has not been an industry there, and I think it is only fair that those people should have an opportunity of getting some benefit under this Vote.  I understand also that a certain proportion of the Vote is to be devoted to the promotion of the carrigeen moss industry.  That was fairly prominent in the South of Ireland at one time.  In my own particular area and other areas on the south coast it was extensively saved and used locally, and I understand a certain amount of it was exported. 
     
     In addition to carrigeen there are other edible weeds that were in common use 50 or 60 years ago.  In those old days, when times were very much harder in Ireland than they are to-day, many people on the southwestern coast lived extensively on sea-weeds; in fact many people in the famine days were compelled to live on sea-weed altogether.  There were many of these sea-weeds whose Irish names are forgotten.  There was one &mdash;dulaman&mdash;I never traced the origin of the name&mdash;which was fairly common at the time.  It should be easy for the Department to investigate the possibility of reviving the use of those seaweeds.  It may be, as Deputy White pointed out, that they may have medicinal properties. They may prove a valuable addition to the food of the people.  I do not think that the general health of the people has benefited by the change of food in the past twenty or thirty years.  We were a stronger and a healthier people when we lived on what we were able to produce ourselves.   If people could be induced to return to these old-fashioned products it would be better for the nation as a whole.  It would be a good idea if the Department devoted some of its attention to the possibility of creating a demand for other edible seaweeds as well as carrigeen. 
     
      
       I should like if the Minister would say when he comes to reply on what lines the iodine factory is to be run.  Is it to be a State project solely or on a co-operative basis?  Are the kelp producers to have any control in the factory? Can the Minister state, also, if there is to be a guaranteed market for the kelp producer?  He did not explain whether there is only to be one big purchaser, or in other words a monopolist or whether there was to be anything in the nature of a guaranteed price for the kelp producer. Otherwise I join with Deputy Derrig and other Deputies in welcoming this Vote. 
     
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom cupla focal a ra mar gheall ar an rud adubhairt an Teachta Law o chianaibh.  Ni do linn, ar an dtaoibh seo den Tigh, gur ceart ceist pairti do dheanamh de cheist na Gaeltachta.  In aon rud a dheanfas an tAire ar son muinntear na Gaeltachta, beidh an Pairti seo taobh thiar de.  Taimid ullamh ar chuidiu leis ar aon tsli in ar feidir beagainin airgid do thabhairt do mhuinntir na gceanntar so.  Siad na daoine is boichte sa tir ata in a gcomhnuidhe sna ceanntracha Gaodhalacha.  An furmhor acu, caitheadh amach a sinnsear 300 blian o shoin o aiteacha eile agus on uair sin ta eageoir 'a dheunamh orra ag gach Rialtas i ndiadh a cheile.  B'e an chead rud a bhi in intinn na nGaedhilgeoiri i gcomhnai na lamh chongnaimh do shineadh amach do sna daoine seo.  O chuireadh an Saorstat ar bun, taimid ag brath le sceim on Aire no on Aireacht chun congnamh do thabhairt do mhuinntir na Gaeltachta.  Ba bheag a rinneadh ar a son ach rinneadh tus, ar chaoi ar bith.  Ta se ceaptha ag an Aire a thuille airgid do thabhairt isteach san nGaeltacht fa'n sceim seo.   Deanfaidh sin maitheas do sna daoine bochta.  Iarracht mhaith isea e agus ba cheart e do dheanamh fad o shoin.  Ba mhaith liom a ra, ar son an Phairti seo, go bhfuilimid toilteanach am ar bith a dheanfas an tAire iarracht chun congnamh do thabhairt do mhuinntir na Gaeltachta, cuidiu leis.  Mion-rudai isea na rudai seo ata se 'a dheanamh fa'n sceim seo.  Is beag an meid airgid a bheas le caitheamh aige i gcomparaid leis an meid daoine ata in a gcomhnuidhe san nGaeltacht.  Ach do sna daoine bochta so, is mor an meid e.  Ma eirigheann leis an sceim, deanfaidh se a lan maitheasa don Ghaeltacht.  Ta suil agam go n-eireochaidh leis agus ma ta aon chongnamh na aon chabhair ag teastail on Aire na on Rialtas beimid sasta e do thabhairt.  Ar ndoigh, ni bheidh aon duine san Dail ag suil nach mbeidh rud eigin le ra anois agus aris on taoibh seo na o thaoibh eile ag tromaidheacht ar an Aire mar gheall ar mhionrudai faoi'n sceim.  Ni bhionn daoine ar aon tuairim ar an gcaoi is fearr chun sceim mar seo do chur chun cinn. Ach mar sin fein, taimid i gcomhnai ullamh ar chuidiu le sceim chun staid muinntir na Gaeltachta d'fheabhsu. 
     
     Is do liom go rabhthas mi-shasta le lucht ceannuithe na ceilpe.  Rinne an tAire tagairt d'fhear airithe a cheannochaidh an cheilp uilig feasta. Is maith an rud go mbeidh Eireannach i mbun na hoibre sin agus go mbeidh greim eigin ag an Aire air Beidh ar an Aire a fheiceail go bhfuighidh muinntir na Gaeltachta ceart on cheannuitheoir.  Is docha nach mbeidh cead ag an Aire a chuid leabhar do scrudu ach beidh cead aige dul isteach san gceist leis, i dtreo nach ndeanfar aon eagcoir ar na ceilpeadoiri.  Dubhradh liom an samhradh seo caithte go mbionn a lan carraigin a dhiol sna tithe osta i gCill Chaoidhe agus aiteacha mar sin.  Ba mhaith an rud da n-iarradh an tAire ar na daoine go bhfuil baint acu leis an sceim seo, a chur in uil do sna daoine sna tithe osta ar fuid na tire a fhollaine agus ata carraigin. Deirtear go bhfuil leigheas   ann da lan galar ach nil fhios agam an fior sin no nach fior.  Ar chaoi ar bith, ba mhaith an rud fograi do chur suas sna tithe osta in a mbeidh cuairteoiri o thiortha eile i rith an tsamhraidh.  B'fheidir go mbeidhmis in ann ceannach na ceilpe do mheadu faoi dho no faoi thri ar an doigh sin. 
     Ba mhaith liom a ra aris nach bhfuil aon duil ag na daoine ar an taoibh seo ceist Pairti do dheanamh de cheist na Gaeltachta.  Ta na Gaedhil ar aon intinn ar an gceist sin agus taimid ag brath ar an Aire an meid is feidir leis do dheanamh chun congnamh do thabhairt do mhuinntir na Gaeltachta.  Le blianta anois, bhiomar mi-shasta leis an Aire Iascaigh.  Bhi a lan tracht ar fuid na tire mar gheall ar an Aire agus ar an Aireacht agus an meid a bhi a dheanamh&mdash;no nach raibh a dheanamh&mdash;acu ar son na Gaeltachta. Ach, i mbliana, ta tus deanta ag an Aire agus is deas linn afheiceail.  Beimid o gcomhnaiullamh ar chuidiu leis in aon rud a dheanfas se ar son an dream daoine is boichte sa tir. 
     
      
       The Minister must be very pleased that, instead of all the haggling that his Vote usually causes in this House, he has succeeded in getting a great welcome from all parties to-day.  Deputy Derrig is very properly concerned as to the amount shown for appropriation-in-aid, but I am fairly certain that the market value of the kelp will more than justify the Estimate. I happened to have been in a kelp-producing district and in a carrigeen-growing district on Monday last.  I met a local merchant who buys carrigeen and is an agent who buys kelp for manufacturers. Hitherto the highest price which this man paid for carrigeen was from 10d. to 1/- per stone.  He informed the people in that district that he would take all the carrigeen moss he could get at 1/6 a stone, an increase of 50 per cent. on the price hitherto paid.  There can be no doubt whatever that the organisation carried out by the Department of Fisheries has caused that advance in   the price offered for carrigeen.  I feel certain that when the scientific appliances provided by the Department are put into operation the price paid will be very much more.  The same thing applies to the kelp.  I have a more intimate knowledge of that subject than probably Deputy Derrig.  I can assure him that the contributions in aid will be more than fully made up in the sales of the kelp.  Hitherto the great drawback in the kelp industry was the feckless methods of the makers and the uncertain market.  That led, of course, to very bad kelp being made by a very large number of the makers and will be eliminated by the organisation that is being set up. I am perfectly certain, from my own knowledge, that the system set up by the Minister's Department, for which he deserves all credit, will make this a very large source of income in the Gaeltacht district of Donegal and the West.  There is only one matter that might interfere with it.  I am addressing myself, in this respect particularly, to the Deputy Leader of Fianna Fail.  One of the members, a Donegal Deputy, has proclaimed a battle of the Foyle. 
     
     
      
       That has no relevancy whatever. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will understand what I mean, that they might suspend operations until after the kelp is marketed this year.  I congratulate the Minister and his staff upon the advance they have made in their organisation.  I am sure that the scheme has every prospect of success. 
     
     
      
       I also welcome this Vote.  I think it is another attempt on the part of the more prosperous portion of Ireland to acknowledge and repay its debt to the West. Speaking as one who may describe himself as a dyed-in-the-wool individualist, normally speaking.  Government interference in commercial affairs of any sort or kind is a thing which I regard very critically.  But if there is any part of Ireland in which organised Government activity in relation to industrial or   commercial enterprises prima facie seems to have some justification it is in those districts.  The poverty of the people, the scattered nature of the population, the primitive conditions of life and transport difficulties all tend to make it desirable that, in relation to the gathering up of the small little bits of sustenance of the people into an effective unit, co-operation even of the most extreme form may be called upon.  I have had a certain amount of previous experience in this matter. Many years ago we also were struck by the primitive and wasteful methods which were in existence for the saving of the kelp.  They were very largely conditioned by the geography of other surroundings in the country.  We did put chemists on the job, and we did make an attempt to find other methods, and we found considerable improvement along that line, but the difficulty was that at the time we tackled it the price was falling completely in the iodine market owing to chemical substitutes being used. It was not commercial, very largely upon the basis that you could not reproduce the conditions under either the Department of Fisheries or this new Fishery Board which I would prefer. 
     
     In my opinion not merely is co-operation necessary, but for a considerable period co-operation in conjunction with monopoly.  In certain cases, especially cases such as these little scattered industries in the West, monopoly can pay a higher price for the goods than individual competition, because the total amount which can be taken out of the industry over and above the bare cost of producing the stuff is very limited.  The whole of the overlapping cost of competition must come out of the price of the goods, and therefore out of the price of the labour used in producing the goods. For that reason, I am rather inclined in this particular case to welcome State interference, but I am inclined to welcome it on more or less monopoly conditions.  I would   like to know how this particular enterprise is going to be worked.  I think the Fishery Board at the present moment is fortunate in the sense that it has set up a Board in some degree independent of itself.  We do not know the details, but we know that it does include at least two or three men with business experience. It includes a man with a very considerable business experience both in the buying and selling and in the manufacturing of goods. The more this particular enterprise is handed over out of the ordinary administrative control of the Fisheries Department&mdash;I am not saying that in any disrespectful sense&mdash; or any Department, into purely independent commercial management the better hope I shall have of its success. 
     I understand an iodine factory is to be set up, and the general idea is to give guaranteed prices.  If that can be done, well and good.  The less interference, either by those who provide the goods or by the Department which temporarily supplies the money, with the actual administration or carrying on of that institution the better for the Department and for the producer, and the better for the possibilities of the success of the scheme.  Our experience of the West, owing, as I told you, through its extraordinarily scattered condition, transport difficulties, and so on, is that you cannot in any of its industries afford to put any unnecessary overhead cost of any sort or kind.  Our experience is that you can get, even within the most barren piece of the country and the most desolate of its harbours, men, not nickle-plated people, but perfectly ordinary people, with thorough efficiency and unimpeachable honesty, who are capable of carrying on any enterprise of that kind. 
     It is not necessary, in fact, to send down a lot of inspectors or experts, or anything of that kind.  They would find in the district men who with a little training and a little help were capable of carrying out efficiently and reliably any industrial or   commercial process which would be entrusted to them.  I hope therefore that in what seems to be the most promising experiment that has been made by the Department they will keep out of it themselves as far as possible, that as far as possible they will keep it under an independent, commercially-minded management. If they do I believe there is considerable hope of success.  I think everybody in this House of every Party will feel that behind an enterprise of this kind which might be the beginning of a good many similar enterprises there is and ought to be, not merely passive but enthusiastic support by every member of the House, and the Department or whoever carries this out may unhesitatingly rely on any and every co-operation which we can give them in making this enterprise a success. 
     
      
       I gather from the Minister's statement that the organisation of the carrigeen moss business is to be entirely for export purposes. I wonder has it occurred to the Minister that there probably is a market here in Dublin and district for carrigeen moss?  Judging by the eagerness with which people buy it when they are in the Gaeltacht that would seem to be the case.  In a hotel last year bordering on the Gaeltacht I saw the utmost eagerness on the part of everybody visiting the hotel to get a quantity to bring home with them.  I know there are families in Dublin in touch with the Gaeltacht who regularly use it as an article of diet.  If it were known that carrigeen moss has the great virtues that are attributed to it by certain medical experts there would be probably a big demand for it, and I suggest to the Minister that it would be worth while for him to publish in some way an authoritative statement as to the medicinal merits of carrigeen moss. Even apart from its medicinal merits its appropriateness and value as an article of food might be published. If there be such a demand in America presumably that demand is founded on the merits of the article, and it would only seem reasonable   that the people of this country should similarly appreciate its merits.  I just put that forward to the Minister for inquiry. 
     
     
      
       I wonder would it be possible for the Minister to say&mdash;I do not know whether he thinks it wise or not&mdash;if there is any truth in a statement made to me some time last year that an offer was made to the Department by a French company or combine, for the setting up of an iodine factory somewhere in the West on condition that they got a monopoly of the supply of kelp, or on some other condition?  It was stated that they were to get a monopoly of the supply of kelp and that they would set up an iodine factory and give any guarantee the Minister would ask for.  If such an offer was made by a French company would the Minister think it wise to say what reasons there was for turning down the matter?  Perhaps they were good and sufficient. 
     
     
      
       I would rather not answer that, for this reason: It was not I who was concerned in these negotiations, and although I have what we might call a gentleman's knowledge of all the circumstances in connection with the negotiation, owing to the fact that I have not the actual detailed knowledge before me and that I have not recently read up anything about it, I would prefer not to make a statement.  I know there were certain negotiations and that for good and sufficient reasons to them the Department of Industry and Commerce were not satisfied. 
     
     I was very glad to hear from all sides of the House expressions of opinion which coincided very much with my own, and that is, that these small things that can be done in the Gaeltacht with comparatively little State expenditure are of far greater importance than any attempts at grandiose schemes.  There is no use in thinking in dealing with places like the Gaeltacht that any wild expenditure of a great deal of money is going to bring you anywhere.  It is far better to deal with the things that are there and which the people   are used to and build on these, and expand them as far as possible. When you have done that, and improved the conditions which you have found you can think about bigger schemes subsequently.  I think I gathered from Deputy Derrig, Deputy Fahy, Deputy Kelly, Deputy Mongan and other Deputies that that also was their view. 
     In connection with the appointment of agents in dealing with the kelp industry, of course a great many of these are already appointed. Some of them presumably are shopkeepers. I do not know whether they are or not&mdash;but some of them are not.  They were appointed on the basis that some of them already had been agents for various firms. Some of these firms used normally to buy here.  These were persons who were agents for them and are now coming along and acting as agents for us.  At any rate I think I would find it difficult to satisfy Deputy Dr. Tubridy.  I do not know whether I would be able to confine the agents to what I would call a political vacuum, to persons who would have no political outlook. 
     
      
       I do not object to politicians, but I do object to shopkeepers or gombeen men.  There are plenty of people in the Gaeltacht who are not shopkeepers. 
     
     
      
       My concern was to find people who knew the kelp business&mdash;who had some experience of buying kelp in the past.  I cannot say off-hand who are the particular agents in any district. 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       I do not carry around a list with me.  I suppose there are forty, fifty or sixty agents all over the country. 
     
     
      
       Are they appointed? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       You do not know who they are? 
     
     
     
      
       I do not know who they are.  Of course, I can get the list from my Department and read out the names, if that will be of any material interest to the House.  They are appointed at a fixed fee of 4/- per ton.  That includes the receiving, weighing, sampling and putting into store of the kelp. 
       Deputy Walsh raised a point as to whether or not we were creating a monopoly.  We are not.  Kelp will be sold to all the buyers who want it.  There will be no monopoly, but the factory which will be established in Galway will, if necessary, take the whole output of kelp.  They will be prepared, I think, even to take the whole output this year.  We are reserving some for the French firm who have already written to the Department stating that they would want from 400 to 700 tons.  We are keeping some for some other firms. So that there will be no monopoly for the Galway firm, but they will be prepared to take all the kelp that can be produced. 
     
     As far as instruction is concerned, the agents and persons who have been buying in the past and who know a considerable amount about it have been visited during the year by organisers from my Department or local superintendents who have experience of kelp-burning, and they have been advised as to the better methods of burning the kelp to ash in a level or raised kiln.  I am satisfied that we have not neglected to supply them with any necessary information. The kelp will be sold, for instance in the case of the French firm, who wrote to us stating that they wanted from 400 to 700 tons, in accordance with the iodine content. For, say, 1 per cent. we quote a certain fixed price.  May weed contains roughly 7 per cent. iodine.  Suppose we say roughly £1 for 1 per cent. iodine.  That would mean for the best May weed properly done there would be £7 per ton paid.  For the kelp made from the sea rods which contain from 1.2 to 1.4 there will be £12 or £14 per ton paid.  I have not stated what the advance will be.  I think it inadvisable, in fact, to state   it at the moment.  Deputy Derrig was rather concerned that there might be a big difference between the colorimetric test and the laboratory analysis.  The colorimetric test will be, generally speaking, accurate, but, of course, will not have the degree of accuracy of the laboratory analysis.  For all practical purposes there will be very little difference between the colorimetric test and the laboratory analysis. 
     Deputy Goulding was concerned about the extension of this to the Waterford coast.  Of course, we are dealing with things as we find them. Kelp has been made, and there is a tradition behind it in many parts of the coast, in Donegal, Mayo, Galway, Clare and Kerry.  It has died out practically in Waterford, if it ever was there.  We will be anxious to increase kelp production in the country as a whole.  Now that we are satisfied that we have a regular market for it we will be anxious to increase the output of kelp.  This year we sold nearly double the amount that was produced last year. If we could do it we would be anxious to double that amount again next year, and we are sure of a market for it all.  Therefore, if the kelp is there for the taking off the Waterford coast it is undoubted that there will be an extension.  People will be anxious that there should be an extension there when they see that it is something worth while.  It has practically died out for many years, for instance, on the Kerry coast.  The burning of kelp was unknown there since before the war, but this year it has been started again at the Maharees in the Castlegregory direction. You will find that it will extend farther down to the south-west Cork coast and the Waterford coast. 
     In connection with the carrigeen moss, I must say that I always did hear that it had very great medicinal properties.  I think I will have to seek Deputy Dr. White's help when we come to boost it as a cure-all. It is undoubted that there is a very genuine and a very definite belief that carrigeen moss has very   good medicinal properties, and it will be the duty, perhaps, of the Department or of persons concerned with the purchase of carrigeen to boost it from that angle.  Deputy Moore seems to have the idea that I was looking entirely to the export. We are also looking to establish a home market for it, and we realise that there is room for extension of the sale of carrigeen moss in the State itself. 
     Deputy Clery thought that we would find very considerable difficulty in getting people in the West to co-operate in this way.  Many people in their position are nearly always individualistic.  Their type of life makes them individualistic, but I think they are not so confirmed in their individualistic outlook that they will sacrifice their pockets for the sake of their individualism.  I am perfectly satisfied if they see that it will pay that they will come into this scheme because they will be getting a better price for their kelp. We have no doubt on the matter from the reports we have received from those who have been going around to the different areas. 
     Deputy Derrig asked me how the position stood with regard to the rules of the Association and the Bill. The rules of the Association are at the moment before the Department of Finance awaiting their sanction. The heads of the Bill are ready, subject to the approval of the solicitor and counsel for the Association. When they have finally approved them, the heads of the Bill will go on for financial sanction.  I can lay the rules on the Table of the House shortly, but it was my intention to lay the rules on the Table when I was introducing the Bill.  I think that would probably be the more appropriate time, so that the rules and Bill could be discussed simultaneously. 
     
      
       Very well. 
     
     
      
       I do not know that there is any other point. 
     
     
      
       The Minister did not answer my question as to who was   to have control of the proposed iodine factory. 
     
     
      
       The factory is established by private enterprise without any State help.  It is established by Deputy MacDonogh in conjunction with a British firm. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether the price of carrigeen moss at 1/6 a stone is for fresh or dried moss? 
     
     
      
       Dried, of course, after curing. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. Estimate reported and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. - Estimates for Public Services. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance and resumed consideration of Estimates for Public Services. 
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. - Vote 41&mdash;General Register Office. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £7,308 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Ard-Chlarathora na mBeireataisi, etc.  (7 agus 8 Vic., c. 81, a. 54; 26 Vict., c. 11, a. 9; 26 agus 27 Vict., c. 52, a. 11, agus c. 90, a. 20; 42 agus 43 Vict., c. 70; agus 43 agus 44 Vict., c. 13). 
     
     That a sum not exceeding £7,308 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1931, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Registrar-General of Births, etc.  (7 and 8 Vict., c. 81, s. 54; 26 Vict., c. 11, s. 9; 26 and 27 Vict., c. 52, s. 11, and c. 90,   s. 20; 42 and 43 Vict., c. 70; and 43 and 44 Vict., c. 13). 
     The present Estimate calls for no comment.  On one or two occasions recently here the question of the registration districts in the City of Dublin has been raised.  Until the new area of the City of Dublin has been definitely fixed I do not think it advisable or feasible to have any proposals made for changing the registration districts in Dublin.  As soon as the area is fixed the matter will be considered. 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. - Vote 38&mdash;Public Record Office. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £3,673 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na nAnnalacha Puibli agus Cimeadai na Stat-Phaipear, Baile Atha Cliath (30 agus 31 Vict., c. 70; 38 agus 39 Vict., c. 59, agus 39 agus 40 Vict., c. 58). 
       That a sum not exceeding £3,673 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1931, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Public Record Office, and of the Keeper of State Papers, Dublin (30 and 31 Vict., c. 70; 38 and 39 Vict., c. 59, and 39 and 40 Vict., c. 58). 
       Deputies will see that there is no substantial difference between the Vote proposed this year and the Vote proposed last year. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. - Vote 39&mdash;Charitable Donations and Bequests. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £2,231 chun slanuithe na   suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na dTabhartas agus na dTiomanta Deirciula (7 agus 8 Vict., c. 97, a. 7 agus 8; 30 agus 31 Vict., c. 54, a. 24; agus 34 agus 35 Vict., c. 102). 
     That a sum not exceeding £2,231 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1931, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Charitable Donations and Bequests Office (7 and 8 Vict., c. 97, ss. 7 and 8; 30 and 31 Vict. c. 54, s. 24; and 34 and 35 Vict., c. 102). 
     Again, there is no difference between the Vote this year and the Vote last year.  I do not think I have anything to state in addition to what I said last year. 
     Vote agreed to. 
   
   
     Supplementary Estimate. - Vote 33&mdash;Prisons. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £60,572 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1931, chun Costaisi Priosun agus Funduireachtai Borstal, agus coinneail-suas na nGealt gCuirpthe a coinnitear in Ospideil Mheabhar-Ghalar Cheanntair.  (17 agus 18 Vict., c. 76; 34 agus 35 Vict., c. 112, a. 6; 40 agus 41 Vict., c. 49; 47 agus 48 Vict., c. 36; 61 agus 62 Vict., c. 60; 1 Edw. VII., c. 17, a. 3; 8 Edw. VII., c. 59; agus 4 agus 5 Geo V., c. 58.) 
     
     That a sum not exceeding £60,572 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1931, for the expenses of Prisons and Borstal Institutions, and the maintenance of Criminal Lunatics confined to   District Mental Hospitals.  (17 and 18 Vict., c. 76; 34 and 35 Vict., c. 112, s. 6; 40 and 41 Vict., c. 49; 47 and 48 Vict., c. 36; 61 and 62 Vict., c. 60; 1 Edw. VII., c. 17, s. 3; 8 Edw. VII., c. 59; and 4 and 5 Geo. V., c. 58.) 
     The Estimate this year shows a decrease of a sum of £8,990 as compared with last year.  Looking through the Estimate, Deputies will see that almost every sub-head shows a decrease.  This is mainly attributable to a fall in the prison population. During the year 1929 the daily-average number in custody, including Borstal inmates, was 695 as compared with 729 in 1928 and 800 the previous year.  This fall in the prison population has rendered possible certain reductions in staff and these are mainly accountable for the decrease in the Vote. 
     
      
       The figures given by the Minister of the decrease in the number of prisoners are encouraging. They point to the possibility of decreasing the number of Civic Guards, and the expenditure necessary for those Civic Guards, in due course.  They also point to the fact that the country is now getting to the stage which we all hoped for, and which Deputy Wolfe, in a speech on another Vote, described as the stage when we would be more or less the same as England, where the forces required for the prevention of crime can be reduced to the very minimum.  There has been a very considerable decrease in the number of crimes committed and in the number of prisoners convicted.  As regards the crimes committed in 1924, the figure was 1,614, and in 1928 it was 1,187.  Even since then there has been a decrease.  The Minister has not given us the figures showing the decrease in the cases of crime, but he has given us the figures representing the decrease in the average number of criminals. 
     
     As regards the kind of prisoners in jail, we find in the Prison Report for 1927 an analysis of offenders. Of the 2,836 prisoners committed on conviction, 1,044, of whom 156 were women, had not been previously convicted.   The number who had been previously convicted and sentenced to imprisonment comprised 872 women as compared with 885 men. Of the former, 508 had been convicted more than twenty times.  The report is a little unsatisfactory because it does not give a corresponding figure for men.  In the report for 1928 we find there was an increase in the number of habitual criminals.  The number of prisoners committed on conviction was 2,704 and 993, of whom 152 were women, had not been previously convicted. The number who had been previously convicted and sentenced to imprisonment comprised 903 women and 808 men.  Of the former, 537 had been convicted more than twenty times. We can see from that that there has been a slight increase in the number of habitual criminals.  Most of the cases were offences for which they got imprisonment for a few weeks; but the prisoners are habitual; they are the type that have got into the habit of committing certain minor offences.  I believe they are capable of regeneration, and it is for that reason I have drawn the Minister's attention to this particular matter. 
     Whilst there has been an enormous decrease in the number of prisoners generally, in the crimes committed and in the persons convicted, there is a slight increase in the number of habitual criminals. Their psychology is difficult to understand. Very often, they are persons who may be said to be suffering from uncontrollable impulses.  They are persons who must be regarded more from the point of view of treatment by a doctor rather than persons who should undergo the severe methods of the prison.  There is a league known as the Howard League and from time to time it tries to get prison conditions improved. There have been conventions held with reference to improvement in the conditions of prisoners every year since 1872.  There was a convention held in Washington in 1910 and another in London in 1925.  I suggest the Minister should find out when they are holding another convention in order that his Department   may be fully informed as to the progress made, and the experiments that have been tried in regard to an improved treatment for prisoners.  The basis of the attempt at prison reform is the moral regeneration of the prisoner, and the belief that hope should be used as a more powerful agent than fear.  In English prisons in the course of the experiments which have been tried they have allowed the prisoners to hear wireless, and wireless entertainments and concerts are frequent.  Instruction is also given to prisoners and the quality of the food has been considerably improved. 
     In America also experiments of that kind have been tried.  A distinguished Irish medical practitioner paid a visit to the penitentiary in Delaware recently, where they have been trying a most remarkable experiment with what result I do not know.  I do not know whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to this experiment.  If so, if he has any definite view of the matter or, if he is in a position to make inquiries as to how far these experiments are working out successfully we will be glad to know.  I know of course that to come to that matter one has to refer to other changes in America and, in order to forestall the temptation that is lying at the door of the Minister because of my mentioning a matter like that, I think it is only fair to say that there are a number of extraneous matters, matters bearing on prohibition, which have distorted the whole system in America.  I think however that this experiment in Delaware for the purposes of the ordinary criminal, may be proved to be very successful.  I think we should keep our eyes open for every possible attempt towards progress in this direction.  I think that in the case of Ireland experiments of this sort could be tried which might prove very successful indeed. 
     I now come to speak of what are called habitual criminals.  I hardly like to call them by that name because these are really persons who have got into the habit of committing a certain type of offence which brings   them back time after time to the jails.  That is apparently due to circumstances, and, perhaps, due to a lack of proper training, and because these people are regarded as belonging to the outcast section of the community.  Unless these people are given an opportunity of getting back their self-respect and their physical condition there is a danger that they will continue on like that all their life time. 
     The great majority of prisoners are between the ages of 30 and 50, according to the prison report, and the larger number is between the age of 30 and 40.  It is not so much a question of a large number of young prisoners, but they just belong to that class of persons.  It is noticeable in the last report, produced in 1928, that the decrease in the prison population is ascribed to the various Acts of Parliament which substituted fines for imprisonment and to the fact that, later on, the prisoners were given time to pay these fines.  The report ascribes the decrease in the number of prisoners to that.  If that be so, it is obvious that where a fine is considered a proper punishment, then, apparently, the crime cannot be of a very serious nature.  Of course, the danger is that when persons like that got into the company of other criminals they become worse instead of better.  In this experiment that is being carried out in Delaware, apparently, they are able to leave the prisoners working on the farm and garden with only fences around them, and yet the prisoners do not attempt to escape. The atmosphere there, being one of moral regeneration, has apparently affected them in that way.  The system in Ireland includes giving the prisoners work and working on certain farms.  The Minister will tell us how that system is progressing. Work is really the greatest regenerator for people like that.  I think a certain amount of payment is made to these prisoners.  I do not know on what basis that payment is.  Some payment is made.  The sum should be allowed to accumulate so as to   give them an opportunity, when they come out of jail, of having something to help them back into proper civil life.  If their work is of a productive nature such a payment would be justified. 
     Then, again, the kind of work which they should be given should be work at which they could continue when they leave the jail.  Very often indeed what happens is when they leave the jail that they are thrown back upon their economic misery and their economic condition, and that brings them back to their old surroundings.  If the authorities in this country would keep an eye on them after the prisoners have been released, with the object of placing them outside the influences in which they lived when they committed the offences, and if the released prisoners had an opportunity of carrying on the same kind of work outside as they had been taught to do inside there would perhaps be an opportunity of getting rid altogether of a large number of the prisoners. 
     A comparison between the present system in Ireland and the systems in England and America is fairly remarkable.  The system in Ireland is very severe indeed.  In England, long-term prisoners are allowed to play outdoor games, to attend classes and lectures and to hear concerts, whereas in Maryboro' Jail they have only one concert at Christmas and they are allowed only an hour's exercise daily, and that exercise consists of walking round an asphalt ring in the prison yard. While at these exercises each man must maintain exactly ten paces distance between himself and his neighbours. The prisoners are closely watched by the warders, so that any attempt at carrying on conversation may be frustrated.  I notice the Minister is shaking his head over that.  I do not want to misrepresent the system as it is, but I would welcome a statement by the Minister correcting what I have said.  As this matter, however, has been brought to my notice, I think the best course is to mention it here so that it may   be brought to the knowledge of the Minister.  For even the slightest misdemeanour three days on bread and water are given to the prisoner. The prison workshops are situated in the same building as the cells and they are covered in and very poorly ventilated and these prisoners have to work in them.  The prisoner spends 23 out of 24 hours each day indoor. 
     There is a library where prisoners with good conduct marks are allowed to read.  If, however, they ask for a book they usually do not get the book they ask for, but another one on the same subject.  The instruction given is of the most elementary nature and does not go beyond the three Rs.  The food in Mountjoy is somewhat inferior to that in Maryborough. The cell accommodation provided in Mountjoy is better than that in Maryborough, but both fall short of the conditions in even English jails.  The Bridewell, about which we so often hear on different occasions, is designed to house prisoners overnight, but it does not provide adequate accommodation for exercise or the provision of food. Many of the cells are damp, with no heating arrangements, and in place of beds there are merely planks.  Two blankets are given to every prisoner who has to spend a night there, and the only food provided is dry bread and cocoa.  I hope that the Minister will look into these matters and make inquiries as to how these experiments are progressing in other countries with a view to seeing whether some of these prison reforms could not be carried out. 
     Apparently the cost for feeding a prisoner per year is £12, an extraordinarily small amount.  That was the figure mentioned at the Public Accounts Committee.  I think that it is contendable that the prisoners are underfed and that it would be very difficult to get good work out of them under those conditions.  If good work is to be got out of anybody he must get sufficient food to feed his brain and maintain his strength.  There is another matter which I would like to mention in the   dry air of more or less abstract principle, and that is the question of distinction between prisoners who are in prison for political offences and those who are there for ordinary offences.  I think I am not saying anything unfair when I say that the Minister always refuses to make any distinction between one kind of prisoner and another.  He is not at all in the tradition, even of English law, in the matter.  If he looks at the authorities he will find that very far back in English law, authorities realised the necessity of making distinction between political prisoners and ordinary prisoners. 
     For instance, the late Dr. Sigerson, who was a man of great distinction and learning, and who on this subject gathered a considerable amount of information, pointed out that the Prisons Act of 1914 did not completely wipe away all the terms of Cross's Act of 1877.  He was supported in this contention by Mr. Timothy Healy, beyond whose authority I suppose the Minister dare not go.  He contended that there were certain distinctions made for political prisoners.  This was based upon the theory and practice of the Constitution in England.  The distinction goes back very far indeed. In fact the Minister might be regarded as revolutionary, from the point of view of lawyers, when he refuses to make distinction between political and ordinary prisoners.  It was founded upon the seditious action of the Barons at Runnymede who secured the Magna Charta. &ldquo;Hence&rdquo;&mdash;I am quoting Dr. Sigerson&mdash;&ldquo;Blackstone can distinguish offences which are mala in se, essentially evil, and those which are &lsquo;mala prohibita&rsquo; (forbidden offences), merely, &lsquo;without any admixture of moral guilt, annexing a penalty to non-compliance.&rsquo; Bentham likewise maintains the same principle and points out that sedition may occur &lsquo;in any discourse otherwise than agreeable&rsquo; to the authorities &lsquo;intimating that the system pursued, or the conduct of those who act under it, might, if different from what it is, be better than what it is.&rsquo; Hence every act he says which   tends to substitute for a mischievous form of government one less mischievous is &lsquo;in their distempered imagination&rsquo; elevated to a rank towering above all offences.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
     
      
       Is this Government of the Dail and Oireachtas a mischievous form of government? 
     
     
      
       I wish the Minister would try to deal with this matter on its merits.  First of all I am citing Bentham, as quoted by Dr. Sigerson. It is perfectly obvious that if he has anything to say against what I cite it is against Bentham and not against me. 
     
     
      
       You do not adopt it? 
     
     
      
       The Minister is trying to be as mischievous as possible, and has a pocketful of red herrings to draw across the track.  I want to establish the principle merely that there is a distinction between political prisoners and other prisoners. I will go so far as this with the Minister, that there are conceivably different points of view about this Government, as about any other Government.  It is to provide for these particular points of view that authorities like Bentham pointed out that certain persons who have convictions about certain things and who are honourable men should be treated differently from those who actually commit crime.  Lord Palmerston, in 1858, did not go nearly as far as the present Minister, but, though he tended towards his view, he was thrown out of office by public opinion led by men like Gladstone. It was pointed out that it was always the proud boast of England that such distinction between prisoners was always made.  That was at a time when assassination was being committed. It was a serious time, and the incident out of which the controversy arose was by no means trivial.  The Minister will probably recall the famous case of Cobbett,   who attacked the Government fiercely because a sentence of flogging was imposed on a soldier at a time that the Napoleonic menace was most serious.  Cobbett was sentenced to two years' imprisonment for attacks on the Government during that crisis, yet he was treated as a special class of prisoner and was allowed to carry on his ordinary avocation from prison.  I need hardly remind the Minister of the treatment of Leigh Hunt. 
     
     
      
       I think if the Deputy reminded us of the treatment of prisoners in the last twelve months it would be much better. 
     
     
      
       I am trying to establish a principle which is not in practice in this or any other year, and which would, in my opinion, create an atmosphere of peace in this country to which we are all looking forward.  If an Leas-Cheann Comhairle thinks that I have pressed the matter far enough I will not go further with it. 
     
     
      
       It is not a question of pressing the matter, but I think that the Deputy is getting too far away from the Estimate. 
     
     
      
       I will conclude on the matter with the faint hope that the Minister may change his point of view under the steadying influence of a great authority like Bentham. Deputy Derrig made a very illuminating speech on the Borstal institution on this Vote on another occasion. I would draw the Minister's attention to it, and I would like to know whether any improvement had been made in the Clonmel institution within the past few years.  I understand that the conditions there were very unsatisfactory at that time.  I hope the Minister will in the course of the year show that he has not merely the outlook of one carrying out an official position, a position involving a certain amount of severity, but also that he will have full consideration   for the human element which he is handling, that he will see that conditions are improved, and that he will make a distinction between political prisoners and ordinary criminal prisoners. 
     
     
      
       There are a few points which I would like to raise on this Vote.  We have been told from time to time that first offenders are segregated from recidivists.  I have been informed that that is not the case, and I would like an assurance from the Minister that they are so segregated. I would also like to be informed whether solitary confinement has been done away with or nearly so, because, while loss of liberty is real imprisonment, the punishment can be made much more severe by solitary confinement or the silent system.  For certain types, of course, solitary confinement is not so bad, but for others it is really hellish torture. There have been in that respect reforms in England since some of us had personal experience of the prisons there, an experience which we would like to forget, and have largely forgotten.  The viewpoint is also taken that the work provided for prisoners should be as far as possible outdoor work.  Men out of employment for a long time and underfed are absolutely unfit to work even when they get employment. They are then called unemployable. 
       It is said that there is a peculiar pallor of weakness about long-term prisoners when liberated.  Outdoor work would keep up a prisoner's strength and would fit him to take his place in the world when liberated. The same indeed would be true of prisoners serving short sentences.  We do not want, of course, to have concerts and wireless entertainments every day for these prisoners.  We do not want offenders against the social order to be pampered but I think they should certainly be kept more in touch with the outside world so as not to be dehumanised. 
     
     Regarding political prisoners I may possibly raise a storm in introducing the matter here but it should, I think, be introduced.  We do not   stand for assassination.  The Minister says that the activities of certain individuals whom he refuses to call political prisoners may lead to assassination.  I do not believe it in the great majority of cases.  To look at it in another way, does the Minister think that these harsh methods of dealing with Irishmen, knowing the temperament of an Irishman, are likely to lead to reform or to any change in their outlook?  Does he think he will reform Irishmen who have held certain views all their lives by adopting harsh methods?  Whatever we may think of the activities of those whom he refuses to call political prisoners we must recognise that they are honourable and sincere in their views.  I maintain that the present method of treating them is not for a moment going to bring about the reform which the Minister desires.  I know that the Minister may indulge in a tirade in that matter.  I hope he will not because that is not the spirit in which I raise it.  Many of those are imprisoned owing to the historical circumstances of the last ten or fifteen years or the last four or five years, owing to the teaching of many of us on both sides of the House which they have kept up, if we look at it in that light.  I put it to the Minister that this harsh treatment of them is not advisable, not only for humanitarian reasons but to achieve the purpose which he has in view, to prevent anything such as assassination or any activities likely to lead to it.  Without on my part wishing to do violence to the opinions of anybody who is not satisfied with the present position in Ireland, with partition or the fact that Ireland is not a Republic, I suggest that different methods in the treatment of such prisoners are likely to have the effect desired by the Minister and by everyone in the House. 
     
      
       This question of prison reform is a burning question in every country except Ireland. Apparently the Irish people consider the old savage form of prison regime the proper one, that to reform a man you have got to put him behind   iron bars, treat him savagely and make life so intolerable that he will take care not to get in there again. This is largely a question of psychology. The treatment that may be of great benefit in one case may be of no use in another, and may even succeed in making a man of very mild criminal instincts a habitual criminal.  In other countries, this is a matter for experts, and the prisoners are very carefully examined. They are not all put into one class.  You may take one man of rather coarse fibre and submit him to a form of prison treatment which he will accept very callously, and it will not have the slightest effect on him, while it may cause the most exquisite torture to another man of fine sensibilities.  By subjecting him to the same form of treatment you may cause him terrible torture, but it will entirely fail to achieve the result that is expected of it.  Instead of reforming him and making him a better citizen in future, it may have the effect of embittering him against society, and of making a man who has committed a very slight offence a very dangerous criminal.  The question has never been seriously dealt with in Ireland as far as I know.  Apparently the only people who take any interest in the matter are those agitating on behalf of political prisoners.  No one ever looks at it from the humanitarian standpoint at all.  Apart from our views on the ill-treatment of political prisoners, I think the treatment of prisoners generally should be taken in hand. 
     
     
      
       I think if any proof were needed of the results of solid, beneficent, impartial and, I might say, humane government, we have it in this Estimate.  It deals with prisons in general, the criminal lunatic asylum and Borstal institutions, and shows, when compared with last year, a reduction of nearly one-sixth.  That is a proof of sound government. 
     
     Deputy Little said that possibly   the diminution in the cost of the upkeep of the prisons was a forerunner of the cutting down of the Civic Guard.  As one who lives in a city I think what we want is additional Civic Guards in the cities.  When all the fever of politics dies down there may be a reduction in the Garda Siochana, but from my knowledge of things I do not think that time has arrived, nor is it likely to arrive for some time. 
     As to the manner in which prisoners are treated in American prisons, I am afraid the system there has completely broken down.  I happen to be interested in prisons to a slight degree, and I have not seen the savage treatment to which Deputy Goulding referred.  As far as I know all the officials in any prison I am acquainted with are very humane towards the prisoners.  Possibly there may be some rules and regulations that could bear some pruning, but I am satisfied from my knowledge of the working of the Irish prison service in general that the lot of prisoners is made as comfortable as could be, under the circumstances. I do not know much about the experiments in Delaware, U.S.A..  I saw an article in which I think it was stated that if such a system could be introduced into Saorstat Eireann it would be a very good thing. 
     I have thought somewhat about the habitual sinners in minor cases that go into prison time after time. If they could be segregated, or if some special institution could be provided for them while under detention, it would be a very excellent idea.  It is a great tribute to the Government and to the Minister for Justice in particular when we find that the expense this year as compared with last year is cut down practically by one-sixth. 
     
      
       I desire to say a few words, mainly about the treatment meted out to political prisoners.  On several occasions the Minister for Justice told us that no prisoners were given solitary confinement.  We know for a fact that during the past year many prisoners have been kept   in solitary confinement.  To treat political prisoners who have been guilty of no crime in that way is to put a premium on crime.  I had some experience a short time ago, and I know for a fact that to treat political prisoners who have been guilty of no crime as ordinary prisoners is only putting a premium on crime. That has been the policy of the Government ever since they took over the prisons; they have been carrying on the old system as though there was no such thing as political prisoners, or that they are not entitled to any treatment except that given to ordinary criminals. 
       Deputy Fahy referred to the fact that first offenders are not associated with old offenders.  I can tell him they were a couple of years ago, when many first offenders were put to work in the same place as old offenders.  Certainly that was not to the advantage of the first offenders. 
       In Mountjoy prison&mdash;of which I have a good knowledge&mdash;no provision is made for outdoor work.  The prisoners spend the summer in an old musty workshop, filthy with dust.  They are allowed one hour daily in the open air, and are only in association, such as it is, for four and a half hours out of the twenty-four. They are locked up in the cells from 4 o'clock in the evening until 7 o'clock next morning.  No provision is made so that they can work in the open air.  There is an old shed along a wall, into which horses would not be put, where the prisoners chop timber, and in the winter they spend the day there perishing with cold.  I suggest that some provision should be made so that prisoners could work in the open air and be properly sheltered. 
     
     
      
       I would like to remind the Minister of the promise he gave the House some months ago, to consider the setting up of a visiting committee on which he would be prepared to accept persons whom this Party would recommend.  I would like to recall that promise and to ask if the Minister is yet in a position to state whether he is going to give effect to it or not, and if not if he will definitely state his reasons. 
     
     
        With regard to the treatment of political prisoners, the Minister has said, and probably will repeat it in reply to Deputy Allen, that they are not given solitary confinement, that they submit themselves to solitary confinement without cause, that their cell doors are open, and that they are at liberty to walk out at exercise time.  Quite recently, when the matter was under discussion, the Minister said that these prisoners remained in their cells during exercise hours at their own option and that their cell doors were open.  Their whole fight has been against association with criminals.  These young men are in prison for the same reasons as those for which many of us were in prison some years ago.  I do not know if the Minister understood or yet understands the sentiments which induced honest young Irishmen to submit themselves to prison torture and all the rest of it for the sake of their ideals.  These men are still imbued with these ideals, and while their methods may differ from those which most of us now believe to be the most practicable, nevertheless they are honest and sincere in their contention that they are political prisoners.  Why cannot the Minister find some method of allowing them to exercise by themselves, without having to associate with criminals?  I do not think that any of them have ever been charged with anything except political offences, and, as has been pointed out, this treatment will not succeed in the purpose which, presumably, the Department aims at&mdash;to make these men change their methods.  It will not and cannot succeed.  It is over again the old fight to try to break down their spirit, but the more torture that is inflicted on them in this fashion the stronger they will become in their determination to stick it out and the more will people become convinced of the injustice of this treatment. 
     If the Minister is sincere in his desire to bring about a state of affairs which will abolish the idea of physical force in the fight for complete independence and to open an avenue to all who desire complete   freedom to travel along without recourse to physical force methods, he will admit their honesty and will differentiate between their treatment and the treatment of the ordinary criminal.  Then there would be some hope of getting these young men to change their methods.  But we have reason to believe that the Minister and his Department desire that the present state of affairs should continue, that there should be, on the part of a section of the people, no hope but through the gospel of physical force, and that the Minister believes that the best weapon which his Party can have is the existence of an apparent desire for another upheaval and to keep the people in fear that this upheaval will come about if there is a change of Government.  That is not honest. He must know that these people only desire fair treatment.  They desire to receive different treatment from the ordinary criminal.  That has been fought for by political prisoners in this and in other countries all along, and it had to be conceded by the British.  Why does the Minister fail to bow to the same claim for justice?  I hope that he will, even at this late stage, admit that his policy does not aim at the creation of a better spirit in the country.  I want him not so much to admit that in word as in deed, to change the methods and the policy of his Department in the treatment of these young men.  I can assure him that that would serve the purpose which we all desire, the creation of a spirit of peace and harmony, a belief in the efficacy of political weapons and the abandonment of the method of civil war and physical force.  There is no desire for the perpetuation of the gospel of hatred and strife amongst the people. Unless he believes that his Party can remain in power only so long as that apparent danger exists.  I believe that he will face up to the facts and adopt the suggestion which has been put forward. 
     
      
       There is one thing I can assure Deputy   Cooney about, and that is that I have faced up, am facing up, and will continue to face up to the real facts of the present situation.  This debate has divided itself into two parts, the question of prison administration and the question of the so-called political prisoners in Mountjoy and Portlaoighise.  I will deal with the latter part first.  We heard to-day certain statements about human psychology and about reforming men by studying their psychology.  I wish that I was sufficiently a psychologist to be able to bring a certain amount of consistency into the minds of members of the Party opposite.  We heard gentlemen, in the most unctuous fashion, declaring that they are most anxious for peace, for order, for the observance of the law by everybody, and then we had immediately after either the same gentlemen or other members of their Party sounding loud paens of praise of the people who wished to upset law and order, and who wished again to have recourse to methods of physical violence, in praise of the people who have got the guns and the bombs. That shows an inconsistency which I am not sufficiently a student of psychology to understand, in the Party opposite.  It is an attitude of mind which I cannot reconcile with ideas of ordinary political honesty. 
       We are told that these men were guilty of no moral crime.  Is shooting at a Guard with intent not a moral crime?  One of the most famous political prisoners that we hear most talk about shot at a Guard with intent to do him injury and got ten years' penal servitude for it That is not a moral offence, according to Deputies opposite.  Another man was found guilty of wilful murder, not of a Guard but just of an ordinary civilian, a person who had nothing to do with politics at all.  He was found guilty of murder, but that is not a moral offence! 
     
     
      
       I think that the Minister is putting us in a wrong light altogether.  We have never claimed that anybody who committed murder was a political prisoner. 
     
     
     
      
       But these are the political prisoners.  We heard more about Hogan in this House than we heard about any other political prisoner. 
     
     
      
       We were not discussing individual cases at all; we were trying to establish the principle of the distinction between political prisoners and ordinary prisoners. 
     
     
      
       Then who are the political prisoners?  Are Hogan and Healy regarded by your Party as political prisoners? 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       Now we have it. 
     
     
      
       Certainly they are, so far as I am concerned. 
     
     
      
       One of them has been found guilty of murder and the other of shooting with intent.  Yet they are not guilty of any moral crime! 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister, in fairness, since this will probably get publicity in the Press, should give his reason for stating that Hogan was guilty of wilful murder and Con Healy of attempted murder. 
     
     
      
       The findings of two juries, and I do not think I could give a better one.  We have been told of persons being treated savagely.  No one has been treated savagely in our prisons; our prison officials do not treat persons savagely.  Reference was made to persons in solitary confinement. There is no sentence of solitary confinement. It is open to the two or three persons in Mountjoy who are not taking exercise to go out and take exercise.  What is more, it is urged on them to do so.  That fact has been brought before this House again and again, and, to say the least of it, it is disingenuous for any Deputy to suggest that these people are being kept in solitary confinement,   or sentenced to solitary confinement, and are not free to take complete exercise. 
     
     
      
       On conditions. 
     
     
      
       On condition that they obey the prison regulations. Deputy Allen informed us that he was in prison, and gave us interesting recollections.  As far as I can gather, he is putting up for these young men in Mountjoy a standard which, as far as I know, he did not put up for himself.  As a good Republican, sentenced for what he called a political crime, he considered he could morally go out and exercise with the other prisoners, but for Sweeney and the others in Mountjoy he sets up a completely different standard.  He likes to see vicarious heroism. 
       On the general question, Deputy Little proceeded to quote various learned authorities about the treatment of what he called political prisoners and gave examples.  He talked about Cobbett, and I think he went back even earlier&mdash;Leigh Hunt was earlier, I think.  I am informing him, as I have informed him and the rest of the House again and again, that in this country any person found guilty of sedition is put into the first division and gets all the privileges of a first-division prisoner.  That is precisely what Cobbett was, and what those other persons referred to were.  They would be treated as first-class misdemeanants. The expression of views or the criticising of such institutions as there may be in the State as vigorously as you like is one thing, but sedition is punished and the person punished is kept in the first division, where he gets all the ameliorations of prison life given to persons in the first division, and they are very broad indeed. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister say that criticising institutions existing in this country is sedition? 
     
     
      
       It may amount to sedition. 
     
     
     
      
       It would be well if the Minister defined that, because it would save some of us a lot of trouble. 
     
     
      
       Surely the Deputy would like to go to prison? 
     
     
      
       Indeed he would not; he had too much of it both from your Government and the other. 
     
     
      
       Persons who are found guilty of sedition, and that is what Cobbett was found guilty of, are treated as first-class misdemeanants.  Persons who are found guilty of ordinary criminal offences, such as the possession of arms, or the use of arms, are not going to receive anything but ordinary prison treatment.  Let that be taken as clear and definite. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister answer the question I put to him with reference to the committee? 
     
     
      
       With regard to the committee, I dealt with that fully on the motion for the adjournment some time ago and I am not changing the views to which I then gave expression. 
     
     
      
       You have no change of heart in the matter.  The Minister is not going to carry out his original promise? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy appeals to my heart. 
     
     
      
       Oh, no! I could not let that pass without contradiction. 
     
     
      
       As I say, the Deputy has made an appeal to my heart, but in this particular matter I prefer to use my mind. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say how he defines criticism of existing institutions as sedition? 
     
     
      
       It cannot be defined on this Estimate. 
     
     
     
      
       It is very important. 
     
     
      
       It may be, but it is not in order. 
     
     
      
       It is very much in order if he wants to save further imprisonment. 
     
     
      
       Some of us are guilty of it every day. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Little, in opening his ordinary criticism, dealt with the question of a decrease in the Guards.  It does not follow at all from the lowering of the prison population that the number of Guards can be reduced. It is owing to the fact largely&mdash;I do not say entirely&mdash;that we have an efficient Civic Guard force that property and persons are safeguarded and that the number of crimes committed is falling.  Abolish your efficient police force and I am afraid you will see a very large recurrence of crime.  I do not say it is entirely due to it, because I am aware that it is also due to other circumstances. We have passed through a very bad time indeed; people's minds were very much disturbed and it was quite natural that as a result of these very troubled times there should be a considerable increase of crime.  That is naturally to be expected. It happened after the Great War.  In all the countries that were engaged in it, there was an outburst, as it were, of crime.  We passed through our own bad time, and it is only natural there should have been a considerable increase in crime after that.  The country now, however, is settling down, and I think that a certain amount of the falling off in crime, if I might put it that way, is due to the settling down of conditions in the country, but it is also due, to no small extent, to the efficiency and vigilance of the Guards. 
     
     Deputy Little spoke about habitual criminals and how they could be regenerated.  There are certain habitual criminals for whom nothing really can be done.  They go on committing   the same class of crime again and again.  There are others for whom more possibly could be done, such as short-term prisoners who seem to have a mania for breaking glass or something of that kind.  But if you are going to regenerate any prisoner it can only be over a very long time.  Deputies opposite may recollect that at one time there was an attempt made to have what was called preventive detention, and certain parts of prisons were set aside for persons who were kept in preventive detention.  That was tried for a considerable time at Portlaoighise, and was not found to be a success, and had to be abandoned. Another statement made by Deputy Little, or perhaps by Deputy Fahy, was that something more should be done to get prisoners positions when they came out of prison.  I do not really see how the State could take upon itself to get employment for exprisoners. It is done by very good societies&mdash;the Prisoners' Aid Societies&mdash;and I know, of my own knowledge, they are doing very useful work indeed. 
     
      
       I am quite aware that these societies are doing excellent work.  What I meant was rather preparing the prisoners by giving them work in jail with a view to their being able to continue that work outside afterwards. 
     
     
      
       It is only a limited class of work that is done inside the prisons.  Some prisoners are put into the tailoring shops, some do a certain amount of baking. The prison bread is baked in Mountjoy, and there is other work of that kind which they are taught, but a good deal of the work we must of necessity carry on is the making of mail bags, and this is probably the biggest class of work the prisoners carry out, and is work which on economy lines must be carried out. One thing Deputy Fahy said with which I am in complete agreement. It was mentioned, I think; by somebody else, also, and that is the point about open-air work for prisoners.   As far as possible, I would like to see prisoners taking their exercise in the open air and as far as possible working&mdash;at least the better-conducted ones amongst them&mdash;at farm labour. For that reason some years ago we made a real effort in that direction. 
       As a matter of fact, in the first Estimate I introduced I had a sum of money put in in order that we might purchase some land in the neighbourhood of Portlaoighise so that we could keep more men at out-of-door work.  Unfortunately, the negotiations for the purchase of the land were not a success.  In other words, the owners, knowing that we were the purchasers, asked a prohibitive price.  But it is a matter that I myself was very anxious about, and which I would really like to see carried out at a fair cost to the State.  I should like to see, if possible, every well-conducted prisoner working on the land.  I put my views before the Dail on that a couple of years ago, and I shall not repeat them again.  Any Deputy interested in the work will, no doubt, look up the old reports. 
       Deputy Allen rather amused me by what he said about chopping timber in the yard of Mountjoy.  He stated: &ldquo;You are in a shed where you are asked to chop timber, and at the same time you are perishing with the cold.&rdquo;  Frankly, if I found myself perishing with the cold, and if I were given the job of chopping timber I would not be perishing with the cold very long.  I am afraid if Deputy Allen was chopping timber and at the same time was perishing with the cold he was not putting in what I would call a strenuous bit of work. 
     
     
      
       I wish that the Minister had seen the place where the prisoners chopped timber. 
     
     
      
       I have seen it; I have been all round Mountjoy. 
     
     
      
       Once in your lifetime. 
     
     
     
      
       I am not as familiar with Mountjoy as the Deputy is, but I understand there may be a good time coming according to the statements made opposite. Then, again, it was stated here that the cost of food was very low, and it was assumed from that that the prisoners must be underfed.  They are not underfed.  The prisoners' diet in our prisons will compare favourably with the scale of dietary anywhere else.  It is gone into very carefully by the prison authorities. In a certain respect, and in a very big respect, this year there was an alteration made for the better feeding of prisoners.  I am not sure of the figure, but I think £13 was quoted as the cost per prisoner per year.  But it must be borne in mind that this is the mere cost of the food. That figure does not include any overhead charges, cost of cooking or anything like that; it is the mere cost of the food itself.  Take an item like bread: you buy the flour and there your expense stops.  The work is done by the prisoners, so that the cost of the bread would be very much less than if you bought bread outside in the shops.  I am sure Deputies will understand that.  The cost of baking and everything like that is not included, and, therefore, it would be unfair to conclude that because the figure is kept as low as it can be kept, that the prisoners are not properly fed. 
     
     Deputy Little went at great length through some document on somebody's authority&mdash;he did not tell us who it was&mdash;contrasting the conditions in Portlaoighise and Mountjoy prisons with the conditions in certain English prisons.  I cannot say, naturally, that I know the conditions in these English prisons.  I understand they vary considerably between themselves.  But from what I have myself seen of Portlaoighise and Mountjoy, and what I have heard from persons who have been in English prisons, the conditions are very much more favourable in Portlaoighise and Mountjoy.  As far as Deputy Little's other point, that prisoners in Portlaoighise   and Mountjoy are not allowed to talk, that is not correct. They are allowed, in fact, to talk at their work.  They may talk in what I call a subdued voice; they are not allowed to shout or sing, but they can carry on a conversation with their neighbour, provided they do so in a reasonably subdued tone of voice.  They are not kept in complete silence when at work. 
     
      
       It is when they are actually taking exercise that they are obliged to keep silence.  If they speak then the warder comes down on them. 
     
     
      
       At work they are certainly allowed to talk. The Deputy spoke also of Delaware prison.  I saw a report in the newspapers of a lecture given on the conditions in that prison, and, frankly from what I saw, I do not think that the principle there could be applied in this country at all.  For instance, if you were to turn out prisoners in Mountjoy and send them to walk down the streets, and tell them to be back at 5 o'clock, I am afraid you might discover some of the prisoners had not returned at that time. 
     
     
      
       That is the reductio ad absurdum. 
     
     
      
       And if you sent people unguarded and unattended to do work in the town of Portlaoighise I do not know that the people who live in that town would be altogether pleased. 
     
     
      
       That was not suggested. 
     
     
      
       In fact, I think there would be immediately a storm of protest.  If these prisoners were to have access to the neighbouring towns I do not think it would do at all.  What we must do in this country is just to consider our own problems, and our own prisoners, and to see what is the best thing that   can be done for the preservation of the peace of the country and the   reform of the criminals. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 66; Nil, 43. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aird, William P. Alton, Ernest, Henry. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Corish, Richard. Craig, Sir James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Loughrey, Peter. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Edward. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis J. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. 
             Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clancy, Patrick. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Derrig, Thomas. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. 
             Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kent, William R. Kerlin, Frank. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Tubridy, John. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil: Deputies Allen and Killilea. 
     
        Motion declared carried. 
     Progree reported; the Committee to sit again. 
     
        The Dail adjourned at 2 p.m. to Wednesday, May 28th, 1930, at 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceist&mdash;Question.   Written Answer. - Kenmare Estate, Killarney. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state (1) if his attention has been drawn to advertisements in the daily Press wherein the Kenmare Estate, Killarney, has been advertised for sale; (2) and whether he will now state that in view of the fact that this estate, being situated in one of the beauty spots of the world, is considered by all tourists as one of Nature's masterpieces, he will make arrangements, out of public moneys, that the property bordering on the lakes will be preserved for the nation. 
     
     
      
       I have not seen the advertisements indicated but, if they have appeared, I have no reason to anticipate that any purchaser, who must be assumed to be aware of the facilities hitherto afforded to the public for visiting this beauty spot, will withdrawn or materially curtail those facilities.  If, however, a different situation arises, the Government will consider what action (if any) should be taken. 
     
   
 