 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Position of Killarney Guard. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he proposes to dismiss David Tormey, Garda Siochana, of Killarney, in consequence of the judgment delivered against him by the Circuit Court Judge at the October Sessions of this year at Killarney, whereby the said Garda was found guilty of having without just cause struck Mr. John M. Fleming, farmer, of Toremore, Killarney, when the said Garda was carrying out a raid for arms in the house of Mr. Fleming. 
     
     
      
       The answer is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister realise that under the present circumstances conduct of this sort on the part of an official of the Government is very serious indeed where breach of discipline is combined with breach of the peace and an act of violence?  In view of that would he state what he proposes to do in the matter? 
     
     
      
       I have already told the Deputy that I do not propose to take any steps. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister direct the attention of the Attorney-General to the evidence given in this case with a view to an action for perjury against the Garda concerned? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister prepared to condone perjury when it is committed by a member of the Civic Guard? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Seizure of Journal. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that the issue dated 31st October, 1931, of the weekly journal entitled &ldquo;An Phoblacht&rdquo; was examined and passed for publication before being issued by a Superintendent of the Garda Siochana on the 28th ult. and was subsequently seized by the Garda Siochana in the office of publication and from the newsagents throughout the Saorstat, and to ask the Minister if he is prepared to state on what grounds the decision of the said Superintendent was overridden; and further, to ask the Minister if any order has been made establishing a proper system of procedure, and fixing the responsibility for censorship under the Constitution (Amendment No. 17) Act, 1931, and if not whether he will cause such order to be issued for the guidance of printers and publishers. 
     
     
      
       The issue of &ldquo;An Phoblacht&rdquo; dated 31st October, 1931, was not passed for publication by a Superintendent of the Garda Siochana before being issued. It was declared to be seditious by an Order of the Constitution (Special Powers) Tribunal, which is a body in which responsibility for deciding whether a document is seditious is vested by the Constitution.  Printers and publishers must take care now as in the past that they do not print or publish documents of a seditious nature. 
     
     
      
       Was any order or direction given to the printer beforehand that such a document would not be allowed to be printed? 
     
     
      
       No.  The printers must understand that if they print seditious documents they do so at their own risk. 
     
     
      
       If it is proved to the Minister that his answer is incorrect, that he has been given false information, that in fact Superintendent Ennis read the paper before it was issued, said that the paper was all right and that it was well for the printing works that it was all right&mdash;if that   is proved by properly sworn statements will the Minister take action against those who have given him false information? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is entirely up in the moon now.  In the first place, Superintendent Ennis made no such statement, and in the second place, it is not by the order of Superintendent Ennis that this is done, but by the order of the Tribunal. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister does he propose to give the general public any indication as to the rules under which this Tribunal is acting with reference to publications?  Is there any guide as to what is seditious or not, and as to how people should proceed to protect themselves? 
     
     
      
       The way in which they should proceed to protect themselves is to publish nothing which is seditious. 
     
     
      
       Is there any way in which they can defend themselves if a charge is made against them? 
     
     
      
       They can show that a document is not seditious. 
     
     
      
       How?  In what court? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Use of Sligo School. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he is aware that on Sunday, the 6th September last, a number of persons entered Rockfield National School, Co. Sligo, for the purpose of holding a political meeting; and if he can state under what auspices the meeting was held. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that Rockfield National School, Co. Sligo, was entered by a number of persons on 6th September last for the purpose mentioned.  My Department is, however, in communication with the Manager of the school on the subject. 
     
     
      
       I put down this question over a week ago. 
     
     
      
       This question? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes and surely the Minister since last Thursday had ample time to communicate with the Manager of the school in question and ascertain from him under what auspices this meeting was held. 
     
     
      
       I have communicated with the Manager on the question which the Deputy asked last week.  I have received no reply from the Manager.  I expect to receive a reply.  At present I have no information on the matter. 
     
     
      
       If it is ascertained that a meeting was held in this school and if it is further ascertained that the meeting was held by Deputies who sit on the same side of the House as the Minister and belong to his political Party will he indicate what action he will take? 
     
     
      
       So far as I am concerned at the moment, that is purely a hypothetical question. 
     
     
      
       It is not altogether a hypothetical question so far as the people of the district are concerned, because the persons who went into this school did so before all the people who were assembled there that day after Mass.  When other political parties are denied the use of schools for the purpose of holding meetings, it is very unfair of the Minister to allow members of his own political party to hold meetings in these schools. 
     
     
      
       I have not done so.  I have not said that I was abrogating the rule.  Last week, I indicated to the Deputy that the rule was still in force and that it was intended to enforce it. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister finds that the rule has been broken, what action will he take to make these people amenable?  Will he send them before the Tribunal or will he send them to be chastised by Deputy Mac Eoin with his sally rod or will he take them before the ordinary courts? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Electricity Supply Board Accounts. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he   has received the accounts with the Auditor's report and criticisms from the Electricity Supply Board; if so, will he state the period covered by these accounts, and whether it is his intention to give the Dail an opportunity of discussing them. 
     
     
      
       These documents in respect of the period up to 31st March, 1929, have already been published. They are not yet available for the year ended 31st March, 1930, but, I understand, shortly will be. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister intend to have a discussion on the accounts which he has received? 
     
     
      
       If there is a desire for discussion, Deputy Good can indicate that in the ordinary way and have the matter raised. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest that the increased charges which are notified in this morning's papers were made without consideration of the accounts referred to? 
     
     
      
       My reply to Deputy Good's question does not refer to charges. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Introduction of Pharmacy Bill. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he can state the approximate date upon which the Pharmacy Bill will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       It is not possible at present to say when the Bill referred to by the Deputy may be introduced. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Signing of Certificates. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware of the inconvenience, delay and expense caused to citizens of Saorstat Eireann claiming against estates in the United States of America by reason of the Registrars of Births, Deaths and Marriages subscribing their names in Irish, and describing their office in the same   language; if the Minister is aware that in these cases the American judicial authorities require the services of an interpreter, difficult and frequently impossible to procure, and whose procurement causes substantial expense and delay; if, in the circumstances, the Minister will issue instructions to the Registrars to sign their names and the description of their office either in English or in both English and Irish. 
     
     
      
       The answer to each part of the question is in the negative. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Examiners of Title. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries to state how many examiners of title were employed by the Land Commission prior to the passing of the Land Act, 1931; how many of the examiners of title so appointed were permanent, and how many were temporary; what is the longest period during which a temporary examiner of title has been so employed; if the Minister is prepared to consider the advisability on economic grounds of placing all temporary examiners having upwards of ten years' service on the permanent staff. 
     
     
      
       Eight examiners of title were employed in the Land Commission prior to the passing of the Land Act, 1931.  Three of these were permanent and pensionable officers, and the remaining five were temporary and non-pensionable. The longest period during which a temporary examiner of title has been so employed is 24 years. The present staff of examiners of title is comprised of eight permanent and pensionable officers&mdash;of whom four are established examiners of title, the remaining four being established officers of the Land Commission seconded to temporary examiner posts&mdash;and five temporary and non-pensionable officers. The existing number of permanent staff employed on the work of examination of title is regarded as sufficient for the purposes of that work, which is transitory, and it would not be economical to add to the number. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Income Tax Appeals. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that in a number of cases where appeals are now pending against additional assessments under Schedule D to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax, Inspectors of Taxes are serving notices threatening proceedings through the solicitors of the Department of Inland Revenue; whether he is aware that this has had the effect of preventing taxpayers from proceeding with their appeals from the additional assessments and from having their appeals investigated by the Special Commissioners of Income Tax, and if necessary, by the Circuit Judge instead of by Inspectors of Taxes; and if the Minister is prepared to take steps to stop the serving of these notices in such cases. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that any proceedings could be taken by the Revenue Department which would deprive a taxpayer of his right to have an appeal against an assessment (notice of which had been duly given) heard and determined by the appropriate tribunal.  If the Deputy will be good enough to give me particulars of the case or cases to which his question relates, I shall be happy to make inquiries. 
     
     
      
       As the matter referred to is one of urgent public importance, I beg to give notice that I will raise it on the adjournment. 
     
   
   
     Road Traffic Bill, 1931&mdash;Committee. (Resumed). 
     Sub-section (3).&mdash;Any expenses which are by virtue of this section to be defrayed out of the Road Fund may, with the sanction of the Minister for Finance, be paid directly out of the Road Fund, and any salary or remuneration of any person so paid directly out of the Road Fund shall for the purposes of the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1923, be deemed to be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 4&mdash;to delete sub-section (3).  I am not quite sure what purpose this sub-section is intended to serve.  It seems to be a strange sub-section to insert in the Bill.  It removes from the purview of the House or anybody appointed by, or acting under, this House the expenses which come under this section.  They will not appear in any estimate and there cannot be any examination at any later time of the expenditure.  I should like to hear what the Minister has to say in explanation of the sub-section. 
     
     
      
       The sub-section is an adaptation of Section 4 of the Roads Act of 1920.  The position generally under that Act is that certain sums can be paid out from the Road Fund to the county council, to the police and under sub-section (c) &ldquo;such part of the expenses incurred by and in connection with the Roads Department of the Ministry of Transport, including the salaries of the staff of that Department, as the Minister from time to time, with the approval of the Treasury, determine to be expenses so incurred in the administration of this Act.&rdquo; 
     
     The position generally with regard to that was that there was power to pay out of the Road Fund certain monies, including salaries, but the Roads Act of 1920 made no provision by which superannuation relative to the salaries so paid out would be payable from the Road Fund.  This section reproduces the terms of Section 4 of the Roads Act, but simplifies accounting in certain respects. Officers of the Department of Local Government engaged on roads at present tend to do work proper to the Roads Department as contemplated in the Roads Act, that is work in connection with which the Road Fund is properly expended.  They also tend to do other engineering work in connection with roads that are not part of the Road Fund.  In practice officers, both clerical and engineering, of the Local Government Department engaged on roads are under the necessity to apportion their time between   Road Fund work and non Road Fund work.  That is very difficult from the point of view of accounting and is very often inconvenient in the matter of general administration.  For that reason we provide in Section 2 here that the Minister may pay a certain percentage of the Road Fund, decided upon between the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Local Government, in respect of the expenses that are properly attributable to the Road Fund&mdash;it may be the expenses of Guards of a certain class on point duty work, expenses in connection with prosecutions, expenses in connection with licences issued by county councils, and general work under different Ministries which is properly attributable to the Road Fund.  So that a certain percentage may be arranged to cover all the expenditure of the different Departments.  It is also provided that the superannuation of officers whose salaries are attributable to the Road Fund would also be payable out of the Exchequer, but out of the Exchequer from moneys contributed under the percentage of the Road Fund handed over to the Exchequer. Deputies will see that in sub-section (5)  we make provision to delete sub-section (c) of Section 4 of the Roads Act which gives power for the payment of salaries of staff directly from the Road Fund.  Section 3 is put into this particular Bill to retain the power which already exists under that sub-section (c), and which the Department of Finance desire to retain to pay the money out of the Road Fund. 
     
      
       I think the Minister has missed the point of Deputy O'Kelly's query or else I misunderstood him.  Sub-section (1) provides that these expenses are to be paid out of the Road Fund and says that for that purpose there shall be paid into the Exchequer from the Road Fund such sum as the Minister shall determine in consultation with the Minister for Finance.  Sub-section (3) provides that this expenditure may be paid directly out of the Road Fund.  There appears to be a certain conflict between the two.  What we are anxious to get cleared up is, why it is desired that   this expenditure should be paid directly out of the Road Fund when provision has been made in sub-section (1) for the payment of the expenditure out of sums paid to the Exchequer from the Road Fund. 
     
     
      
       The reason is that under Section 4 of the Roads Act already that power exists and the Minister for Finance is desirous of retaining that power in the present circumstances. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister not give an idea of the circumstances under which it would be necessary to use the sub-section in question?  Under what circumstances would it be convenient for the Minister for Finance to pay directly out of the Road Fund rather than transfer from the Road Fund to the Exchequer and pay from the general Exchequer?  Is it anything more than merely an unnecessary elaboration of the law?  Are there occasions when it will be an absolute necessity to have the power? 
     
     
      
       I have no proposal to make to the Minister for Finance for the operation of this section, but the Department of Finance desires to retain here in this Bill the power which they have under the 1920 Act. 
     
     
      
       Cannot the Minister give us any idea of the limit to which it will be used by the Minister for Finance or what proportion of the Road Fund will be so used?  I think the Road Fund is at present £800,000 or £900,000 a year.  Is the Minister for Finance likely to use this power to the extent of £200,000 or £500,000 or £800,000?  This matter is very important because in so far as the Minister uses the power which this section gives him he can deprive the Public Accounts Committee of the chance of reviewing the expenditure which takes place.  The Road Fund does not come under the Public Accounts Committee, consequently the Dail will have no check on the expenditure of the Road Fund even to the extent of 90 per cent. of that Fund if the Minister for Finance   chooses to sanction that that proportion can be spent directly. 
     
     
      
       As I say, I have no proposal to make to the Minister for Finance in connection with this. The Minister for Finance desires to retain it because he has the power there already.  I cannot imagine myself circumstances in which the Minister for Finance would desire to use it to the extent of anything like that. I cannot myself from my own particular point of view visualise circumstances in which the Minister would use it at all. 
       That power is not used at the present moment, but so far as taking any transaction like that from under review by the House, though it is true it would take transactions like that from review by the Public Accounts Committee, but not from the review of the Comptroller and Auditor-General to whom the Road Fund accounts are presented annually; nor would it take it from the review of the House here, because it is the practice to discuss the Road Fund and its administration on the Vote for the Minister for Local Government. 
     
     
      
       The Minister will admit that is a very indirect way of having it discussed. 
     
     
      
       I do not see that there is any special point in that. 
     
     
      
       The Minister tells us that the Minister for Finance says he   would like to see the sub-section retained but he cannot give any reason himself. 
     
     
      
       Only that the Minister for Finance would like to retain the provision which is in the Road Act already. 
     
     
      
       That is a very weak defence in a debating assembly. 
     
     
      
       The Minister says that the Minister for Finance desires to retain a power although he is not using it and does not know what he wants it for. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister between this and the next stage endeavour to clear up the point put to him by Deputies on this side? 
     
     
      
       No, I think it is a small point to retain in a Bill like this power that already exists. 
     
     
      
       Why does the Minister say it is a small point when it has very big possibilities? 
     
     
      
       I do not appreciate that point. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister for Finance will appreciate it if the Minister submits to the discussion that took place here to-day. 
     
     
      
       I will make the Minister for Finance aware of that. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That sub-section (3) which was proposed to be deleted stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 57; Nil, 53. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Cole, John James. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. Dohertv, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Fitzgerald, Desmond.
 Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. O'Connell, Richard. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. 
             Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Haslett, Alexander. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick.
 O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Roddy, Martin. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothv (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Bourke, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Doyle, Edward. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             Harris, Thomas. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. McEllistrim, Thomas. Moore, Seamus. Mullins, Thomas. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P. S. Doyle; Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Section 9 agreed to. 
     SECTION 10. 
     
      
       Would it not be better if fees paid for public service vehicles were paid into the Road Fund? 
     
     
      
       All the fees paid with the exception of fees raised for parking attendants go into the Road Fund. 
     
     
      
       What section is that? 
     
     
      
       Sub-section (2) says the fees will go into the Exchequer and sub-section (3) says they go into the Road Fund. 
       Sections 10 and 11 agreed to. 
       SECTION 12 ((3) and (7)). 
       (3)  For the purposes of this Act a mechanically propelled vehicle shall be a light motor vehicle if and whenever and so long as it complies with all the following conditions, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  it is not a motor cycle; and 
       (b)  where it is fitted with a body designed and constructed for the carriage of passengers, it does not exceed three tons in weight unladen or, where either it is fitted with a body not so constructed and designed or is not fitted with a body, it does not exceed one and one-half tons in weight unladen; and 
       (c)  where it is fitted with a body designed and constructed for the carriage of passengers, it has not seating accommodation for more than six persons excluding the driver thereof; and 
     
     (d)  it is supported exclusively   by wheels in direct contact with the ground; and 
     (e)  it has all its wheels fitted with pneumatic tyres; and 
     (f)  it is not being used for the traction of more than one other vehicle; and 
     (g)  if and when it is used for the traction of another vehicle such other vehicle (so far as it is not supported by such mechanically propelled vehicle) is supported exclusively by wheels in direct contact with the ground and has all its wheels fitted with pneumatic tyres. 
     (7)  Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and if a resolution annulling such order is passed by either such House within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which that House has sat after such order is so laid before it, such order shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such order. 
     
      
       At this point I would like to ask you, sir, for a direction regarding this section.  The Donegal County Council is very much interested, as the Minister is aware, regarding the maximum weight of vehicles allowed on the roads.  They are objecting, amongst other things, to having the maximum weight two and a half tons. My own personal view of the matter is that the question can be more appropriately discussed on Section 14 which gives the Minister power to make regulations both generally and in relation to particular areas.  If you, sir, concur I propose to raise it on that section. 
     
     
      
       That is the section. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash;In sub-section (3), (b) line 46 to delete the words &ldquo;one and a half tons&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;two tons.&rdquo;  This amendment explains itself.  The Bill mentions a maximum weight of one and a half tons for   vehicles of a certain character and we suggest that the maximum should be raised to two tons.  I believe there is a feeling amongst proprietors of that class of vehicle that one and a half tons is too small. 
     
     
      
       I am opposed to the amendment and my reason for opposing it is that under this sub-section Deputy O'Kelly is dealing with light motor vehicles.  It has to be taken into consideration that if the weight is increased from one and a half tons to two tons the road will be damaged to a much greater extent.  As Deputy Law mentioned, the matter was under consideration by Donegal County Council and they registered an emphatic protest against the damage that was being done to the roads by heavy vehicles. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid Deputy Cassidy does not understand the purport of the amendment.  One and a half tons is mentioned in the Bill, for some reason that is not quite clear, seeing that the average light vehicle, such as the Ford ton truck weighs, I am informed, more than 30 cwts when unladen.  The effect will be to class Ford ton trucks as heavy vehicles subject to the regulations for speed and otherwise that are imposed on heavy vehicles.  This is a matter that affects a very large number of traders throughout the country because, of course, there can be no question that if the restrictions in respect of speed which apply to heavy lorries are to apply to Ford ton trucks the utility of these latter vehicles will be very considerably diminished.  I cannot see how the driving of one of these Ford trucks at 30 miles an hour is any more dangerous at that speed than driving an ordinary Ford car which is built on the same chassis. 
     
     
      
       The point raised by Deputy Cassidy does not arise because a road or a set of roads can be closed to vehicles of two tons or say 35 cwts. and be open to everything under that weight, even though two different sets of vehicles might be classed as light vehicles.  The only point that arises is the fact that the   figures retained in Section 12 are the figures operating at present and until this amendment was put down, as far as I know, there was no suggestion that the present figures were not satisfactory.  The only question that occurs, as Deputy Lemass says, is that of speed.  I have no objection to accepting the amendment making the figure two tons.  I can assure Deputy Cassidy that the matter does not affect what he has in mind.  Section 144 will show that. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To delete sub-section (7) and substitute the following sub-section:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(7)  Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas and shall not have effect until each House of the Oireachtas has by resolution authorised the making of such order with or without amendment of any of the proposed provisions of such order.&rdquo; 
       The reason for this amendment is fairly obvious.  I propose to make it positive so that a rule or order made under this sub-section should be submitted to the House and voted upon before being made law.  The Bill proposes to do the same thing in a negative kind of way, that the order is to be laid before each House and if there is no objection, that it will come into effect.  I think it would be better that every such order should be brought before the House.  Of course the House would have an opportunity of dealing with it but the proposal in the amendment is more positive, as it brings the matter under the notice of the House and the public, and is preferable to what is suggested in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       As regards orders I agree with the Deputy on the general principle.  There is a point in the amendment and I would ask that it be left out as a matter of procedure. The Deputy's amendment asks that the order shall be brought before the House and shall not have effect until a resolution is passed.  I would undertake to change the section so that the order will have to come before the House and be approved of before it   comes into operation.  A difficulty arises in connection with the amendment of an order in the House.  If an order is not approved of it will be for the Minister to take cognisance of what has been said and to bring in an order that will be in concurrence with the wishes expressed.  The Deputy has another amendment down giving the Minister power to annul an order. Under the Interpretation Act the Minister has power to make an order and has power to annual.  I will undertake to look into the matter. 
     
     
      
       Would not the Minister give the Dail power to make an amendment which might be an agreed amendment? 
     
     
      
       If it is an agreed amendment the procedure is to produce a new order. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       On the section, I merely wish the Minister to tell us the considerations which led him to depart from the recommendations of the inter-Departmental Committee with respect to the maximum weight of light motor vehicles.  The Committee suggested two and a half tons and the Bill states three tons.  I wish to know what were the considerations which induced the Minister to depart from the Report. 
     
     
      
       It was found that there were new cars on the road, passenger-carrying vehicles, whose weight was more than two and a half tons. 
     
     
      
       How many? 
     
     
      
       There were different types.  The desire is that the ordinary private car shall be capable of being classed as a light motor vehicle. 
       Section 12, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 13. 
       Sub-section (4) and (6). 
     
     (4)  Every person who uses a mechanically propelled vehicle in contravention of this section or who draws a vehicle by means of a   mechanically propelled vehicle in contravention of this section or does any act (whether of commission or omission) which is a contravention of a regulation made under this section shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding ten pounds. 
     (6)  Every regulation made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and if a resolution annulling such regulation is passed by either such House within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which that House has sat after such regulation is so laid before it, such regulation shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such regulation. 
     
      
       I move amendment No. 7:&mdash; 
       Before sub-section (4) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Nothing in the foregoing sub-section shall operate to prevent the removal from one place to another for the purpose of repairs or alterations of vehicles which do not comply with the regulations made under this section.&rdquo; 
       I do not know whether there is any provision anywhere else in the Bill&mdash; there is not so far as I have seen&mdash;in respect to the matter for which this amendment seeks to provide.  It seeks to provide that a vehicle that could not perhaps be brought under its own power to a place where repairs can be carried out can be moved.  I think that there should be some arrangement under the Bill by which a car in that condition can be moved from one place to another. 
     
     
      
       This is an amendment which I will place in the third class, which I mentioned yesterday.  I do not agree with it because of its being so wide.  I think it opens the door too wide so that persons who are found without any brakes on their   vehicles might say that they were on the way to the repair shop to have them repaired or to get something altered.  If the Deputy thinks that there should be such a wide provision as this, and if he would put down his amendment for the Report Stage I will have the matter considered to see to what extent the smaller point which he has in mind might be met. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister admit that this is the position as the section stands, that where a vehicle happens to get on a public roadway, if it does not comply with the regulations and is detected, the section prevents it from being moved from the place where it is detected to a garage? For instance, if a road inspector of any sort, whether a member of the Garda or otherwise, points out that the regulations have not been complied with, it then becomes unlawful to move the vehicle on any public highway.  It might be necessary to have the vehicle moved in order to get the defects, which have got the owner into trouble, remedied. 
     
     
      
       I have to consider whether the section is so tightly drawn as to deal with that.  Deputies will realise at any rate that certain precautions are necessary even if you only impose a speed limit or the carrying of some kind of sign in the case of a car which has a serious defect.  I have to consider whether the section is so tightly drawn as the Deputy suggests. I appreciate the point which Deputy O'Kelly has raised. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister not undertake to introduce an amendment of his own? 
     
     
      
       The Minister talks of the possibility of having an amendment submitted on the Report Stage.  Do I take that to mean that the Minister is not going to have a second Committee Stage? 
     
     
      
       It will be called the Report Stage no matter what he intends to have. 
     
     
      
       We will go into Committee on the Report Stage. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
     
     
     
      
       I move amendment (8). 
       Before sub-section (6) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Minister may by subsequent regulations vary or amend any regulations made by him under this section.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       This amendment is really provided for in Section 12 of the Interpretation Act, which makes it clear that the Minister has power to vary or amend any regulations made by him. 
     
     
      
       Is it the Minister's view that the amendment is not necessary? 
     
     
      
       It is not necessary and it would be undesirable to put it in. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 9. 
       In sub-section (6) line 34, after the word &ldquo;annulling&rdquo; to add the words &ldquo;or amending&rdquo; and in line 37 to add after the word &ldquo;annulled&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or amended&rdquo;. 
     
     
      
       The same point arises in connection with this as arose in connection with the Deputy's suggested amendment No. 7.  That is, that Orders will not be amended in that particular way, they will be either subscribed to or disallowed.  If they are disallowed it is a question of a new Order bearing such variations or amendments as the discussion in the House will suggest. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister indicate how he proposes to introduce such an Order?  Would it be introduced in such a way as that it would have to be withdrawn and that some time would have to elapse before it could be re-introduced?  Supposing the Minister was rather anxious to get a particular Order without much delay and brought it to the House before the end of the session.  He would have to call the House together for the purpose of carrying the Order or rejecting it altogether.  Would the Minister consider some means of   getting it considered in some way that would not be so rigid? 
     
     
      
       We have two classes of Orders, one Order under Section 12 and another under Section 13.  The procedure in the case of an Order under Section 12 is that having made an Order and having put it before both Houses in the usual way by having the papers deposited on the Table, the House would approve of this Order and that would raise a definite discussion.  That is an Order which would be absolutely changing the terms of the Statute here.  Then under Section 13 we have the Minister making regulations putting a limit to the extent to which the hub-cap of a wheel may extend.  In the case of that Order, it is proposed that it shall be put into operation from the time it has been laid before each House of the Oireachtas.  If any member in either House wanted to raise any point in connection with it he would have to put down a motion to discuss the matter, otherwise the Order would automatically come into operation. 
     
     
      
       If they wanted to amend it, they would have to reject it? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Does not the amendment suggest some way of getting the Order amended without rejecting it, of getting an agreed form on what the Minister may desire as an Order? 
     
     
      
       Reference to the Motor Public Services (Vehicle) Order of 1928, will show the kind of matters that will be dealt with in this Order. 
     
     On the question as to the insulation of certain parts, the question of whether locks or nuts should be used in certain places, details with regard to carburettors, fuel and things of that kind, there is a difference of opinion.  These things are, in fact, settled with the technical men from the Motor Association, with the representatives of the motor owners, technical men from the Garda and   technical men even from the Dublin Corporation; and the details in regard to these matters are such as can only be satisfactorily settled in a conference like that.  If there are things in the order that this House would disagree about, we ought not to be arguing here, for instance, as to whether screws should be turned in one way or another.  It would be more satisfactory to see the whole order so that matters of that kind might be reviewed by the people technically most competent to review them.  Then we should have a new order.  But it would be asking the House too much to discuss these questions so as to arrive on these very difficult questions at the most perfect conclusion in the direction of amending orders like that. 
     Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
     
      
       On this section I want to press upon the Minister a matter to which I made reference during the Second Reading discussion that when he is considering the equipment which public vehicles should be obliged to carry, he should provide for automatic signalling arms which would indicate whether the vehicle is intending to turn to the right or to the left and some sign in the back of buses which will indicate when they are going to stop.  These gadgets will greatly increase the safety of the public. 
     
     
      
       I beg to suggest a device on the same lines&mdash;that all motor lorries should be compelled to carry a mirror.  I understand that light motor lorries are not at present compelled to carry mirrors, being light motor vehicles, though the heavy lorry is compelled to carry a mirror. 
     
     
      
       I should also like to support that and to press for a regulation for the provision of a mirror and that the size of mirror should be defined.  Small mirrors would be of very little use.  As to this power of making regulations by the Minister I would suggest that this is probably the best time in which one can press the importance of making such regulations. I had it in my mind to put down as   an amendment a proposal that public service vehicles should be compelled to carry speedometers inside the vehicles in view of the passengers as some way of bringing into actual practice a restrictive effect upon their speed.  I think that the proper way to carry that idea out would be by regulation. I want to impress on the Minister how best we can have such regulations considered as would provide for the necessary equipment of vehicles.  I do not want to argue in favour of special regulations, but I think one such as I have indicated would have a very restrictive effect in tending to cut down the excessive speed at which these public service vehicles travel on our roads. 
     
     
      
       Steps should be taken to provide that buses on the road should be in a proper state of repair both mechanical and otherwise.  As far as the Six Counties of Northern Ireland are concerned such regulations do exist.  In Donegal I have travelled on a bus that had been condemned as unfit as far as the Six Counties are concerned.  Buses of this kind ran to the border and then the passengers were transferred to other buses and went into Derry city in them.  There are buses in which people are travelling which are not properly equipped mechanically or otherwise. When the Minister brings in regulations under this section, I suggest that he pay particular attention to that aspect of the question. 
     
     
      
       I hope that in addition to these mechanical devices which indicate the direction in which the machine is going and when it is going to stop, the Minister will tighten up the regulations as to provide that these buses will not stop in the middle of the street.  The way in which they do it now is perfectly scandalous. They do it in the eyes of the Garda. They stop in the middle of the street and take up passengers. 
     
     
      
       I want to endorse that.  I do not think there is anything that strikes one as being more likely to end in disaster than the way buses have of stopping in any place they choose in the street.  They stop on the   tram line or anywhere else they like without giving any indication that they are going to stop.  As was pointed out by a Deputy on the other side, it is absolutely necessary that they should give some indication that they are going to stop.  There must be some regulation by which it would be an offence if a bus stopped directly in the line of traffic instead of pulling into the side of the street. They are stopping at the present moment in the line of traffic under the eyes of the Garda. 
     
     
      
       I think all these points are fully appreciated.  The last point put up is a matter that has got to be considered in connection with another section.  I do not know whether the section may not require modification in order to secure that the buses will not stop without pulling in to the kerb.  On the other question of mechanical signalling and mirrors and arms, these are all matters that will get full consideration.  We are all anxious to get the most effective and simple machinery so that the regulation and control should be perfect.  The question of speedometers is one that has given a very considerable amount of discussion.  The main point I think that has operated in not providing up to the present that speedometers shall not be attached to these vehicles is because of the case that is made for the unreliability of some of these things in large vehicles and the necessity for having them re-examined and re-wound very often.  It is a matter that from my point of view at any rate deserves further and sympathetic consideration. 
       Section 13 agreed to. 
       SECTION 14. 
       (1)  The Minister may by order make regulations for all or any of the following purposes, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (3)  Every person who uses in a public place:&mdash; 
       (a)  a vehicle of which the weight unladen exceeds the maximum weight unladen prescribed by regulations made under this section and applicable to such vehicle, or 
     
     
        (b)  a laden vehicle of which the weight as then laden exceeds the maximum weight laden prescribed by regulations made under this section and applicable to such vehicle, or 
     (c)  a vehicle which or part of which transmits to the ground a greater weight than the maximum weight prescribed in respect of such transmission by regulations made under this section and applicable to such a vehicle. 
     shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding £10. 
     
      
       I move amendment 10&mdash; 
       Before sub-section (3) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(3)  Any regulation made by the Minister under the foregoing sub-section shall only be operative after the erection of suitable notices in conspicuous positions, indicating the precise nature of the restrictions, on the approaches to the roads or area to which the regulation applies.&rdquo; 
       The reason for it is that Section 2 says:&mdash; 
       (2)  Different regulations may be made under this section in respect of different places or areas and in respect of different classes of vehicles. 
       The area which I represent has made a distinction in regard to the weight of certain vehicles which are allowed to travel on its roads.  Our Donegal friends are pressing for the same thing so that there should be no excuse on the part of these people when they are crossing the boundary from one place into another; that is that there shall be some indication to the drivers that such an order is in force in that particular area.  I know there is some reference to it in Section 144 but that section does not fully cover what we want. 
     
     
      
       Section 144 and also Section 43 provide for special speed limits.  As far as Section 43 is concerned and as far also as Section 144 is concerned they provide that the   councils responsible for the areas in respect of which these special limits are laid down will maintain the necessary signs.  It would be impossible, I think, to have a section such as the section suggested by the Deputy's amendment inserted here. For instance a general regulation is made for the whole country restricting the weight of particular classes of vehicles, say to nine tons in respect of that area and to twelve tons in the city.  You do not want to have the whole of Dublin City surrounded by notices saying that the particular class of vehicles passing out that road cannot exceed nine tons. 
       Where special speed limits are laid down or where special weights are laid down we will provide that signs will be put up.  If we are to prevent the application of these by-laws and regulations until such time as the signs were put up&mdash;and even it might be argued until such signs are not put up in suitable places&mdash;you would lose control over the application of these to your area.  If special speeds are made applicable on the particular area and a person is charged with offending against them, then the question will arise as to whether in the first place the necessary sign has been put up, and adequately put up, and whether it has been put up in a suitable place or not.  All that will be taken into consideration in mitigation of or on the application of any penalties that might be imposed. That would be a matter for the courts dealing with the case to pronounce whether in the circumstances brought before it the local body responsible had made the necessary provision in the matter of the signs.  What the Deputy has in his mind is therefore covered in the most practical way in which it can be covered.  Covering it in the way he suggests would be impracticable. 
     
     
      
       We know of the unconscionable delay there has been in the erection of some of these signs. I know cases where the poles have lain on the road for months.  If the regulations could not be made until these signs were put up that would make the   law ridiculous.  I am not asking more than that proper notice should be given to the driver and owner of the vehicle. 
     
     
      
       It cannot be charged against local bodies generally that they have not attended to the sign-posts on the road.  So far as the particular point that the Deputy makes is concerned, I can only undertake that the road inspector will keep this matter under consideration and that a suitable standard for these things will be arrived at. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       There are some members of the Donegal County Council in the House, and, therefore, I will not do more than direct attention to the matter raised by a resolution passed by the Donegal County Council on 27th October.  I know that the Minister is fully familiar with the matter.  The Donegal county is very mountainous and it has a great number of roads running across bogs.  The council is anxious that there should be some strict limitation on the weight of vehicles running over the roads.  They asked for an amendment of the Bill to give effect to their views.  As far as I know and as far as I have read the Bill, it does not appear to me that any actual amendment is required, because in this Section 14, full power appears to be given to the Minister to make regulations prescribing the weights in respect of the various classes of vehicles passing over the roads; and not only to make regulations in respect of the weights of each class of vehicle, but also to make regulations with regard to the weight of the vehicles in any specified area.  I do not know what my colleagues here think, but I do not propose to trouble the House any further with this.  I deferred speaking on this until the clause was put, but I desire to press the point upon the attention of the Minister so that when he comes to make the regulations that are envisaged in this section he shall pay full attention to the views of the Donegal County Council with which I must say I entirely agree. 
     
     
     
      
       I support what Deputy Law has said.  As the Deputy has pointed out, this matter was discussed by the County Council, who have made recommendations with respect to the weights of vehicles on three classes of roads.  They recommend that the weight of these vehicles should not be more than 21⁄2 tons, 4 tons and 5 tons, respectively.  I understand that so far as this Bill is concerned the maximum weight can be up to 71⁄4 tons. 
       Donegal is a mountainous county and these roads were not built in many cases for heavy traffic.  At present unfortunately the heavy traffic is not being carried by the railways of Donegal.  These railways have had to dispense with large numbers of their staff.  The people who pay for the roads for these heavy vehicles are the ratepayers of the county.  Now these ratepayers are paying for the upkeep of the roads for the benefit of the competitors of the railways, that is to say, the owners of the heavy buses and heavy lorries.  On the other hand the railway has also to pay for the upkeep of their own permanent way.  I hope something will be done as far as this Bill is concerned to remedy that matter.  Perhaps the Minister would agree to an amendment on the second Committee Stage or on the Fourth Stage on the lines suggested by the County Council. 
     
     
      
       I am satisfied that this Bill gives the Minister sufficient power to meet the wishes of the Donegal County Council.  It has already been put up to the Minister to make regulations covering the points raised by the County Council.  I am perfectly satisfied with what the Minister has said on the matter.  The matter is provided for in Sections 14 and 144. 
     
     
      
       The Bill does contain powers to deal with any matter that the Donegal County Council wishes at the present moment to deal with.  I would ask the Deputies to realise that in respect of main roads and as to the weight main roads are expected to carry my Department must pursue a policy that will require uniformity in the different parts of the country in respect of our main   roads.  This is a Traffic Bill and nothing that could impinge upon the transport situation is intended to be covered by this Bill.  As to whether particular roads in Donegal are to be set aside for particular vehicles because the railway companies in Donegal are in difficulties is a matter that should not enter into the minds of the Department or the Minister in framing regulations in regard to weights. 
     
     
      
       I would remind the Minister that it is Deputy Cassidy and not the Donegal County Council who is arguing in the opposite direction. 
     
     
      
       I know that, but Deputy Cassidy talked about it, and I want the Deputies to appreciate that point.  The Minister for Local Government has had his hands completely tied in dealing with transport matters, and I want to suggest that 40 per cent. of the maintenance of the main roads is paid to the Donegal County Council from the Road Fund in the same way as it is paid in the other county councils in addition to the money paid for improvements of their main road system.  I have been over some of the Donegal roads and I have not felt any more shaky on them than on some other roads in the country.  My idea of the Donegal County Council is that their main roads ought to be able to stand up to the same type of traffic as the ordinary main roads of the country so far as the weights of vehicles are concerned.  It would require definite demonstration before I would accept that these roads were being injured by the present traffic.  I would require more confirmation of that before I would feel inclined to discriminate in respect of the main roads of Donegal. 
       I think that is a reasonable frame of mind in which to approach the matter at this stage at any rate. 
     
     
      
       I do not say that the Minister is unreasonable, but I think he is a little bit academic.  It is easy to classify roads in a certain way but you do not, by reason of calling a road a main road or saying that it is a main road in the natural sense of the word that is to say, it is a main road leading from one point to another, make it   necessarily a road capable of bearing heavy traffic.  That, I think, is a substantial point.  I do not know what roads the Minister has been over, but I have been over a road which must certainly be classified as a main road. It is practically the only road leading from Dunfanaghy to Gweedore and Burtonport.  I know that road this summer became almost impassable through the ordinary bus traffic going on it and it was not very heavy traffic. I am not a technical expert, but I do not believe that these roads are capable of being made suitable for heavy traffic without colossal expenditure. Most of them are narrow.  Of course they can be broadened here and there, but there are also roads the foundations of which are as bad as they can be.  I do not believe that without colossal expenditure you can really make them carry heavy traffic or such traffic as would not be excessive. 
     
     
      
       Donegal occupies a very peculiar position in what I might call the life, blood and body of the Free State, but the roads of Donegal and the circumstances of the ratepayers of Donegal and the opportunities which should be given to those who license motor buses and lorries in Donegal are in no way different from those of any other county in the Free State. Although I have a life interest in the railway service I am not going to suggest and never did suggest here or anywhere else that the hands of the clock should be put back, and that there is not room in this Free State for a lorry and motor bus system.  What I want the Minister to bear in mind is that he should not, by any regulations under this section of the Bill, allow one of these lorries to wear out portion of the foundations of the road themselves and thereby to impose an increase in charges on the ratepayers for which they get no satisfactory service in return.  What was the rate paid in 1914 by the ratepayers in Donegal or any other county for the maintenance of these main roads? What is the percentage increase over the 1914 figure paid by these ratepayers to-day?  What is the freedom   given to the ratepayers to-day compared with the freedom they had in 1914? 
       I do not want this House to give power to the Minister for Local Government who, in my opinion, is a road hog and does not want to see railways occupying any position in this country.  I do not want this House to give the Minister power to put on the roads lorries of a weight which will destroy the roads and which will compel the ratepayers to pay a charge which is not justified by reason of the return they get for those alleged services.  What is the number of motor lorries of different weights plying on the main roads of the Free State compared with what it was three or four years ago?  What is the additional revenue we receive in motor taxation from the people now using these roads in increased numbers?  Not very long ago I was shown a photograph, if you like a transport photograph, of the position in County Cork so far as it was affected by the number of lorries plying for hire and the amount of destruction they had done to the railway services there.  They were plying in the county of Cork at uneconomic rates not because they had the ordinary economic advantages over railway companies, but because they did not pay for the damage done to the roads.  A motor driver buys a lorry and maintains it as long as it will live and when the lorry is at an end the driver goes out of existence.  That is a dangerous policy and in my opinion by giving the powers asked for under Section 14 of the Bill you are giving the Minister more power than I would like to give him. 
       I want to get an assurance from the Minister such as Deputy O'Kelly got in the case of Section 12 that before the regulations under this section are put into operation they will have to be submitted to and approved of by this House.  Does the Minister agree to submit an amendment on the next stage of the Bill in the form put down by Deputy O'Kelly to Section 12?  If the Minister is prepared to go that far I think a good case could be made for it, a better case than could be made under Section 12. 
     
     
     
      
       I desire to support Deputy Davin's argument in this.  Undoubtedly the Minister apparently is prepared to ignore two very definite facts in this matter.  The first fact is that these roads are built out of the ratepayers' pockets and have been maintained up to two or three years ago out of the pocket of the ordinary farmer in the country.  With his 40 per cent. of a refund he has deprived the farmers of those roads.  They were not treated the same as the electricity owners were treated in this country. They got no compensation for the roads which were taken from them, for those roads which the Minister states the ratepayers are getting 40 per cent. of a refund.  Those roads are taken completely out of the hands of the ordinary ratepayer and are useless to him.  The ordinary ratepayer drives his horse and cart on them at definite danger to himself.  I have seen the Minister's system in operation in Cork County and I have seen the result of it.  I have seen people induced and cajoled into spending more money than the ratepayers can afford on these main roads on the principle that if you are going to spend £100 you are going to get £40 back.  More main roads were made completely impassable for farming traffic.  Not alone are those roads in the first instance the property of the ratepayers and are built out of the ratepayers' pockets, which the Minister completely ignores when he says that the ratepayers are paid £100,000 for building a road, but we are going to hand them over to the motor owners.  That is bad enough. I am not prepared like Deputy Davin to allow the Minister to have the right to fix what weight of vehicle shall pass over that road.  I have seen those roads built at from £1,200 to £1,500 a mile, and I have seen them completely torn up by individuals six months afterwards for the sake of whatever few pounds go into the Road Fund.  The amount received in Cork County out of the Road Fund in one year would not build five miles of these roads.  I think the Minister ought to give an opportunity to this House to fix the weight of the vehicles that will pass over these roads.  I think we are entitled to that. 
     
     
     
      
       It is impossible to separate from the general power to make regulations with regard to maximum unladen weights of different types of vehicles the power to make these regulations in respect of specific areas.  I think it would be a very difficult prospect if this House dealing with the special circumstances of Limerick Cork, Waterford or Dublin were to discuss each of these regulations in sub-section (2) for different places and different vehicles.  I think the House would be taking on a lot more than Deputy Davin appeared to realise when he asked that such a regulation should not come into operation until the two Houses had approved of it.  Where the Minister has power to make regulations in these particular matters, he will, under most circumstances, hold the particular type of inquiry of which I spoke yesterday.  He will publish notice of such inquiry and there will be full opportunity for everybody locally interested to come and deal with the matter in the proper arena&mdash; at the local inquiry.  I take it that Deputies are particularly interested in the local circumstances and not in the general circumstances. 
     
     
      
       It is a national question too. 
     
     
      
       On such short consideration of the matter, I should not like to give any undertaking to Deputy Davin which would place orders of this kind in the position of orders under Section 12.  I think further consideration of the matter will bring home to the Deputy that that would be unreasonable. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I may suggest a way to reconcile the differences which exist between Deputies and the Minister.  Under this section, I agree with Deputy Myles that the Minister is taking sufficient power to deal with the questions raised by the Donegal County Council. 
     
     
      
       He is taking too much power. 
     
     
      
       In passing, I may mention that Deputy Davin, with his usual childlike blandness, switched this discussion off from Donegal and   carried it down to Cork, where he made a connection with Deputy Corry.  I shall have nothing to do with that unholy alliance.  I wish to bring this discussion back to the point raised by Deputy Law.  I wish to point out to the Minister that since he visited certain roads in Donegal the roads which are now classed as main roads and which were referred to by Deputy Law are incapable of carrying more than two or three tons. I suggest to the Minister that a way of getting over the difficulties of places like Donegal would be to bring about a different classification of the roads in conjunction with the local councils.  If the main roads of Donegal which are complained of are unable to carry the traffic which this Bill will allow them to carry, why not make them third-class roads and thus make it impossible for traffic of that nature to use them.  My purpose in getting up was to suggest a way out of the difficulty. 
     
     
      
       The Minister states that uniformity must be maintained, so far as the regulations are concerned, for heavy traffic.  While uniformity should be maintained, I suggest that it should only be maintained up to a particular point.  The geographical and economical condition of certain counties should be taken into consideration. 
     
     
      
       There is provision for that. 
     
     
      
       I submit that a case has been made why the request of Donegal County Council should be granted.  One of the reasons why it should be given special consideration is that it is surrounded by Derry, Tyrone and Fermanagh.  Many heavy lorries, which pay no taxation and come across the Border, use and abuse the roads in Donegal.  I disagree with the Minister that the roads in Donegal are as good as the roads in any other county in Ireland. The roads of Donegal are not capable of bearing as heavy traffic as the roads of Dublin, Meath, Kildare, or Wicklow.  One of the reasons the roads there are not capable of bearing   as heavy traffic as the roads of some other counties is that the Minister refused to allow Donegal County Council to pay more than twenty-six shillings a week to the road workers. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy suggest that because of that the road-workers of Donegal are not giving a full output. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the road-workers are giving good work for the wage but the Minister cannot expect boulevards to be built on coolie wages.  There is another matter to which I would like to refer.  I do not know whether or not it is in order. 
     
     
      
       I am sure it is not by the way the Deputy begins. 
     
     
      
       Owing to the Government reducing the subsidy&mdash; 
     
     
      
       This is the case of the Derry and Lough Swilly Railway and that is out of order on this Bill. 
     
     
      
       They diverted the traffic from the railways to the roads, with the result that what should be a national charge had to be borne by the ratepayer.  We suggest that the maximum weight for heavy vehicles under the Bill is too much for the roads with which we are concerned.  Donegal County Council suggest that the maximum weights for the three classes of roads respectively should be 21⁄2, 4 and 5 tons. 
     
     
      
       The Minister, I think, said that his hands were tied in respect of anything which might cut into the Transport Bill.  Surely this is cutting into the Transport Bill.  If the Transport Bill is to make any arrangement as to the proper division of traffic between railways and roads, surely the Minister is not going to take power to license vehicles on roads that will be affected. 
     
     
      
       The function of the Minister under this Bill, as I conceive it, is to fix maximum weights in relation to the capacity of the roads to bear them&mdash;assuming a particular standard of road that would not go beyond our requirements for provision   and maintenance and upkeep, a suitable standard of maximum weights. 
       I have no feeling that in considering maximum weights at this particular stage, without the Transport Bill, that might by its provisions make direct reference to this particular matter, I am completely excluded from considering whether there is a train knocking about or not.  I hope that Deputy Cassidy has completely demonstrated to the House the undesirability, when maximum weights are to be laid down as a base line for the country as a whole, that the condition of roads in Donegal, or in some particular part of Cork, should be introduced into the discussion in such a way as to bring about a situation in which we would fix in our base-line order maximum weights that were not reasonable for the country as a whole.  The section makes provision by which in special areas regulations can be made to meet special road conditions, and only can be made after a local inquiry, in which there will be the usual procedure of advertisement and publication and the public hearing of what it is proposed to do and why it is proposed to do it, and any interested party can come to that inquiry and deal with the matter there. 
     
     
      
       Is that in the Bill? 
     
     
      
       It is in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       That is what the Donegal County Council want. 
     
     
      
       Under Section 14 (2)  regulations may be made in this matter in respect of different places or areas.  I suggest that you want your standard for the country as a whole and that regulations of this particular kind are only intended to be a modification of a general standard in respect of a particular area. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that there is a serious omission from the Bill.  There is very little use making regulations for maximum weights unless adequate machinery is established for enforcing them.  At present I understand local authorities have power   to establish weighing machines and through their own officers may require heavy motor cars and locomotives to be brought to these machines for the purpose of being weighed.  The InterDepartmental Committee drew attention to the fact that there is a very inadequate number of these machines throughout the country, and that confining the power to require cars to be driven to machines for weighing to the officers of local authorities was not satisfactory.  The Committee recommended that members of the Civic Guard should have the power to require a lorry to be taken to weighing machines for the purpose of ascertaining the weight.  I would be glad to know if it is the intention of the Minister to give effect to that recommendation. 
     
     
      
       That is a matter that must come up for review and careful consideration.  Facilities do exist in some places for dealing with this particular matter, but there are other places in which this provision does not exist.  That is a matter that will have to be reviewed and the necessary steps will have to be taken to see that there is adequate provision for seeing that regulations made under this Bill are adhered to. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has very diplomatically evaded the real issue which I raised in regard to this section. He has already given an undertaking to Deputy O'Kelly that the regulations which he is given power to make under Section 12, dealing with the classification of mechanically propelled vehicles, will be submitted to and approved of by the House before they will be put in operation.  My contention is that we should not give to the Minister under Section 14 any more power than he has asked for in Section 12, and that the Minister should not ask the House to give him that power.  If there is justification for the submission of the regulations he is given power to make under Section 12, the very same case can be made for his submitting the regulations made under Section 14. 
     
     I would be very reluctant to give any Minister for Local Government unlimited   power.  The Minister is asking for unlimited power under Section 14 to prescribe the weight of laden and unladen lorries which will be allowed to ply on the roads.  The Minister will save himself a good deal of trouble and a considerable amount of discussion here if he will lay down the maximum weight for the best made roads and reducing that weight in accordance with the classification or carrying capacity of roads that are not as good.  If he does that he will serve a useful purpose and meet the views of the general body of ratepayers who will then know where they are and what they are expected to pay for damage done by these heavy lorries to the roads.  If he does that it will be much easier also to make the regulations which will have to be made under this section.  I suggest again that he should apply the principle of the amendment which he has accepted from Deputy O'Kelly dealing with Section 12 to Section 14.  I should like to hear what Deputy Moore has to say on this matter. 
     
      
       I suggest that the proper authority to fix the maximum weight of any vehicle is the local authority and that the county council should be the authority for dealing with vehicles running over the roads built out of the pockets of the ratepayers.  The Minister talked of special areas and said that because there were bad roads in Donegal or in portions of Cork that was no reason why a specified weight should not be fixed for vehicles all round.  I suggest that the power should be given to the local authorities and not to the Minister who only travels down the country at election time and then comes in a first-class railway carriage or something of that description.  He takes very good care anyway not to get bumped on any bad road.  Such a Minister should not have the fixing of the weight of vehicles travelling over by-roads in Co. Cork. I suggest that the county council would have far more knowledge as to the weight of vehicles which should be allowed to travel over the roads. 
     
     
      
       That is the case   I am making, that it ought to be settled in Cork, not here. 
     
     
      
       Are you prepared to give them that power?  Our objection is that you are looking for the power yourself and are not prepared to give it to the county council. 
     
     
      
       It will be done after a suitable inquiry in Cork. 
     
     
      
       It is you are going to do it and we have too much experience of your dictatorship in Cork already. 
     
     
      
       The Minister said with the consent of the local authority.  Is it not laid down in the Bill that the regulations when made will be submitted for the approval of the House and can be annulled within a certain period? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Why not submit the regulations and have them approved the same as you agreed to under Section 12? 
     
     
      
       Because we could not reconcile the diverse elements of Laoighis, Donegal and Cork. 
     
     
      
       You will have to do that afterwards and it is the same thing. 
     
     
      
       I suggest to Deputy Davin that this whole question is in a sort of transition stage at present.  As a good many Deputies are aware, there is a transition from the type of petrol-driven vehicle to the Diesel vehicles which are now coming in.  There are a number in Northern Ireland and there are one or two in our own part of the country.  There are a good number in England.  It is forecasted by a distinguished Irish engineer that before many months are passed that type of vehicle will be the standard type.  The effect of that will be to save the country a very big bill in the way of fuel, because the Diesel is run on crude oil and uses very small quantities of it.  In face of circumstances of that kind it might well be that the Minister would in order to secure the advantage of these vehicles for the country have to agree to a much heavier type of vehicle than any   we are accustomed to.  That type of vehicle may not be made in different sizes.  As a matter of fact it is not so made at present.  It may not be made in the number of types to which we are accustomed.  For that reason I, for one, cannot get excited about this debate.  I think it is very likely that within the next six months we will be faced with altogether different circumstances and find that a lot of this debate has been rather futile. 
       Sections 14 and 15 agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 16. 
     
     
      
       It will be necessary in this section to change the description &ldquo;Seating accommodation&rdquo; to &ldquo;Passenger accommodation&rdquo;. 
       Section put and agreed to. 
       Section 17, agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 18. 
       (1)  It shall not be lawful for any person to drive a mechanically propelled vehicle in a public place unless he holds a licence (in this Act referred to as a driving licence) granted to him under this Part of this Act, and for the time being in force, and licensing him to drive such vehicle. 
       (2)  It shall not be lawful for any person to employ another person to drive a mechanically propelled vehicle in a public place unless the person so employed holds a driving licence granted to him under this Part of this Act, and for the time being in force, and licensing him to drive such vehicle. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 11. 
       In sub-section (2) line 58, to insert the word &ldquo;knowingly&rdquo; after the word &ldquo;person.&rdquo; 
     
     I think the sub-section as it stands is too wide.  It is quite right that a person engaging a driver who is to do his permanent work should satisfy himself that such driver has a licence, but I think that in the case of a casual engagement it would be a very undue burden to put on a person who employed a person casually to make such   inquiry.  It would be quite absurd that a person taking a taxi should satisfy himself that the driver had a licence before hiring him.  I think it is unnecessary also to insist that an employer should see that his driver has his licence paid up to date.  He should be only obliged to satisfy himself that the driver has his licence when employed and not require him to see that the driver takes out a new licence when his current one expires. I think the section is far too wide as it stands and that by inserting the word &ldquo;knowingly&rdquo; after the word &ldquo;person&rdquo; it will meet the case. 
     
      
       I appreciate the point Deputy Thrift makes with regard to the hiring of a taxi or public service vehicle.  I think there is an amendment down relating to that somewhere later in the name of Deputy Good.  The position already in the Motor Car Act, 1903, is that it is an offence for an owner to employ a driver if that person is not licensed.  That Act is in operation since 1903 and has not caused any serious grievance.  I think that when you take into consideration the elaborate steps we have taken to tighten up the whole control of road traffic, it is not unreasonable to ask that persons who employ men to drive for them shall see that such drivers are in possession of licences in the proper way.  That is the position since 1903, and it would open up a very serious difficulty if we departed from that position. 
     
     
      
       I admitted that at the time of the engagement the employer should take care to see that the driver is licensed.  But to insist that he should be continually looking after the matter would I think be imposing too much on the employer. The amendment which the Minister suggested might cover my point. 
     
     
      
       Did I understand the Minister to say that the provision in the 1903 Act was that the owner of a motor car who employed a person would be liable?  Does the Minister notice that this applies to every person who wants to employ a car for a   short journey?  It would no doubt be a public service vehicle but not of the type perhaps of a taxi or bus. Suppose a man employed his neighbour to drive him for a short distance, or if he employed a lorry, for instance, to take his goods, would he be liable under the provisions of this section?  It appears he would.  I agree with Deputy Thrift that such provision makes it very wide indeed. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister agree to add at the last part of the section the words &ldquo;licensing him to drive such vehicle of which he is the owner&rdquo;?  Would not that meet the case if such words as those were added? 
     
     
      
       The first part of Deputy Good's amendment to Section 133 is that &ldquo;For the purposes of this Act any person hiring a street service vehicle shall not be deemed to be the employer of the driver&rdquo; ...Deputies may wish on that basis to extend the class of street service vehicles, but I take it that Deputies will not wish that the ordinary regular employers of a driver, let us say shopkeepers or business firms, should be relieved from their responsibilities for seeing that the drivers of their cars have licences.  In page 115 of the Traffic Report it was made clear, as follows: &ldquo;Furthermore in Sections 3 and 20 of the Motor Car, 1903, Act, a person must not employ a person who has not a current licence to drive a motor car on the road.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I accept that. 
     
     
      
       But if Deputy Thrift's amendment were accepted the effect would be to relieve the employer altogether of that obligation, and I think we appreciate that he ought not to be relieved of that.  Relief is apparently sought for the casual employer of a vehicle. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       We can give further consideration to that and see what is involved in it.  I shall consider it and if Deputies will do the same then on the Report Stage we shall see how the position can be safeguarded. 
     
     
     
      
       I take it the Minister will consider the amendment I have down. I think no matter what liabilities are resting or may rest upon the owner of a vehicle there is no doubt whatever that the unfortunate hirer of the vehicle knows nothing about whether a man should be licensed or should not be made licensed.  It would be exceedingly unfair if that hirer of a taxi should find that he had incurred considerable liability. 
       My amendment is put down to ensure that the hirer of a taxi by the act of hiring will not incur any liability that may fall on the driver. 
     
     
      
       I was referring to the amendment that the Deputy has to Section 133.  With the first part I agree but I will have something to say to the second part. 
     
     
      
       I submit that Deputy Thrift's amendment is absolutely unsuitable and that the sub-section might as well be deleted.  It would necessitate a person proposing to employ a car saying: &ldquo;I do not want to know if you have a licence or not.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I am withdrawing my amendment.  I stated at the beginning that I stressed the matter for casual cases.  I say that once a person engaging a car satisfies himself that the driver is licensed no liability should fall on him. 
       Amendment withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       In connection with amendment 12 I will undertake to redraft it and to insert an amendment covering it. 
     
     
      
       The penalty in this section seems particularly severe in comparison with other penalties.  The driving of a car without a licence is not such a serious offence as to warrant six months' imprisonment and a fine of £100.  In my opinion offences which are much more serious are punished much more lightly in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I would be glad to have some comments on the fines and   punishments if Deputies have any to offer. 
     
     
      
       Take Section 25.  A person driving so as to be a source of danger to the public is liable to a fine of £25 for certain offences.  The man without a licence who drives a car carefully and who is not a danger to anyone becomes liable to a fine of £50 and to three months' imprisonment for a second offence.  It seems to me these penalties are altogether out of proportion. The only reason there are licences is because it makes it easier to enforce the traffic regulations.  Although it is desirable that there should be sufficiently severe penalties to induce everybody to obey the law, at the same time it would seem to be contrary to justice that it would be possible for a man who has merely omitted to provide himself with a licence at a particular period to be punished in the very severe manner indicated. 
     
     
      
       I would agree there is something to be said on that subject generally, particularly if we take the case of a person who has an insurance, while for some slight reason not having a licence.  I have an open mind on a lot of these matters and I would like if Deputies would put down amendments which would suggest the conclusions they have come to for discussion on the next stage. 
     
     
      
       I was thinking of my own case.  As a matter of fact my driving licence expired in August, but I did not discover it until September, so that I was driving for a month without a licence.  I might have got three months' imprisonment. 
     
     
      
       Except there were people anxious to teach the Deputy a lesson, it would probably be taken into consideration that it was an oversight. 
     
     
      
       The risk was there all the same. 
       Section agreed to. 
       SECTION 19. 
       (1)  No person under the age of fourteen years shall hold a driving licence. 
     
     
        (2)  No person shall hold at any time more than one driving licence which is for the time being in force. 
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (1) line 22, to delete the word &ldquo;fourteen&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;fifteen.&rdquo; 
       This section raises a very debatable subject as to the age at which a boy has sufficient intelligence to receive a licence.  The Bill suggests that a boy should not be under fourteen years of age to drive a motor cycle, not under seventeen years of age to drive a light vehicle, and not under eighteen years of age to drive a heavy vehicle.  As to issuing a licence to a person under fourteen years of age I think there is very little doubt that that age is too low.  While there may be some boys of abnormal development to which it would be safe to issue licences at fourteen the experience of most of us is that it would be wise in the general interests of road users to raise the age, certainly to fifteen, if not a little higher.  While my amendment mentions fifteen if the House in its wisdom thinks that a higher age is desirable I would agree.  I would not like to see licences issued to young persons under fifteen years of age. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not suggest any maximum age. 
     
     
      
       I tabled amendments to Sections 21 and 22 and by an oversight I forgot to table a corresponding amendment to this section. I endorse everything that Deputy Good has said and I appeal to our medical colleagues for their views on the matter.  After all a boy of fourteen is only a child.  There are, of course, precocious boys.  I am perfectly certain that when the Minister was fourteen he would drive an aeroplane. We are not dealing with prodigies.  The average boy of fourteen does not possess the necessary nerve.  He is too reckless, and if he gets into a traffic jam he might suffer from what could be described as traffic fright.  In the interests of traffic control and in the interests of the boys themselves I hope the House will not   allow the absurdities that appear in the Bill.  I think this is the greatest defect in a Bill that is otherwise admirable. 
     
     
      
       I suppose it is a case of three great minds thinking alike, but when I was submitting my amendments I was not aware that Deputy Good had been thinking on the same lines.  I agree with Deputy Good, and I am prepared to go further and say that the age of fifteen is too low.  I think the physical ability and the mental control which a normal boy of fourteen or fifteen has would not justify a licence being granted at that age.  The safety of the travelling public has to be taken into consideration and for the reasons given I would encourage the Minister to raise the age still higher. 
     
     
      
       I am entirely in favour of the amendment and in fact I would be inclined to raise the age to 16.  I think the age of 14 is entirely too young for any boy to have a licence.  We have been talking of boys but, as a matter of fact, if we were to examine the records, we would find that there are quite as many ladies driving motors if not more as there are boys and men.  To let school children of 14 or 15 drive motors when they probably have not got the full nerve that they will have later on is an extremely dangerous thing.  I certainly think that 16 is the earliest age at which a licence should be given. I think 14 is altogether too young, unsafe for the driver, and unsafe for the people whom he meets on the road.  I hope the Minister will consider raising the age.  It should certainly be not less than 15, but I would suggest 16. 
     
     
      
       When I saw those amendments I thought there was a split among the Independents, but apparently Deputy Good agrees with Deputy Alton that the age should be 16.  I would like to support that suggestion.  I think the last Deputy was confusing the provisions of this Section with another Section.  This Section applies only to the driving of motor bicycles.  If the Minister will make it 16, I think he will be very well advised. 
     
     
     
      
       Although my name is down in support of the amendment fixing the age at 15, I should prefer to have it fixed at 16. It was pointed out to me, however, with I believe some truth, that boys at the age of 18 or 19 are very much more dangerous, as far as driving in traffic is concerned, than at the earlier ages.  It was only that aspect of the case that made me agree to put my name to the amendment by which the age is raised from 14 to 15.  On the whole I would prefer to see the age 16 rather than 15.  As I say, those who have greater experience and knowledge of the subject, have pointed out to me that there is greater danger and greater risk at the ages of 18 and 19. Boys at that age take great risks, whereas young boys are much more careful and much more likely to be careful.  On the whole if the Minister is willing to accept the age of 16, I am willing to support it. 
     
     
      
       I think there is general agreement on all sides of the House that the age limit should be fixed at 16 rather than 14 as suggested in the Bill.  That is my own view, and sounding the views of the Party with which I am associated, I have found that the majority seemed to be in favour of the age limit being fixed at 16.  There were some who mentioned that from their own experience they thought that boys and girls of 15 could manage properly on a motor bicycle, but I think that the majority seemed to be in favour of 16.  I certainly will stand for the minimum age being fixed at 16.  There is one class of drivers of motor cycles to which my attention has been called &mdash;that is, boys who drive motor cycles for the Post Office.  I would not like to do anything that would deprive these boys of their employment, if they are of a lower age than 16.  The few I have seen on the street on Post Office work seemed to be boys over 16 years of age, but the point has been put to me.  I do not think it is likely to interfere with the employment of boys in that Department. On the whole for motor cycles, certainly for high-powered cycles, 16 is as early an age as girls or boys should be allowed to drive these machines   in modern conditions of traffic. Deputy Lemass has mentioned to me one class of motor attachment to bicycles that would not be of high power.  It might be a disadvantage to deprive young people of the use of such attachments.  There are small contrivances that are attached to pedal bicycles.  There are not very many users of them, and it might not be worth while taking them into consideration in making these laws. 
     
     
      
       We could meet the point raised by Deputy Kelly in connection with boys from the Post Office by providing that the age of 16 should apply except in cases where boys are already in employment. 
     
     
      
       The position is that 14 has been the age limit up to the present.  In support of what Deputy Sir James Craig has stated, I might say that all the information we have is that no traffic accidents occur arising out of the use of bicycles by boys of younger ages and as Deputy Sir James Craig stated 17, 18 and 19 are the dangerous ages.  I would suggest that as 15 has been proposed in this amendment that we adopt 15 now.  We can further consider the matter on Report and Deputy Alton can put down an amendment to fix the age at 16, if he wishes.  There is in fact no complaint from the police authorities or any other side as to the misuse of motor cycles by boys of 14 to 16 years of age.  The Post Office does not employ boys under 16 and I do not think that boys under 16 are employed in commercial work which would call for the use of motor bicycles.  It has been put to me that there may be cases in some parts of the country in which motor bicycles are used by school children between the ages of 14 and 16 for the purpose of getting to a good school within motoring range.  Considering how far flung in some parts of the country secondary schools are and considering the drive that is being made to have continuation education established, and to make things easy for young people who want to advance their education in that way, it would be a pity perhaps if persons actually using or likely to make use of higher educational facilities,   were prevented from doing so by being forced to use pedal bicycles for a distance that was perhaps beyond their strength.  That is the only point that has been made in that regard.  I do not know whether the Minister for Education could be empowered to issue certificates to permit of the use of motor bicycles like that.  We could for the moment make the age 15 but we are making the age 15 without any evidence except the idea that we think that boys of 14 and 12 are a bit irresponsible and reckless although the boys and girls of that age to-day are very different from those of the period in which, when you tried to ride a bicycle, one caught a grip of your back and pushed the bicycle up and down the road. 
       Now, before children are able to walk, they use a scooter and then they get on to fairy bicycles.  Afterwards you have youngsters of very irresponsible years, carrying all kinds of loads on the back of their bicycles until they become regular acrobats as far as bicycles are concerned.  If we make the age 15 we do so without any evidence.  I have no objection to making it 15, but if Deputy Alton would wish to make it 16 he can move to do so on the Report Stage. There is no use in perhaps cutting off facilities to people when there may not be any reason they should be cut off. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister any knowledge in regard to accidents to boys of fourteen, fifteen or sixteen? I am only speaking of my own experience. I was in the position of being in charge or quasi charge of youngsters recently, and I was struck by the number of accidents from motor bicycles to boys who suffered permanent damage.  One is short of a leg and another has damaged his arm. The ages of these boys range from sixteen up to nineteen.  Sixteen and seventeen seem to be the ages most dangerous. 
     
     
      
       I agree with the Minister that we may take fifteen at present.  When we come to hard facts this is a matter to which the parent has something to say because he has to provide the money. 
     
     
     
      
       He has to provide the bicycle. 
     
     
      
       The number of motor bicycles for boys under fifteen would be very small. 
       Section 19 agreed to. 
       SECTION 20. 
       (1)  Any person who is not under the age of fourteen years and is not for the time being disqualified by or under this Act for holding a driving licence may apply to the licensing authority in whose functional area he ordinarily resides or carries on business for the grant to him by such authority of a driving licence or, where the circumstances so require, of a renewal of a driving licence then or previously held by him. 
       (2)  Every application under this section shall be in the prescribed form and shall be signed by the applicant, and shall state the age of the applicant and such other particulars as shall be prescribed and either be accompanied by a certificate of fitness granted under Part VI of this Act to the applicant. within one month before the date of the application or shall contain or be accompanied by a declaration in the following form signed by the applicant, that is to say: 
       &ldquo;I hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge I am not suffering from any disease or physical or mental disability which would be likely to cause the driving of a mechanically propelled vehicle in a public place by me to be a source of danger to the public.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (1), line 26, to delete the word &ldquo;fourteen&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;fifteen.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (2), line 41, after the word &ldquo;that&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;I am a competent driver and.&rdquo; 
     
     This amendment deals with the issuing of licences and with the form that   has to be filled up before the licence is granted.  On that form there is no declaration whatever to the effect that the person enquiring for the licence has any knowledge at all of driving. Well, I think it is essential that the person to whom a driving licence is issued should have some knowledge of driving; and with that object the form of the licence is here suggested. The point has been raised that if the person who is asked to sign that particular form says that he has not done any driving then a licence could not be issued to him and that there would be no way out of the difficulty. 
     
      
       He could not become a driver until he had a licence. 
     
     
      
       To get over that difficulty it has been suggested that beginners' licences should be issued to such persons and that drivers' licences should not be issued to those persons until they had some knowledge of driving. Of course tests are provided in the case of persons making application for licences to drive passenger vehicles, but we are all agreed that it would be very undesirable and a very troublesome task to put all persons who want to drive motor bicycles or light motor vehicles to a driving test.  That would be a cumbersome method and in order to get over that difficulty it has been suggested that these words should be added to the licence and that furthermore beginners' licences should be issued for a short period of say three months or a shorter period if necessary in order to qualify for drivers' licences.  That would get over the difficulty I think.  In this connection there are possibly other difficulties, but this is not the time to discuss them. But it does occur to one that in connection with the issuing of licences in the North of Ireland it is necessary to have a photograph of the driver on the licence in order to identify him. That is a matter that can be subsequently considered.  It does not arise in connection with any of the amendments. 
     
     
      
       It does. 
     
     
      
       I am only dealing with the question of issuing licences and I am asking that these words I have proposed should be added to the particular   form which the person is asked to sign before the licence is issued. 
     
     
      
       It is a demand that nobody will get a driver's licence unless he is a competent driver, but that he can get a beginner's licence.  As to the kind of licence which a man has obtained, what difference will it make to the pedestrian who has been injured whether the driver of the car has a beginner's licence or a driver's licence. 
     
     
      
       I have not entered at all into the question of the beginner's licence because that is a matter for the Minister to consider.  But I think that in the present state of road traffic it is highly necessary that some protection should be given to the road users, and that the person who has no knowledge of motor driving should not be allowed to go on the public highway to the danger of other road users.  That is a thing that this House ought not approve of. At any rate some protection is necessary. This is a limited form of protection, but some precaution is necessary before a licence is issued. 
     
     
      
       I have given as much consideration to this matter as I could give.  I quite agree that the suggestion is impracticable, because if you start and give beginners licences then the question arises when the beginner ceases to be a beginner and when he becomes competent. 
     
     
      
       Never, sometimes. 
     
     
      
       You have simply to take a man's word for it.  And you are driven to consider who it is exactly who teaches people to drive cars.  I am not really quite clear that what Deputy Good has in mind is really achieved by what he proposes.  If it would make him feel any more comfortable about the matter it may be possible to arrange that a licence issued to a person for the first year should be indicated by a red line or by a blue line&mdash;something that would show that this is his first year of driving. 
     
     
      
       What protection would that be to the other road users? 
     
     
     
      
       What protection would it be that he was a learner with a learner's licence? 
     
     
      
       And a learner's limitations. 
     
     
      
       I think the Garda will have a look after the learner's limitations. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the Minister will re-consider the matter. 
     
     
      
       I must say that I do not sense any feeling of great difficulty in this House in the matter and I hesitate to make a proposal that there should be any distinction between the first licence issued to a person and any other licence.  It might involve a difficulty and I do not see any necessity for it.  I am not at all clear that there is any real necessity for it or that what is in Deputy Good's mind arises out of any practical experience in the situation that we had up to the present. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister suggest the provision of a skating rink and let the learners qualify there? 
     
     
      
       Let them drive on the bye-roads when they are learning. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister make inquiries as to how this difficulty is met in other countries? 
     
     
      
       Oh, now. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps it would meet the situation if the Minister could keep the learners off the main roads.  I think that is the principal thing.  All people must learn and you must give them a certain amount of licence in order to learn.  The risk is that before they learn sufficiently that they are allowed to go on the main roads. 
     
     
      
       Then you would want something like overhead wires to take the car from the person's residence until he comes on to the by-road or else make provision that the learners shall not drive without a competent driver in the car.  I do not know where all that would lead us to. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry I must   disagree with Deputy Sir James Craig.  I would ask the Minister to take those learners off the quiet residential roads where they are making life miserable for me and send them on to the rural roads so that they would be executed at once. 
       Section 20 agreed to. 
       SECTION 21. 
       (1)  When an application is duly made under and in accordance with this Part of this Act to a licensing authority for a driving licence and there has been paid to such licensing authority by the applicant the excise duty for the time being required by law to be paid on the taking out of a driving licence, such licensing authority shall, unless it appears to them that the applicant is under the age of fourteen years or is disqualified by or under this Act for holding a driving licence or neither ordinarily resides nor carries on business in their functional area, grant to such applicant a driving licence. 
       AMENDMENT 17. 
     
     
      
       I am told that amendment 17 is not necessary. 
     
     
      
       I was wondering whether the word &ldquo;business&rdquo; does not include &ldquo;profession&rdquo; also. 
       Amendment not moved. 
       Section 21 agreed to. 
       SECTION 22. 
       (1)  Save as hereinafter otherwise provided, every driving licence granted under this Part of this Act shall operate and be expressed to operate to license the person to whom it is granted&mdash; 
       (a)  if or when such person has attained the age of fourteen years and is under the age of seventeen years, to drive a motor cycle. 
       (b)  if or when such person has attained the age of seventeen years and is under the age of eighteen years, to drive any kind of light motor vehicle, and 
     
     (c)  if or when such person has attained the age of eighteen years   and is under the age of twenty-one years, to drive any kind of mechanically propelled vehicle except a heavy motor vehicle or a locomotive actually carrying passengers for reward, and 
     (d)  if or when such person has attained the age of twenty-one years, to drive any kind of mechanically propelled vehicle. 
     
      
       I move amendment 20. 
       In sub-section (1), (b), line 52, after the word &ldquo;vehicle&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;not carrying passengers for reward.&rdquo; 
       I put this down because I believe there ought to be some age-limit below which a person should be deemed not to be competent to drive passengers for reward.  Without this amendment there would be an inducement to owners of vehicles to employ boys.  There would be an inducement to the owners of motor vehicles to employ&mdash;as they should not be allowed to employ in the face of the fact that there were such large numbers unemployed&mdash;boys below the age of 17.  I do not think that sort of thing should be encouraged, and I put down this amendment to prevent owners from employing boys under 18. 
     
     
      
       A light motor vehicle is simply a taxi, a street service car, or a private hiring car, one or the other.  If we take the school-leaving age we find that the school-leaving age for the primary schools is at 15.  Perhaps in Dublin it runs along to 16.  Under Continuation Education, the compulsory age is 16, and the principal difficulty people always have with regard to boys is their employment just after they leave school.  Numerous cases occur by reason of the fact that the boy does not get into an occupation at the time he leaves school.  His character is destroyed and his value in business or in the industrial world is prejudiced by reason of the time he has been unemployed. If the taxi-driver has a son, this amendment would prevent his son at the age of 17 years becoming a taxi-driver.  It would prevent the son of a hotel proprietor taking   out the car belonging to the hotel and driving some of the hotel visitors for hire.  I think that we ought not to close down a case like that when we should take into consideration that any young person driving either a street service vehicle or a private vehicle must be a person who has been tested for competency under the Bill.  Deputy Davin, I take it, has only in mind the driving of buses? 
     
     
      
       Taxis, buses, and hired motor cars. 
     
     
      
       Taxis and motor cars would come under the description of light motor vehicles, but buses would not. 
     
     
      
       I would ask Deputy Davin not to press his amendment.  He must know that in the circumstances under which boys are brought up nowadays they are looking forward from the time that they are ten years of age to becoming drivers of motors or taxis.  It is their biggest ambition in the world. At the age of 15 a boy is very often competent to drive a motor-car and many are specially competent at the age of 17 because they have grown up in a motor atmosphere.  Unless we are prepared to offer alternative employment to a boy of 17 it would be unjust to forbid him to get a licence to drive a car.  There are not many alternatives open to them, and boys at the age of 17 who cannot drive motor vehicles are in fact suffering a tremendous disadvantage. They will not get any employment. You have perhaps 40,000 vehicles classed as light motor vehicles and if you are going to say that a boy of 17 must remain idle though he is competent to drive a motor vehicle you are putting him under a great disadvantage. This is a dangerous amendment and I ask the Deputy not to press it. 
     
     
      
       I am putting it to the Minister that every Deputy knows that there is a considerable number of unemployed drivers in this country. While we have a situation of that kind it should not be made easier for the owners of motor-cars plying for hire to employ comparatively young boys at a small wage while married men with families are unemployed.  That is the   point of view from which I am considering the matter.  If you allow the section to stand you are putting it in the power of owners of motor-cars to employ boys before they are physically fit, thereby depriving unemployed married men of a livelihood.  I ask the Minister to reconsider the matter from that point of view, that is, of the married men and their dependents.  It is far more necessary to provide an opportunity for employment for them than to pass this Section enabling boys under 17 or 18 years of age to be employed. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is asking us to take away here a power which exists at the present moment with regard to persons of that age. 
     
     
      
       This Bill is reviewing the whole road traffic regulations which are, I suppose, fifty years out of date. I cannot say for certain how many thousand unemployed there are in this country including hundreds of motor drivers.  We should not make it possible for these people to be left out of employment longer than the time in which they can secure it.  By passing the section as it stands, we are allowing young men to pass a test and secure employment as motor drivers who are perhaps not as well qualified as the older men who are out of work. 
     
     
      
       I would like to say in this connection that every corner of every village in this country is filled with young boys of from 17 to 20.  It is the aim of a number of labour representatives at the moment&mdash;I do not say it is Deputy Davin's aim&mdash;to try and keep young people out of employment. If people do not get the opportunity of making good early in life, the time passes when they can be trained for any useful occupation.  I would urge in the interests of those young people that it is just as important that they should get employment as that the older people should get it.  I think we ought to try, in the interests of the whole State, to do something towards breaking down the different barriers which are preventing those young people from getting into useful occupations and from being as good citizens   as they would be if they got employment. From that point of view I am with the Minister, and I think that these young people ought to get the opportunity that is denied them in several walks of life. 
     
     
      
       I want to say there is no such intention in my mind as to deprive any man from getting employment and I shall join in co-operation with Deputy Good and with all other parties in this House to attain that end, but I want to take the men who are getting relief off the rates and you should do this before you create new avenues for employment for people not so well qualified. 
     
     
      
       This is not a new avenue of employment. 
     
     
      
       You are increasing the disadvantages of married men. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Good has alluded to the fact that there are a   large number of young people who are driving buses. 
     
     
      
       This does not refer to driving buses at all. 
     
     
      
       Light motors.  While Deputy Davin and the Labour Party do not object to young people getting employment we claim that the first to get employment should be the married men and I venture to say to Deputy Good that one of the reasons why married men are passed over and employment given to the young men is that employers in Dublin city and county in many cases endeavour, as far as light vehicles are concerned, to take advantage of the situation by employing young men at a low rate of wages.  We say that preference should be given to the married man with a family and if employment is to be given to young men it should be at trade union rates. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 30; Nil, 96. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Bourke, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Broderick, Henry. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Corkery, Dan. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. 
             Doyle, Edward. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Killilea, Mark. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Walsh, Richard. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blaney, Neal. Blythe, Ernest. Boland, Gerald. Bourke, Seamus A. Brady, Sean. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Cole, John James. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooney, Eamon. Cosgrave, William T.
 Haslett, Alexander. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Holohan, Richard. Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Keogh, Myles. Kilroy, Michael. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Lynch, Finian. Maguire, Ben. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McEllistrim, Thomas. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Moore, Seamus. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. 
             Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Daly, John. Davis, Michael. De Valera, Eamon. Doherty Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Fahy, Frank. Finlay, Thomas A. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Harris, Thomas.
 Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connell, Richard. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Donovan. Timothy Joseph. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Kelly Sean T. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Ryan, James. Shaw, Patrick W. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Smith, Patrick. Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. Ward, Francis C. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Hogan (Clare) and Cassidy; Nil: Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       I move amendment 21: 
       In sub-section (1) (b), line 52, after the word &ldquo;vehicle&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or motor cycle.&rdquo; 
       There appears to have been an omission in the drafting of this Section. This amendment proposes to remedy that omission.  Section 19 provides that no person shall hold more than one driving licence at a time, whereas Section 22 lays down that every driving licence granted shall operate to licence the person to whom it is granted: &ldquo;(a) if or when such person has attained the age of 14 years and is under the age of 17 years to drive a motor cycle.  (b) if or when such person has attained the age of 17 years and is under the age of 18 years to drive any kind of motor vehicle&rdquo; and &ldquo;(c) if or when such person has attained the age of 18 years and is under the age of 21 years to drive any kind of mechanically propelled vehicle except a heavy motor vehicle or a locomotive actually carrying passengers for reward.&rdquo;  This would allow persons over 18 to drive light motor vehicles or motor cycles but, as drafted, the Bill would not permit a person licensed to drive a light motor vehicle to drive a motor cycle.  I submit that that is unreasonable and my amendment is intended to provide that a person who has attained 17 years of age but is under 18 and who is entitled to drive a light motor vehicle shall be also entitled to drive a motor cycle. 
     
     
      
       I accept the Deputy's amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 22: 
       At the end of sub-section 1, to add a new paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(e)  if or when such person has attained the age of eighteen years and is under twenty-one years and has been at the date of the passing of this Act in three months' continuous occupation as the driver of a heavy motor vehicle, to drive any kind of mechanically-propelled vehicle.&rdquo; 
     
     
        There are in Dublin, and there probably are in other places, young persons under 21 years at present driving heavy motor vehicles and driving such vehicles which apply for hire.  I believe it would be a hardship if such young men, having been in continuous employment for a number of months and having given satistion, should be deprived of their employment by the passage of this Bill.  It is for the purpose of meeting that position that I move this amendment. 
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Haslett I should like to point out that the amendment in his name is practically the same as the amendment moved by Deputy O'Kelly.  Without the amendment of this clause, a person who has driven a particular type of vehicle for substantial periods before the Act comes into operation will be disqualified for the driving of that type of vehicle.  Apart from the injustice to the owner-driver, this may seriously affect many young persons whose living may depend upon their being permitted to drive.  You are going to create a period of unemployment and bring about all the disadvantages pointed out by Deputy Moore by allowing under this section a period to elapse which would seriously affect these drivers.  A case has been put up already dealing with the men who are fairly competent to drive and have been driving. 
     
     
      
       The ideas in both of these amendments are acceptable, and I shall get something drafted to meet them.  I should just like to say what I have in mind.  I feel that we have to discriminate between the person who has a driving licence simply by reason of the fact that he is in employment that requires it. 
     
     I think we have to take the date of the passing of the Act and that a person holding a licence issued more than six months before the passing of the Act should continue to be allowed to hold a licence although he did not conform to the ages in the Bill. That would include a motor cycle   licence.  But, in the case of a person who, at the passing of the Bill, was in employment and had a licence which was necessary to his employment, I think we would have to shorten the period in respect of the licence for that.  It would be, to some extent, unreasonble that persons should take people into their employment and get them a driving licence while the Bill is actually before the House, and I should like to give further consideration to that.  Where, on the passing of the Act, there is a person in employment having a driving licence and his employment depending on that, where that licence has been issued more than two months before the passing of the Act, I think it might be reasonable to continue a licence to such a person although he did not come into accordance with the age limit, rather than that a person who obviously had been two months in a particular employment should be thrown out of that employment for a period, great or small.  Deputies may have some comments to make on approaching the position on these particular lines and I shall be glad to hear them. 
     
      
       Will that mean that a new licence will be issued when the other expires? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       If a licence had been two months in force at the passing of the Act, will that be taken as implying that the owner had been in employment during that time, that there would be no proof of employment required? 
     
     
      
       No.  If it was proved to the satisfaction of whatever authority is responsible for recalling that licence, if it were not properly in existence, that the person would be deprived of his employment if the licence was not continued, then that licence, although it was less than six months in existence, say, in two-and-a-half or three months, would be continued. 
       Amendments, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       On the section, I would like to draw attention to sub-section   (c) line 55, where I think the failure to put in a comma at the end of the word &ldquo;vehicle&rdquo; leaves the sub-section open to a wrong interpretation.  Perhaps some poor taxpayer will be put to the expense of having to pay lawyers to interpret that later on. 
     
     
      
       I shall have that examined, although I understand these things are supposed to work without commas. 
       Section, as amended, put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 23. 
       (1)  It shall be the duty of every person to whom a driving licence is granted after the commencement of this Part of this Act forthwith to sign his name on such licence in the place indicated in that behalf therein. 
       (2)  Nothwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no driving licence granted after the commencement of this Part of this Act shall be in force or of any effect until the person to whom it is granted has signed his name thereon in accordance with this section. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Haslett I move: &ldquo;To delete sub-section (2).&rdquo;  The effect of the section as it stands is that though a licence has been obtained and a fee paid for it would have no affect till signed.  If the section were to remain as it stands it would mean that a person could have two summonses issued against him for the one offence.  I am sure that the Minister does not mean that a man should be prosecuted on two counts for one offence. 
     
     
      
       What are the two counts? 
     
     
      
       If a man is found without having his licence signed under sub-section (1) he can be summonsed for not having signed his name to it, and under sub-section (2) for having in his possession a licence that is not signed.  I suggest that the two subsections should be run into one by taking out the word &ldquo;notwithstanding&rdquo;  and substituting the word &ldquo;and&rdquo; so as to make it one offence. 
     
     
      
       There is nothing in the section to make it one offence. What is in the section is that a person is without a licence until he signs it. The purpose of requiring a licensee to sign his licence is to provide simple machinery for identification.  Deputy Good was speaking of the necessity for attaching a photograph to every licence.  That is more simply and satisfactorily met by requiring the licensee to sign the licence.  I see no difficulty in the licensee signing the licence immediately after he gets it. 
     
     
      
       Why keep two subsections in the Bill that will allow of two charges being made against a man for one offence? 
     
     
      
       There is nothing here to make failure to sign a licence an offence.  There is nothing to make anything under Section 23 an offence, but if a person has not got his licence signed, then under the section which requires him to have a licence he can be punished. 
     
     
      
       Does it not carry a penalty when a man neglects his duty? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid it does not always follow. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 24. 
       Subject to the provisions of this Part of this Act, every driving licence shall remain in force for twelve months from the date on which it commences and shall then expire. 
     
     
      
       I move Amendment 25:&mdash; 
       In line 31, after the word &ldquo;twelve&rdquo; to insert the word &ldquo;calendar.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is consequential on an amendment we were discussing on the definitions.  I suggested that the definition of the word &ldquo;year&rdquo; should be twelve calendar months and this is consequential on that.  The Minister might consider this along with the other. 
     
     
      
       Some adjustment will be made on the other one, but   here it is covered by 1 (1) d of the Interpretation Act and is unnecessary. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section put and agreed to. 
       Section 25 agreed to. 
       SECTION 26. 
       (1)  Every person who drives or attempts to drive a mechanically propelled vehicle in a public place while he is drunk shall be guilty of an offence under this section and on summary conviction thereof shall&mdash; 
       (a)  if such mechanically propelled vehicle is a public service vehicle, be liable, in the case of first offence under this section, to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds or, at the discretion of the court, to imprisonment for any term not exceeding three months or to both such fine and such imprisonment and, in the case of a second or any subsequent offence under this section irrespective of the kind of vehicle in relation to which the previous offence or offences was or were committed, to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds or, at the discretion of the court, to imprisonment for any term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment, or 
       (2)  Whenever a person is convicted of an offence under this section the court by whom such person is so convicted shall make an order (in this Act referred to as a consequential disqualification order) declaring such person to be disqualified for holding a driving licence during such period as such court shall think proper and shall specify in such order but not less than&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 25A on behalf of Deputy O'Kelly:&mdash; 
     
     In sub-section (1) (a), lines 46 and 47, to delete the words: &ldquo;if   such mechanically propelled vehicle is a public service vehicle,&rdquo; and to delete paragraph (b). 
     The purpose is to make the penalty for any person charged with drunkenness the same, whether it be a public service vehicle or a private vehicle. The opinion we have formed on this question is that if anybody should be penalised more than another it is the private motorist.  The weight of the law should not fall upon the driver of a public service vehicle, or rather should not fall with more emphasis on the driver of a public service vehicle than of a private vehicle.  There is no good attempting to discriminate as to which would be the greater danger on the road.  Everybody knows that when a motor accident occurs there are generally two parties involved, and that it is as often the private motor driver as much as the public vehicle driver that is to blame.  To make it a less offence for the driver of a private motor car to be drunk in charge of his car than for a driver of a public service vehicle to be drunk in charge of his vehicle, is if anything reversing what appears to us to be the natural order.  A private motorist is supposed to be a more substantial man and to be a man of position generally speaking.  Consequently, he ought to be a more educated man with more sense of responsibility than the driver of a public service vehicle. Then again a fine means a great deal less to him than to the driver of a publice service vehicle.  A fine of £50 to many private motorists would not be a very great punishment, but to the driver of a public service vehicle it would be a very big punishment.  We realise that it is very important in the case of drivers of public service vehicles that every possible means should be adopted to prevent them running the risk of being drunk in charge of vehicles over which they have control.  When the Minister is looking at it from the point of view that the driver of a public service vehicle is in charge of, and responsible for a larger number of passengers, he is taking what seems to us to be a rather narrow view. 
     The private motor driver who is   drunk on the road has similar responsibilities to every other motor vehicle on the road, and for that matter to every pedestrian and cyclist as well.  The driver of a private motor car who gets drunk can cause any amount of damage.  He could cause the upset of a bus completely full of passengers and we can see no real reason for making this discrimination in the Bill. 
     
      
       There are two points that I would like to make in connection with this before the discussion goes on.  A public service vehicle as the section stands shall include a large bus, small bus, taxi, and private hired vehicle. We are considering the position of the driver of a private vehicle and driver of a goods vehicle on the one hand.  The Bill suggests the offence of drunkenness should be more leniently dealt with so far as maximum penalties are concerned and minimum qualifications with regard to that particular class.  There are three classes.  The big and small bus, that is buses carrying from fourteen passengers upwards, and buses carrying from six up to fourteen. Then the small street service and private hire vehicles.  Then persons running big and small lorries and persons running private cars.  I am inclined to think there should be&mdash; and at any rate I want the opinion of the House as to whether there should be&mdash;greater penalties for any of these particular classes.  Personally, I feel there ought to be a higher penalty in respect of the person driving a larger public service vehicle as distinct from what is in the Bill, that is a person in charge of a bus of from 20 to 36 passengers.  That person, in a state of drunkenness, may do a lot more than run into another car.  He may run into a wall or over a bridge with 32 passengers on board, and I think that greater strictness is required with regard to that particular class of vehicle.  However, I would like to have the opinion of the House on that. We think that the taxi and the private hire car might be put into the normal class.  Then, having come to a decision as to whether there should be any discrimination at all, I think   on this section we will want some discussion as to whether the penalties imposed here on a public service vehicle&mdash;that is the higher penalties&mdash; are thought to be excessive or not. 
     
     
      
       I am rather inclined to agree with Deputy O'Kelly's amendment, I think there is a good deal of force in what Deputy Moore has said.  The privately owned car can do a tremendous lot of damage if the man driving it is drunk.  It can cause a bus to swerve and turn over, during which many passengers may be killed. I fail to see why the Minister thinks that the driver of a taxi should be treated differently from the driver of an ordinary car. 
     
     
      
       Personally I am prepared to forgo that, but in the case of buses or heavy public service vehicles I am not. 
     
     
      
       I am inclined to agree whole-heartedly with Deputy O'Kelly's amendment. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the punishment can be sufficiently great for a drunken man who attempts to drive a car.  Since I sat on the Liquor Commission and heard the evidence given there I formed the opinion that we could in practice not inflict any punishment that could be sufficiently great upon such a man.  In my opinion the punishment here is too slight.  I think it is a dreadful thing that anyone drunk can drive a 'bus containing maybe 32 persons whose lives are depending upon him and run perhaps into another car or a ditch or anything of that sort.  In addition there is the danger to the community.  If I had my will I would increase, in every direction, instead of diminishing, the punishments for drunkenness while driving motor vehicles.  Nor would I make any difference between a man who is driving a vehicle carrying five persons or a bus carrying thirty persons.  There is as much danger in the one as there is in the other.  I overlooked the fact that I wanted to say something about Section 25.  I think that section is useless because of the words it contains, namely, &ldquo;to his knowledge.&rdquo;  No man is going to   say that when he undertook to drive a car he was incapable.  I think the words &ldquo;to his knowledge&rdquo; render the section practically inoperative.  I would like to see the Minister tightening up Section 26 and to make the penalty greater.  I could say a great deal about that if I wished.  I have seen cases where life was lost because people were drunk in charge of vehicles. 
     
     
      
       May I ask if Deputy Sir James Craig is supporting the amendment? 
     
     
      
       I am inclined to agree with Deputy Sir James Craig and generally with those of his opinion.  I am not taking that view on the immediate line of the amendment, but on the general principle.  Long before a man is drunk he is a danger to himself and to society if he is in charge of a motor car.  I am not speaking of the man who is obviously drunk.  A man who will allow hiself to get into that state, a state of actual drunkenness, and then drive a public vehicle is a criminal. I have no hesitation at all in saying that.  He has a lump of metal on the road with a momentum which is flying along the roads at 40 or 50 miles an hour.  He is not fit to be in charge of such a lethal weapon and to be let loose on the public.  I am taking the line that long before a man is in that condition he is a danger.  This is a subject upon which I think most of us can speak with a certain amount of experience because most of us have been in a condition a good deal on the right side of being drunk, and yet in a position to recognise that we were not as competent as we ought to be. You have the man who goes to an ordinary house at night.  He has dinner and he is coming away just a little bit &ldquo;fresh.&rdquo;  That man is dangerous. The man who knowingly goes out with a vehicle in that condition most certainly ought not to be treated with any consideration.  As a result of knowingly going out in that preventable condition of incompetence and taking charge of a vehicle he becomes a danger to the public.  In this particular matter I will uphold the most   stringent treatment of any man either in a state of drunkenness or in an incipient state of incapacity, who while in charge of a motor car causes damage to other people. 
     
     
      
       If the amendment is put to a division I will support it, believing that the object aimed at is sound. I realise, as the Minister has pointed out, that a person who is charged with being drunk while in charge of a public vehicle, with the lives of 36 passengers at his mercy, is certainly a person likely to cause great damage and, if you like, to kill more people than a person who is in charge of a private car.  I do not like the idea of fixing a maximum penalty, without at the same time putting in a minimum penalty for a first or second offence.  I am entirely opposed to the imposition of a fine in the case of a person who is found guilty of drunkenness on a second offence while in charge of a private or a public vehicle.  I think a person who is found drunk for the second time, whether in charge of a private or a public vehicle, should be in Mountjoy Prison. 
       I would like to see an amendment of the section so as to prescribe a minimum penalty for a first offence, and certainly imprisonment for drunkenness while in charge of a car for a second offence.  Certain people are in a position to have more than one car and, to them, £20, £10, or £5 would only mean as much as 5s. would mean to the milkman who sells milk at 1s. 8d. a gallon, to which he has added 50 per cent. of water.  A fine of £5, £10 or £20 to a man with £10,000 a year who can afford to get drunk means nothing to him as compared with a poor person who is driving a public service vehicle, but Mountjoy is a deterrent, and the Minister might amend the Bill so as to order detention in such cases. 
     
     
      
       I agree with Deputy Flinn that the man who is half drunk, as we call it, is a much greater danger than the man who is wholly drunk.  The latter will not encourage people to get into his bus. A man who is wholly drunk has sense   enough to know that he is not able to get into the bus and to drive it.  It is the man who is partially drunk, who has lost his judgment, who is the greatest offender, and the greatest danger.  I agree with Deputy Davin and I would like to see such a man getting no option to imprisonment if convicted a second time. 
     
     
      
       If there be any amendment of this section I would certainly like to see it in the way of tightening it up.  I do not see why any distinction should be made between the driver of a public vehicle and the driver of a private car.  It may be said perhaps that the driver of a public vehicle must be competent to carry the public safely, but in a number of collisions&mdash; and there was one a few days ago&mdash; the accidents to public vehicles have been caused by drivers of private vehicles who were incapable of driving cars.  I think the position as between the driver of a public vehicle and the driver of a private vehicle can very well be left to the court trying the case.  The court will have certain discretion, even though this section be tightened, as to the penalty that is to be imposed, we will take it for a first offence.  The penalty which the court may impose will depend a great deal on the circumstance of the case.  I can quite see that the maximum penalty for a first offence would, in certain cases, be decided upon by the court, in the case of the driver of a public vehicle, and at the same time the maximum sentence might be imposed by the court on the driver of a private vehicle, because owing to the action of that driver a number of people were injured. 
     
     With regard to the other matter mentioned by Deputy Sir James Craig, I think this section as it stands meets what was a defect in the existing law with regard to the charge of being drunk when driving a motor car.  The usual defence in such cases&mdash;and I have come across a number of them&mdash; is that the onus is on anyone prosecuting a person for being drunk in charge of a car, irrespective of type, to prove that the person was drunk. I think sub-section 3 meets that,   because the onus is not now on the prosecution to prove that the person was drunk, or was in such a state of intoxication that a Guard was arresting him irrespective of whether he was in immediate relation to the car or not. 
     Sub-section (3) provides that the real question to be decided is whether a person, by reason of the amount of intoxicating liquor he had consumed, is incapable of managing a car.  That is going a great way towards remedying any defect which existed in the law in the past.  It was a serious difficulty, a difficulty which gave an entirely unmerited defence to people prosecuted under the Act.  I would impress on the Minister not to allow any change to be made in the section at all.  From my own experience there has been an increase in the number of cases, certainly in Dublin recently.  If there be any change in the section, I would suggest to the Minister that it should be on the lines of tightening it up and leaving it to the discretion of the court as to whether there should be any distinction made between the driver of a public and a private vehicle. 
     
      
       I hope that Deputy Finlay understands that our proposal is to tighten up the penalties. 
     
     
      
       Is any voice in the Committee going to be raised for differentiation?  As far as I can see there is none.  I take it, then, that we ought to accept the amendments which are before us.  Deputy O'Kelly has made that particular point that there should be no differentiation as between different classes of vehicles.  Then I ask the Committee to turn their attention to the punishments that are provided, and see if we can elucidate further what particular type of tightening up in respect of them is desirable. The position at the present moment is that a person convicted on the first offence may be fined £50 and sentenced to three months' imprisonment, and that he will be disqualified from driving for a period of not less than twelve months.  For the second offence a fine of £100 may be inflicted and or six months' imprisonment, together   with the minimum disqualification of three years from driving. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       Amendments 27, 28 and 29 are consequential on that amendment. 
       The following amendments were agreed to:&mdash; 
       27.  In sub-section (2) (a), page 15, lines 11 and 12, to delete the words &ldquo;was committed in relation to a public service vehicle and&rdquo;.&mdash;Sean T. O Ceallaigh. 
       28.  In sub-section (2) (b), lines 15 and 16, to delete the words &ldquo;was committed in relation to a public service vehicle and&rdquo;.&mdash;Sean T. O Ceallaigh. 
       29.  In sub-section (2), to delete paragraphs (c) and (d).&mdash;Sean T. O Ceallaigh. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 26: 
       In sub-section (2), line 5, to delete the word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;may.&rdquo; 
     
     I may say that I would be the last Deputy in the House to wish to slacken any regulations that might be made under the section.  I realise the danger that exists, and I endorse the words that have fallen from all Benches in regard to them.  My amendment proposes to substitute the word &ldquo;may&rdquo; for &ldquo;shall,&rdquo; because we all know that there are at times border-line cases. There have been cases that presented a good deal of difficulty to the justice trying them, where the person charged has been very technically in error.  I do not want to minimise the fines or the punishment, but to leave some little discretion in the power of the justice who tries the case.  A great deal can be said for that attitude, inasmuch as every justice, having the witnesses and the person charged before him, is in a very strong position to judge whether that person was negligent or whether it was a technical offence.  It is only on that point that my amendment is proposed.  I do not wish to minimise any of the punishments, but just to leave a certain discretion with the justice.  It would   seem to be mandatory if a technical offence is committed. 
     
      
       This amendment really involves the whole question of the general type of punishment. Deputy Haslett's amendment would put the section into the position that conviction for drunkenness in charge of a car would not invariably bring disqualification.  The section as it stands means that conviction, whatever be the fine or other punishment inflicted, must bring disqualification for a minimum period of twelve months in the first instance, and three years in the second instance.  As I say, the question at issue is the general type of punishment that should be inflicted for these offences. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister not to relax one iota in this respect. 
     
     
      
       I would also ask the Minister not to accept Deputy Haslett's amendment.  I think that when there is a conviction for the offence of being drunk in charge of a motor car there should follow automatically disqualification for the period mentioned. Under the Motor Car Act of 1903 the justices have power at the moment&mdash; and it is a power which has been exercised in some cases recently&mdash;of disqualifying people for certain periods after an offence has been committed; but every time an attempt is made to have such disqualification imposed, as is now empowered by the Motor Car Act, the defendant immediately makes the case that it is a matter of particular hardship in his case&mdash;that it is really going to prejudice his business and perhaps deprive him of his livelihood for a certain time.  Where an offence of this nature is committed I think it certainly merits the punishment of disqualification, and that it is not a matter which should be left to the discretion of the court, that when the court proceeds to a conviction, automatically flowing from that, as is provided by the sub-section, there should be the disqualification mentioned. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree with Deputy Finlay that the excuse of depriving an   offender of his livilihood should not be considered when the offender runs the risk of depriving pedestrians and others of their lives.  He should also be deprived of his licence automatically. It should not be optional.  I would ask the Minister to consider, regarding a second offence, whether a fine of £100 is not too large.  The man is then deprived of his licence for three years.  Take the case of a wealthy man who can employ a driver.  It does not matter very much to him to be deprived of his licence, and it looks like class legislation.  I think that for a second offence there should be a term of imprisonment without the option of a fine. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       [ An Ceann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
     
     
      
       On the section itself, I understand that the Committee desires that on the first offence there should be a minimum disqualification for twelve months, and that on the second offence there should be a mimimum disqualification for three years.  Then there is the question in the case of the first offence of the maximum fine of £50 and a sentence of not more than three months; the three months sentence not to be obligatory. In the same way for a second offence the maximum fine is £100 and a sentence, which is not obligatory, of six months.  I would like to have the opinion of the Committee as to the amount of the fines &mdash; £50 in one case and £100 in another. I should like to have all the information possible on the matter of the suggested imprisonment of three months for the first offence and six months for the second offence and all the information possible as to whether there should be an obligatory sentence of imprisonment for the second offence. 
     
     
      
       For my part I think the measure of imprisonment set down is sufficient.  I think it meets the case. I think it is a sufficient deterrent to anybody who might be inclined to run the risk, while intoxicated, of driving a motor car.  On the question of fines,   I mentioned here on the Second Reading, and I should like to bring it before the Minister again, the point of view that has been put to me, that the penalties set out here in this Section and throughout the Bill for offences of this kind do seem to suggest class legislation; that there are individuals who in the ordinary course of their business are employed as motor drivers who could not possibly pay a fine of £50, men to whom £50 would mean all that they had in the world, and that there are other persons who would be liable to be brought within the ambit of this Section and to whom £50 fine would mean nothing.  Would it be possible to consider the putting into operation in this country of the system which I believe is in operation in other countries though I have not any personal knowledge of it.  I am told that fines are imposed in this way: A man is asked what his wages are or what his salary is, and the fines are regulated by imposing penalties of so many weeks' wages or so many months' wages or salary, as the case may be. They are fined in proportion to their income.  If that could be done it would be possible to arrive at a system that would be fair to all concerned.  I do not want the fines to be any less drastic.  I want the fines to be at least as drastic as they are set out in the Bill, but I want that they should be made to fit the income of the offender, so that they would be equally fair and just to all in proportion to their earnings and to their financial capacity and their position generally.  I should be glad to know if the Minister has given any thought to that matter and whether he feels that it would be at all practicable? 
     
     
      
       There is a danger that we are letting our feelings run away with our sense of justice in this matter.  There is a danger of the House taking on itself the functions of a court.  The Section as it stands leaves it to the discretion of the court to say whether the penalty is to be without the option of a fine or not, and I think it would be a regrettable thing if the House took away from the court that discretion.  In certain cases   it would be wrong to give the option of a fine without imprisonment, because imprisonment would be the only thing that would be fair and just.  But I do not think the House should say when that situation would arise.  I am in favour of leaving the matter in the discretion of the court. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the penalty, I should think that the penalty certainly for the first offence is quite adequate, and with regard to the remarks of Deputy O'Kelly as to fines, generally the position is this: A fine may be imposed, but take the case of the Justice in the District Court.  The District Justice in deciding when the fine must be paid must have regard in the first instance to the ability of the defendant to pay it. If he considers that the nature of the offence merits the imposition of a penalty of £10, then under the Criminal Administration Act of 1914 he always should have regard to the ability of the defendant to pay.  Only in the case where the defendant is likely to abscond or leave the locality, which does not happen in most cases, does the justice order that the fine should be immediately paid, and as a matter of course when time is asked for the payment of the fine, time is granted to meet the circumstances of the particular defendant.  So I think that under the existing law the court has ample scope to deal with the payment of penalties, having regard to the ability of the defendant to pay. With regard to the second offence, I think that a great deal can be said for having imprisonment in such a case, and not leave it in the discretion of the court to say whether there should be imprisonment or not.  The very nature of the offence prescribed by this section is an offence of a most serious nature against the public generally. If a person has committed an offence once, I think it would be a very good thing for this legislature to declare by this Bill that if he is let off or dealt with at the discretion of the court, then if he commits it a second time there should be one, and only one penalty for the professional man,   manufacturer, merchant or working man.  I would ask the Minister to accept it as six months' hard labour at the discretion of the court. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Kelly in pleading for mercy for motorists drunk while driving a motor car for the first or second time, has unintentionally ignored the facts that the penalty is a maximum penalty; that the justice or the judge, or whoever would try the case, would have a discretion to make the penalty anything from 5/- to £50.  The owner or the owner-driver of a private car may not have any difficulty in paying a fine of £100 for a second offence, while it would be absolutely impossible for the driver of a public vehicle earning £3 a week or so to provide the sum laid down in the section for the second offence.  In the circumstances therefore, such a defendant would have to accept the hospitality of the State in Mountjoy.  I am entirely in sympathy with Deputy Finlay's suggestion that there should be no discretion allowed to the justices to impose a fine in the case of a conviction for the second offence, and that the defendant, whether he be a well-to-do owner-driver of a private motor car or the driver of a public vehicle, should be imprisoned.  The public would welcome his detention in Mountjoy at their expense, because he would be far safer there than to allow him out on the road to commit a third offence.  I entirely sympathise with the suggestion put forward by Deputy Finlay, and I hope the Minister will amend the Bill on these lines. 
     
     
      
       I agree with Deputy Thrift.  I think the intrusion of the term &ldquo;class legislation&rdquo; has been a mistake.  That is founded on a misapprehension. It is hard to make the penalty fit the conditions.  I cannot find any formula that will meet the case and which would be strictly just. The best thing you can do is to give power to the judge to fix the penalty and not bring in an amendment like this which would take it out of his hands.  The phrase used by Deputy Finlay is a very excellent one and I   think it ought to dominate this discussion. The nature of the offence of a man driving a motor car is not at all the same as say the case of a man losing his temper. 
       In the case of a man driving a motor car while under the influence of drink there has been very definite conscious preliminaries.  The man has deliberately put himself in the position of being a danger to the public.  The man having once done so and having been convicted he has had his warning. He is putting himself in that position of being a danger to the public and under these circumstances I would say that he should have to take the consequences.  Such a man is taking a serious responsibility in driving a public vehicle at all.  When the man knows that he cannot keep off drink then it is for him to keep off the motor car driving.  The one thing that I do object to in Deputy Finlay's argument is the six months.  I think again that this is a question that should be left to the discretion of a judge.  It is the mere fact of imprisonment that will matter and not so much the period of imprisonment.  It is the fact that he has had to undergo imprisonment that makes the radical difference.  I would make it certain on his conviction a second time for this offence that he would be imprisoned, but I would leave it to the justice to say what the maximum period of imprisonment should be. 
     
     
      
       I am in full support of what Deputy Finlay says.  I do not understand what Deputy Flinn says.  Is not that the maximum period in the Bill? 
     
     
      
       No; the suggestion was that the man for the second offence should automatically go to prison for six months.  That was Deputy Finlay's suggestion. 
     
     
      
       It is three months in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I think that Deputy Davin has slightly misunderstood what Deputy O'Kelly was referring to.  I want to support Deputy O'Kelly in this   point, and I do so in spite of Deputy Flinn's fear that we might be discussing class distinctions.  This is my point of view: it is not the first or second offence that I am concerned with; I am concerned, and we are all concerned, with trying to make it as impossible as it can be for any person driving a motor car to be under the influence of drink.  Now there are people who have sufficiently large incomes to be able to laugh at a fine of £50.  It seems to me that that fine for a first offence would not have the same effect on them by way of punishment as a fine of a few shillings would have on a defendant who is earning a small salary or who is a working man. Deputy O'Kelly mentioned that in some countries they measure the punishment by way of fine on the basis of the man's income.  I would like to say that the justices here do that already.  I have had professional men, agents and business men come to me and say: &ldquo;How is it when I go to court for a tail-light charge the justice asks me what is my business, and when I tell him he says, &lsquo;You are fined £2,&rsquo; while another man comes along for the same offence immediately after and the justice says &lsquo;5/-&rsquo;?&rdquo; I can see the sense of that. A fine of 5/- to an ordinary motor driver may be a far greater punishment than a fine of £2 to a professional man or manufacturer.  I say that so far as the second offence is concerned, in the case of drunkenness in driving a motor car, no punishment is too severe.  We should make it as difficult as possible for any man to take the risk of driving a car while under the influence of drink, hoping that he may escape an accident.  There should be some way of thinking out a method of making an arrangement so as to have it that for the first offence the man who is able to laugh at a fine of £50 should be made to feel the punishment.  Sometimes a wealthy man will no more feel that fine than some of us would feel a fine of 5/-.  In the case of the first offender, unless there is a definite criminal activity on the part of the driver the Justice is not going to send him to prison.  He is going to fine him the maximum.  I join with Deputy O'Kelly in asking the House to consider   that the punishment for drunkenness in driving a motor car should be made as severe as possible in the case of the driver of a car, taking into consideration that in inflicting the punishment the rich man will be made feel it just as severely as the poor man. 
     
     
      
       I want to say what impression the discussion has made on me.  What I propose to do on the Report Stage is this: As the Bill now stands, there is no discrimination between the different classes of punishment.  To some extent Deputy O'Kelly has been answered with regard to the point of means.  £50 and £100 are maximum fines, and it is in the discretion of the justice to make the fine as low as he cares after having considered the merits of the case and the circumstances of the person charged.  I propose to leave that £50 and that £100 there stand as maximum penalties for the first and second offence.  If Deputies think that they would like to raise these figures, they can put down amendments embodying their views.  In the same way the three and six months' imprisonment figures can be considered.  I propose to leave these maximum penalties there.  My judgment goes on the line of the matter that Deputy Thrift suggests&mdash; that we should leave it to the justice to say whether the case is such even for a second offence that imprisonment is right.  If there are Deputies who consider that for a second offence there should be on conviction compulsory imprisonment they can think that matter over and put down an amendment. I would not propose from my side here to make it compulsory imprisonment for the offence, when the justice is there to give consideration to the matter, and to use his discretion. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider that where the offender on his first conviction had been fined the maximum amount, and he had received the maximum punishment, that on a second conviction such an offender would be open to the maximum imprisonment? 
     
     
     
      
       The justice is there to deal with the whole circumstances on the second conviction, and he has the record of the defendant. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is aware that if it goes out that the House is considering this, and that a very serious view is taken by the House of drunkenness in charge of a motor car, it may have this effect, that persons will not take the chance of being convicted and imprisoned? 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister be prepared to leave it to a free vote of the House to say whether there should be compulsory imprisonment? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I am leaving it to the House to come to what conclusion it wishes. 
     
     
      
       The House appreciates the spirit in which the Minister is trying to meet its views on this matter. 
     
     
      
       Before the section is put may I call the Minister's attention to some curious phrasing in sub-section 4, which reads: &ldquo;Whenever a member of the Garda Siochana is of opinion that an offence.  ...has been committed in his view...&rdquo; and so on.  Is the intention there to say &ldquo;within sight of the Garda&rdquo; or in his opinion?  Is the phrase &ldquo;in his view&rdquo; an alternative for &ldquo;in his opinion&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       I will say that it is in his sight. 
     
     
      
       I think it would want to be looked into. 
     
     
      
       On the matter of the point raised by Deputy Moore, let us take the case of a Garda going down the street; the offence is one of driving a motor car while the driver is intoxicated, and the Garda going down the street does not see the man driving the motor car but he sees him getting out of the car, he sees the condition of the man getting out of the car, and the Garda has reason to believe that an offence has been committed. 
     
     
      
       The point was whether the phrase &ldquo;in his view&rdquo; means in his   sight or in his opinion.  If it means in his opinion it is tautology.  There would be a redundancy there.  The only meaning that one can read into it is that it is within his sight. 
     
     
      
       It is within his sight and I understand that the phrase has been used in previous legislation.  We can take a note of the matter and have it made perfectly clear. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 27 and 28 stand part of the Bill"&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 29. 
       (2)  Whenever a disqualification order is made in respect of a person who is, at the date of such order, the holder of a driving licence, such person shall, within three days after the making of such order, deliver such licence to the district court clerk of the district in which such order was made and such clerk shall thereupon send such licence to the licensing authority by which it was issued and such licensing authority shall retain such driving licence but shall, if the period of suspension under this section of such licence expires before such licence expires, return such licence to such person on demand made after the expiration of such period of suspension and before the expiration of such licence. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 30: 
       In sub-section (2), line 25, to delete the word &ldquo;three&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;five.&rdquo; 
       I submit to the Minister that the period specified here is rather short. The person might be some distance away.  It is not a very serious point, but I suggest that the three days should be made five.  He might be up in Donegal, and it might take a day even to get notice of the order.  I suggest that the three days be altered to five so as to give a reasonable time for complying with the order. 
     
     
      
       It is the same principle as applies to Section 35.  I have an amendment down dealing with the matter under Section 35, where we suggest seven days. 
     
     
     
      
       I am opposed to it on Section 35.  A disqualification order can only be made when the applicants have been in court and application is made at that particular time.  Normally you would expect a person charged with an offence in connection with this Bill to bring his licence to the court with him.  A publican charged with an offence is bound to bring his licence into court for the inspection of the court.  If we are in a position that a person can be disqualified, and that he is allowed a fairly long period to surrender his licence, abuses may arise. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister explain whether disqualification comes into operation when made or when the licence is surrendered? 
     
     
      
       When made. 
     
     
      
       He is disqualified from holding a licence. 
     
     
      
       Otherwise a person could come into court charged with drunkenness, and could cheerfully drive away, after being disqualified, for a period of three years. 
     
     
      
       The disqualification order disqualifies him, not from driving a car, but from holding a driving licence. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Deputy to put down his amendment again and give me an opportunity of considering it on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       Sub-section (3) allows the court to accept a good reason for non-production within the specified time, but in that case he must have been summoned for non-production beforehand. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister also consider the question of tourists?  We know that a good many of these people come to this country.  They motor away to the West, and leave a considerable part of their luggage behind them, with perhaps the licence.  Take the case of those men. 
     
     
      
       If a person is summoned for the non-production of a licence, then there is provision in the   Act.  If he is challenged by a guard for non-production of a licence it is not an offence.  He can say, &ldquo;I will undertake to produce my licence," mentioning any particular Garda station in the country he wishes, &ldquo;within three days.&rdquo;  He has that protection, but this is a case where a person has actually been disqualified in connection with some particular charge from holding a driving licence.  There are a number of cases in which this question occurs, and if the Deputy puts his amendment down on the Report Stage we will consider it again. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Progress reported. 
       The Committee to sit again to-day. 
     
   
   
     Merchandise Marks Bill, 1931&mdash;Second Stage. 
     
      
       I move that the Bill be read a Second Time.  I would like to get the Second Reading concluded to-night for the reason that I think that discussion of any value that is likely to arise on it will take place in Committee rather than on the Second Reading Stage.  I am assuming that the principle of this measure is one that is going to be accepted by all parties in the House.  The details are the things that will probably require a certain amount of modification. I would invite very serious attention to the various sections and would even invite the putting down of a great number of amendments, because there is considerable argument to be had on details of this measure.  I do not at all hold that the Bill is in its last or best form as it is at the moment. This measure, if it is passed, will supplement the existing legislation on the subject of merchandise marks.  The existing legislation is mainly the Act of 1887, the Act referred to here as the Principal Act.  In addition to that there are three Acts: the Act of 1891, one of 1909, and a third of 1911.  Those three have to deal mainly with prosecutions   and with enforcement of the Principal Act.  Difficulty was experienced in the matter of enforcing the 1887 Act.  These Acts, though they were not completely satisfactory, brought some improvement in the matter of prosecutions.  The 1887 Act is deficient in at least three respects: first, in regard to enforcement, and the method of prosecution; and secondly, its scope is very limited.  It has reference only to false indication of origin.  If goods come into this country, say, without any indication of origin whatsover, there is no possibility of an offence under the 1887 Act.  That Act refers only to false descriptions, to misdescriptions.  The third limitation is this: where there is a false description or a misdescription it is only an offence under the Act if it is, as the words run, &ldquo;applied to&rdquo; certain articles, and by decision the word &ldquo;applied&rdquo; has come to have the meaning of actual physical application. Consequently an advertisement of goods which was not actually and physically attached to the goods could be as false as can well be imagined and yet might not form an offence under the Act of 1887.  However, prosecution and enforcement and the actual physical application are two rather minor points. 
       The main defect of the 1887 Act was that it had reference only to misdescription and that goods that came into this country without any description whatever passed.  That position was even recognised as being an unsatisfactory one as early as 1926 in England, and an amending Bill was introduced there and passed into law.  Our Bill takes up all of the amendment which was carried into the 1926 Act, which does not apply here, of course.  It goes further.  This Bill has reference not merely to a false description of origin, but it goes further, and in certain cases requires a description of origin to be attached to certain goods on their entry into this country, and with regard to every other class of goods allows an application to be made to a Commission to be established under this legislation that certain goods shall not be allowed in, or that no goods should be allowed in unless a definite indication of origin is given. 
     
     
        The first class of goods to which I made reference is that referred to in Section 20 of the Bill&mdash;a certain classification of goods which once the Act is passed cannot be allowed into the country unless there is an indication of origin&mdash;the class of goods to which there is applied either the name of a manufacturer, trader or dealer in Saorstat Eireann or the trade mark of any such person as is previously mentioned, or a mark, emblem or device so closely resembling such trade mark as to be calculated to deceive; or, thirdly, the name of any place, district or area in Saorstat Eireann. 
     Goods marked in any of these three ways cannot come into the country unless, in addition to those markings, there is an indication of origin.  With regard to any other classification of goods, it is open to any body of people substantially interested to make an application.  That application goes through a certain procedure.  It goes before the Commission, who consider it and report their consideration and recommendation to the Executive Council.  The Executive Council may then act.  If the Executive Council does act on the report, and that report is in favour of indication of origin being applied, then to such goods as those to which the order would apply there must be attached some indication of origin.  There is given further power to the Commission, and consequently through them to the Executive Council, to determine the way in which the indication of origin must be given&mdash;the type of lettering, the size, space, where the letters are to be affixed, and so on.  All these are matters of detail, and can be dealt with afterwards. 
     The Bill definitely betters the position with regard to enforcement and prosecution in a variety of clauses. Under Section 21 the Bill makes better provision with regard to what I mentioned as the third defect in the 1887 Act.  Under Section 21 a false representation with regard to origin is interpreted to mean &ldquo;any representation, direct or indirect, and whether verbal or in writing, and if in writing whether used in any advertisement or in any catalogue, billhead or other   document, relating to the goods, or implied in the use of any trade name, or style.'&mdash; I need only glance at the machinery now.  There is to be provision made for people substantially interested making representations to a Commission which is to be established. The Commission considers the application, and reports to the Executive Council.  The Executive Council may act upon the report.  If it does act and establishes a restriction order&mdash; either restriction with regard to sale or restriction with regard to importation&mdash;then that order comes before the Dail, and unless negatived holds, and of course holds until negatived. 
     I should have mentioned earlier that the Bill also meets a further point in which there was a defect in the 1887 Act&mdash;that it not merely applies to importation, but can be made apply to sale also.  Under the 1887 Act, goods might have been brought in properly described and whatever description was on them could be obliterated or removed before sale, so that, on sale, there was no chance of anybody even discriminating as between goods, because whatever indication of origin might have been applied&mdash;though there was no necessity to apply it&mdash; that indication might have been removed before time of sale.  The Executive Council which has the power to make restriction orders has also power to grant exemptions.  There is a special section dealing with that&mdash; Section 11, which is rather an emergency section.  It would only apply in a case in which a restriction order was made and it was established later to the satisfaction of the Executive Council that the restriction either of importation or of sale was doing harm to a body of people interested in the country.  Thereupon, an exemption order might be made.  But if an exemption order is made, the Executive Council refers to the Merchandise Marks Commission the question whether or not the original restriction order should be amended to bring it into relation with the exemption order. There is also provision made for revocation and amendment of restriction orders on previous application to the Merchandise Marks Commission. 
     
        I said that there were certain points that would have to be argued in much greater detail in Committee.  I want to refer to one or two of these.  I call special attention to Section 20, which I read before&mdash;the section which refers to the sale of imported goods bearing the name or trade mark of a Saorstat Eireann manufacturer or trader or bearing the name of a place in Saorstat Eireann.  Representations have been made to us by some Departments and by outside people that there should be a complete prohibition of, say, Irish place names or Irish trade marks on goods that are to be sold here&mdash;that if goods are found coming into this country bearing a name which is an Irish place name or a mark which is a trade mark or a colourable imitation of a trade mark of a particular person manufacturing here, those goods should be prohibited entirely and not, as suggested in the Bill, allowed in if, but only if, accompanied by indication of foreign origin. Even those who make that suggestion admit that there are certain designations which previously had their roots in, say, a place in this country or places elsewhere and that have, by custom and usage of trade, lost the old local significance.  They are now simply classifications of quality.  They are used as descriptions of goods and have no longer any application to the places referred to.  There are instances in the use of the word &ldquo;Balbriggan&rdquo; and certain terms used in connection with lace which previously had their origin here.  They have definitely, by Court decisions, come to be accepted as trade descriptions and no longer have any local significance.  Those who have made representations that goods bearing what are called Irish names should be prohibited entirely and not merely allowed in if accompanied by indications of origin always say that you must exempt such Irish names as have become generic&mdash;that is to say, have lost their local signification and are trade names.  I have put one suggestion in the Bill.  The other suggestion&mdash;a very obvious amendment&mdash;can be argued and the   two points of view will have to be met in this House.  We will see which will commend itself to the Dail.  There is difficulty in connection with this suggestion.  There would be difficulty in connection with the other suggestion. From the point of view of the home consumer, I think it can be argued that the suggestion in the Bill is the better one.  From the point of view of the consumer abroad, from the point of view of holding on to an Irish place name for goods which are not going to be sold here, possibly there is something to be said for complete prohibition.  Under this provision, of course, it is possible that a manufacturer may begin to use an Irish name, accompany that by an indication of origin, and drop the indication of origin if he comes to sell the goods in a market other than in this country. It is a matter that we can argue more in detail on a specific amendment in Committee. 
     A second point, and one akin to that, is the suggestion made that certain emblems and devices which are historically connected with this country should also be prohibited on goods.  I have no objection to including a list and saying either that these shall be prohibited entirely on foreign goods sought to be imported into the country, or else allowed in only if there is a definite indication of origin.  The difficulty is to get a list.  That is either a lengthy list, a list that will commend itself to people, or an exhaustive list. One's mind turns immediately to the shamrock, the harp, and other devices like that.  The difficulty is that in the course of trade these things have become attached to certain manufactures outside this country entirely.  There is also the difficulty that people have got into the habit of attaching to goods produced here certain other devices not related to this country, and there is the definite likelihood of conflict of an international type being created on this matter.  However, the emblem matter can be dealt with.  If the Dail decides that, it can draw up a list that is suitable and is nearly as exhaustive as we want it to be; then that list can be incorporated. 
     
        The third thing on which there is a certain amount of divergence of opinion, even amongst Departments, is in connection with Section 21.  Section 21 is the section which enlarges false representation in the single matter of misdescription of origin, and enlarges it to representation, whether direct or indirect, whether verbally or in writing, whether by way of advertisement or physically applied, or even verbal representation.  It has been urged that that section should be made to extend to a variety of other matters. In the 1887 Act, trade descriptions, if false, are made an offence, and the term &ldquo;false trade description&rdquo; is defined in this way: any description, statement or other indication, direct or indirect, as to the number, quantity, measure, gauge, or weight of any goods; as to the place or country in which goods were made or produced; as to the mode of manufacturing or producing any goods; as to the material of which any goods are composed; and as to any goods being subject to existing patent, privilege, or copyright.  Let me take out two.  The 1887 Act applies to the number, quantity, measure, gauge, or weight of any goods, and to the material of which the goods are composed, in this limited way: that if a false description is given with regard to these things and it is physically applied to the article, then there is an offence.  Now we are taking false description or misrepresentation, and, keeping it still inside a framework of false description of origin, we extend the representation so as to include representation not merely physically applied to the goods, but also if it is verbal or in writing, or used in any advertisement.  It has been urged upon us that that enlargement should be applied also to, say, misdescription with regard to material. The suggestion even has been made that we should really enlarge the criminal offences under the 1887 Act as amended by this Bill, and make it an offence for an assistant in a shop verbally to say that goods were woollen when, in fact, they were a mixture of wool and something else.  That, I think, is pushing the verbal representation too far.  That is the only guiding   line I can throw out in relation to this matter, that it is impossible in a Bill of this sort to multiply in any very large way the number of criminal offences until one has got an indication that the practice which it is intended to render a criminal one is widespread and doing harm to consumers of any type.  We leave for the moment the enlargement at verbal representation on the matter of false representation with regard to origin, and that only. 
     These are the main matters on which I wish to speak.  As I say, I think the Bill is an important one, on which there can be a more valuable discussion in Committee, because, as I said, I take it that the principle of the extension of the merchandise marks idea to the marking of the country of origin is one likely to be readily accepted by the House, and it is only a matter of how far it should be extended.  I have mentioned three points in which certain good arguments, but not sufficiently weighty arguments, to my mind, have been put forward in favour of extension. We shall leave it at this stage for the moment.  I even invite amendments on the three points mentioned, so that specific amendments can be discussed. 
     
      
       I do not know if there is much left for me to say.  The Minister has made a much more effective speech in criticism of this measure than I could attempt.  He has indicated quite a number of sections in which the measure can be deemed to be ineffective, and has suggested that amendments might be attempted in the Committee Stage.  The Bill was only circulated last Tuesday, and we have not had much time to consider it and no time to discuss it amongst ourselves. Speaking for myself, I regard it as a most disappointing measure.  There has for a long time been a public demand for the introduction of a Merchandise Marks Bill, first of all for the protection of Irish industries and the consuming public by requiring imported goods to be marked with the country of origin; and, secondly, to protect the consuming public against false descriptions by a tightening up of the law in that respect. The Bill goes some distance towards   doing that, but I suggest that it does not go nearly far enough.  The Minister has explained that there are two classes of goods to which it relates, and he has dealt at considerable length with those covered by Part IV of the Bill. He also suggested what the alternative policy to that embodied in Part IV is. Having heard that policy, and having read the Bill, I think Deputies can only conclude that the alternative is much better than the proposal. 
       It is suggested to me that it should be made illegal and an offence to sell imported goods bearing the name of a manufacturer or a trader in the Free State, or a trade mark or Irish place name likely to be calculated to deceive as to the origin of the goods unless there is a clear indication of the place of origin.  I think it would be much better for the Dail to take up the attitude that the importation of goods bearing Irish place names or devices calculated to deceive as to the place of origin, or any mark or description which might have the same effect, should be definitely prohibited.  It would, of course, probably be difficult to prevent the importation of goods bearing the name of a manufacturer or a trader, but in such cases the manner in which the indication of origin is to be applied would have to be very clearly determined.  Cases have been known for example where the indication of origin was given in the Irish language, which is, of course, the official language here, and presumably no objection could be raised.  If goods were imported here with a clear indication on them that they were made in England or Czecho Slovakia or Russia, or somewhere else; if that indication were printed in the Irish language, it would be taken as an indication of Irish origin by the majority of Irish purchasers. 
     
     The clear course I think for us to take is to make it as difficult as possible for any one to deceive the in tending purchaser as to the place of origin of any class of goods.  We should definitely bar out these imports with shamrock emblems or harp emblems, or any other such like emblems on them.  I see that Deputy   Byrne laughs at that, but I was not referring particularly to him. 
     I think also the Minister was not correct in stating that those who have been demanding the adoption of that are all prepared to make the exception he suggests in favour of such trade descriptions as Balbriggan hosiery, or Limerick lace or anything of that kind. The organisations that exist for the development of Irish industry, and the exploitation of the national trade mark have always contended, and endeavoured by legal action to secure, that these descriptions should apply only to goods produced in the places indicated.  I think the State should take up the attitude and provide so far as it is possible to provide that these descriptions shall only be applied now to the cases in which they were applied originally, that is, to goods produced in these places.  If we took that action here it would have some effect abroad as well. 
     We will, of course, as the Minister stated, have opportunities for discussing these things in greater detail in Committee, and it will be our concern to see that amendments are submitted which will make that possible.  Before leaving that section I would like to deal with the other aspect of the matter, that is, the necessity to protect purchasers against false descriptions, not necessarily false descriptions of origin, but false descriptions of any kind in relation to articles offered for sale. There is a provision, as the Minister stated, dealing with such descriptions in the Act of 1887.  He also informed us that that particular Act was defective in the method of enforcement contained in it.  Any one engaged in business in Dublin or in any part of this country knows that misleading descriptions are frequently applied to particular classes of goods&mdash;descriptions which might be from one angle considered accurate, but which in effect do mislead the public, particularly as to the materials contained in the goods they are purchasing.  I think that Section 21 of this measure, which makes it an offence to give a false representation, either verbally or in writing or in any way, as to the country of origin of particular   goods, should be extended to apply also to a false representation in respect of the nature of the goods themselves. 
     However, in my opinion, the principal defect in this Bill is in the earlier parts of it.  Part IV does impose certain restrictions upon the sale&mdash;not the importation, but the sale&mdash;of goods bearing the name of a trader or an Irish trade mark or an Irish place-name.  But there are a large number of varieties of goods imported which do not bear the traders' names or the place-names or the trade marks, and which should be stamped with the place of origin, for the purpose of protecting the home producers.  It is, I think, generally believed that if the indication of origin was put clearly upon such goods the sale of them would be restricted here and a measure of assistance given to home producers.  Part III of the Bill does purport to deal with that situation, but it deals with it in a most ineffective manner.  It would be much better if the Minister had taken to himself the right to impose these restrictions upon the importation or the sale of those goods by order, subject subsequently to the approval of the Dail, rather than this elaborate and ineffective measure of a Merchandise Marks Commission to be set up. 
     It is impossible to avoid making comparisons between this Commission and the Tariff Commission.  The procedure here for establishing the Merchandise Marks Commission is similar to that in the original Tariff Commission, although in respect of the Tariff Commission the procedure has been modified since.  There must be application by persons who are representatives of persons engaged in the production, manufacture, or sale of the goods concerned.  An organisation like the Industrial Development Association or an organisation of a similar kind cannot, apparently, act in the matter and bring the case to the notice of the Commission.  It must be persons engaged in the manufacture or sale of the goods who are prepared to organise themselves for the purpose and pay a fee, which may be a substantial fee, up to £100.  If it is possible to get persons concerned to organise themselves and that they are willing to   make the application and that they are willing to pay a fee and that they are willing to bear the legal expenses involved, then the Merchandise Marks Commission will consider their case. And when they have considered their case they will report to the Executive Council, which may or may not act upon their recommendation.  It is noticeable that it is much easier, as this part of the Bill now stands, to secure a modification or annulment of an order than to secure its enforcement or enactment. The Executive has taken to itself the power to refer to the Merchandise Marks Commission the question of modifying or revoking an order, but it has not the power to refer to the Merchandise Marks Commission the question of applying the order.  It seems to me it would be much better if the Merchandise Marks Commission is to be retained at all that the procedure should be turned round and that the Executive should have it in its power to take the initiative and should be prepared to bring particular cases to the notice of the Commission and get them to report on them.  But the alternative procedure, which would be to abolish this Commission altogether and to get the effective power into the possession of the Department of Industry and Commerce, is the one that appeals to me.  I do not know whether it would be possible for a private Deputy to draft amendments to the Bill which would have that effect.  It would require very considerable amendments to produce that result, and I certainly think the Dail should be given the opportunity to consider that particular matter as distinct from all the other matters affected by the Bill. 
     In that connection, I notice that there is a description in Section 1 of imported goods which appears to me to be unsatisfactory.  The section says: &ldquo;The expression &lsquo;imported goods&rsquo; does not include goods produced or manufactured in Saorstat Eireann which after exportation were brought into Saorstat Eireann, including any such goods which have undergone outside Saorstat Eireann any treatment or process not resulting in a substantial change in the goods." There is a certain looseness of phrasing   there which may permit some of the most serious abuses now existing to continue.  An example was given in one of the daily newspapers within the last couple of days.  Deputy Doherty may be able to confirm this. A short time ago there was a very considerable industry in Donegal in the embroidering of Irish linen.  In certain parts of West Donegal a large number of families were maintained almost entirely from the income derived from work done in the household in the embroidering of Irish linen.  Recently, however, a practice has de-developed of sending bales of linen out to the Far East, particularly to China, to be embroidered there. These are sent back and sold in this country under the description of &ldquo;Irish linen, hand-embroidered,&rdquo; which is a perfectly accurate description, although likely to mislead some people. In the definition of imported goods contained in this section, if that definition is adopted, it would seem possible for that practice to be continued. Linen embroidered in China would be still sold here under that description, and the prospect of reviving the industry delayed, if not killed.  I know that those engaged in it are anxiously awaiting the production of this measure in the hope that it will give them the opportunity that they want to revive the industry.  Its revival would be of very great importance in the districts affected. 
     There is one other matter that I would like to mention at this stage. The Minister stated that the 1887 Act was defective in a number of matters, and particularly in that it did not contain within itself adequate machinery for the enforcement of its provisions. I think that to some extent that criticism would apply to this Bill as well. There is machinery provided for the enforcement of restriction orders in respect of foodstuffs.  Apparently the machinery in that respect is quite adequate, but it is not at all clear what machinery there will be for enforcing such restriction orders in respect of other classes of goods.  Section 24 provides that upon information   received a district justice may issue an order authorising a member of the Civic Guard to enter premises and seize any goods found there which are contrary to the restriction order, but there is nothing to indicate how the information regarding a breach of the order is to be brought to the notice of the district justice. It seems to me that the Bill requires substantial improvement in that respect. Apparently the intention is that private individuals will inform when breaches of the regulations are brought to their notice, but I think it is not at all satisfactory that we should have to rely upon private individuals to act in the matter.  A special officer of the Minister should be appointed to enforce such orders, or some such power should be given to the Civic Guard in the matter.  It is not desirable, I agree, that members of the Civic Guard should at all times have power to enter a business establishment and inspect the stock, but some other machinery, other than that provided in the Bill, would seem to be necessary if restriction orders are to be made effective in respect of the sale of goods.  Of course, orders made in respect of the importation of goods are easily enforceable. 
     It is in relation to the sale of goods that the abuses arise.  I know one particular case that came under my notice where goods bearing an Irish place-name, as well as the name and address of a trader, were imported with adhesive labels attached indicating that they were made in England. The importer of the goods merely detached the labels and was enabled to sell the goods without any label, and possibly to so represent them as having been produced within this country. These are the main matters arising out of the Bill that occur to me at this stage as a result of the brief examination that it was possible to give the Bill; but I would ask that the Committee Stage should not be rushed, so that we will have ample time to prepare the many amendments which we think will be necessary. 
     
      
       I do not propose to say very much at this stage in connection   with this Bill, except to compliment the Minister upon at least having made an effort to make up for most if not all of the defects of the Act of 1887.  A good deal has been said about trade descriptions.  I am at one with Deputy Lemass when he suggests that certain trade names such as &ldquo;Shamrock,&rdquo;&ldquo;Harp,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Colleen,&rdquo; which are well-known Irish trade names, are being applied to commodities of foreign origin.  I realise that one of the chief difficulties the Minister will be up against will arise on the section dealing with trade names.  I am interested in many ways in this Bill.  I am not at all satisfied that Section 9, which deals with the contents of restriction orders, goes far enough.  Sub-section (1) (a) of Section 9 suggests that at least one form of indication of origin should be borne by such goods, meaning imported goods.  I will be anxious to hear from the Minister at a later stage, after I have had a little more leisure to study the Bill, what the position will be with regard to imported printed stationery.  There is absolutely no doubt that a good deal of the imported printed stationery comes here bearing no imprint or other indication to show its place of origin. Some of the greatest offenders in that respect are the Church people in this country.  We have a number of prayer-books circulating here that do not show their place of origin very clearly. For instance, it will be stated on the first page that the book is published by a publisher in Saorstat Eireann, but in very small type in some other part you will find the legend, &ldquo;Printed in Saxony&rdquo; or &ldquo;Printed in Germany.&rdquo; I suggest that the work of Irish craftsmen should be good enough for Irish Christians.  I do not care whether they are Catholics, Protestant or any other religion. 
     
     I have examined the Bill cursorily, and I do not feel that the position I have indicated is fully met by it. Part IV deals with other restrictions in relation to imported goods. Amongst other things it is suggested that the name of the manufacturer, trader or dealer in Saorstat Eireann should be attached to them.  I feel that the Minister's attention should be   drawn to the custom which has hitherto prevailed, particularly in regard to what I consider to be an evasion of the old Merchandise Marks Act of 1887.  A box, bale, or other container of books or commercial printing is imported, and on the outside of the box would be painted in pretty large letters the place of origin, but inside there would be no indication whatever of the place of origin. 
     I admit that this Bill as drafted goes some way to meet that complaint, but I feel also, with Deputy Lemass, that the Minister here has not shown the courage that he usually shows in other matters.  I feel that this Commission which he proposes to set up under Part II of the Bill is quite unnecessary, and that the Minister should be invested with all the powers which he suggests should be given to this Commission. One can easily envisage what may happen in such circumstances.  A complaint is lodged with the Commission. It takes some time to get the Commission to deal with that particular complaint.  In the meantime further stuff is coming in.  Possibly the Minister will reply, that it will be held up by the machinery at the Custom House, but in any case the machinery will be unwieldy and, above all things, the principal defect I see is that it will be slow.  I suggest that we have machinery enough in the State to deal with matters of this kind. We have Customs Depots without establishing any further State Departments in Saorstat Eireann. 
     
      
       Has the Deputy any experience of the delay in getting goods through the Customs? 
     
     
      
       I have. 
     
     
      
       Do you think it would be practicable to have the Customs deal with this matter, in view of traders' experience? 
     
     
      
       I have no doubt it would have to be speeded up.  If Deputy Byrne, who preaches the doctrine of economy in this House so often, wants another State Department brought into being, he is welcome to it, but I hope that in future, when it is proposed to set up some further   Department of State with inspectors, etc., that he will not attack the Government for following a similar policy.  I feel that the Minister has in some way met many of the objections raised from time to time in the printing industry against imported printing.  It is not at all times true to say that non-printing importers are the chief importers, because it is the experience of printers in this country that many persons are touting for orders.  Even employing printers themselves are importing a good deal of their stuff.  If this Bill did nothing else but to put a stop to that sort of practice it will have done good and useful work.  I may have something to say at a later stage on the Bill, and I only desire to say now that I am pleased that the Minister has introduced it. 
     
     
      
       I am inclined to agree with Deputy Lemass that it would be far better for the Minister to take through the Department of Industry and Commerce, the line of total prohibition against certain methods adopted in the importation and sale of goods rather than by a development of this Bill.  I would like to ask the Minister if he has thought of the difficulties that may arise if his invitation to other members to introduce amendments to enlarge the scope of the Bill were taken advantage of.  It struck me that the Minister rightly said that it was wrong to permit foreign goods to come into this country with Irish trade marks in the sense of being trade marks showing Irish places or particulars peculiarly adaptable to Ireland, which might mislead and give people the idea that the goods were made in Ireland.  On the other hand, side by side with that, is the Minister going to take power to prohibit foreign firms registering trade marks in the Free State&mdash;Irish trade marks.  If he is, how is he going to deal with it?  Supposing, at the present time, in the trade department, foreign firms have registered their articles with a trade mark such as the Shamrock or Killarney, are they going to be allowed to continue the use of that   trade mark and, if so, has anybody else the right to use that trade mark? It may not be as difficult as I think, but I would like the Minister to consider that to see what he has to say about it.  I do not know whether I understood the Minister properly in stating that, distinct from the misrepresentation in regard to a trade mark on the article, a section of the Bill deals with misrepresentation which is not physically attached to the article itself.  I want to know does the Minister mean by that, that in the ordinary advertising sense, even in conjuction with Irish goods, any misrepresentation in an advertisement will be criminal under the Bill.  That can be developed very far, because a lot may depend upon opinion.  Is the Minister going to say that if a tram ticket says that somebody's hat will fit well and will wear well, that that might be construed as misrepresentation because that is a matter of opinion?  It might not be the opinion of somebody who is wearing it. 
       Against that again you have certain articles sold here, and they may be imported, such as electrical commodities. It may be the Electricity Supply Board that imports them, They may advertise electric irons.  They may say that the electric iron can be used at such and such a cost, and we may find that the number of hours for which they state that that particular iron can be used at a certain cost, is exaggerated. Can they be dealt with?  Is that the particular class of misrepresentation that the Minister wants to stop?  You deal with the sale of goods as well as with the importation of goods.  You may be able to deal with the shopkeeper in regard to certain articles that come under the Bill, but what about the restaurants?  Are you going to make the restaurants put on the table a menu stating that certain articles are Irish produce, and other articles are not Irish produce?  I foresee that if you allow the Bill to be developed too far you will have to go into every detail. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy ought to try to convert Deputy Lemass on that point. 
     
     
     
      
       I agree with Deputy Lemass. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is arguing against him. 
     
     
      
       What the Minister is trying to do cannot be done.  I want something that will be done. 
     
     
      
       I do not intend to do it. 
     
     
      
       That is the trouble. What we want is that something should be done to stop certain practices that the Bill pretends to stop.  The Minister has got into such a condition that he invites us to make it so big in many principles that the whole thing becomes impossible. 
       What Deputy Lemass wants is that you should confine yourself to certain things rather than take on an unwieldy commission.  His point is that you should prohibit certain things as being wrong, and definitely stand over that. Let us take the question of bacon as an example.  We have described as &ldquo;home cured&rdquo; bacon what is really foreign bacon.  Deputy Lemass referred to the embroidered articles that come from China.  Is the Minister going to insist that such goods when placed on sale will have their country of origin stamped upon them?  You may find that after half of the goods have been sold the other half will not bear any mark.  How are you going to regulate that?  Will you make any effort to stop concerns outside the Free State from registering here or using Irish trade marks?  We want to see that Irish produced goods will have proper protection, and that foreign goods will not be sold as Irish goods by misleading marks or misleading references to them when they are advertised in the Press. 
     
     
      
       The main point that was made by Deputy Lemass had reference to Section 20 of the Bill.  I take it what he was seeking to cover was the question of deception.  In the mere matter of deception, this Bill is a one hundred per cent. proposition. There may be tedious machinery to be gone through, but as far as deception   is concerned it can be completely and entirely prohibited.  The Deputy, in conjunction with the word deception, talked about the harp device on some goods.  Surely if there is a harp and if there is around it in such a way that no person even of the most illiterate type can fail to see them, symbols of another type, an indication which a person able to read can certainly not fail to understand, made somewhere else, one cannot complain of deception.  There may be complaint about the use of an Irish emblem, but as far as deception is concerned, if the Merchandise Marks Commission finds a particular class of goods coming in with a harp device, it can make a regulation that if there is the harp device there must be printed round it some words bearing relation to the device which completely overshadows it.  There may be a complaint about the prostitution of the Irish emblem, but there can be no complaint about deception.  This Bill gives the means to get 100 per cent. proof against any deception. 
     
     On the other point, as to the use of these terms, Deputy Lemass holds that we should be thoroughgoing, that we should really not bother very much about the processes of trade, the delicate machinery or the interruptions there may be in it.  Let us just prohibit. Prohibit what?  Irish place-names, devices that indicate Irish origin?  I understood the Deputy by implication to refer to the use of Irish characters or Irish phrases.  Where is this going to stop?  If we do advance along these lines and act in a thoroughgoing way on that suggestion, adopted in its entirety, where are we going to stop?  What is going to be the result if there is something attempted in the way of rationalisation?  How many things are there in common use the names of which can be derived back to some locality?  We use the words &ldquo;Irish tweeds.&rdquo;  What about the word &ldquo;tweeds&rdquo;?  Has it any local significance? The word &ldquo;mackintosh&rdquo; used to be familiar.  I do not know whether it is completely gone out of use.  The word &ldquo;ulster&rdquo; used to be used, and &ldquo;cheviots&rdquo; used to be used.  I think even the word &ldquo;linen&rdquo; can be brought   back to a town; certainly &ldquo;damask&rdquo; can.  Are all these going to be prohibited? Suppose we prohibit such names as Carrickmacross, or Balbriggan or Limerick.  Limerick as far as England and the Continent are concerned has been nowhere regarded as having any significance in relation to the town that we know by that name.  I should say that every time you get ham served to you as Limerick, it is a thousand to one that it comes from somewhere in Yorkshire.  There is another side to this.  You can go ruthlessly ahead on that course and leave the results to follow.  I think it would be much better to confine ourselves to a number of devices which have not yet lost their local significance and which have not gone into the generic class.  Let us concentrate on such things.  There is a manufactory in this country established in the last ten years, and it is doing quite a good business, a Belgian lingerie business. Is the use of the French term to be prohibited?  If we make a prohibition against the French for using Irish names or Irish characters there may be retaliation.  These and other points will have to be considered on specific amendments when they are put up in Committee. 
     Similarly with regard to the extension of Section 21.  Again the simple, blunt and straight-forward thing to do is to let us have this extension and deal with misrepresentation with regard to quality and everything else verbally and otherwise.  You will then get into the dilemma that Deputy Briscoe got into.  What about the hat he has described as being so easy to wear?  Who is to judge?  Deputy Lemass wants my Department to be the judge.  The Department is going to be set up as the arbiter of taste and fashion and what should be easy to wear for Deputy Briscoe.  The Deputy might not consider easy to wear what we would suggest. 
     The machinery is objected to.  That is a matter that can be attended to in the Committee Stage.  I do not mind the implications cast upon the Executive Council.  I want to point out difficulties.  Deputy Anthony   talked of stationery.  A thing that occurs to my mind in connection with stationery is such a thing as a bag of nails.  Is it believed that my Department has within its personnel people who are able not merely to decide whether there ought to be an indication of origin, but what is the proper way in which to apply it?  Are we to have something in regard to origin applied to every sheet?  When we get the nails what is going to happen? 
     
      
       I said printed stationery. 
     
     
      
       I am extending it. The Deputy did not refer to nails at all.  Unless we can get expert people, people knowledgeable in the trade who can understand the difficulties, I do not think we can get anywhere. We will merely blunder in and do fatuous things by way of making regulations. We will not get the regulations properly associated with the difficulties in a particular trade unless we have people expert in that trade. It seems to me if there will be exceptional cases of a simple type in which the Department will of itself know that they ought to be stopped we will refer these on our own to the Commission and we will get the Commission to look into them at once. 
       Ordinarily speaking, the Department or the Merchandise Marks Commission will not be able to decide unless they can get people expert in the trade to warn them as to the difficulties with regard to the method of marking, the type of marking, the characters and so forth.  There are an enormous lot of details which will have to be dealt with if the Commission is to do its work properly and you can only have these details attended to when you have people expert in the trade concerned with the application. 
     
     Deputy Lemass referred to a loose piece of drafting.  I think it must be loose reading or reasoning on his part with regard to the particular example he gave.  He said that the expression &ldquo;imported goods&rdquo; does not include a piece of linen manufactured here, possibly cut out into certain squares and sent to China for certain embroidery,   and coming back here.  Surely that does not follow.  This is the definition of &ldquo;imported goods&rdquo;: &ldquo;goods produced or manufactured in Saorstat Eireann which after exportation were brought into Saorstat Eireann, including any such goods which have undergone outside Saorstat Eireann any treatment or process not resulting in a substantial change in the goods." When you consider a piece of linen sent out, and the stitching, hemming and embroidery done outside, taking it on the mere question of value, on its return it would come within this definition. It has undergone a treatment or process resulting in a substantial change, and that would bring it within the category of imported goods. 
     As to penalties and endorsements, we decided to abolish the older Acts, the 1891 and the 1909 Acts.  We have Sections 30 and 31, which allow for prosecutions either by myself or the Minister for Agriculture.  As to whom we will get to inform us, that is surely a matter for departmental regulation. The Trade Board inspectors or inspectors of the Department of Agriculture might easily be utilised for the purpose of finding out what is happening and laying information which we would have to have before a prosecution takes place.  We give to two Ministers the power to prosecute &ldquo;in respect of any offences under the Principal Act or any offence under this Act," in cases which appear to affect the general interests of the country. 
     These were the main points that were dealt with.  I am prepared to open up a discussion and have quite a lengthy discussion on the matter of the emblems, the devices, the use of place-names, and so on.  I would not like the impression to get abroad that the simple thing to do is to prohibit absolutely goods with Irish emblems on them.  I simply want to indicate some of the difficulties that would flow from that practice.  I am not at all sure that there is not some intermediate stage between what is contained here and the complete prohibition suggested.  If Deputy Lemass puts down a specific amendment we can whittle down one against the other and arrive at some solution.  Having heard the arguments,   I think that although there is a danger in Section 22 as it stands, it will be found to be more serviceable to the whole Irish community.  It may not do all the good wanted, but it will avoid unnecessary harm to goods produced here and sent outside. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be read a Second Time"&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Committee Stage to be taken on Wednesday, 18th November. 
   
   
     Road Traffic Bill, 1931&mdash;Committee Stage (Resumed). 
     Section 29 to 32 agreed to. 
     SECTION 33. 
     (1)  Whenever a driving licence (hereinafter referred to as the new licence) is granted under this Part of this Act to a person who is at the time of such grant or was previously thereto the holder of a driving licence (hereinafter referred to as the previous licence) which was endorsed under this Part of this Act, the licensing authority granting the new licence shall (unless such person has become entitled under this section to receive a driving licence free from endorsement) endorse on the new licence a copy of the endorsement or every endorsement on the previous licence, and the new licence so endorsed shall for all purposes be a driving licence endorsed under this Part of this Act. 
     (2)  Where a person who is or has been the holder of a driving licence endorsed under this Part of this Act applies under and in accordance with this Act for a driving licence and satisfies the licensing authority to whom he so applies that during a continuous period of not less than three years ending on the date of such application he has lawfully held a driving licence, and has not had a driving licence held by him endorsed under this Part of this Act otherwise than by a licensing authority endorsing under this section a new licence, the driving licence (if any) granted by such licensing authority to such person on such application shall be granted without any endorsement under this Part of this Act and   shall not be for any purpose a licence endorsed under this Part of this Act and shall, if such person at the time of such application holds an unexpired driving licence and surrenders such driving licence to such licensing authority, commence immediately upon the grant thereof. 
     
      
       I move amendment 31: 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (2), lines 46 and 47, to delete the words &lsquo;a continuous&rsquo; and substitute therefor &lsquo;an aggregate.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
       The idea is that to qualify for a renewal of the licence a man, instead of having a continuous period of three years prior to his application, has had an aggregate period of three years&mdash; that is, a period made up of periods of time with broken intervals&mdash;it should meet the case.  What happens with these drivers is that a man may be in employment for three, four or five months and then be out of employment through no fault of his own for a period of two or three months before he gets employment again.  It has been suggested that we would do an injury to a number of men who might not have continuous employment for three years if we were to keep this clause as it now reads. 
     
     
      
       If that is Deputy Good's point it seems to me that he is going to delete the wrong words. The words he should move to delete are &ldquo;he has lawfully held a driving licence and.&rdquo; Deputy Good's point is that a person might not have had a licence at all during a period and that that should count, as it were, in the three years.  These are the words I suggest he should delete, and I think there is a point in that. 
     
     
      
       It is clear that Deputy Good's amendment does not meet the point he now has in mind. We will have to think over it and see what can be done in order to meet it. 
     
     
      
       I see the Minister's difficulty, but I think the Minister will agree that as the section is at present it would work harshly in certain instances. 
     
     
     
      
       As the section stands at present, if a person who some time at the end of 1925 had an endorsement, held a licence endorsed in the usual way for 1926 and held no licence for 1927, he would have to hold a licence for 1928, 1929 and 1930 before he could get an unendorsed licence.  The Deputy wants to avoid that.  We will see how we can meet it.  I agree that we want to avoid circumstances like that.  As regards a person being in possession of a licence for a period running into three years and no endorsement coming into any part of that period, that he get an unendorsed licence, I will see how we can meet that. 
     
     
      
       I think the deletion of the words &ldquo;he has lawfully held a driving licence and" would meet the point. 
     
     
      
       We will have to examine the matter and think over it. 
       Amendment 31, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Sections 33 and 34 agreed to. 
       SECTION 35. 
       (1)  Any member of the Garda Siochana may demand of any person driving a mechanically propelled vehicle the production of his driving licence, and if such person refuses or fails to produce such licence there and then he shall, unless within three days after the date on which such production was demanded he produces his licence in person to a member of the Garda Siochana at a Garda Siochana station to be named by such person at the time at which such production was so demanded, be guilty of an offence under this section. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 32: 
       (1)  In sub-section (1), line 29, to delete the word &ldquo;three&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;seven.&rdquo; 
     
     In this way we are seeking to extend the time from three days to seven days.  The object of it is that if a motorist happens to be motoring somewhere in distant parts of the country and unfortunately has left his licence behind him, the three days in   which he is bound to produce his licence at a particular place under the provisions of the Bill as they exist are too short to enable him to get, say, from the south-west of Ireland back to Dublin where he might have left his licence; and it has been suggested that the period may be extended from three to seven days without doing any injury.  I do not know what the Minister's view as to this is, but some people think that seven days would not be to much under certain circumstances. 
     
      
       In giving the driver three days of grace in which to produce his licence we are giving statutory effect to a thing which, in fact, has come to be a practice.  Considering the way in which motor-cars are coming to be more and more used for crime of one kind or another and the necessity of being able to identify the driver of a car, I do not think that encouragement of any kind should be given to drivers to drive without having their licences on the car. 
     
     
      
       That is not what it is put here for. 
     
     
      
       To a certain extent I disagree with what is here because I feel that drivers ought to be expected to have their licences with them.  In this section we are giving a concession of three days and the concession is that a driver who does drive without his licence is given three days to produce it at any Garda Siochana station that he indicates; and to extend that period is to extend the amount of want of control over licences that we are going to have, and I think that is inadvisable. 
     
     
      
       I agree with the Minister that a driver should as a matter of practice have his licence with him.  But I suggest the form in which the licence is issued should be changed.  The licence at present is a flimsy slip of paper in which certain particulars are entered.  It is difficult to keep it in the manner which would prevent its being torn or lost.  In the Six Counties a much more elaborate licence with a   cardboard cover is issued, and the motorist has less hesitation in carrying that around with him than in carrying the slip of paper that he gets from the licensing authority in this country. 
     
     
      
       The licensing authority here provides a case. 
     
     
      
       Sometimes. 
     
     
      
       Invariably, I think. 
     
     
      
       They do not last very long. 
     
     
      
       The principle of the motorist carrying his licence with him is one that should be observed, but here the Minister makes provision in this Bill for cases in which that rule is not observed and he allows three days to the motorist as the section stands at the moment to get his licence and produce it at a Garda station.  I spoke a few moments ago of the motorist who finds himself in the south-west of Ireland having left his licence, say, in Dublin.  We know that motorists who come over to this country are very anxious to get rid of all superfluous luggage to the greatest extent they can, and it is their custom to leave their superfluous luggage in Dublin. The provision of such a section as this is to increase the difficulties that arise with these tourists. 
     
     
      
       The tourists are the people that I would give no latitude to, because you do not know how long they are staying here or what they are at. 
     
     
      
       I am one of those who are inclined to encourage tourists and so I would be in favour of relaxing the restrictions and giving them further encouragement.  I am sorry the Minister is not with me in that.  When he does relax the principle in allowing three days for the production of the licence I think he might go a little bit further and if he cannot see his way to making it seven perhaps he would meet us and say five days.  Would the Minister undertake to consider the matter between now and the next stage? 
     
     
     
      
       I will undertake to consider it but I think it is very inadvisable and particularly so in the case of strangers coming into this country about whom we know very little.  I would keep the strictest watch over them, more strict than in the case of other people whom we know and whom we can more easily get after in any case of trouble or difficulty. There is, I understand, a tendency on the part of people outside to get it into their heads that they can come in here with very little respect for our licensing laws and use a motor car here in a way which we do not allow our own people to use it.  I think it is most advisable that that sort of thing would be stopped. 
     
     
      
       This will affect our own people more than it will affect the tourists.  It is all very well for people from Dublin found without their licences.  They can get their licences right away, but take the case of Deputies from Donegal or from Cork or Kerry a long way down and suppose they are here in Dublin and they are asked to get their licences.  Suppose a Deputy in this House is caught driving without his licence.  He has to leave the City next morning for he has only three days in which to get his licence. He has to fly away down the country. What is to happen in the Dail in the meantime? 
     
     
      
       A defeat of the Government perhaps. 
     
     
      
       That would be a serious matter for Ministers. 
     
     
      
       I heard of a car being pulled up by a policeman because the motorist was supposed to be doing something wrong and the policeman was making himself officious about it.  A passenger in the car said, &ldquo;Oh, don't you know this is Deputy So-and-so?" and the policeman replied, &ldquo;Oh, these are the fellows we are trying to get after.&rdquo; Deputies are the people who would not want to plead any period of grace for the production of their licences.  The safeguarding of their licences and producing of them   at the right time is a very proper matter.  I will consider the Deputy's viewpoint. 
       Amendment 32 withdrawn. 
       Amendment 33 not moved. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Professor Thrift I move amendment 34: 
       In sub-section (1), line 31, after the word &ldquo;person&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or by a duly authorised representative." 
     
     
      
       If a person does not present his licence in person there is no means in the world of identifying him or of insuring that the licence is a proper one or that it is used in respect of the person that was actually involved in the driving. 
     
     
      
       I would like to tell the Minister that in the North they do not insist on a person producing his licence in person.  They simply allow you to send it in by post. 
     
     
      
       Then I do not know what kind of identification there can be.  Otherwise we would require a photograph to be on the licence, and unless the licensee is going to be photographed yearly you could not work it if you are to have the photograph as the identification mark.  The licence has to be stamped in such a way as to identify the person by the photograph.  There will have to be a photograph every year in that case. As an alternative all we are asking for is the signature of the licensee. Otherwise I do not know what security or check there is going to be. 
     
     
      
       I cannot agree with that.  In the North of Ireland the rule is that you get your photograph the first time, and one photograph continues for five or six years until your book is exhausted automatically, If you allow a period of one month after the expiration of the licence you must produce a new photograph. There is nothing to prevent the people living on the Border from borrowing from a Free State neighbour his licence.  I have seen it done.  I have seen people on our side of the Border   borrowing a Northern licence.  That was before the introduction of the photograph.  With the borrowed licence they were able to drive into Derry and they were able to do it successfully.  If a Free State driver wanted to go North he borrowed a licence from someone in the locality. Sometimes a firm had a licence which they kept specially, and it was used by different people from day to day.  That continued until the system of the photographs came in.  The signature is not as satisfactory a solution as the photograph.  Men living on the Northern side of the Border, and having occasion to come here, borrowed licences from some of their friends on the Free State side and used them. 
     
     
      
       I feel that the signature system is satisfactory. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       On Section 35 I want an explanation of the phrase &ldquo;refuses or fails to permit.&rdquo;  What is the exact difference between the two words &ldquo;refuses or fails to permit&rdquo;?  How is it that phraseology is used?  How can a person &ldquo;refuse or fail to permit&rdquo; the members of the Civic Guard to read his licence? 
     
     
      
       We will have that examined to see whether there is not a particular significance in the word &ldquo;fail&rdquo; there. 
       Section agreed to. 
       SECTION 36. 
     
     Any member of the Garda Siochana may request any person driving a mechanically propelled vehicle to sign his name in a book and with a pencil to be provided by such member and at the place in such book indicated by such member, and if such person on being so requested and on being provided with such book and pencil refuses or neglects to sign his name in such book or with such pencil or at the place in such book indicated by such member he shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction   thereof to a fine not exceeding five pounds. 
     
      
       I move amendment 35&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To insert after the word &lsquo;vehicle,&rsquo; line 15, the words &lsquo;who is unable to produce his licence on demand.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
       The section has very wide powers and it should not be left at that.  According as it stands one will have to sign his name every time it is demanded. 
     
     
      
       The purpose of the section is to enable the Garda to verify that the person present is the person in respect of whom the licence is held. The licence is produced and the driver is asked to sign his name so that the Garda can compare the signature with the signature on the licence. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be advisable to put in some qualifying term such as &ldquo;if such member of the Garda had reason to suspect that the person is not the licensee"? 
     
     
      
       I do not think there is any necessity for putting it in. The purpose for which the Garda requires the signature is to identify the driver.  He may have no reason for suspecting him.  When he asks the man to write his name that does not mean that he suspects him of not being the person to whom the licence belongs. It is simply a formal matter of verification. I do not want to put the Garda into the position of implying to the person that he asks to produce the licence that he suspects him right off. This is a snap check. 
       Amendment withdrawn. 
       Section agreed to. 
       SECTION 37. 
       (1)  Whenever the holder of a driving licence is convicted of any offence in connection with the driving of a mechanically propelled vehicle he shall, if so requested by the court trying such charge, produce such licence and if he fails to do so he shall be guilty of an offence under this section. 
     
     
        (2)  Whenever an application is made for a special disqualification order the person in respect of whom such application is made shall, if and when so requested by the court hearing such application, produce such licence, and if he fails to do so shall be guilty of an offence under this section. 
     
      
       I move amendment 36. 
       In sub-section (1), line 27, to insert after the word &ldquo;licence&rdquo; the words &ldquo;within three days or such longer time as the court may consider desirable." 
     
     
      
       This amendment and amendment 37 contemplate that when a person holding a driver's licence is summoned for a particular offence under sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) and he is brought before the court on the application of the superintendent asking that he should be disqualified on a particular ground he should be given certain time in which to produce his licence. Surely people who are summoned before the court in these particular circumstances should bring their licences with them.  Otherwise the court is asked to deal with the case without the knowledge as to what kind of endorsements are on the person's licence.  There is no reason why a person so summoned with suitable notice should be allowed to put the court into an awkward position.  He ought to produce a document so that the court can give a satisfactory decision. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister take steps to see that the gist of that section is incorporated in the summons?  In breaches of the Licensing Laws the publican gets notice that he &ldquo;shall deliver up to the clerk of the court the licence.&rdquo; The public are not as well up in these things as we are.  When an ordinary publican gets a summons under the Licensing Laws that is incorporated in the charge and he gets notice of it. 
     
     
      
       Very well.  We   want to put it in the same position as the publican's licence. 
       Amendment 36 withdrawn. 
       Amendment 37 not moved. 
       SECTION 38. 
     
     
      
       With regard to Clause (c), sub-section 1, these fees will be very small in one year.  Why should not the Minister provide now for their disposition without leaving them subject to a regulation?  Surely he ought to be able to make up his mind where they ought to go.  It seems a small matter to leave in suspense.  I think the Dail would be capable of dealing with it if he made a proposal. 
     
     
      
       If we make a regulation as to what persons outside Saorstat Eireann may get licences and put in the fees we may reasonably ask them to pay, the regulations are a suitable place in which to say what should be done with these fees.  Whatever is done with these fees, they are going ultimately to the Road Fund. The disposition of the fee is an ordinary and an intricate part of the general scheme, and there is no reason why we should take them out particularly and make a statute with regard to them. 
     
     
      
       I thought the disposition of such fees as are mentioned here meant the final disposition.  If the Minister says they will go into the Road Fund finally and that &ldquo;disposition" here means the preliminary disposition, I am satisfied. 
     
     
      
       That is so. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister if he proposes to call for a certificate of competency to drive in the case of non-residents? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Why should not nonresidents be put in the same position? I refer to drivers of motor cars. 
     
     
      
       They will be in the same position.  Ordinary drivers of light motor cars will not be called upon for certificates. 
     
     
     
      
       Is it intended that foreign drivers should have a certificate of fitness to drive or should make a declaration? 
     
     
      
       The regulations will provide for that.  The endeavour will be to put them on all fours with our own people so far as that is practicable. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister make such regulations?  It will have to come under sub-section (d).  That means that they would have to be &ldquo;incidental to the grant of such licences.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Yes.  They would have to be incidental to the grant of such licences. 
       Section 38 agreed to. 
       SECTION 39. 
     
     
      
       On Section 39 would it not be advisable if the Minister took power to make regulations for the notification to licensing authorities of any order made for disqualification of a driver? 
     
     
      
       That is provided for elsewhere. 
       Sections 39, 40 and 41 agreed to. 
       SECTION 42. 
       (2)  The following speeds shall be the ordinary speed limits for heavy motor vehicles of which all the wheels are fitted with pneumatic tyres, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  in the case of any such vehicle which is a large public service vehicle&mdash; 
       (i)  if it is fitted with a floor for seating of passengers the whole or any part of which is vertically above the whole or any part of another such floor, the speed of fifteen miles an hour, or 
       (ii)  if it is not so fitted, the speed of twenty-five miles an hour; 
       (b)  in the case of any such vehicle which is not a large public service vehicle&mdash; 
     
     (i)  when it is used for the traction of a vehicle of which all   or some of the wheels are not fitted with pneumatic tyres, the speed of ten miles an hour, 
     (ii)  when it is used for the traction of a vehicle of which all the wheels are fitted with pneumatic tyres, the speed of fifteen miles an hour, 
     (iii)  when it is used otherwise than for the traction of another vehicle, the speed of twenty miles an hour. 
     
      
       I move amendment 38&mdash; 
       In section (2) (a) (ii), lines 15 and 16, to delete all words after the word &ldquo;fitted&rdquo; and substitute therefor the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(a)  within an urban area twenty miles an hour, 
       (b)  outside an urban area thirty miles per hour.&rdquo; 
       The Bill fixes in sub-section (2) an ordinary speed limit for single decker buses of 25 miles an hour without making any distinction between urban and rural areas.  I am sure everybody knows the traffic congestion that exists in cities and urban areas, and will readily admit that in reality the speed must be lower for traffic purposes than 20 miles an hour.  I think it would be a good thing for the Garda authorities, who are held responsible for the regulation of traffic within the urban areas, to have the speed limited more in the urban areas than in the country areas.  For that reason, I hope the Minister will give careful and sympathetic consideration to the amendment which, in reality, is a compromise on the speed fixed in the Bill as it stands. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to accept a general amendment making the speed 30 miles an hour, but I do not say that in general we ought to legislate for different speeds in urban areas and in areas other than urban. It will be the experience of Deputies that as far as 30 miles an hour or 25 miles an hour is concerned, there is no reason why it should be reduced in many urban areas.  As a matter of fact, some of the urban areas are much   more suitable for a 30 miles an hour speed than some of the approaches to them.  I would not care, without hearing a lot more about it, to discriminate between the ordinary speed in an urban area and outside, when we have very full powers to make special speed limits for urban areas as a whole or particular parts of urban areas. 
     
     
      
       I think the difficulty is that the urban area has not the power to fix the speed limit.  The County Council has the power.  If the speed limit was reduced to 15 miles an hour, it would be very desirable. 
     
     
      
       I take the case of Dublin and Cork, because I know them better than other cities.  I think the Minister and his officers, especially the Garda, who are advising him, will have to admit that a speed limit of 25 miles an hour in and around the urban areas must be regarded as dangerous in view of the great amount of motor bus and motor car traffic around these cities and towns.  I thought the Minister would be prepared to admit, for instance, that 30 miles an hour might be regarded as a reasonable speed limit on a good stretch of road in the country.  I cannot see why he should regard 30 miles an hour as a safe speed limit within any urban area at the present time.  I would ask him to reconsider the matter before the next stage, and in the meantime to ask the opinion of the Garda authorities, who are held responsible for the traffic within the urban areas. 
     
     
      
       This is a difficult proposition.  I think it must be admitted that 15 miles an hour in certain urban areas is worse than 25 miles outside them.  On the other hand, I do not think that one would be wise in setting a limit of 15 miles an hour. That might be dangerous to the public. As my friend beside me suggests, it would be much more satisfactory to make it a condition that vehicles should not be driven to the danger of the public.  If the Minister will see that that is provided for, I will be satisfied, but I do not think that there   should be a general idea abroad that it would be possible for a person to drive these vehicles at 25 miles an hour anywhere.  As I already said, 10 or 15 miles an hour in a place of congested traffic would be more dangerous than 25 miles an hour where there is no such congestion.  If there is a provision that people will be prevented from driving at a speed dangerous to the public, I will be satisfied. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy Sir James Craig has overlooked another section of the Bill, where it is provided that keeping within the speed limit will not be a good defence in all charges where a charge of reckless driving is brought.  The driver must have regard to all the circumstance prevailing. 
     
     
      
       Apart from the question of special speed limits in urban areas, is the Minister prepared to consider an increased speed limit for ordinary buses, not provided with double decks, outside urban areas? 
     
     
      
       That is what I am suggesting to Deputy Davin.  I am prepared to accept a proposal that the speed of 25 miles an hour in (a) (ii) should be increased, because I think a reasonable case can be made for that. I am surprised and disappointed that there has been so little examination of these speed proposals by persons in the country who are interested in them.  Not a single motor bus owner has made any representations with regard to the effects these speeds are going to have on his time tables.  I certainly think that the speed of 25 miles an hour is going to have a considerable effect on bus time tables, and that the speeds in the Bill deserve thorough consideration and discussion by Deputies from all parts of the country, associated with the different interests that travel on the roads.  If we set down speed limits here we intend them to be speed limits that will dominate and regulate the movement of traffic on our roads, and not speed limits that will mean nothing.  If we are to have speed limits at all, those speed limits should be enforced.  If they are not   to be enforced they should be removed from the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I maintain that speed limits are absolutely necessary, and I think 25 miles an hour is fast enough. The majority of the roads on which these buses travel were never built for this class of travel at all.  When a bus passes there is barely room left for a horse and cart.  If they travel at more than 25 miles an hour, you will have more accidents than there are at present, and at present we have enough. After all, we must give some consideration to the people who built these roads. They were built by the farming community. It is only within the last few years that any money has been put into them by the Government or the bus owners.  Those roads have been taken from the farmers without compensation. So far as horses are concerned, these roads have been rendered practically impassable.  The Minister suggested that we might possibly have no speed limit.  If that were done, we might have buses travelling at from 30 to 40 miles an hour.  It is enough to have highly paid civil servants travelling at that rate without having buses travelling at it.  I think 25 miles an hour is too fast and is dangerous considering the roads that these buses will be travelling.  The majority of these roads are narrow and are not fit for bus or heavy motor traffic. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): On other occasions I was anxious to make a plea for the pedestrian.  In this case, I am also anxious to make a plea for the pedestrian. It is obvious to anybody who knows the urban districts that there are hidden laneways and side streets from which traffic will come suddenly and a bus travelling at 25 miles an hour will not have much chance of pulling up so as to avoid this traffic. You will have children darting out of hidden laneways, or cyclists coming out of hidden corners.  There is a good case to be made why buses should not go at that rate through urban districts. If the Minister consults those who are acquainted with conditions in the urban districts, he will find that there   is a case for limiting the rushing of buses. 
     
     
      
       What Deputy Davin proposes is to take this 20 miles an hour speed and apply it to a town like Wexford and to apply the same speed to a place like Mullingar or Naas.  I do not think it is necessary for the purpose of fixing normal speed limits to take into consideration that there are in urban districts narrow streets, when, under Section 43, you give powers whereby, on the application of any local authority, and after inquiry, a speed limit for the area of that local authority, or any part of the area of that local authority, can be examined, prescribed and enforced. 
     
     
      
       Section 43 says that the Minister &ldquo;may.&rdquo;  That really means in these cases that the Minister &ldquo;may not,&rdquo; where the public interest is concerned. 
     
     
      
       Is the speed limit for ordinary motor vehicles being fixed at 25 miles an hour on the open road? 
     
     
      
       For heavy motor vehicles. 
     
     
      
       I think 25 miles an hour is not a reasonable speed for motor traffic at the present day.  I suggest that the speed limit be fixed at about 35 miles an hour. 
     
     
      
       This is for buses. 
     
     
      
       Even for buses.  For buses, 35 miles an hour would be as little as you could expect. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy say that it should be the same in the urban as in the rural areas? 
     
     
      
       No.  I said that the speed limit in urban areas should not exceed more than 15 miles an hour. 
     
     
      
       Did you tell the Minister that? 
     
     
      
       I said so. 
     
     
      
       Did the Deputy ever come through Longford at a speed of 15 miles an hour? 
     
     
     
      
       It is perfectly obvious that there ought to be different speed limits for different roads.  There are roads on which you can drive with safety at 70 miles an hour.  There are roads on which you could not safely drive at more than ten miles an hour. 
     
     
      
       I can promise Deputy Flinn that if he drives at 70 miles an hour on some of the roads the Dail will be finished with him. 
     
     
      
       I have driven at 70 miles an hour and quite a number of Deputies here have driven at 70 miles an hour. Members of the Dail have driven from Dublin to Cork in an hour less than the mail train could travel.  And they did it quite safely. 
     
     
      
       I think we should try to make regulations that would have some chance of being observed.  I have in mind a road on which I travel&mdash; between Slane and Dublin.  You can see that road for miles and miles ahead, and to ask any bus driver to confine himself to 25 miles an hour on that road would not be approved by his passengers.  No Deputy travelling with him on that road would say there was the slightest risk in exceeding that limit.  There are corners in urban areas around which the motor driver should go at a much slower speed than 20 miles an hour, or even than 15 miles an hour.  I do not think it is wise for members of this House to set down a limit of 25 miles an hour for bus travelling in the twentieth century. 
     
     
      
       I think that 25 miles an hour will not be observed as a speed limit and that it will only bring the regulations into contempt.  I think that 35 miles per hour would be reasonable. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that there should be no talk about a speed limit for the ordinary car, but simply deal with it under Section 46&mdash;dangerous driving.  I have seen prosecutions succeed where it was admitted by the prosecutor and the witnesses that the speed was only eight miles per hour. 
     
     Yet the man had a stiff fine imposed upon him, as with a narrow street, half the road up, a fair amount of traffic, considering all the circumstances he was driving to the danger of the public. It would be a far better system for   the Guards to work.  I contend that if you put on a speed limit you will tempt an occasional Guard to be out for catches and that it is not a good system.  It is well known that since the 1903 Act was brought in, or a few years afterwards, there was practically no speed limit recognised except where the police wanted to catch somebody and make a case for themselves.  It is well known also that as a general rule the stretches of road on which the police had the measured quarter of a mile were the safest roads where the temptation to speed was brought on by a dead straight road with no obstruction or cross-road.  I say that it is quite sufficient to work under Section 46. 
     
      
       Would Deputy Myles allow Deputy Flying Officer Flinn to go at 70 miles per hour? 
     
     
      
       Might I give an illustration which will bring this home?  In an actual case in which a man was prosecuted for driving a bus too quickly his defence was that he was not driving at all quickly on that road, that the particular stretches on which he was held up were trap stretches, and that for that reason he had to drive slowly, and that the only way he could make up his speed was by speeding on corners. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputies should not look at this matter in an entirely objective way.  If Deputy Myles was ever in a bus he must have seen the panic that prevails as a general rule when high speeds are being done.  Anyone who has travelled in a bus on a country road travelling over 30 miles per hour knows that the great bulk of the passengers as a rule are in dread, especially when turning corners.  It may be all right on a piece of road such as Deputy Haslett referred to&mdash; a long piece of straight road&mdash;but we cannot legislate for that piece of road particularly.  In legislating for the average road you have to take into account the number of turns and the great danger there is on those turns if the vehicle is going at a speed of more than 30 miles.  In my opinion, there is no great need for all this   speed.  After all, we are not so terribly busy in this country that we should look to get people to complete their journeys in record time.  As a rule, people travelling like that are not in such a great hurry that their lives should be endangered in order to gain half an hour or an hour on a long journey.  A speed of 25 miles per hour on a bus will satisfy the great bulk of the passengers and it is for the passengers that the buses are run and it is their feelings that should be considered. Both Deputies Myles and Haslett are private motorists with very little experience of travelling in buses.  If they had that experience I think they would be less enthusiastic for unlimited speeds. 
     
     
      
       I agree with Deputy Moore that the speeding of buses is conducive to great fear in some of the passengers.  During the summer on the Dublin to Howth route there are many competing buses, with the result that speeding takes place.  I have travelled on these buses many times and the speed at which they travelled was terrifying to the women and children. There is a much greater number of buses in England, and Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland than in the Saorstat, and in these places they have found it necessary to impose a speed limit for the rural areas and a lower speed limit for the urban areas.  I believe that we ought to benefit by the experience that they have gained and that the Minister would be well advised to accept Deputy Davin's suggestion. 
     
     
      
       In this Bill we are abolishing the speed limit for private motor cars and retaining the speed limit apparently for omnibuses and commercial cars, which are generally driven by people much more competent and experienced than private motorists. If there is a case for abolishing the speed limit for the private car from the point of view of public safety, exactly the same case can be made for the abolition of the limit in respect of omnibuses and commercial vehicles.  I am strongly of opinion that the putting down of maximum speeds will be of no value from the point of view of public safety, but that, on the contrary, it will   put a wrong idea into the minds of people responsible for the enforcement of the Act.  There are sections here which make it illegal to drive a car dangerously in relation to all the circumstances existing at the time. There is a section which makes it illegal to drive a car carelessly in all the circumstances, and very severe penalties may be imposed on any driver who offends against this section.  What we want to avoid is the driving of cars dangerously or carelessly.  If public safety is what we have in mind, these are the only things we want to avoid. 
       Nobody has any objection to speed in itself if it is not dangerous to the general public and not a source of accidents. I think that if we were only concerned with public safety we should obliterate the idea of maximum speed limits and concentrate our attention and the attention of the Civic Guard upon dangerous driving as such with a view to its elimination.  In the case of omnibuses, however, there are other considerations than public safety which must be taken into account.  A large omnibus driven at a fast pace will very rapidly turn any modern road into potholes, and consequently it is necessary from the point of view of maintaining these roads and reducing the cost of maintenance to restrict the speed of omnibuses and heavy lorries.  The suggestion here, however, is that the restriction should be a maximum of 25 miles.  In my opinion, that is altogether too low, and that if we insist upon 25 miles as the limit the section will become in time inoperative, as the existing provision of a maximum speed of 25 miles is generally disregarded by motorists.  If we want to make laws effective we have in the first place to ensure that they are in line with commonsense. Nobody will suggest that in ordinary circumstances on a modern road a bus travelling at 30 miles per hour is being driven dangerously because of the mere fact that it is travelling at 30 miles.  I do not think it is. I certainly think that we could afford to increase the maximum speed limit here to at least 30 miles without increasing the danger to the public and without increasing the damage to the roads. 
     
     
     
      
       The difficulty in what Deputy Lemass said was really expressed by himself that once you name a speed limit you encourage drivers to travel up to the maximum of that speed.  Nevertheless, while I think that Deputy Myles's arguments were unanswerable as regards ordinary motor cars, I also think he overlooked one point that is vital.  If you leave it possible for buses and heavy motor lorries to travel over the roads at a high speed you will have them travelling at that high speed in a manner dangerous to the public while you will not be able to prove it.  Any motorist accustomed to moderate speed knows the difficulty he finds himself in when those heavy buses and lorries pass him at fast speeds while he is going at a moderate speed.  I often travel at 40 miles an hour and buses and lorries passing make me feel as if I were standing still.  That is done without any regard whatever to the safety of the people in my car.  They often pushed me over to the side of the road in the effort to get by.  That certainly is driving to the danger of the public. There is no Guard to take the bus driver or lorry driver's number and the attention of the private car driver is concentrated on his own car, so that he is unable to take the number of the bus or identify it.  Driving to the danger of the public is possible, if you do not put on a speed limit. I am afraid you are in a dilemma. Deputy Lemass made the point that if you put on a speed limit you encourage drivers to work up to that speed.  On the other hand, if you do not put in a speed limit you will have cases of driving to the danger of the public.  The danger to the public is much more serious from these heavy vehicles with tremendous momentum travelling at a high speed.  It is much more serious in their case than in the case of the ordinary motorist. 
     
     
      
       My opinion is that it is absolutely necessary for the safety of the travelling public that there should be a speed limit for buses and heavy lorries.  I talk to a great many people who travel in buses and they complain of the outrageous and dangerous   speeds to which drivers work up on occasions.  I think it is absolutely necessary, considering the size of some of those buses and the size of the lorries, that a proper speed limit should be fixed for the country and the urban districts and that it is not exceeded. 
       In the case of the private motor driver, it is an entirely different thing. Though we all know that the speed limit is 25 miles an hour&mdash;I think that is the present limit&mdash;any person who would drive decently and would only drive at 25 miles an hour on the roads here would be left standing. 
     
     
      
       They would be arrested. 
     
     
      
       A person going at that speed would see the whole of Dublin pass him by before he got to the end of his journey.  In the case of private motor cars it is not the speed but the way they are managed that is the whole thing.  There should be a proper examination of those who drive motor cars, and although it might be difficult I think it should be done.  If a driver is competent to drive a motor car I do not see there is any necessity fixing a limit at all for private motor car drivers.  The danger in the case of the motor bus and motor lorry is entirely different from that of the private motor car, and the speed in their cases should be fixed for the safety of the public and for all persons using the roads.  The speed should be strictly limited and it should be seen that the limit is kept. 
     
     
      
       I think the statements we have heard here to-night from different Deputies on this matter show how far removed they are from the people they represent.  I think instead of saying that it is government of the people, for the people, by the people, one might say it is government by the rich, for the rich.  I might mention one particular road in my district; it is a main road and an important road.  It is one of those roads where probably Deputy Flinn would experiment at 70 miles an hour. That road is largely used by what we would call in the country successful hucksters in the city who go every Sunday   in the summer down to the seaside. In the five months this summer there have been 11 accidents on that road.  In five out of the eleven cases the unfortunate people injured had no satisfaction to get, because the successful hucksters were no mark. 
     
     
      
       They were not successful hucksters then. 
     
     
      
       Not so successful as you might think.  We heard statements made here about speed limits. Private owners should have no speed limits put upon them according to Deputy Wolfe.  I have seen private owners coming back from the seaside racing three abreast and going at a rate of 40 miles an hour.  I have seen these gentlemen loaded up with &ldquo;John Jameson&rdquo; and &ldquo;Paddy Flaherty&rdquo; so that they were absolutely incapable of driving or of seeing the road they were driving on, and each one trying out the speed of his car.  I suggest that the statement made by Deputy Flinn of driving 70 miles an hour should be sent down to the licensing authority immediately in order to prevent him having a car.  I do not think he should be judged capable of having a car after that.  I am speaking seriously in this matter.  This House is absolutely ignoring the right of the ordinary farmers who pay for building these roads.  We have heard that on a straight stretch private owners can whip along at 70 miles an hour.  These straight stretches of road have boreens leading off them out of which the farmers have to drive their cattle across the roads.  It is no harm of course if a cow belonging to a farmer gets bowled over.  I saw last year an unfortunate farmer who was going home from Cork with his horse and cart and met one of those buses at Dunkettle, and the horse, not being used to seeing these extraordinary vehicles, the unfortunate man was thrown and had his leg broken and had to spend six months in the Cork Infirmary.  That of course was no harm at all.  On portion of that road the only width that was left from the bus was the width of the horse and cart even when it pulled into the dyke. And these are the roads upon which   you are to have no speed limit.  I consider that Deputies come here to legislate, not for the ordinary farmers whom they pretend to represent and not for the unfortunate parents or children who use these roads, but they come here to legislate for road hogs flying along at whose mercy the people are placed. 
       These people should have some consideration for parents and for those who paid for the road they are driving over.  I consider that a speed limit of 25 miles an hour is fast enough for anyone.  Anyone who considers that limit not fast enough should join Deputy Esmonde's flying corps and go aloft. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Flinn's corps. 
     
     
      
       I consider that a speed limit of 25 miles an hour should be insisted on, not only for heavy vehicles but for private cars.  To my mind private car owners are much more dangerous than the others, because in nine cases out of ten the private individuals are absolutely incapable of driving.  You will find old lads fifty or sixty years of age, three-quarters blind, stuck in motor cars when they could not actually see 20 yards in front of them.  These are the people who drive at 60 or 70 miles an hour. I think there should be a speed limit put on all those gentlemen.  I suggest seriously that Deputy Flinn's statement about driving at 70 miles an hour should be immediately sent to the licensing authorities.  After his statement to-night I will not consider him a fit and proper person to drive a car.  Deputies should take this matter seriously and should insist on a speed limit being put on, as otherwise there will be far more accidents. I know four miles of a road on which there have been 11 accidents this summer, caused by successful hucksters coming home after the week-end roystering.  That can be borne out and it should engage the attention of the Minister with a view to having a speed limit imposed. 
     
     
      
       The section we are discussing is outside the scope of the ordinary private motor car and deals   with the heavier type of vehicle, the principal one referred to being the bus.  I think a very good case has been made out and in fact exists to prescribe a speed limit for buses. Deputy Lemass said it would be idle or futile to have a speed limit if it could not be enforced.  I quite agree. I would not be in favour of imposing a speed limit for heavier vehicles if that speed limit could not be enforced. 
       It appears to me that the principal case that can be made out for imposing a speed limit on buses is this, that on the main roads it is never a matter of a bus going 30 miles an hour, but it is usually a matter of going 50 to 55 miles an hour.  Owing to the weight of the vehicle, I do not care how up-to-date the brakes may be, they will not act as quickly as in the case of an ordinary touring car.  Further, the steering is a great deal more difficult for any man to control than the steering of an ordinary car.  In any emergency the vehicle will not react as quickly as the ordinary car would.  It would appear to me that the heavier vehicles going 50 to 55 miles an hour, as they often do, get what the ordinary cars do not get, and that is a swing out on the road, which, at times, it is very difficult for an on-coming or a following vehicle to negotiate.  After all, it is the travelling public who have to be protected.  I think there should be a speed limit, I do not care whether it is 25 or 50 miles an hour, in respect of buses. 
       With regard to the point raised by Deputy Lemass, that it could not be enforced, under Section 48 of the Bill I see a very successful way of doing so as far as buses are concerned.  The chief cause of the speeding is the competition. On the roads you will meet two or three buses, each fighting to see who will pick up a man at the next crossroads.  Whoever is successful loses a bit of ground and has to make it up before getting to the next town. The people mainly responsible are the owners of the buses, who draw up time-tables that compel their employees to drive at a fast rate.  In Section 48 (3) there is a provision, which says: 
     
     
        Where the owner of an omnibus instructs the driver thereof to observe a time-table and such time-table is so framed that such driver could not observe it without driving such omnibus at a speed which would be a contravention of this Part of this Act, such owner shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to have ordered such driver to drive such omnibus at a speed which is a contravention of this Part of this Act. 
     I think a case can be made out for a speed limit in respect of these vehicles, and the case being made out, there are sufficient provisions in the Bill to secure the enforcement of the prohibition, if it be contained in the Bill. 
     
      
       I think the Minister stated that the bus companies have not discussed the matter of a speed limit with him.  If that is the case it is very strange.  Where a limit of 25 or 30 miles is fixed it will cut down their time-table 50 per cent.  Everyone knows that the buses at the present time are travelling at from 50 to 60 miles an hour.  The point Deputy Finlay made with regard to competition is one of the principal causes. They will race one another with about 15 yards between them and it is only through the mercy of Providence that there are not some fearful crashes.  I travel on the main road from Dublin to Mullingar very often by motor car, and I can say that where a car is going at 40 or 50 miles an hour the buses will beat it every time.  I am inclined to agree with Deputy Lemass that it will be practically impossible to carry out the law by fixing a time limit, because what is dangerous driving one day at 10 miles an hour might be quite safe the next day at 30 or 40 miles an hour when passing through towns like Maynooth, Enfield and Lucan.  I think it would be extremely difficult to carry out the law if an absolute limit was fixed.  The matter could be left open with a view to having some conference with the bus owners who are the principal persons interested.  I repeat that if you are going to fix 25 or 30 miles an hour you are going to interfere with the time-tables by at least 50 per cent. There is no doubt that the buses are   very popular and that they offer great facilities to the ordinary travelling public. 
       I am inclined to think that if you fix a speed limit of twenty-five or thirty miles an hour you will not be able to enforce it unless you have a Civic Guard every twenty or thirty yards of the road.  No matter what limit is fixed I hope that the Civic Guards will have the assistance of private prosecutors, and that persons who see others driving dangerously will, as it were, take the law into their own hands.  The reason I say that is that I was coming up here yesterday from Mullingar, and it was only through a miracle that a lunatic driver whom I met was not involved in a crash that would have caused a very serious loss of life.  I do not know whether it would be possible to decide the matter to-night or to leave it over to Report Stage in order that you might confer with the bus companies to see if you could agree with them on a speed limit of twenty or thirty miles or on some such arrangement as I suggest by which you might not fix a speed limit, but as a result of which persons who will be found driving dangerously would be penalised very severely. 
     
     
      
       I would emphasise the necessity for regulating the speed of buses.  I must say that I do not at all agree with Deputies who think that buses should be allowed to travel at an unprescribed rate.  I suppose you all have had experience of travelling in a light vehicle or even on foot when a bus passes you.  It shakes the whole road round you.  It not only damages the road, but if you are on a lighter vehicle&mdash;an ordinary horse-drawn car or a private motor car&mdash;the mere fact of the shaking that the road undergoes from the buses travelling at such a rate is dangerous in itself.  It has been said that much of this is due to competition.  Probably that can be got over, but there is one thing that competition gives us.  It gives us better buses, though there is a great deal of complaint about their condition at times.  It gives us a more frequent service and shorter intervals between buses carrying us to our destination. 
     
     
        I do not think it is exactly impossible to regulate the speed of buses or the speed of motor lorries.  A stiff fine or a term of imprisonment will regulate the mentality of those offenders.  When I say a stiff fine I hope it will be pretty heavy.  In the case of any driver who travels at very excessive speed I would consider the advisability of putting him behind tangled wires.  I have much sympathy with Deputy Corry in all he has said in the way of trying to get a slow pace. He seems not only deserted by his own Party, but deserted by everybody. I think he has made out a very fair case in many ways and though he is given to putting things extravagantly at times, he made a few hits against all sides of the House in his speech to-night. Of course if Deputy Flinn seriously advocates travelling at 70 miles per hour the sooner he is put somewhere in which he cannot travel a mile per hour the better for the public. 
     The suggestion has been made that if there was a conference between the bus companies and the Government some good might come out of it.  I do not believe a great deal of good can come out of it but it might be worth trying.  The dangerous spots on all the roads should be carefully marked, even to the point of illumination.  The great trouble is where a by-road breaks into the main road and there is nothing to indicate it.  A collision is inevitable unless there is something to point out to the person travelling the main road that there is this junction. The illumination should be such as to bring it to the notice of the people travelling in motor vehicles. That could be done at a small cost and it would avoid much trouble.  On the whole I think the Bill has many advantages for our people.  If we are so lawless that we set ourselves out to break the most commendable laws, we can do it, but at the same time we can also make it a very expensive proposition. 
     
      
       I do not know whether I might intervene at this stage in the discussion to state what are my views on this general matter.  In   the first place there is no doubt that on bulky vehicles of the heavy motor vehicle type, you must impose a speed limit because there is a speed at which the bulky vehicle is dangerous.  I purposely kept the speed limits that are in the Bill down in deference to the general feeling that there was too much speeding on the roads. 
       If I were to take a decision right away in the matter I would raise some of these speeds but I think there is an alternative just as Deputy Moore said when we were discussing Section 12, where we actually set out the conditions under which we would classify mechanically propelled and other vehicles, and where we provided in another section that the Minister may by Order, make changes, and that as amended, the Order will not come into operation until both Houses pass a resolution approving of it. Deputy Moore then agreed that we were in a period of growth in these matters and that it is reasonable that Orders would be issued from time to time amending the different classifications here as, on the facts of the situation, it was thought desirable.  I think that after the discussion we have heard we will perhaps come to the conclusion that in the matter of speed our minds, and in fact the situation on the roads, are in a state of flux and that it would be well, under Section 42, to make a provision similar to that which we made under Section 12 and to give the Minister by Order power to vary or alter the speed limits contained in the section, subject to the Order not coming into effect until both Houses had passed a resolution approving of it.  That would give us machinery for normal and natural growth arising out of the actual use of the road, without amending the legislation.  With that in my mind, and looking down the different speed limits, I would like to alter each one of them.  In one sub-section you have a speed limit of twenty-five miles where a light motor vehicle is tracting another vehicle.  I think that speed limit of twenty-five miles is reasonable as a maximum. 
     
     
     
      
       It is too much. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it is unreasonable, when you take into consideration that you have penalties for dangerous driving or careless driving or even driving without due consideration for others on the road. Then under Section 2 you have the heavy motor vehicle and another sub-section which allows a speed of fifteen miles per hour for the double decker public service vehicle.  The double decker is usually a vehicle used in an urban area and I think fifteen miles per hour is a reasonable speed limit to prescribe at this particular stage. The speed here for an ordinary heavy motor vehicle is 25 miles an hour. I would propose to make that 35 miles an hour as a maximum speed for a bus on a good type of road.  I do not think that is a dangerous speed. 
     
     
      
       Is that an average speed? 
     
     
      
       The average speed would be two-thirds of that.  If you make 30 miles an hour the maximum speed for a bus along any kind of long distance, with stoppages for the passing of other traffic or waiting for other traffic, the speed over the whole journey would be 20 miles an hour. 
     
     
      
       We are not quarrelling about that.  You say two-thirds.  My personal experience is that a maximum speed of thirty would give an average speed of about 23. 
     
     
      
       It would vary somewhat on different journeys, according to the time spent at stopping places.  I am taking a rough average. If you put down 30 miles an hour you will reduce the companies to a time-table that will show an average speed of twenty.  Many Deputies in the House have experience of buses.  I think their conclusion must be that normally a rate of 35 miles an hour for a bus is not an excessive maximum speed under the most suitable conditions. That is what is implied if we insert here a 35 mile maximum.  My instinct would be to put in 35 miles an hour there instead of 25 and not to discriminate between urban and rural areas.  The provision here in Section 43 is a provision that urban   authorities ought to work.  In sub-section (b) we have the case of a vehicle which is not a large public service vehicle&mdash;&ldquo;when it is used for the traction of a vehicle of which all or some of the wheels are not fitted with pneumatic tyres the speed of ten miles an hour ... (ii) when it is used for the traction of a vehicle of which all the wheels are fitted with pneumatic tyres, the speed of fifteen miles an hour.&rdquo;  In the case of a vehicle which is not a large public service vehicle which is used normally the speed limit here is twenty miles.  I would make that thirty.  I would leave then the speeds in sub-section (3) and (4) as they are.  I will introduce a provision that will enable the Minister to vary these basic speeds by Order, not coming into force until both Houses have passed a resolution approving of them. 
       [ An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. ] 
     
     
      
       I notice that the Minister stated that he did not propose to put a different speed for an urban area as compared with a rural area and he said in his opinion 23 or 30 miles would not be excessive.  I am glad to know that there are certain Deputies in this House, more especially Dublin City Deputies, who believe that there should be a different speed as far as urban areas are concerned.  Surely the Minister would not maintain for a moment that a bus going down Eden Quay to Vernon Avenue or Philipsburgh Avenue could go at twenty or twenty-five miles an hour around three sharp turns in Beresford Place.  Does he maintain that the Corporation should have by-laws to deal with it? 
     
     
      
       There are other considerations.  There is also in Dublin area a road called Drumcondra Road; there is Merrion Road; there is Cabra Road and the North Circular Road; there is a Dublin Corporation and there is power given in Section 43 to review the matter with the Guards or anyone they wish to consult, and to prescribe a general speed limit for the city of Dublin, varying for different classes of vehicles if necessary or special speed limits for special   areas.  I do not see any particular reason why we should make the speed of a bus on a road say from Raheny to Sutton Cross lower than any part of the road passing to Malahide.  It is in an urban district.  Part is in the city and part in the Urban District of Howth.  I think with a general basic speed for a heavy motor vehicle we might leave the details of speed limits to the local authorities.  We provide them with full machinery. 
     
     
      
       Is not the Minister aware that inquiries of this kind cost a certain amount of money and that small urban areas are reluctant to ask for an inquiry?  Surely it is not unreasonable to suggest to the Minister that there ought to be different speed limits for certain urban areas.  If afterwards a particular urban area in which a bus is plying thinks it is not low enough let them make special representations with a view to having an inquiry held. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is fixing thirty-five miles an hour here instead of twenty-five in one instance.  If he takes stops into consideration and everything else, I think that is an excessive speed, especially for buses travelling along ordinary country roads at the present day.  I think he is depending too much on Section 43. We all know how reluctant any local body is to have a public inquiry into speed or anything else.  Generally, such inquiries have an unsatisfactory ending.  I say that the Minister should not make regulations to shift the obligations to the local authorities. If a local authority does not like a public inquiry the Minister cannot hold one no matter what representations are made to him.  I think that the speed limit of twenty-five miles an hour that is in the Bill is too fast if anything on roads that were not constructed for bus traffic.  It is all very well to have Dublin Deputies talking about roads within a radius of ten or twenty miles of Dublin which were constructed for bus traffic, but we have buses collecting passengers at present on roads that were never constructed for bus traffic, and they are not in a fit condition for large vehicles going at any speed.  I suggest to the Minister   that he should allow the twenty-five miles an hour to stand. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister is doing the right thing in allowing the local authorities to regulate the speed in the urban districts.  The local authority will have a better idea as to the speed that should be allowed for instance on fair days or market days.  To my mind, on fair days and market days in an urban district fifteen miles or even ten miles would be the right speed.  I think the Minister is taking the right step in allowing the local authorities to regulate the traffic in their district. 
     
     
      
       Might I remark in passing that this is a luxurious debate in the sense that perhaps almost for the first time every member of the House has had an opportunity of telling the truth, as it seemed to him, about any other member without regard to the Party to which he might belong; I would like to ask the Minister a preliminary question.  He has here in the case of locomotives with non-pneumatic tyres a limit of 10 miles an hour. Is that on the ground of safety?  Is that the intention? 
     
     
      
       Both safety and practicality. 
     
     
      
       Is it to ensure safe driving? Is that the point? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I know of no reason why, upon an ordinary good, straight road, a car with solid tyres should not be driven at a reasonable speed.  I know of no mechanical reason. 
     
     
      
       When used for the traction of another vehicle. 
     
     
      
       But why should it ensure safety?  It would not make it any more safe to have it with pneumatic tyres. It is a practical question.  If I were dragging a vehicle on a good road, I think I should prefer the solid tyre. There are three separate and distinct cases here and we want to get the matter clear in relation to the speed of driving heavy vehicles such as buses.   There is the case of the danger to the public; there is the case of the damage to the road and there is the case of the damage to the railway.  Those three cases have, to a certain extent, influenced decisions.  On a straight, good road I am quite satisfied that mere speed is a very small element in the matter of danger.  The capacity of the driver, the condition of the road, and all that sort of thing are of infinitely more importance.  Therefore, from the point of view of the safety of the public, I welcome the added importance, which was given to the Bill with regard to the idea of not driving to the danger of the public, whatever speed one may be driving at and whatever the conditions.  It is because I think there is no particular safeguard in speed as such and because I think there is an enormous safeguard in a man knowing that whatever speed he is driving at in any place at any time the onus is upon him to prove eventually, in the case of accident, that he was driving within limits which were not dangerous to the public, that I consider this the most valuable reform in the Bill. 
     
     As far as damage to the road is concerned, I am absolutely and entirely with those who say that if a motor vehicle of weight, and especially a motor vehicle unsprung to the extent of having solid tyres, is driven fast, the whole liability should rest upon the owner.  I think that that is a taxation problem.  If the road is fit to stand it, there is no reason why, on the ground of public safety, the vehicle should not be driven fast.  If, as a matter of fact, we have to build roads so much better and so much more expensively in order to enable heavy, fast-driven vehicles to travel in safety on them, then we should put the whole cost of the capital charges and the maintenance charges upon the users. Anyone who does use motor lorries or, as an alternative to them in competition, some other means of transport, if he is not paying the replacement value and if he is not paying the capital value of the facility which he uses for the purpose of dealing with his customers, then his customers are receiving, at the cost of those who use   an alternative means of transport, a benefit to which they are not entitled. That is, to me, the second case, but it is not dealt with here.  In my opinion that is a case of taxation.  I have described unshod vehicles in certain uncomplimentary language.  I think the State is entitled, and bound, to recover from such a user of the road any damage he does and any capital cost required to enable him to have a highway on which he can move without damage. 
     The third case is damage to the railway.  There is no question that that is very largely influencing certain decisions in the House, and legitimately, from their point of view.  The buses are now carrying 40,000,000 or 50,000,000 passengers a year.  The loss upon the railways has been a passenger loss and the unemployment on the railways which is going to be caused by the diminution of their revenue is due to a passenger loss. That is very largely due to bus competition. If in the Transport Bill of the Minister for Industry and Commerce it says that the speed of buses shall be reduced to a level at which it will not be an effective competitor but for passenger transit purposes with the railways, then there is an entirely different case to deal with.  If the Minister will put it forward now as an argument in favour of doing it, he is entitled to say that this Bill is a Bill not merely for the safety of the public, but for other general public purposes. If he puts forward the argument, or if any other person chooses to put forward the argument, that the present speed at which buses are allowed to travel on roads parallel to the railways&mdash;very largely railway buses travelling on roads parallel to the railways&mdash;it is a matter for consideration, but it does not arise on the Bill as it is at present framed. 
     The next thing I wish to emphasise strongly is that there are certain routes, having regard to the construction of the roads, the elementary construction of some of our by-roads and so on, on which buses or heavy vehicles ought not to be allowed to run at all.  I do not want to be unfair to them in any way.  There are   some people who regard lorries and buses as terribly dangerous things.  I do not.  I regard them as public conveniences. They are only prospering because they have shown an economic case for themselves.  But there is no economic case for them to be able to hand on to their particular customers, benefits at the cost of the general community which they ought to pay themselves. If buses, heavy motor vehicles, are to be allowed to run on rural roads with unsound foundations, with such foundations as the country can afford to give for their ordinary traffic, then there should be a charge for any licence or other such cost as would enable these roads to be properly repaired and maintained.  There has been a sort of general attack upon buses.  I say they are a public convenience. I am not prepared for anybody to say that they are not doing very valuable work.  I am not prepared, on any ground of popularity or anything else in relation to employment in any particular industry, to say that the conveniences of the general public which they have served, the opening up of districts and residential areas, the brightening and the widening of the lives of a lot of people, are to be restricted unnecessarily.  For that reason I am to some extent defending them. 
     I would like to know from the Minister as regards all the damages about which we have heard, who is causing them.  Are they being caused by the buses?  Are they being caused by these juggernauts and those dangerous things we have heard about? My experience is frankly that the road manners of buses have improved very considerably in the last year.  I think that is one credit that I will give to the administration of justice in the country.  They do seem to have improved the road manners of the buses. 
     I have been amazed recently at being coolly waved on by a bus instead of seeing a cloud of dust disappear in the distance.  Coming again to the speed limit of the buses I remember I had one accident with a bus.  I am only giving this as an illustration of my contention that the lowest speed limit put into the Bill   would not have saved me from an accident on that occasion.  There is a particularly bad turn coming up from Carrigaloe to Cork on the way from Cobh.  You turn up by the end of a railway bridge, and at that right angle turn we met the bus.  It was only the fact that I had actually contemplated and worked out in advance what I would do if I were to meet a bus at that particular point on its wrong side that has made me free and enabled me to inflict myself on the House to-night.  I had actually worked it out beforehand and when the emergency came I had not to waste a quarter of a second to enable me to get into the ditch and save my life. No speed limit that the Minister would introduce would have saved me. It is only by the insistence on the danger, by impressing on every driver that every time a motor vehicle is driven by him he is driving something that is a danger to the public that he can realise this and guard against accidents. 
     On another occasion also, no speed limit would have saved me.  I was running out of my own gate on to the public road.  I was going a little bit too fast and I hit a Superintendent of the Garda.  I was not going at any speed which would hurt him but I was going too fast.  It is only by concentration and keeping consciously before the mind of the driver of every motor vehicle that every moment while he is driving that car, he is in possession of something with a momentum which is dangerous to the general public if that machine gets out of control and that he has an individual responsibility for the working of that instrument of destruction and that he must not let it get out of control without danger to his own life and to the public&mdash;it is only in this way that you can prevent accidents. 
     
      
       Deputy Derrig's statement that the local authorities are looking to this Bill to regulate speed in their own areas is entirely wrong. 
     
     
      
       Section 43 deals with that. 
     
     
     
      
       Section 43 does not give the local body any authority.  It gives the local body authority to ask for a public inquiry.  I do not believe that the local authority will take advantage of that section at all.  That will be specially so in the case of small local authorities because these inquiries cost £40 to £50.  I cannot conceive a small local authority spending that amount of money in order to regulate the speed of buses in their area. 
     
     
      
       How much does the Deputy say? 
     
     
      
       We had one recently in Wexford that cost £40. 
     
     
      
       There must have been a shorthand writer. 
     
     
      
       I do not know, but I do know that it must cost £40 or £50.  I was wondering if the Minister would be prepared to leave the question of the speed limit to be settled between the Garda and the local authorities without having a local inquiry.  The urban authorities would be mostly affected.  What we want is a lower rate of speed.  I have in mind several towns in Wexford where the streets are narrow and where 25 miles an hour would be a very high rate of speed and would be entirely too fast. I do think that it would not be asking too much to ask the Minister to leave that matter to be settled between the Garda and the local authority. 
     
     
      
       The speed limit to be settled by agreement between the local authorities and the Garda? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  As far as I know the relations between the Garda and the local authorities are friendly and I do believe that the Minister would be well advised to leave the matter in that fluid state. 
     
     
      
       To that particular point I will give consideration, but I think that before the Minister makes an Order concerning the speed limit so arrived at there ought to be a public advertisement of the fact that it was proposed to make that Order so that interested parties would be given an opportunity of making representations.   There should be public knowledge of the fact.  In that way interested parties would be able to make representations and these representations would be taken into consideration. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection to that.  What I do object to is whole State control and having a whole lot of money wasted. 
     
     
      
       I think a very considerable amount of inquiries are held in which there is very little public expense. 
     
     
      
       That is all right in Dublin where an inquiry can be held on the spot, but down in the country where inspectors have to travel in order to hold the inquiry we have to face very heavy expenses. 
     
     
      
       The inspectors are in the local areas doing their natural work and they can attend the local conferences.  Therefore I will say that we could simplify the procedure, and costly public inquiries will not be involved. 
     
     
      
       I think 25 miles per hour is a proper speed for motor lorries and buses, and that it should be the maximum speed.  Many accidents occur and many lives are lost as the result of buses and lorries travelling at an excessive speed; and I think it is absolutely necessary that the Minister should control the speed of the buses and make the maximum 25 miles an hour. 
     
     
      
       I just want to ask the Minister whether we are to understand that he is making no change with regard to sub-section (3) that the speed limits in that sub-section are to stand? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister to consider this: When he was framing this Bill he apparently decided that a difference of five miles an hour was sufficient to allow for the greater damage done by the solid-tyred vehicles as compared with the pneumatic-tyred vehicles; and he allowed the pneumatic-tyred vehicles a   speed of 20 miles an hour compared with 15 miles an hour for solid-tyred vehicles.  Now he has raised the limit for the pneumatic-tyred vehicles to thirty miles an hour and he has allowed the speed limit for the solid-tyred class to stand as it had been.  A great deal of harm may result from that.  It may mean the scrapping of a lot of capital invested in solid-tyred vehicles because they are in competition with the pneumatic-tyred machines, and the result of such a great difference in the speed allowed would mean that the solid-tyred vehicles would be driven off the roads altogether. 
     
     
      
       They cause more damage to the roads. 
     
     
      
       I do not know any more about that than yourself.  There are skilled engineers in Dublin who assert that the pneumatic-tyred vehicle does the greater damage.  So I think that you and I ought to leave that subject alone. 
     
     
      
       Various county council experts realise that it is the solid-tyred vehicle which does the greatest damage to their roads. 
     
     
      
       With regard to a vehicle which is used otherwise than for the traction of another vehicle, a speed of 20 miles an hour was fixed.  Has the Minister considered whether 30 miles &mdash;the figure that he has now substituted&mdash;is a speed which is often attained under the present circumstances? I hardly think that the average four-ton lorry carrying coal goes so fast as 30 miles an hour, and I would ask Deputies to consider is it wise to allow such a speed?  When our motorists in this House urge that such speeds should be allowed, they are in effect paying the way for increased motor taxation.  A four-ton motor lorry carrying coal will do a great deal more damage than if it were going at 20 miles, and it is the private motorist who will pay for it, as there can only be very little additional taxation obtained from commercial vehicles.  That is an aspect of the case that has not got any consideration from the Deputies who are all for high   speeds.  They forget that high speeds may mean much bigger costs for roads. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister gave a most eminently reasonable summing up.  I would like that those inclined to raise the speed limit for these heavy vehicles, particularly those suggesting 35 miles an hour for heavy public vehicles, to consider this, that the maximum speed will generally become the average speed even around the corner for these heavy vehicles, and that the driver will tend to keep up a uniform speed even around the corners.  Some of them think that in going round the corners they run very little risk.  What the Minister puts down as a maximum tends to become the average.  That is the case certainly in the ordinary light motor. 
     
     
      
       As far as large public service vehicles are concerned the speed limit that will be put down here will govern their time-table.  When the Minister for Industry and Commerce is finished with his Transport Bill all public service companies must run their vehicles to scheduled time. They will be required to do that.  My reading of it is that if this maximum speed of 35 miles an hour is put down there, it will mean that the journey from Dublin to Cork on the time-table will work out at an average of 25 miles an hour.  For that reason I feel very little scruple, particularly after the discussion that has taken place here, in making the proposition that 25 miles an hour will be changed to 35 miles an hour.  I appreciate the point that Deputy Moore makes in the matter of 30 miles an hour.  Every large motor vehicle is not a public service vehicle. But where you have the pneumatic tyre and where you have the vehicle itself in a satisfactory mechanical condition, I doubt if the heavy commercial vehicle does really more damage to the road than a bus.  On that point I think it was the County Surveyor of Dublin who had to report that he had come to the conclusion after considerable observation of the matter that buses did not do as much damage to the   roads as he thought at one particular time they did.  I think Deputy Cassidy is right in this.  It is vehicles with the non-pneumatic tyres that really tend to do damage to the roads.  In reply to Deputy Flinn as regards the tractor speed of ten miles an hour, the question of damage to the road is a big factor in fixing that speed. 
       I want to give the House a chance of giving full consideration to the matter of working from a sound basis.  I would like to leave this matter now in this condition that in this Section 42 (2) (a) (ii) I propose to put down an amendment raising 25 miles to 35 miles an hour, and under (b) (ii) raising 15 miles an hour to 20 miles an hour, and in (b) (iii) raising 20 miles an hour to 30 miles an hour.  As I explained before that provision is there so that the Minister might by order from time to time vary these subject to the fact that the order will not come into operation until a resolution will be passed by both Houses bringing it into operation. 
       Deputies on all sides have given rather full and widespread discussion to the matter.  They can put down concrete amendments of their own and let us have a discussion directed to each particular type of vehicle here on the next stage with reference to the definite amendments that may be put down in the Bill.  In the meantime I will further consider Section 43 to see whether we cannot allay the fears of those who think that it might involve the local authorities in too much expense in the holding of inquiries that might be considered very necessary so as to fix suitable limits for some towns that want suitable speed limits fixed.  Deputies can in the meantime consider whether as a basis of this order they wish to differentiate between the speeds of large public vehicles in towns.  I am myself against that, particularly in view of the fact that we can stand over the situation in practice, and later on we can change that situation by order as a general matter apart altogether from whether particular local authorities will deal with it.  If they do agree to leave that matter as it is now we can report on that basis at the next stage. 
     
     
        Amendment 38, by leave, withdrawn. 
     Amendment 39 not moved. 
     Section 42 agreed to. 
     SECTION 43. 
     (1)  Subject to the provisions of this section, the Minister may, after holding a public inquiry, by order make regulations prescribing in respect of any specified area the speed which shall be the special speed limit within that area for all or any classes or class of mechanically propelled vehicles and may so prescribe different speeds in respect of different classes of mechanically propelled vehicles. 
     
      
       I agree in principle with amendment 40 to Section 43. We will have to reconsider a draft of that amendment in a suitable way. 
     
     
      
       I understand the Minister will give consideration to it. 
       Amendment 40 not moved. 
     
     
      
       It is a thing that is necessary, but I would like to have it drafted in a more suitable way. 
     
     
      
       In connection with road signs I do not know what responsibility the Minister has in connection with that.  I think that some supervision should be exercised over the signs erected on roads.  I do not know if the existing arrangements are suitable. You have the same signs indicating the existence of a boreen as you have indicating the existence of another trunk road.  There should be some improvement there. 
     
     
      
       On this section we are on the question of speed limits.  I know places where there are signs indicating speed limits that neither in their location nor detail are suitable and we will have to consider whether they are sufficient and in regard to speed limits, secure that they shall be adequate and shall be uniform so that they can be easily recognisable. 
       Sections 44 and 45 agreed to. 
       SECTION 46. 
     
     (1)  Every person who drives a mechanically propelled vehicle in a   public place at a speed or in a manner which, having regard to all the circumstances of the case (in cluding the nature, condition, and use of such place and the amount of traffic which then actually is or might reasonably be expected then to be in such place), is dangerous to the public shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall, on summary conviction thereof, be liable, in the case of a first offence, to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds or, at the discretion of the court, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both such fine and such imprisonment or, in the case of a second or any subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds or, at the discretion of the court, to imprisonment for any term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
     (3)  Proof that a person charged with an offence under this section was, at the time at which such offence is alleged to have been committed, driving a mechanically propelled vehicle at a speed exceeding thirty miles an hour shall be prima facie evidence of the commission of such offence. 
     
      
       I move amendment 41.  &ldquo;In sub-section (1), line 46, to delete the words &ldquo;at a speed or&rdquo;.  My point is that the words &ldquo;at a speed or&rdquo; are unnecessary and complicate the position rather than clarify it.  If you say &ldquo;Every person who drives a mechanically propelled vehicle in a public place in a manner which having regard to all the circumstances of the case... is dangerous to the public,&rdquo; you have said all that is necessary. The words in parenthesis do not add anything useful to the section and I have a further amendment to delete them.  When in a general proposition you specify certain things, you tend to modify the general proposition.  I think you will have said all that is required if you omit the words in parenthesis in this sub-section. 
     
     
      
       I do not see any reason for taking out the words &ldquo;at   a speed or&rdquo; from this sub-section.  I do not think it improves the situation to call on the words &ldquo;in a manner&rdquo; to cover everything. 
     
     
      
       Surely &ldquo;in a manner&rdquo; includes the speed? 
     
     
      
       Putting in there &ldquo;at a speed or&rdquo; makes clear that &ldquo;in a manner&rdquo; is meant to include &ldquo;at a speed,&rdquo; which it might not be taken to mean. 
     
     
      
       If you have &ldquo;regard to all the circumstances,&rdquo; surely you must pay attention to the speed.  Does it add anything to the sub-section? 
     
     
      
       I think it is better that the words should remain as in the section.  I do not think that any advantage is gained by deleting them and something is gained by retaining them.  Attention is directed to the speed in all the circumstances, which is the main question. 
     
     
      
       The words of which Deputy Thrift complains of have been applicable to motor cars since 1903. They are contained in the Motor Car Act of 1903.  The Court, in interpreting the section of the Motor Car Act of 1903 in which these words are contained, have given a very different construction to the word &ldquo;speed&rdquo; and &ldquo;manner.&rdquo;&ldquo;Manner&rdquo; may mean driving on the left side of the road or it may mean a number of other things. From the point of view of clarity, it is much better to retain these words, which are contained in the Motor Car Act of 1903. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 42: 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (1) to delete all from and including the word &ldquo;including&rdquo; line 47, to and including the word &ldquo;place&rdquo; line 50.&rdquo; 
       I dealt with this amendment on the previous amendment in dealing with the words in parenthesis. 
     
     
      
       I think it would weaken the section to take these words   out.  I should like to have Deputy Finlay's opinion upon the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I would ask you not to accept this amendment.  If you accepted the amendment, some occurrence would have to take place before an offence would be committed under this section, whereas, as the section stands, if you take a case mentioned this evening&mdash;a side street abutting on a main thoroughfare&mdash;if there is a notification on such side street that a person should go at a reasonable speed and drive in a reasonable manner, the position is covered, whereas if you cut out these words, the effect will be that there will have to be some sort of collision at the place before it can be established that he was driving in a manner dangerous to the public. 
     
     
      
       I cannot accept Deputy Finlay's interpretation.  The words &ldquo;having regard to all the circumstances&rdquo; cover what Deputy Finlay has said, whereas the words in the brackets are confusing.  One might &ldquo;reasonably expect&rdquo; another car to emerge from every turn on the road on which one would be travelling. Does that mean that a person is expected to get out and look around the corner before passing any cross roads?  The words in the section are &ldquo;the amount of traffic which then is or might reasonably be expected then to be in such place&rdquo;.  It seems to me that that phrase is so wide that it is capable of various interpretations and that its inclusion weakens the Bill rather than strengthens it. 
     
     
      
       I appreciate Deputy Lemass's point but I would like to consult the draftsman on the matter.  If we took the parenthesis down to &ldquo;place&rdquo; and said &ldquo;the amount of traffic which then actually is in such place&rdquo; it might be reasonable. However, I will review the matter on the Report Stage if the Deputy will allow his amendment to stand. 
     
     
      
       I was about to add that the words &ldquo;might reasonably be expected to be&rdquo; would surely lead to conflict.  I want to ask the Minister   and Deputy Finlay this question. When we say &ldquo;including the nature, condition and use of such place and the amount of traffic which then actually is or might reasonably be expected then to be in such place&rdquo;, will not that tend to restrict the meaning of the section to those factors? &ldquo;Having regard to all the circumstances&rdquo; would meet the position. 
     
     
      
       Might I remind the Minister that the law declared in that section is not new?  That is the law under the Motor Car Act.  I think the provision in that Act has worked reasonably well. 
       Amendment by leave withdrawn. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported. 
     
   
   
     Adjournment Debate. - Income Tax Appeals. 
     
      
       I asked the Minister for Finance to-day whether he was aware that in a number of cases where appeals are now pending against additional assessments under Schedule D to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax, Inspectors of Taxes are serving notices threatening proceedings through the solicitors of the Department of Inland Revenue; whether he was aware that this has had the effect of preventing taxpayers from proceeding with their appeals from the additional assessments and from having their appeals investigated by the Special Commissioners of Income Tax.  It was obvious from the Minister's reply that the facts had not been placed before him by the officials. In the hope of stopping this scandal before it gets beyond control, I gave notice that I would raise the matter on the Adjournment.  The facts are: At present a number of notices of additional assessments under Schedule D have been served on taxpayers. From those additional assessments, there is a statutory right of appeal.  It follows that there is a statutory right to have all appeals heard and disposed of within a reasonable time.  Any other interpretation would be absurd.  Nobody could for a   moment suggest that if the taxpayer has a right of appeal under a statute, he has not also the right to have his appeal heard and determined within a reasonable period.  What are the facts?  The Commissioners of Inland Revenue, through their inspectors, claim in the first place, the right to say when the appeal is to be heard. They get a notice of appeal and instead of handing it over to the appellate tribunal to be dealt with, they keep it wrapped up and only hand it over when it suits them to have the case heard.  They claim also the right to say if the appeal is to be heard at all. 
       The appeal is taken to the Special Commissioners.  Once the notice of appeal is served, the Special Commissioners are seized of the appeal and it is for them to say when it will be heard.  But the Inspectors of Taxes now claim the right to take away from the appellants the right to have their appeals heard and determined. They claim this further right: When notice of appeal reaches the Inspector of Taxes, he sends a notice threatening the appellant with proceedings&mdash;proceedings solely brought about by reason of the fact that the parties have exercised their statutory right of appeal.  The Inspector seeks to penalise them and seeks to blackmail them&mdash;because that is what it amounts to&mdash;by telling them that if they go on with the appeal he will take proceedings against them.  If that occurred in an isolated case, I could understand it.  It has not occurred in an isolated case.  I do not want to expose any particular taxpayer or to leave him open to a dose of income tax treatment.  I know what would occur to him, but I will just give you one instance.  It is not an isolated instance.  Having heard this instance, I shall ask the Minister for Finance to say if this system is known to him and, if so, whether he approves of it or not.  A taxpayer appealed on the 10th October from an additional assessment. The appeal would ordinarily come on for hearing some time this month.  What happens to him?  He gets a letter like this: 
     
     A statement of your liability to income   tax in respect of the year 19&mdash; was sent to you as far back as November, 1930. 
     This is the case of a citizen who is exercising his statutory right of appeal. 
     As you appear to be unwilling to meet your just obligations to the State, I regret there is no option but to submit the papers to the Solicitor's Department for whatever proceedings are considered necessary in connection with the incorrect returns of total income that have been furnished for a number of years. 
     This man has served notice of appeal.  He wants to get it heard and he is told by an income tax official that he is not going to get it heard.  He is told &ldquo;If you dare to take advantage of the right the law gives you, we will make you pay for it.&rdquo;  There is the threat.  But he is given an opportunity of repentance. 
     I wish, therefore, to give you a further opportunity of reconsidering the matter and shall defer taking any action for ten days from this date. 
     What does that mean?  &ldquo;Withdraw your appeal; be a good boy; take your salts; if you don't you will pay the penalty.&rdquo;  I protest against proceedings of that sort.  They are unfair to the taxpayer.  They are a disgrace to the Department from which they emanate. I should like to ask the Minister for Finance if he is aware of the steps now being taken to stop the appellants from exercising their statutory right.  I want to know if he approves of those steps, and if he does not, what he proposes to do to put an end to what is a scandal and a disgrace to the Government and to the Revenue Commissioners. 
     
      
       The Deputy speaks strongly because he wages relentless warfare against the officials of the Revenue.  I am therefore reluctant to take the view that, while speaking strongly, the Deputy speaks calmly and presents the case with full advertence to both sides.  I   am not aware that any attempts are being made to stop taxpayers from exercising their statutory right of appeal.  If I had information which convinced me that such was the case, I would be prepared to take the strongest steps to stop it.  However, I find it difficult to believe that that has happened.  To be in a position to judge what was happening, I should require to have placed before me&mdash;not in the Dail&mdash;privately or otherwise, the facts of a particular case or particular cases. There are always two sides to a question. As I have said, the Deputy is engaged in relentless warfare with the Revenue Commissioners and, without doubting his word in the slightest, I do doubt his calm judgment in a particular case.  I think he is liable to take the view that the injustice is always on the side of the Revenue Commissioners and that there can be no doubt that his clients are blameless.  I always have a suspicion that the taxpayers for whom a tremendous fight has to be made have not been making full returns and paying their just debts.  Appeals have been made to me in a great many cases and I think I have never really had any trouble from people who are not giving trouble.  I have never had a case brought before me by people who gave the information they should give and who were quite willing to meet their fair obligations justly determined. The sort of cases that have come before me and the sort of cases that have to be fought are the cases of people who have not at all times been perfectly ready to give the information they ought to give.  I do not know whether the Deputy is particularly referring to cases in which he is professionally interested. 
     
     
      
       I am referring to cases in which I am not professionally interested. I am referring to the system.  I read the letter and the letter bears out what I said.  I am not going to give particulars of any other cases, but I have seen others. 
     
     
      
       I am told that all the cases in which the Deputy is professionally interested have been listed for hearing at the forthcoming sittings. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
     
      
       The letter that the Deputy read, taken by itself, does not prove anything.  I would need to know the facts of the case.  That letter, considering all the facts of the case, if I had them, might be a very mild letter.  If the facts were otherwise it might be a letter which was not at all mild, but it is impossible for me to judge except I get the facts of the particular case.  From all I know of the Revenue administration I find it entirely impossible to believe that there is any attempt being made to prevent people exercising their statutory right of appeal.  If I could be convinced of such a thing I would certainly be prepared to take the strongest possible steps to stop any such practice.  But I would need to be given proof.  As I say, the Deputy hits very hard in all his fighting.  Nobody in the Dail needs to be told that the Deputy is a fighting man, and I am sure he does not feel that he has any ground of complaint if in the course of any struggle a few blows happen to land back on his side.  While, I say, the Revenue officials have to collect revenue as justly as they can and fight a case, I would need to have   clear evidence on this matter before I would believe it. 
     
     
      
       Take their own letters in evidence against them. 
     
     
      
       What view ought to be held on that letter depends entirely on the circumstances in which it was written and the correspondence which preceded it.  It might very well be a letter addressed to somebody who had persistently, over a period, refused to come up to scratch, refused to give an account, refused to give information, and generally adopted the attitude of sitting tight, hoping that something would occur, some way or another, which would cause him to avoid the necessity of having to pay up.  The circumstances might be quite different. It might be that it was a letter that was too strong in the circumstances, but I could not judge unless I knew them, and, as I say, from a Deputy engaged in such hefty fighting I really could not accept his judgement, however much I might accept his word on a statement of fact. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.47 p.m. to Friday, 6th November. 
     
   
 