 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Customs Duty on Hospital Equipment. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will on application made by a public hospital refund the amount of customs duty levied on hospital equipment and implements, on the grounds that the goods concerned were classed as furniture. 
     
     
      
       There is no provision in law under which duty charged on hospital equipment of the nature of furniture imported for the use of public hospitals can be refunded.  It is not possible, therefore, to entertain applications for refund from such hospitals. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider introducing legislation to make such a thing possible? 
     
     
      
       I do not think it would be a good thing. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Bandon Garda Siochana Barrack. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is in a position to state when work on the new Garda Siochana Barrack will commence at Bandon, Co. Cork, and if, in view of the dearth of employment in the town, he will have the work expedited. 
     
     
      
       Tenders for the required works have been received and the building of the barracks will be authorised to proceed in the course of a few days. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Proposed Duty on Foreign Bacon. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the cause of the delay in having the question of an import duty on foreign bacon examined and reported upon, and if he is aware that bacon producers are continuing to produce at a loss in anticipation of relief being given them. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that any delay is taking place in having the question of the imposition of a tariff on imported bacon examined and reported on.  The Executive Council have referred the matter to the Tariff Commission for report and the Commission are at present in communication with the representatives of the firms and individuals in favour of a tariff regarding the presentation of a full statement of the latter's case.  As soon as a satisfactory statement is submitted no time will be lost in arranging for the public examination of witnesses. 
     
     
      
       The Minister does not seem to have answered the latter part of the question, &ldquo;if he is aware that bacon producers are continuing to produce at a loss in anticipation of relief being given them&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       If they were I am sure they would hurry up with their case. 
     
     
      
       Is not the Minister aware that bacon producers are producing at a loss and that foreign bacon is being dumped here at a price which the farmers cannot compete with? 
     
     
      
       That is another matter. 
     
     
      
       Is not the Minister aware that the Executive Council have received representations from representatives of the bacon trade to have an emergency tariff put on pending the hearing of the application? 
     
     
      
       Yes, but we do not think there is any necessity for that. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that at present a large quantity of foreign bacon is being dumped at the North Wall and being sent to various parts of the country and that the farmers are suffering a great deal in consequence? 
     
     
     
      
       The farmers are also getting whatever advantage there is from it. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister not admit that there would be more advantage if the foreign bacon did not come in? 
     
     
      
       No, not necessarily. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Delivering Telegrams in Towns. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs to state what arrangements are made for the delivery of telegrams in Baltinglass and towns of similar size; and on what basis, population or otherwise, this arrangement obtains. 
     
     
      
       Delivery of telegrams from Baltinglass Post Office is effected by casual messengers paid at standard rates per message based on distance. The arrangements for delivery of telegrams in any particular town are not based on population.  The average number of telegrams for delivery and the extent of the area served determine whether delivery should be provided for by casual messengers or by the employment of regular messengers. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary satisfied that that arrangement is justified when a contract has been entered into for the delivery of these telegrams? 
     
     
      
       I do not understand what the Deputy means by a contract entered into.  It is an arrangement carried out depending upon the conditions existing in the local post office. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the acceptance of a fee for the delivery of a telegram is in effect a contract for the delivery of that telegram. 
     
     
      
       Telegrams are always delivered. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Wireless Broadcasting Stations. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if it is proposed to alter the power and wave length of the Dublin Wireless Broadcasting Station   2RN in view of the unsatisfactory state of reception. 
     
     
      
       In view of the impending erection of a high power station it is not proposed to increase the power of the Dublin Broadcasting Station.  The wave length of the Dublin station is favourably placed on the international band of frequencies allocated for broadcasting services and no question of its alteration arises. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary read the answer to this question and the answer he gave last week to another question on the matter? 
     
     
      
       This question is quite in order. 
     
     
      
       I am not suggesting that you should rule it in order, but I am asking that you should read the last answer given. 
     
     
      
       This does not contradict the last answer. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he can state (a) when it is hoped that the proposed high power broadcasting station will be completed, and (b) whether a location for this station has been definitely decided on; and, if so, if he will state the location. 
     
     
      
       It has been decided to erect the high power broadcasting station at Moydrum, near Athlone. The work will be carried out as expeditiously as possible, but it cannot, at this stage, be stated when the new station will be available. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary give any indication approximately as to when it will be completed? 
     
     
      
       I have given the only indication I am prepared to give. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that the money was voted for this project over two years ago and that, as a matter of fact, the Marconi Company have had the plant completed for the last eighteen months and that the only difficulty up   to this has been the location of the site?  Taking all these matters into consideration, can the Parliamentary Secretary state how long his Department contemplate it will take to erect the plant which they now have? Will it be three months, six months, nine months, or two years? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy seems to know all about it.  I have given the best indication I can as to when the station will be erected. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary metaphorically trying to force it down the throats of the Dail that he does not know when the station will be completed? 
     
     
      
       I do not know. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary try to find out this evening? 
     
     
      
       There is no means of finding out&mdash;nobody knows it, not even the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Shannon Development Contract. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce to state whether he is now prepared to lay on the Table of the House the contract between the Government and Messrs. Siemens Schuckert Werke for the execution of the Shannon Power Development Scheme. 
     
     
      
       I see no justification for the course suggested. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this is the third time this question has been put down?  On the first occasion three years ago the answer the Minister gave was to the effect that as the contract was not completed it would not be in the interests of the contractors to expose the contract, as it would show the quantity of materials that they had yet to purchase.  Then I asked a question subsequent to the completion of the contract and the Parliamentary Secretary stated on behalf of the Minister that he saw no reason to have the contract laid on the Table of the House.  In view of   the circumstances of the activities of the Board, and the desire of the Dail and the public to know something about the whole scheme, will he now consider putting on the Table of the House the particulars of this contract? 
     
     
      
       The answer to the three parts of the question is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister say that the answer is in the negative when I state that I asked a question three years ago and got a certain answer? 
     
     
      
       No.  The Deputy asked if I was aware, and I am not. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister try to find out this evening something about this matter as he takes the responsibility of answering the question? 
     
     
      
       The answer is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       I hope that will be the answer you will get at the elections. 
     
     
      
       No doubt the Deputy will. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Compensation Claim, Easter Week, 1916. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that a claim for compensation was forwarded to his Department in May, 1928, by a Mrs. Donovan, of 32 Cumberland Street, Dublin, in respect of her brother, Patrick Lynch, who was killed in the G.P.O. during Easter Week, 1916, and what steps, if any, he proposes to take in the matter. 
     
     
      
       The Army Pensions Act, 1927, requires that a claim of this nature should have been presented before the 30th April, 1928.  Mrs. Donovan submitted no claim within that statutory time limit and I have, therefore, no power whatever to consider an application from her. 
     
     
      
       Of course the Minister responsible is not present.  This   claim was not put in on the prescribed form and in view of that fact would the Minister be prepared to receive further evidence in connection with the circumstances surrounding this particular case? 
     
     
      
       This case was very fully considered and legal advice was sought before it was rejected. 
     
     
      
       I have very reliable evidence to prove that the circumstances of the relatives and dependents of this man are really deplorable and in view of that fact will the Minister not be prepared to reopen the case? 
     
     
      
       It has been legally ruled that it cannot be admitted. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Suggested Amendment of Poor Relief Act. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that in many cases recipients of relief in food tickets are unable to pay their rents and have been served with notices to quit, and, further, if he is prepared to introduce proposals for legislation to amend the Poor Relief (Dublin) Act, 1929, to enable extra relief to be given by way of payment of rent in such cases in order to save such families from the hardships of eviction. 
     
     
      
       The answer is in the negative. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dilinn na Sionainne. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh an bhfuil a fhois aige go bhfuil cuid mhaith ghabhaltaisi millte ag dilinn na Sionainne i gceanntar Cluain Fearta, agus go raibh na tailte ceudna fa uisce cheann i mbliana, agus ceurd is mian leis a dheanamh le foirithint ar thionontaithe na ngabhaltaisi sin. 
     
     
      
       Cuireadh na paipeiri chuig an chigire aris chun tuarasgabhail iomlan do thabhairt ar an gcas agus cuirfidh me sgeal chuig an Teachta chomh luath is ata an t-eolus agam. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Division of Walker Estate, Westport. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if the Walker Estate, Kinurey, Westport, has yet been taken over by the Irish Land Commission, and, if so, will he state when it will be available for distribution to the tenants on the estate. 
     
     
      
       The question of the acquisition of the Walker Estate at Kinurey is still under consideration by the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Turbary Distribution. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if and when a portion of the Knockneaden bog will be made available as turbary for the tenants of Forkfield and Bunrower, Killawalla, Westport, on the Sligo Estate. 
     
     
      
       The holdings in the townland of Knockneaden on the Palmer Estate, to which the Deputy appears to refer, have been resold to the tenants.  Rights of turbury over some of these holdings have been given to tenants in adjacent townlands and all the turbary has been disposed of in this manner. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Castlehill Farm, Ballina. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what progress has been made by the Land Commission in the acquisition of the lands known as Castlehill Farm, owned by Mr. Walshe, Castlehill, Ballina, Co. Mayo. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have still under consideration the position as regards the lands of Castlehill, the property of Mr. E.C. Walshe. 
     
     
      
       What has been done for the past year as regards this land? What progress has been made since a deputation from the locality waited on the Land Commission in the matter? 
     
     
     
      
       The file of the case is out with the inspector for a further report on the whole case. 
     
     
      
       Inquiries are being made? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary give any reason for the delay of over a year? 
     
     
      
       There has not been any delay. 
     
     
      
       A year has elapsed, and there is no sign of any progress having been made. 
     
     
      
       That is only one of some hundreds of cases that we are dealing with in Co. Mayo. 
     
     
      
       It is only one of the usual excuses. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Relief Grant for Glengarriffe Area. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that acute poverty prevails in the remote areas extending westward and northward of Glengarriffe, Co. Cork, and if he will bear the needs of the district in mind when proceeding to allocate the Land Commission portion of the Relief Grant. 
     
     
      
       The needs of the district mentioned by the Deputy will be taken into consideration in connection with the expenditure of such moneys as may be entrusted to the Land Commission for expenditure under the Unemployment Relief Act. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Agloragh Lands, Tuam. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state if the Land Commission have yet acquired the untenanted lands at Agloragh, Tuam, Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       A scheme for the division of the lands of Agloragh on the McCormack Estate is in course of preparation and arrangements will be made to take possession of them when the scheme has been completed and approved. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Acquisition of Galway Lands. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state what progress has been made by the Irish Land Commission towards the acquisition of the farms held by the late Mr. O'Connor at Pallas and Ballydoogan, Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are still in negotiation for the acquisition of the lands of Pallas and Ballydoogan held by the late Mr. O'Connor. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether the Land Commission have yet acquired the lands on the Browne Estate at Fortbrowne, Co. Galway, in the occupation of John H. Burke. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Fortbrowne in the occupation of Mr. John H. Burke have not been acquired by the Land Commission.  The question of their acquisition is still under consideration. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state if the Land Commission have yet acquired Mr. Parker's lands, Stannus Estate, at Cross, Menlough, Co. Galway. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have not acquired the lands of Cross at Menlough, and there are no proceedings pending for their acquisition.  All the lands are subject to land purchase annuities.  They have acquired, however, 222 acres of the lands of Cave, the property of Mr. Parker, situate a few miles off at Ballymacward. 
     
   
   
     Order of Business. 
     
      
       It is proposed to take the Agenda down to No. 10. I propose to move at the conclusion of that business that the Dail adjourn until February 10th.  It may be necessary to call the Dail back about the middle of January in the event of amendments being made in some of the Bills sent to the Seanad.  I propose that public business be not interrupted at 9 o'clock for the taking of Private Deputies' business. 
     
     
      
       When will the motion for adjournment be taken? 
     
     
      
       It could be taken either now or when we get rid of the business on the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       I expect it will be taken about 8 o'clock at the latest. 
     
     
      
       Is it intended that the Road Transport Bill and the Railway Bill be held over until February 10th? 
     
     
      
       No.  Only item 11. 
     
     
      
       When is it proposed to take the Report Stage of these Bills? 
     
     
      
       After they have passed the Committee Stage. 
     
     
      
       The purpose of having a Report Stage is to enable Deputies to put down amendments that arise out of the Committee Stage discussion. If Deputies desire to introduce any such amendments on the Report Stage   such facilities should be given and evidently that will not be possible if the President's suggestion was accepted. 
     
     
      
       I was not informed that there was likely to be any amendments on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       I do not know of any, but you cannot tell until you get through the Committee Stage. 
     
     
      
       We can exercise intelligent anticipation.  However, we shall see. 
     
     
      
       I take it then that the motion for the adjournment will be moved at the conclusion of the business indicated and that Private Deputies' business will not be taken. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - Defence Forces (Pensions) Bill, 1931&mdash;First Stage. 
     Leave given to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to make provision for the formulating and carrying out of schemes for the provision of retired pay, pensions or gratuities for or in respect of members of the armed forces of Saorstat Eireann, certain former members of the said forces now serving in the Civil Service of Saorstat Eireann or the Garda Siochana and members of the Army Nursing Service.  (The President.) 
     Bill read a first time. 
     Second Stage ordered to be taken on 10th February, 1932. 
   
   
     Public Business. - Sea Fisheries (Protection) Bill, 1931&mdash;First Stage. 
     Leave given to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to make provision for the protection of the sea fisheries in and around Saorstat Eireann and for that purpose to authorise the making of by-laws and regulations in relation to such fisheries, and also to make provision for other matters relating to such fisheries (Minister for Lands and Fisheries.) 
     Bill read a first time. 
     
        Second Stage ordered to be taken on 10th February, 1932. 
     
      
       When will the Bill be circulated? 
     
     
      
       Within a fortnight from now. 
     
     
      
       You hope or expect? 
     
     
      
       I expect. 
     
   
   
     Public Business. - Report of Joint Committee on Private Bills Standing Orders. 
     Ordered that the Report of the Joint Committee on Private Bills Standing Orders do lie upon the Table and be printed (An Leas-Cheann Comhairle). 
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Pensions Books (Prohibition of Alienation) Bill, 1931&mdash;Committee Stage. 
     Sections 1 and 2 agreed to. 
     SECTION 3. 
     Every alienation or purported alienation of a document to which this Act applies, whether made by way of sale, exchange, or hypothecation and whether made before or after the passing of this Act, shall be and (if made before the passing of this Act) be deemed always to have been void and of no effect. 
     
      
       I move amendment 1: 
       To delete the word &ldquo;passing&rdquo; where the same occurs and substitute the word &ldquo;commencement.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is necessary owing to a subsequent amendment which stands in my name postponing the operations of the Bill for some months. I shall explain the reason when I come to the latter amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 3, as amended, agreed to. 
       Sections 4 and 5 agreed to. 
       SECTION 6. 
       (1) This Act may be cited as the Pensions Books (Prohibition of Alienation) Act. 1931. 
     
     
     
      
       I move amendment 2:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of the section a sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(2) This Act shall come into operation on the 1st day of February, 1932.&rdquo; 
       As the Bill stands at the present moment it is retrospective, and it affects loans which are already in existence, and if it came into force immediately the person who advanced money upon these books would forfeit the money that he advanced at present. Supposing there were two pounds advanced by a pawnbroker on a pensions book, if this Bill became law as it stands he would lose his security and the whole of his two pounds.  That would not be just, and in consequence I brought in an amendment that the Bill should not come into operation until 1st February, which would allow, as I think, current transactions to be completed and the money repaid by the persons who owe it.  Since I tabled the amendment I saw a deputation which was introduced by three Deputies from Cork&mdash;Deputies Anthony, J. Wolfe, and French.  They pointed out to me that it would be rather a hardship if the time was only extended to February, because, in the interest of the persons who received advances upon the security of their books, it would be well that they should get a certain amount of time to pay it off, so that instead of having to pay at the rate of 5/-a week they would only have to pay it at the rate of 1/- per week.  I think that the Bill will effect its purpose and will be less hardship to both parties to the transaction if &ldquo;May&rdquo; is substituted for &ldquo;February.&rdquo; I would be willing, if the House agrees, to put in the &ldquo;1st May&rdquo; instead of&rdquo; 1st February&rdquo; in my amendment. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be possible, while giving an extension of time in the case of a loan already made, to make new loans between now and the 1st May illegal?  It seems to me that a loan could be made from now up to that date.  Would it not be better to so frame the section that the making of new loans would be illegal immediately after the passing of the Act,   but that there would be a stay put upon its operation in respect of loans already made.  There would be no objection to lengthening the time if it be felt that the abuse would not continue. 
     
     
      
       I considered that, but I do not think there is really any danger of the abuse continuing, for the simple reason that no pawnbroker now, after the passing of this Bill, will advance any money upon these books, because he sees that there is a very short time to run.  In their own interests not a single one of the pawnbrokers would advance a penny.   The whole anxiety of the pawnbrokers would be to clear out of the business altogether to their own advantage. The difficulty of amendments such as the Deputy suggests is, of course, that after the passing of this Bill the amendment could not be carried out. The difficulty about it is that there is a fresh transaction&mdash;that is to say, the existing transactions have to be renewed every week.  Every transaction becomes, therefore, a renewed transaction. The man gets out his pension book and relodges it every week unless he is able to pay off the whole thing. The existing transactions are continuing transactions.  Each renewal of the existing transaction would be a new transaction.  I think myself that there is really no danger of any entirely new transaction taking place between this and the 1st May next. 
     
     
      
       The objection which Deputy de Valera has made is one that appealed to me at first glance, but if the Deputy knew the operations&mdash;and the real hardship is that stated by the Minister for Justice&mdash;he would know that no pawnbroker and no moneylender would be foolish enough, after this provision is inserted, to have any fresh transactions.  To no Deputy in this House does this Bill appeal with greater force than it does to me.  I know it with intimate knowledge from authorities who do know what they are talking about that this thing has become in the City of Cork a crying evil. That crying evil will be killed by this Bill.  This thing was made impossible by the British Army Annual Act up to   1921.  When that Act expired at the end of that year they renewed it, but we did not.  The result was that this was made illegal in other countries but that it was legal in ours.  What has been done is of no use to the pensioners, because if the words &ldquo;the 1st February, 1932,&rdquo; are left in there will be a great burden undoubtedly on the pensioners.  We want to give them until the 1st May to clear out, and I can assure Deputy de Valera that there is no danger of any moneylender in Cork entering into any new contract between this and the 1st May.  These pawnbrokers and moneylenders are shrewd people.  They know that after that their contract would necessarily go west.  I do not think that there is any danger through putting in &ldquo;the 1st May, 1932.&rdquo;  The suggestion that there was appealed to me at the first glance, but I am now satisfied that there is no danger of that occurring.  If we accept the amendment making it the 1st May, 1932, it will amount to this, that the pawnbroker or moneylender will give reasonable time to the pensioners to settle the debt.  It will give the pensioner, on the other hand, time and opportunity to repay the loan and get rid of this pernicious system which has now ceased by the very introduction of this Bill, and which, with the help of God, will never again be renewed. 
     
     
      
       I think the explanation given is fairly satisfactory.  The only explanation I would like to ask is how the 1st May was arrived at&mdash; what is the basis of the calculation? 
     
     
      
       So that the pensioner would be able to liquidate the sum by a weekly payment of say 6d. over a period of nearly 26 weeks, whereas if the date were fixed earlier it may mean that a sum of 5s. or 10s. per week would be deducted. 
     
     
      
       What I want to know is, has it any relation to the period over which the loans are made? 
     
     
      
       It would simply mean that if there was an advance of £2 the man would pay, say, at 1s. 6d. per week until it was liquidated, whereas if the date were the 1st.   February he would be called upon to pay four times as much per week. 
     
     
      
       The pawnbrokers wanted a much later date. 
     
     
      
       Yes, in order to make it still easier. 
     
     
      
       In order to meet both parties and to stir up the pawnbrokers to close those transactions, the 1st May was suggested by me. That, I think, is the soonest possible date on which it could be done without hardship to the pensioner, without loss to the pawnbroker and without throwing on him the onus of squeezing the pensioners.  That is the only reason. It was not put down for the sake of the pawnbrokers. 
     
     
      
       I have no typical example before me from which I could satisfy myself whether this is reasonable or unreasonable.  That is the trouble. 
     
     
      
       Would not the simplest way be to keep to the original date, but to state in a Schedule at the end of the Bill that existing or unpaid balances could be legally collected within a certain number of weeks, say, up to a certain date? 
     
     
      
       I tried to make it plain to the House that every transaction is a fresh transaction.  Take the case where somebody owes £2 to the pawnbroker.  At the end of the week he gets the book and after drawing his pension he gives back the book. That is a fresh transaction.  You could not have a Schedule setting out what each person owes.  Deputy Briscoe is following on the lines that Deputy de Valera suggested.  It would be very excellent no doubt, but it would not be possible in practice to carry it out. 
       Amendment 2 withdrawn. 
       Amendment 3 agreed to. 
       Section 6 as amended by amendment 3 agreed to. 
       The Title agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be reported with amendments. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Bill reported with amendments. 
     
     
     
      
       I propose to take the remaining stages to-day.  It is an entirely agreed measure. 
       Agreed. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass for final consideration&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Message to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
     
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Merchandise Marks Bill, 1931&mdash;From the Seanad. 
     
      
       A message has been received from the Seanad that the Merchandise Marks Bill, 1931 has been passed with the following two amendments&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There will be no objection to taking that matter now. 
     
     
      
       The amendments have been circulated. 
       Question put: &ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Seanad in the following amendments:&mdash; 
       Section 20, sub-section (1).  To delete in lines 52-53 the words &lsquo;From and after the expiration of six months from the passing of this Act.&rsquo; 
       Section 20, sub-section (5).  To insert before the sub-section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &lsquo;(5) The following provisions shall have effect in relation to the coming into force of this section, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  in this sub-section the expression &ldquo;the appointed day&rdquo; means the day next following the expiration of six months from the passing of this Act; 
       (b)  subject to the provisions of the next succeeding paragraph of this sub-section this section shall come into force on the appointed day; 
     
     (c)  the Minister for Industry and Commerce may, at any time after the passing of this Act and before the appointed day, by order made in relation to imported goods of a   particular class or description declare that this section shall, so far as it relates to imported goods of that class or description, come into force on such day (not being earlier than the date of such order or less than seven days after such date or later than the appointed day) as may be specified in that behalf in such order, and whenever any such order is made this section shall, in relation to imported goods of the class or description to which such order relates, come into force on the day specified in that behalf in such order; 
     (d) every order made under this sub-section shall be published in the  Iris Oifigiuil  as soon as may be after it is made.&rdquo; 
     
      
       There will be no objection to taking them now. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Orders of the Day. - Town Tenants Bill, 1930&mdash;From the Seanad. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 1:&mdash; 
       Title.  After the word &ldquo;areas&rdquo; in line 8 the words &ldquo;and certain other tenants&rdquo; inserted. 
       This amendment is necessitated by the alterations in the terms of the Bill which extends the Bill to certain other tenants. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 2:&mdash; 
       Section 1.  The words &ldquo;Town Tenants&rdquo; deleted in line 20 and the words &ldquo;Landlord and Tenant&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       This amendment is necessitated for the same reasons. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 3:&mdash; 
     
     Section 2.  After paragraph (d),   line 41, a new paragraph inserted as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(c) such contract of tenancy is not a letting made for or dependent on the continuance of the tenant in any office, employment, or appointment.&rdquo; 
     This amendment excludes from the Bill houses which are let to persons solely because they occupy some particular office which, of course, on their leaving that particular office would be required by their successors. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 4:&mdash; 
       Section 3.  After the word &ldquo;were&rdquo; in line 35 the words &ldquo;or are&rdquo; inserted. 
       The reason for this amendment is that there was a small drafting error. The section as it stands might be held to apply only to existing houses or buildings.  The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the section shall apply to buildings provided after the passing of the Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 5:&mdash; 
       Section 5, sub-section (3).  Two new sub-sections inserted before the sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(3) The Minister may, after consultation with the committee mentioned in Section 65 of the Courts of Justice Act, 1924 (No. 10 of 1924), make rules of court for the purposes of this Act and, in particular, for regulating the practice and procedure under this Act. 
       (4)  Every rule of court made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and if either such House shall, within the next twenty-one days on which such House has sat after such rule is laid before it, pass a resolution annulling such rule, such rule shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.&rdquo; 
     
     
        This amendment is to enable rules of court to be made.  Under Section 7 there is power in the Minister for Justice to make regulations, but there is no provision for the making of rules, and there might be a difficulty as to the making of rules of court unless these provisions were inserted. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 6:&mdash; 
       Section 11, sub-section (1).  After the word &ldquo;case&rdquo; in line 52 the following words inserted:&mdash;&ldquo;shall be such sum as may be agreed on between the landlord and the tenant and in default of such agreement.&rdquo; 
       This enables the parties to settle their case out of court if they so wish. It might not be clear that they would have the right to do so if this amendment were not inserted. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 7:&mdash; 
       Section 12, sub-section (3).  After the word &ldquo;lease&rdquo; in line 42 the following words inserted:&mdash;&ldquo;for a life or lives in being (either without a term of years or with a concurrent term of which less than twenty-five years are unexpired) or under a lease for a term.&rdquo; 
       This is merely a verbal alteration in drafting, and deals with the existence of a certain class of lease for a life or lives.  A similar omission occurs later, but there are amendments now setting that right also. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 8:&mdash; 
       New section.  Before Section 13 a new section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;13.&mdash;(1) Where a sanitary authority serves under the Public Health Acts, 1878 to 1931, or the Housing of the Working Classes (Ireland) Acts, 1890 to 1921, a notice on the tenant of a tenement requiring the execution by   such tenant of any work which is an improvement within the meaning of this Act, such tenant shall, within three days after the service of such notice on him, serve on the landlord of such tenement a notice (in this Act referred to as a sanitary work notice) in the prescribed form stating the facts of the service of such notice by such sanitary authority and stating the material portions of such notice. 
     (2) Where a sanitary work notice is served on the landlord of a tenement such landlord may, within three days after such service, serve on the tenant of such tenement a notice (in this Act referred to as a sanitary work undertaking) in the prescribed form undertaking to execute such work in consideration of either (as such landlord shall state in such notice) a specified increase of rent or an increase of rent to be fixed by the Court. 
     (3) Wherever the landlord of a tenement has served under and in accordance with this section a sanitary work undertaking on the tenant of such tenement the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  the service of such undertaking shall have the same effect as the service on such tenant of an improvement undertaking, and the provisions of this Act in relation to an improvement undertaking shall apply accordingly; and 
     (b)  such tenant may serve on the sanitary authority a copy of such sanitary work undertaking and thereupon the obligation to comply with the notice served by the sanitary authority and the liability for failure to comply with such notice shall be transferred to and become and be the obligation and liability of such landlord in exoneration of such tenant. 
     (4) Where a tenant has served a sanitary work notice on his landlord and such landlord has not, within three days after such service, served on such tenant a sanitary work   undertaking in respect of such sanitary work notice, such tenant shall be entitled to execute as an improvement the work mentioned in the notice the service of which by the sanitary authority occasioned the service of such sanitary work notice.&rdquo; 
     I move the following amendment to the Seanad amendment No. 8:&mdash; 
     To delete the words &ldquo;in the prescribed form&rdquo; where they occur in sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of the proposed new section. 
     This amendment and the other amendment deal with the same question by enabling the owner of premises to carry out repairs when notice has been served on the occupier by the sanitary authorities.  In the ordinary way the sanitary authorities serve notice on either the owner or the occupier, and it is advisable in most cases that the owner should have an opportunity of carrying out the necessary repairs, because it very often happens that the same repairs have to be done to a row of houses.  The work could be more efficiently and more economically done by the owner than by the occupier.  The effect of the amendment is that the occupier must serve notice upon the owner and give him an opportunity of carrying out the repairs.  The notice given by the sanitary authorities is always a very short notice, and consequently this amendment necessitates the tenant serving notice on the landlord within three days.  The sanitary authorities never give more than six days' notice. There are some words here which I would like to have cut out, and I know the Seanad would agree to it.  These words are to the effect that the tenant should serve notice on the landlord &ldquo;in the prescribed form.&rdquo; It might be difficult for the tenant, having only three days, to serve notice &ldquo;in the prescribed form.&rdquo;  I think if he served notice it would be sufficient.  I would suggest that the House should accept the amendment striking out the words &ldquo;in the prescribed form.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I am not quite clear that the purpose of the amendment is wholly as good as the Minister   suggests.  As the Bill stands, if a tenant is served with notice by the sanitary authorities, requiring him to carry out certain work which would be an improvement within the meaning of the Act, such tenant would be entitled to get compensation for the improvement at the termination of the tenancy.  If this new section, with the consequential amendments, is inserted the tenant would not be entitled to get that compensation unless he had served notice on the landlord, had given the landlord an opportunity of undertaking the improvement work, and had received the certificate that is suggested in another amendment. It is quite possible that many cases may arise where tenants on receiving notice from the sanitary authorities, in the belief that they are required to do so at once, will execute repairs.  If they neglect to avail of the provisions of the Bill either through negligence or ignorance of its provisions they may consequently find themselves deprived of the right to compensation for such improvements when their tenancy terminates.  The procedure set out here seems reasonable enough, but I do not think a tenant should be deprived of the right he has under the Bill for improvements effected, as the result of notice received from the sanitary authority, if he fails to give notice to the landlord within three days so that the landlord would have an opportunity of undertaking the work. 
     
     
      
       There is one thing the Deputy must consider. If a tenant carries out improvements which the landlord should have carried out he has always a claim against the landlord, because it is part of the landlord's contract with the tenant to keep the exterior of the house in repair.  That is quite apart from this Bill altogether. 
     
     
      
       I understand. 
     
     
      
       The tenant has got his remedy.  I think on the whole there is a good deal to be said on both sides.  I recognise that, because the period is short, but for the carrying out of sanitary improvements   I think it is better that the occupier should be compelled to let the owner know that such notice has been served and give him an opportunity of doing the work.  Really the proper thing is that the owner should do so. 
     
     
      
       I am not objecting to the owner carrying out the work but, by a subsequent amendment, the tenant may be deprived of his rights. A sub-section of Section 16 at present provides that the tenant shall not be entitled to compensation unless he gave the landlord notice in respect of improvements carried out in consequence of an order from the sanitary authority.  It is proposed to amend that sub-section and to provide that the tenant shall not be entitled to compensation unless he has given notice within three days.  If that were deleted and the tenant merely given an opportunity of bringing the notice to the landlord, that would be all right, but I do not think it is fair in all the circumstances that the tenant should be deprived of any right to compensation if for any reason he fails to do so. 
     
     
      
       The trouble is there is no other penalty that you could impose except loss of compensation. 
     
     
      
       That is not altogether my point.  The tenant may be glad to avail of this section and to get the landlord to carry out the improvements, subject to an agreed increase of rent or something of that kind.  The point I am trying to safeguard is that the tenant should not be subjected to the penalty of deprivation of the right to compensation if he failed to afford that opportunity to the landlord. 
     
     
      
       If the words &ldquo;in the prescribed form&rdquo; are taken out will that mean verbal notice will be sufficient? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       If so there would be a great danger of disputes. 
     
     
      
       I think it is quite clear that notice would have to be in writing. 
     
     
     
      
       Could not the words &ldquo;in writing&rdquo; be inserted? 
     
     
      
       If the House wishes I would be willing. 
     
     
      
       In support of the point of view put forward by Deputy Lemass I am sure the Minister is aware that under the existing law, if a notice is served by the sanitary authority to remove a dangerous wall or roof or something like that of some some magnitude, the tenant is allowed to deduct from the rent the amount that he has paid for the work.  In the ordinary way the Minister's argument does not appear to be necessarity opposed to what Deputy Lemass said.  If the tenant gets such a notice as I mentioned, and if the landlord refuses or fails to comply with it, the tenant is made responsible.  He can do the work and recoup himself by deducting the amount from the rent.  That is the position already, and to my mind it strengthens the point of view made by Deputy Lemass. 
     
     
      
       I do not think so, because the tenant has still his existing remedies.  They are not taken away by this Bill, and in that matter he does not require any protection under this Bill at all. 
     
     
      
       I was referring to a type of improvement which a tenant under the terms of a tenancy would be required to carry out and for the cost of which he could not proceed against the landlord, but which nevertheless would be an improvement within the Act and increase the letting value of the house.  In the majority of cases the work done under a notice served by the sanitary authority is not an improvement at all.  It may be a notice to have a yard whitewashed or something like that.  Occasionally there will be cases where the tenant who is responsible for the interior preservation of the house may be called upon to do work which would be an improvement within the meaning of the section, and for which he could get compensation under the Bill, and for which he can still get compensation, even though the Bill were amended as the Minister suggests, with this exception:   that he will be debarred if he fails to give the landlord an opportunity of doing the work. 
     
     
      
       Would not the point be better explained in this way: Supposing a tenant is compelled to put down a new flooring and that his lease expires long before that flooring, with ordinary wear and tear, is worn out; there is there a dispute between the landlord and the tenant as to whether the tenant is entitled to compensation. The tenant, in fact, gives back the premises in a better condition than when he got it.  In that way the point raised by Deputy Lemass is worthy of consideration.  There are disputes between landlords and tenants as to whether the tenants are entitled to recover the whole cost of keeping houses in repair.  Even on a lease of five years a new floor may have to be put into a house, but no tenant is liable for putting in a new floor. 
     
     
      
       I think every tenant will know that before he can get compensation for improvements he must serve notice on the landlord. Possibly the only thing that a tenant may not know is that the time for giving notice is so short.  I do not see how we can get over the question.  I do not think putting in a fresh floor would be an improvement or would come under the Bill. 
     
     
      
       Under the existing law the putting in of a new floor is considered an improvement.  If a new floor is put into an apartment in a slum district or into a small cottage by the landlord, if he seeks to increase the rent he must show that the new floor could be considered an improvement which would warrant an increase of rent for a period.  If that is so, surely it would be an improvement where a tenant with a lease for a few years to run puts in a new floor. 
     
     
      
       We are dealing with amendment 10 rather than with amendment 8 now. 
     
     
      
       They are connected. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Good will appreciate the point. 
     
     
     
      
       I would appreciate it in quite a different sense.  The difficulty is this: that if there is a covenant in a lease to maintain property and to hand it over in good order and repair at the termination of the lease, it would be the duty of the tenant to put in a new floor even supposing that the lease had only a month to run. 
     
     
      
       On a five years lease? 
     
     
      
       It all depends; if the tenant is bound to maintain the premises in good repair and to hand them over, even if there was only a week to run, it is a liability on him. 
     
     
      
       Even if such an improvement is made at the request of the sanitary authorities?  Is it not the landlord's duty? 
     
     
      
       We have been sidetracking to some extent.  The point I want to raise is whether there can be a question whether the work done was an improvement under the Act and if the tenant would be ordinarily entitled to compensation.  There is an amendment here which proposes to deprive him of that compensation if within three days after receipt of a notice from the sanitary authority he fails to give notice to the landlord.  I think, in view of the shortness of the three-day period suggested, the tenant may misunderstand the purpose of the order from the sanitary authority and fail in his point, by proceeding at once to execute the repairs. 
     
     
      
       It is proposed that amendment No. 8 should be accepted in its amended form, and that amendment 10 be not accepted.  Could we not amend amendment 8 now?  It is proposed in amendment 8, which was inserted in the Seanad, in line 7, after the word &ldquo;notice&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;in writing,&rdquo; in line 8 to delete the words &ldquo;in the prescribed form.&rdquo; Is sub-section (2) being amended also? 
     
     
      
       The words &ldquo;prescribed form&rdquo; are not so important in sub-section (2). 
     
     
      
       If the landlord has to serve this notice on a tenant it should   be in some form prescribed, so that the tenant will understand the position. 
     
     
      
       I do not mind deleting the words there. 
     
     
      
       Amendment 8, made in the Seanad, has been amended in sub-section (1), line 7, by inserting after the word &ldquo;notice&rdquo; the words &ldquo;in writing&rdquo; and in line 8 by deleting the words &ldquo;in the prescribed form.&rdquo; The Minister is not moving that part of his amendment which refers to sub-section (2). 
       Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 8, as amended&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Dail agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 9:&mdash; 
       Section 16, sub-section (5).  The figures &ldquo;1930&rdquo; deleted in line 52 and the figures &ldquo;1931&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       This merely inserts the figure &ldquo;1931&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;1930,&rdquo; because at the time the Bill first came before the House the Public Health Expenses Bill, 1931, which completes the code, had not become law. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Dail agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 10: 
       Section 16, sub-section (5).  The following words added at the end of the sub-section:&mdash;&ldquo;but a tenant shall not be entitled to compensation in respect of such work unless such tenant has served on his landlord a sanitary work notice in respect of such work and has become entitled under this Act to execute such work as an improvement.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       This is a point upon which I would ask the Dail not to agree with the Seanad.  I think the tenant should be allowed to retain his right to compensation for work executed at his expense and which increases the letting value of the tenement, whether or not he gives this   three days' notice to the landlord. There can be no question about it that the tenant was required by law to carry out the work and that the landlord is going to benefit by the work. Under these circumstances I think we should take no risk whatever of the tenant being deprived of his right to compensation. 
     
     
      
       I see the force of the Deputy's argument.  On the other hand, we have given, very rightly, all through the Bill an opportunity to the owner of the house to put the house right.  He always gets his choice of doing it rather than of the tenant doing it.  I think that is correct.  I think normally where notice has been served by the sanitary authority he should have an equal right.  There is nothing, if we take out this sub-section, which compels the tenant even to serve notice on the landlord. As I said before, the work will not be so well done, if it is a general improvement, by individuals as by the landlord. 
     
     
      
       I agree that if we take this out there will be nothing which will compel the tenant to serve notice, but I think the penalty for failure to serve notice is too great.  I think there will be an inducement to the tenant in any event to serve notice, because in consequence of the service of the notice he can get the work carried out at the landlord's expense.  In other words, the landlord may do it himself in order to avoid paying compensation later on.  In any event, if the tenant fails to serve notice the punishment should fit the crime, and I think the punishment is too heavy for the crime. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot suggest any other punishment? 
     
     
      
       It is probably too late now to make a suggestion of this kind, but I think the difficulty would have been met if a provision had been made to compel the local authority in serving this notice to call attention to this section of the Town Tenants Act, because, theoretically, although everybody must know the law, to assume   that every tenant will know the law and will be aware of the disadvantage accruing to himself when he comes in ten years' time to look for compensation for improvements, is assuming too much altogether.  It is not practicable, to say the least of it.  If in the administration of the Act, the public authorities will include some advice to the tenant, a notice calling his attention to this provision, at least it would be better than the provision as it stands, but even with that it would be unsatisfactory. 
     
     
      
       I considered what the Deputy says about putting in a provision that the sanitary authority should serve notice at the same time, but on consideration and discussion with the Department of Local Government and considering the existing sanitary laws we came to the conclusion that as a matter of compulsory by-law that cannot be done.  I fancy that in the working of the Act the sanitary authorities will, as a matter of fact, give intimation. 
     
     
      
       I feel so strongly that that proposal is wrong that I would be inclined to divide the House on it.  I think it is most unfair to the tenant that he should be deprived of compensation because of his failure to act within three days.  During the course of the passage of the Bill through Committee Stage, we considered the possibility of the landlord who might be absent from town or who, through illness, might be unable to carry out the requirements of the statute, and we extend the period in order to facilitate him.  In this case we cannot extend it, but I do say that we should consider the modification of the penalty for failure to comply with the statute. If we cannot modify it we should remove the penalty altogether, seeing that it will mean no hardship to anybody to remove this penalty on the tenant.  The landlord is not going to have to pay anything for which he will not be getting the full benefit. 
     
     
      
       Theoretically what the Deputy says may take place, but practically I do not think there is any danger of it. 
     
     
     
      
       I entirely disagree with the Minister.  I think it is much more likely that it will take place if notice is served on the tenant and he does not know that in five or six years he may suffer if he does not, within three days, serve on the landlord notice that he has to carry out these improvements. I agree with Deputy Lemass that the penalty under which the tenant would find himself as a result of neglect to serve this notice within three days on the landlord is altogether too great in the circumstances. 
     
     
      
       I put this suggestion to the Minister.  I do not know whether it would be possible to amend the amendment here so as to provide that the burden of proof would be on the landlord to show the judge of the Circuit Court that he had been damaged in some way as a result of the default of the tenant, and in the event of the landlord not being able to prove that, that then the tenant should be entitled to compensation. 
     
     
      
       There might be something in that suggestion if it were worked out, but I think it would hardly be possible to work it out now. 
     
     
      
       I do not think we should allow our anxiety to get the Bill through to prevent us doing something that we feel should be done.  If it were impossible to embody some such suggestion as Deputy Lemass has made, could not we leave over this amendment for a few hours to allow the Minister to look into it? 
     
     
      
       I do not think really that it will work out in any hardship. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister leave the amendment over until the end of the discussion on the Bill? 
     
     
      
       Very well. 
     
     
      
       We can go through the amendments and leave the Report over until the end of the day's business.  If any amendment is worked out in the meantime we can take it on Report.  We will take this amendment now as being agreed to on that understanding. 
     
     
        Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment No. 11:&mdash; 
       Section 17.  Before sub-section (4) two new sub-sections inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(4)  Where the tenant of a tenement executes work on such tenement in pursuance of an order of a sanitary authority under the Public Health Acts, 1878 to 1931, or the Housing of the Working Classes (Ireland) Acts, 1890 to 1921, and such work is an improvement within the meaning of this Act, such tenant shall not be entitled to an improvement certificate under the foregoing provisions of this section in respect of such improvement, but shall be entitled to obtain from such sanitary authority, within six months after the due completion of such work in accordance with such order, a certificate (in this Act referred to as a sanitary improvement certificate) in writing in the prescribed form certifying that such work was executed in pursuance of and completed in accordance with an order of such sanitary authority. 
       (5)  A sanitary improvement certificate shall, as against the landlord of the tenement to which it relates, be  prima facie  evidence of the matters which such certificate purports to certify.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is consequential on the other.  It allows the tenant to get an improvement certificate from the sanitary authority. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments Nos. 12, 13, 14 and 15:&mdash; 
       Section 17, sub-section (4).  After the word &ldquo;landlord&rdquo; in line 30 the words &ldquo;or sanitary authority&rdquo; inserted. 
       Section 17, sub-section (4).  After the word &ldquo;certificate&rdquo; in line 31 the words &ldquo;or sanitary improvement certificate (as the case may be)&rdquo; inserted. 
     
     
        Section 17, sub-section (4).  After the word &ldquo;him&rdquo; in line 32 the words &ldquo;or them&rdquo; inserted. 
     Section 17, sub-section (4).  After the word &ldquo;him&rdquo; in line 34 the words &ldquo;or them&rdquo; inserted. 
     These are all amendments which are entirely consequential upon amendment 11.  In fact, they are necessary to make the section sense. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     The following amendment from the Seanad appeared on the Order Paper:&mdash; 
     Section 18, sub-section (1).  The word &ldquo;forty&rdquo; deleted in line 55 and the word &ldquo;twenty&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     
      
       I move the following amendment to the Seanad amendment:&mdash; 
       To delete the word &ldquo;twenty&rdquo; and to substitute therefor the word &ldquo;thirty.&rdquo; 
       As the House is aware, when the Bill went up to the Seanad the period was in certain circumstances a period of forty years.  The Seanad altered that period of forty years to twenty years. Amendments 16 and 17 were so closely connected in the debate in the Seanad that I think it will be necessary for us to consider these two amendments in conjunction here also.  Amendment No. 17 from the Seanad reads:&mdash; 
       Section 18, sub-section (1).  The word &ldquo;predecessors in title&rdquo; deleted in line 58 and the words &ldquo;predecessor in title if the immediate predecessor in title was the wife or husband of such tenant&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       To that amendment I propose a further amendment as follows:&mdash; 
       That the amendment be not agreed to, and that the following amendment be inserted in lieu thereof:&mdash; 
     
     In Section 18, sub-section (1), page 10, line 58, after the word &ldquo;title&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and such tenement was not acquired by such tenant or any of his predecessors in title by purchase for valuable consideration   within such period of thirty years.&rdquo; 
     As the Bill left the House the words &ldquo;predecessors in title&rdquo; were undefined and they meant and would, of course, include a predecessor in title, even though he had purchased from a predecessor in title for valuable consideration, so that if a tenant had been thirty years in possession his thirty years' occupation would inure to the benefit of the purchaser.  The Seanad cut down the period of forty to twenty years and deleted the words &ldquo;predecessors in title,&rdquo; substituting the words &ldquo;predecessor in title if the immediate predecessor in title was the wife or husband of such tenant.&rdquo;  I think that that cutting down is entirely wrong because that would mean that a house might be in occupation of three generations of the same family.  It might go from a grandfather through his son to a grandson.  A man might be reared and live all his life in the house and then possibly ten years after his father's death might find he had acquired no rights there at all.  The Town Tenants Commission recommended a period of forty years because they thought that a person after forty years had come to regard a place as his home.  Now the very class of person that would be cut out by this amendment is the very class of person in a great number of instances that they wished to benefit.  What I would like the House to do, and what I would ask them to do, is to meet the Seanad half way and to substitute the word &ldquo;thirty&rdquo; for &ldquo;twenty,&rdquo; and to enlarge the words &ldquo;predecessors in title&rdquo; so that they might include everybody except predecessors in title by purchase for valuable consideration. Thus if a son succeeded his father or if a daughter succeeded her father they would have the family right carried on. 
     
      
       I do not think there is any necessity to spend much time debating again the question as to whether the period of occupation should be forty years, thirty years or twenty years.  The question was debated for many hours when the Bill was before us on Committee and it became quite obvious that there was little possibility of reconciling the different views   expressed on that occasion.  Our views have not changed.  The Minister has slightly modified his but ours remain as they were.  We think that twenty years is too long a period but we think, however, that twenty years is better than thirty years, and that thirty years is better than forty.  We propose to vote against the Minister's amendment, which means that the Bill will remain as amended by the Seanad.  If we are defeated on that we propose to support the Minister's amendment as against the proposal in the original draft. 
       Again on the question of the other amendment which the Seanad linked up with this one relating to years, I think we have got to consider them separately.  The question of the intentions of the Seanad or the question of the bargain arrived at does not concern us.  We have to produce the best Bill possible.  We have to consider the period of years in relation to the Bill and we have to consider the question of &ldquo;predecessors in title&rdquo; in relation to the Bill.  It seems to me that there is no reason for narrowing down the meaning of the words.  I think that the Bill as it left this House is better than it would be if amended as the Seanad suggests, or as the Minister suggests.  The term &ldquo;predecessors in title&rdquo; has its full meaning; and it is not intended to restrict it so as to exclude any persons whether they are people who have procured their title by purchase for valuable consideration or by inheritance.  The amendment inserted by the Seanad is ridiculous.  No matter what happens we have got to defeat that.  Its effect would be to exclude a very large class of deserving people, particularly the class to whom the Minister has referred, that is, people who inherited the title to residence from fathers or mothers as the case may be.  The amendment which the Minister has proposed is certainly an improvement upon the Seanad's proposition, but it would be much better to leave the Bill as it originally was.  No case has been made against the proposal to give this right to a new tenancy to a person who has secured his title through purchase for valuable consideration. 
     
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass's position is now rather involved.  He is going to vote against the amendment in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       No, I did not say that. I said against the Minister's amendment. I said I am going to vote against the Minister's amendment to the Seanad amendment.  I think the Seanad amendment is the better and I propose to try and keep it, as the Seanad has amended it in respect to the period of years. 
     
     
      
       The Seanad amendment is bad and the Minister's amendment is not much better.  I was in favour of 20 years in the original draft of the Bill, but if the Seanad amendment which Deputy Lemass is prepared to support were carried, it would, as the Minister has stated, exclude&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am only talking of the Seanad amendment with respect to the period of years. 
     
     
      
       16 and 17 are connected. 
     
     
      
       I understand that if the Seanad amendment were agreed to, it would mean that only the husband or wife&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That is amendment 17. 
     
     
      
       We are discussing both of them together. 
     
     
      
       I am opposed to 17. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry, I misunderstood. 
     
     
      
       Before the amendment is put, would the Minister say whether he has any statistics as to the number of houses to which this amendment applies.  It seems to me that we are legislating for two quite different classes.  There are business houses in regard to which assignments are quite common.  But with regard to the ordinary private house in the suburbs of Dublin, does the Minister think that these houses come within the purview of this Bill at all?  Is it not the case that the great bulk of these houses are let in a casual way without assignment of title, and that they do not come under this provision?  Where are the   exceptions?  What proportion are they of the ordinary private houses of Dublin?  Can the Minister give us any information so that we may see what it is we are legislating upon, or how far our legislation touches the actual state of affairs? 
     
     
      
       I do not follow Deputy Moore at all, because if a person remains in possession of a house and dies, then the house goes to his personal representative if he has not left it by will, and that personal representative, or the persons entitled, such as his children, will remain on there as persons taking otherwise than as purchasers for valuable consideration. Everybody who is in possession of a house except by purchase, would come under these words which I propose to have inserted.  Personally, I do not think that there is such a terrible amount of importance about the period, or that it affects quite such a number of houses as one would think it would, because I am very much inclined to think that if you stick to the 20 years you will discover that at the end of about 17 or 18 years occupation there will be a vast number of notices to quit, in other words, that landlords will endeavour to cut down the tenancies so that the tenants will not acquire the right.  Of course, it might be said that that would be applicable to a period of 30 years or a period of 40 years also, but it is less applicable to the longer period than it is to the shorter period.  After very careful consideration the Commission recommended 40 years.  I am now meeting the opposite view as fairly as I can in offering the compromise of 30. 
     
     
      
       I desire to say a few words with regard to amendment 17. The Minister's amendment would, if I understand it aright, exclude from the benefit of this Statute a son or a daughter who took over an aged parent's tenancy on the terms that that parent would be supplied with board and lodging for the remainder of his or her life.  If it would capture a case such as that, it seems to me that it would work a hardship.  If what the Minister is aiming at by his amendment to   No. 17 is to prevent a traffic in houses, the prevention of ordinary sale and purchase of houses, I can see that the Minister's amendment may be aimed at a possible evil.  But, as the Minister will, I think, agree, the expression &ldquo;valuable consideration&rdquo; will include any benefit which one member of a family even informally stipulated to give to another member of the family in consideration of getting a tenancy.  We know that that occurs.  We know that the old father or the old mother makes an offer of a tenancy to a son or daughter on marriage, and that there is an agreement that the son or daughter will provide board and lodgings. That is &ldquo;valuable consideration,&rdquo; and would, I think, exclude such son or daughter from the benefit of this Act.  Can that be intended?  For that reason I would appeal to the Minister to adhere to his Bill as it stood.  The expression &ldquo;predecessors in title&rdquo; which we find in the Bill itself is one easy to understand and easy to interpret, and it is only in the most unusual case that it can possibly affect a landlord adversely.  I doubt that even the Minister, from his own experience either in this House or at the Bar, could suggest many illustrations of hardship that would inure to a landlord if the Bill as it stands passes. However that might be I ask the Minister to consider whether his amendment as framed, with a highly technical phrase like &ldquo;valuable consideration,&rdquo; would not work real hardship in very many cases. 
     
     
      
       I agree entirely with the Deputy on his interpretation of the law, and I would agree with him that it would work out a hardship in a great number of cases if he were dealing either with business premises or with country farms, because that handing over of the tenancy to a son in consideration of support is, I think, entirely confined to country farms, though it may extend to business premises in the towns.  Business premises are completely safeguarded, entirely apart from this.  There may be a very odd case, though I do not know of any, of a tenant handing over the interest in a small house or a large house in a city to a son or daughter   in consideration of support.  I have not come across such a case.  There is great difficulty in having a formula that will exclude everything that you may wish to exclude, and include everything that you may wish to include, but I think &ldquo;purchase for valuable consideration&rdquo; will cover the overwhelming bulk of the cases that I wish to safeguard. 
     
     
      
       We are considering amendment 16 made in the Seanad.  The Minister proposes to delete the word &ldquo;twenty&rdquo; in the amendment and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;thirty,&rdquo; and then agree with the Seanad amendment as amended. I propose to put the question that the   word &ldquo;twenty&rdquo; stand.  If that is carried, then we will, in effect, have agreed with the amendment made in the Seanad, although another formal motion will be necessary.  The Minister will be voting, nil.  If the nils have it, then it will be open to the Minister to move that the word &ldquo;thirty&rdquo; be there inserted, and on that, if I understand Deputy Lemass aright, there will be agreement.  We shall have agreed to the Seanad amendment as amended. 
     
     
      
       That is right. 
       Question put:&mdash;&ldquo;That the word &lsquo;twenty&rsquo; stand.&rdquo; 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 50; Nil, 63. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Geoghegan, James. Gorry, Patrick J. 
             Goulding, John. Harris, Thomas. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Lemass, Sean F. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.) Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene.
 Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. 
             Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Jordan, Michael.
 O'Mahony, The. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies G. Boland and Allen; Nil: Deputies P.S. Doyle and Conlon. 
     Question declared lost. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the word &lsquo;thirty&rsquo; be there inserted&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Seanad amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
     
      
       Amendment 17 has already been moved.  Shall I put it? 
     
     
      
       What would the procedure be if we agree to the Minister's amendment?  Will the question then be put&mdash;&ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad amendment as amended?&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to put this in two questions if necessary, that is: &ldquo;That the Committee do not agree with the Seanad in the amendment made,&rdquo; and then take the amendment moved by the Minister in substitution. 
     
     
      
       We have already discussed the matter. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister moved his amendment? 
     
     
      
       My amendment has been moved. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Committee do not agree with the Seanad in amendment 17&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is moving that following amendment be inserted in lieu of the Seanad amendment:&mdash;&ldquo;In Section 18, sub-section (1), page 10, line 58, after the word &lsquo;title&rsquo; to insert the words &lsquo;and such tenement was not acquired by such tenant or any of his predecessors in title by purchase for valuable consideration within such period of thirty years.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Is it in order for the Minister to move that amendment at this stage? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is aware that I never answer a question like that.  If he suggests why not I shall rule on that. 
     
     
      
       We are considering a number of amendments from the Seanad.  Is it in order for any Deputy or Minister to propose additional amendments to those which come from the Seanad for consideration? 
     
     
      
       Yes&mdash;if the proposed amendments are relevant to those made in the Seanad.  It is in order to move to disagree with a Seanad amendment, or to move to agree with a Seanad amendment with a relevant amendment, or to reject the Seanad amendment and propose in lieu of the Seanad amendment a relevant amendment to the Seanad amendment. The Minister is proposing to leave out the Seanad amendment and is moving an alternative amendment to the amendment made in the Seanad, and   that if carried will go back to the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       If we reject the Minister's amendment, the Bill remains as it was when sent to the Seanad? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  If we reject the amendment we tell the Seanad that we do not accept their amendment simpliciter and propose no other amendment. 
     
     
      
       We would like to know if the Minister has any argument in favour of this amendment on its merits other than just a bargain in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       I entered into no bargain in the Seanad, I can assure the Deputy.  These amendments which we have been discussing were carried in the Seanad in the teeth of my opposition on the proposal of Senator Johnson.  In favour of this would come up an argument such as that put forward in the Dail by Deputy Moore and put forward again in the Seanad that a person might be 38 years in possession and then sell, and that a mere stranger could come in and, by purchase, acquire a special right. The real meaning of the right given by &ldquo;30 years in possession&rdquo; is that a person has been living in a house for a considerable time or that his predecessors have been there for a considerable time and the place as a home has an extra sentimental value to him.  That is the reason.  That would not occur if a purchaser had come in and bought the premises only a year or so ago. 
     
     
      
       The position is that a person in continuous occupation of the house for 28 or 29 years if he is required to vacate the house and sell his interest cannot, if the Minister's amendment is carried, get an enhanced price arising out of his long occupation. Whereas if the amendment is rejected the tenant, who certainly has some claim in respect of the house because of his long occupation, might be able to secure an enhanced price because he will be able to give to the new purchaser this right to a tenancy after the   expiration of a year or two.  As we would be doing a tenant of 28 years occupation a very considerable injustice by denying to him the statutory right of tenancy I think we should at least give him the small compensation involved in the increased price which he may get if he has to sell before the 30 years. 
     
     
      
       That is the point I wish to make.  If a man does secure a valuable right within a few years of the 30 years period now coming into operation he has probably paid for that.  That has been a consideration in the bargain between him and the tenant in occupation for 28 years. The man in occupation for 28 years has benefited by the fact because he has been able to exact the higher price from the purchaser.  You are depriving him of that right now. 
     
     
      
       The opposite case is more frequent where a short term is to run and that short term is probably sold for a small sum.  It is now proposed to hand over in such a case a valuable right purchased for a very small sum. 
     
     
      
       Unless the tenant transfers his interest there is no predecessor in title.  This section does not operate. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister's amendment is accepted that blot will be removed.  If you pass this Bill as it stood what was bought for a song would become immediately very valuable. 
     
     
      
       Not at all.  Obviously it will not be bought for a song if it is of value. 
     
     
      
       The Committee has decided not to agree with amendment 17 made by the Seanad. The question now is that the following amendment be inserted in lieu thereof. 
       In Section 18, sub-section (1), page 10, line 58, after the word &ldquo;title&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and such tenement was not acquired by such tenant or any of his predecessors in title by purchase for valuable consideration within such period of 30 years.&rdquo; 
       Question put. 
     
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta: 62; Nil: 51. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Coburn, James. Cole, John James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). 
             Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Reilly John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Reynolds, Patrick. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Geoghegan, James. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             Harris, Thomas. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Lemass, Sean F. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Leary, William. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.) Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash; Ta: Deputies P.S. Doyle and Conlon; Nil: Deputies Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     [ An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 18:&mdash; 
       Section 21, sub-section (4).  The word &lsquo;institution&rsquo; deleted in line 22 and the word &lsquo;granting&rsquo; substituted therefor.&rdquo; 
     
     This amendment substitutes &ldquo;granting&rdquo; of the tenant's application for  &ldquo;institution&rdquo; of the tenant's application. That is desirable for several reasons.  In the first place it gives an opportunity to the landlord and tenant to agree, and consequently if the word &ldquo;institution&rdquo; stood and the tenant's application for a new tenancy was refused he might lose altogether his right of compensation. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       Amendments 19, 20 and 21 are very closely connected. I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendments 19, 20 and 21. 
       Section 25, sub-section (1).  After the word &ldquo;statement&rdquo; in line 29 the words &ldquo;in duplicate&rdquo; inserted. 
       Section 25, sub-section (1).  After the word &ldquo;statement&rdquo; in line 37 the words &ldquo;in duplicate&rdquo; inserted. 
       Section 25, sub-section (2).  After the word &ldquo;send&rdquo; in line 52 the words &ldquo;one duplicate of&rdquo; inserted. 
       The reason for the application being sent in duplicate is so that the Circuit Court should retain one copy and at the same time a copy is to be sent to the registrar of the Valuation Office.  This is desirable.  It is only a matter of procedure.  It is advisable there should be three copies. 
       Amendments agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 22:&mdash; 
       Section 26.  Before paragraph (e) a new paragraph inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(e) where the court makes an order under this section for the grant to a tenant of a new tenancy in a tenement and the landlord or any of the landlords of such tenement cannot be found or is a person under a disability or in a fiduciary capacity or possessed of a limited estate only, the court may make such order as the court thinks proper to enable such new tenancy to be granted notwithstanding such impossibility of being found, disability, fiduciary capacity, or limited estate, as the case may be.&rdquo; 
     
     
        This is an amendment which deals with the circumstances in which the court is granting a new tenancy, but the landlord either cannot be found or is not in a position to grant a new tenancy.  Similar provisions were already included in Parts V and VI of the Bill. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 23:&mdash; 
       Section 30, sub-section (1).  The words &ldquo;the next following&rdquo; deleted in line 26 and the words &ldquo;any other&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       This is merely a verbal amendment.  It is necessitated because amendment 24 suggests the insertion of a new section. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 24:&mdash; 
       New section.  Before Section 33 a new section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;33.  Where the tenancy of a tenant in a tenement is terminated by the termination of the tenancy of the landlord of such tenement before the normal expiration of the term of such last-mentioned tenancy, the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say&mdash; 
       (a) notice of intention to claim relief may be served by such tenant after such termination but not more than one month after such tenant quits such tenement; 
       (b) such landlord shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed to be a landlord having no reversion in such tenement.&rdquo; 
     
     This amendment protects the rights of the sub-tenant in occupation when the tenancy of his landlord is terminated before the normal expiration. The amendment provides that in such a case, notice of intention to claim relief may be served by the tenant and such landlord be deemed to be a landlord having no reversion in such tenement. That is to say, the claim of the tenant for relief will lie against the superior landlord.  It deals with the case where a middleman has failed to pay the rent, to observe the covenants   of his lease and has been ejected.  In that case it protects the right of the tenant. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 25:&mdash; 
       Section 37.  After the word &ldquo;tenement&rdquo; in line 20 the words &ldquo;whether a decree in ejectment has been made against such tenant or not&rdquo; inserted. 
       This amendment is very similar to the previous one.  There is probably no necessity for the words &ldquo;whether a decree of ejectment has been made against such tenant or not, but they are put in to make assurance doubly sure. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 26:&mdash; 
       Section 45, sub-section (1).  The word &ldquo;five&rdquo; deleted in line 1 and the word &ldquo;seven&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
       This is necessitated because there was an amendment in the Dail moved by Deputy Geoghegan that the termination should be within five years.  In consequence, what had been five previously is to be extended to seven and what was three becomes five. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 27:&mdash; 
       Section 45.  A new sub-section added at the end of the section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(4) Where a building lease has expired within five years before the passing of this Act and the lessee thereunder is at the passing of this Act in possession of the land comprised in such building lease either under a yearly tenancy arising by implication from the acts of the parties or as a tenant at will or without obtaining any new tenancy, such lessee and every person in possession of such land or any part thereof under a yearly tenancy which arose on the expiration of a proprietary lease by implication from the acts of   the parties shall, during six months after the passing of this Act, severally have the same rights in relation to obtaining a reversionary lease under this Part of this Act as they would respectively have had within seven years before the expiration of such building lease if this Act had then been in force.&rdquo; 
     The object of this amendment is to provide against a case of hardship where a building lease expired at any time within the last five years, where the lessee or the sub-lessee who held happens to be still in possession of the land or of any part of the land comprised in the building lease.  It is rather transitory in its nature. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 28:&mdash; 
       Section 48, sub-section (2).  The sub-section deleted and the following new sub-section substituted therefor:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(2) Where, after the passing of this Act, a lease (in this section referred to as the statutory reversionary lease) of any land is made by way of reversionary lease to a building lease by a person who is bound to make and to a person who is entitled (either with or without obtaining the consent of another person) to obtain under this Part of this Act a lease of such land by way of reversionary lease to such building lease, the following leases shall be void and of no effect, that is to say, every lease which 
       (a)  is made after the passing of this Act and either before or after the making of the statutory reversionary lease, and 
       (b)  comprises the land or any part of the land comprised in the statutory reversionary lease, and 
       (c)  is made by way of reversionary lease to the said building lease, and 
       (d)  is made by a person who is bound under this Part of this Act to grant a reversionary lease of the land comprised in such building lease, and 
     
     (e)  is made to a person who   either is not entitled to obtain under this Part of this Act a reversionary lease of the land or any part of the land comprised in the statutory reversionary lease or (being entitled so to obtain such reversionary lease only on obtaining the consent of the person to whom the statutory reversionary lease is made) did not obtain such consent.&rdquo; 
     This is really a purely drafting amendment.  The draftsman thought that these words carry out the intention of the original section better.  It makes no alteration in the principle of the Bill. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 29:&mdash; 
       New section.  Before Section 49 a new section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;49.&mdash;Where a building lease is terminated (before the expiration thereof by effluxion of time) by ejectment for non-payment of rent, breach of covenant or otherwise or by the exercise by the lessor of a power of re-entry for breach of a covenant or a condition contained in such building lease, the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say&mdash; 
       (a)  no sub-lease of the land or any part of the land comprised in such building lease which is an immediate sub-lease under such building lease and is a proprietary lease shall be terminated by such ejectment or re-entry, 
       (b)  the person who would but for this section become entitled by virtue of such ejectment or re-entry to the possession of the land comprised in such sub-lease shall become and be entitled to the reversion on such sub-lease and to the benefit of the rent reserved by and the covenants and conditions contained in such sub-lease, 
       (c)  such sub-lease shall become and be a building lease within the meaning of this Part of this Act and this Part of this Act shall apply in relation thereto accordingly.&rdquo; 
     
     When a building lease is terminated   by ejectment for non-payment of rent or for a breach of a covenant all subleases would terminate.  The object of the amendment is to protect the sub-lessees in such cases. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 30:&mdash; 
       New section.  Before Section 56, and in Part VI, a new section inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;56.&mdash;Where a lease (whether made before or after the passing of this Act) of a tenement contains a covenant, condition or agreement prohibiting or restricting the doing by the lessee of any particular thing without the licence or consent of the lessor, and the rent reserved by such lease has not been paid for five or more years, and the lessor is not known to and cannot be found by the lessee, the court may, on the application of the lessee and after the pub lication of such (if any) advertisements as the court shall direct and if, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, the court thinks fit so to do, authorise the lessee, subject to such (if any) conditions as the court shall think fit to impose, to do the particular thing so prohibited or restricted by such covenant, condition or agreement, and thereupon it shall be lawful for the lessee to do such particular thing without the licence or consent of the lessor, but subject to and in accordance with the conditions (if any) imposed by the court.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to deal with cases which though rare do in fact happen.  That is where a tenant does not know who his landlord is and where he has not paid rent for five years.  In such cases instead of having to get the leave of the landlord to do something he can go to the court and get such leave.  It may seem strange to the House that the tenant would not know who his landlord was but it sometimes happens that a person dies who has no immediate relatives and his heirs may not be aware of his death. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 31:&mdash; 
       Section 56, sub-section (2).  After the word &ldquo;ground&rdquo; in line 20 the words &ldquo;in fee simple or&rdquo; inserted. 
       This amendment is necessary because an estate might be mortgaged and the consent of the mortgagor might be required and it might be unreasonably withheld. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 32:&mdash; 
       Section 56, sub-section (2).  After the word &ldquo;lease&rdquo; in line 20 the following words inserted:&mdash;&ldquo;for a life or lives in being (either with or without a term of years) or under a lease for a term&rdquo;. 
       This is similar to amendment 7.  A particular class of lease was left out through inadvertence. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 33:&mdash; 
       Section 56, sub-section (7).  The words &ldquo;commencing on such date as the court shall fix&rdquo; added at the end of paragraph (a). 
       This amendment enables the court to fix a proper date as the date at which the lease would commence.  It is proper to say that the court should have in these circumstances the power to fix the date because the occupier might have to clear out and the court should be in a position to give him some time. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 34:&mdash; 
       Section 56, sub-section (7).  After the word &ldquo;premises&rdquo; in line 5 and within the bracket the words &ldquo;in accordance with plans approved of by the lessor, or the court, or otherwise&rdquo; inserted. 
     
     It is desirable that in many, if not in all, instances the particular type of house which is to be built should be sanctioned so that the house will be the proper class of house having regard to   the surrounding neighbourhood, and so on. 
     
      
       Will the Minister say what is the exact meaning &ldquo;or otherwise&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       It might be agreed by arrangement between the lessor and the lessee.  They might agree.  Possibly they are not very important words.  They can do no harm, but the draftsman thought it well to put them in.  They have no sinister meaning. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that a person building may get his plans approved of by a chimney sweep if the word &ldquo;otherwise&rdquo; is left in. 
     
     
      
       They must be taken in connection with the context. 
     
     
      
       I cannot see that the words have any meaning at all except to destroy the rest of the section. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 35:&mdash; 
       Section 56, sub-section (7).  A new paragraph added at the end of the sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(g) the court may authorise the postponement of the execution of such lease until the building or buildings or a specified part thereof shall have been completed.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to prevent speculation in land.  Somebody might come in and get a building lease, produce his plans and specifications, and if approved of by the court, then do nothing for a considerable time or seek even to sell his interest.  This would apply to no person who was bona fide, but to a jobber who was looking for something. 
     
     
      
       There would be no danger of a person having spent a considerable sum of money in partial erection of a building, then failing to get his lease? 
     
     
      
       No, because it is entirely in the hands of the court. The court simply says: &ldquo;We will not authorise the disposal of this lease until you have done so much.&rdquo;  Then   the applicant goes back to the court and gets his lease.  It would be impossible to imagine that the court would treat a person in that unjust way. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in amendment 36:&mdash; 
       Section 56.  A new sub-section added at the end of the section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(12) This section shall not apply to any land which is vested in or held in trust by any local or public authority (otherwise than as tenants thereof) for the purposes of their powers and duties as such or is held by any corporation for the purposes of a railway, tramway, dock, canal, water, gas, electricity or other public undertaking.&rdquo; 
       This exempts lands which are held by railway companies or other public authorities.  I do not think it will ever work out very much or that it will ever have much application.  It is to be found in all statutes of this nature. They wish to have it in here; I do not think it will do any harm. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       It is not proposed to report to the Dail until a later stage to enable amendment 10 to be further amended. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - In Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfai amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas costaisi ar bith fe n-a raghfar chun eifeachta do thabhairt d'Acht ar bith a rithfear sa tSioson so chun socruithe do dheanamh chun iompair phaisneiri de bhothar do rialail agus do stiuradh agus chun udarais do bhronnadh ar chuideachtana airithe paisneiri agus earrai ceannaiochta d'iompar de bhothar agus chun socruithe do dheanamh i gcoir nithe eile bhaineas leis na nithe roimhraite. 
     
     That it is expedient to authorise   the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of any expenses incurred in carrying into effect any Act of the present Session to provide for the regulation and control of the carriage of passengers by road and to confer on certain companies authority to carry passengers and merchandise by road and to make provision for other matters connected with the matters aforesaid.&rdquo; 
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Committee. 
     Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 2. 
     In this Act&mdash; 
     the expression &ldquo;the Minister&rdquo; means the Minister for Industry and Commerce; 
     the word &ldquo;prescribed&rdquo; means prescribed by regulations made by the Minister under this Act; 
     the expression &ldquo;mechanically propelled vehicle&rdquo; includes a vehicle drawn by a mechanically propelled vehicle, but does not include a railway engine, carriage, or wagon, or a tramcar or any other vehicle running on permanent rails; 
     the expression &ldquo;road transport&rdquo; means the carriage for reward by road in mechanically propelled vehicles of passengers, passengers' luggage, merchandise, and mail-bags, or any of them; 
     the expression &ldquo;passenger road service&rdquo; means a service of one or more mechanically propelled vehicles travelling wholly or mainly on public roads and carrying passengers (whether passengers' luggage, merchandise, and mail-bags, or any of them are or are not also carried) between specified terminal points or along a specified route for separate charges in respect of each passenger; 
     the expression &ldquo;continuous passenger and road service&rdquo; means a passenger road service which is carried on during every week of the year but not necessarily on every day of every week; 
     
        the expression &ldquo;seasonal passenger road service&rdquo; means a passenger road service which is carried on during every week of a specified part only of the year but not necessarily on every day of every such week; 
     the expression &ldquo;occasional passenger road service&rdquo; means a passenger road service which is carried on only on one or more specified occasions; 
     the word &ldquo;merchandise&rdquo; includes goods, wares, minerals, and animals, but does not include passengers' luggage or mail-bags; 
     the expression &ldquo;passengers' luggage&rdquo; means personal luggage accompanied by a passenger; 
     the expression &ldquo;mail-bags&rdquo; has the same meaning as it has in the Post Office Act, 1908; 
     the word &ldquo;charges&rdquo; includes fares, rates, and tolls; 
     the expression &ldquo;the appointed day&rdquo; means the day appointed by the Minister under this Act to be the appointed day for the purposes of this Act. 
     
      
       I move amendments 1 and 2:&mdash; 
       1.  In page 2, lines 29, 33 and 48, to delete the word &ldquo;mail-bags&rdquo; where it occurs in those lines and substitute the word &ldquo;mails&rdquo; in each case. 
       2.  In page 2, to delete line 51 and substitute the following:&mdash;&ldquo;the word &lsquo;mails&rsquo; includes mail-bags and postal packets (other than telegrams) as defined in.&rdquo; 
       These are the terms in ordinary use. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question proposed:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 2 as amended stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I suggest that the definition &ldquo;passenger road service&rdquo; is defective.  As it stands I think it could apply to an ordinary hackney car conveying passengers regularly between two precise points.  It is not inconceivable that there are two people for instance making a contract with a hackney owner in Dublin to drive to   Navan, Kells or Naas or some place several times a week.  I suggest that the expression &ldquo;passenger road service&rdquo; as defined here would include such service as that.  Presumably it is not the Minister's intention to include such service as that.  I think also the Minister should take into account the possibility of a service where a big contract or a big work is being performed. I have in mind, for instance, recent big works in Clongowes Wood College which took a year.  In that case a number of tradesmen engaged on the work had to live at a distance because there were no possibilites of getting lodgings around the college.  Those people hired a bus to take them from Naas each morning for a period and they paid a fare for that service.  That would come under the definition of &ldquo;passenger road service.&rdquo;  Is it the Minister's intention to include such a case or is it his intention to include the ordinary hackney car which has a contract to convey people on the public road two or three times a week?  If not the definition should be amended. 
     
     
      
       The points of difference are slight.  The two examples the Deputy gives would be met in the way we want to meet them under the Bill as it stands.  One would want to know in regard to the hackney service whether it is a service on a contract basis or whether it is one in which separate charges are made in respect of each passenger.  If it is not one in which separate charges are made in respect of each passenger, then the definition does not cover it and the Bill does not apply.  If it is, the Bill does cover it and the Bill would apply. On the other hand, in the case of a building to which the Deputy refers to which the workmen travel down very regularly for a particular period, it will be a question as to whether there were separate charges made in respect of each passenger.  Then it would rank as an occasional passenger road service. It would come under the Bill and it would be licensed in a particular way.  If it were the case of any employer hiring a bus for the conveyance of his people, then the definition does not cover it. 
     
     
     
      
       I would like if the Minister would give an outline of the procedure he contemplates under &ldquo;occasional passenger road service.&rdquo; If a football team decides to hire a bus to take them to a match in another district would the owner of the bus have to get a special licence for the purpose? 
     
     
      
       Did the team pay for the bus or did each passenger pay? 
     
     
      
       The team hired the bus. 
     
     
      
       The individual paid? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Then it is not in it. It is a contract outside the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I am not clear about the Minister's reply.  If I point to a case where a man conveys passengers three times weekly to Navan, or if a doctor or a solicitor has a place down there, and if on the majority of occasions a person is able to get another passenger, will such service come under this definition or will there have to be a special licence secured?  I hold that as the term &ldquo;passenger service&rdquo; is defined here, the owner of the vehicle will have to be so licensed.  With regard to the other incident I mentioned, there is the possibility that on a wet morning a number of men who cycle to work will be unable to do so, and will hire a bus. That bus would have to be specially licensed by the Minister before it could undertake to carry them.  Is that the case? 
     
     
      
       In the last case that is correct. 
     
     
      
       With regard to a hackney car? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will have to be more precise in the circumstances. I think the definition clearly means that if there is a hackney car service which is employed under contract to take one or more people to a place on certain days, then it is not inside the definition, because the essential   part of the definition is that people must be carried along a specific route &ldquo;for separate charges in respect of each passenger.&rdquo;  But if, say, a doctor is carried three times a week paying each time, that would be within the definition.  We want that case within it. 
     
     
      
       You want such hackney car owner to take out a special licence for that service? 
     
     
      
       Under these circumstances, which I do not think will ordinarily occur, the thing for a doctor to do would be to make a contract for a year or for six months to be taken to a certain place.  That is different. 
     
     
      
       I am not clear that the definition is all right.  The Minister says that between specific points or along a specified route there are separate charges.  Is that the intention? 
     
     
      
       For every separate charge that applies to both things. 
     
     
      
       Is that clear? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       Section 2, as amended, agreed to. 
       Sections 3 to 6 inclusive, agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
       PART II.&mdash;PASSENGER ROAD SERVICES. 
       (1)  On and after the appointed day no person shall carry on a passenger road service save under and in accordance with a licence (in this Act referred to as a passenger licence) granted to him under this Act. 
       (2)  Every person who carries on a passenger road service in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds together with, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not exceeding five pounds for every day during which the offence continues. 
     
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy J.X. Murphy I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 24, after the word &ldquo;service&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;or carry for reward by road in a mechanically propelled vehicle any passenger, passengers' luggage, mailbag, or any of them.&rdquo; 
       The object of this amendment is to prohibit the carrying of passengers for reward without licence.  There is no such explicit prohibition and it seems to be the intention of the Bill to have it.  A person carrying passengers for reward would have to pay a revenue licence.  I do not see any other way of dealing with the matter. 
     
     
      
       In so far as the requirement is that vehicles that are definitely going to be used for passenger services should be prohibited from plying for hire unless they have a licence I think the Bill meets that requirement. In so far as it is to prevent a lorry carrying passengers we think that is met by other legislation.  The Road Traffic Bill, which is at present passing through this House, has a section which makes it unlawful to ply for reward, and imposes continuing penalties for each offence.  In addition there is certain prohibition or what amounts to prohibition in one of the Finance Acts which sets out that if a mechanically propelled vehicle is used for carrying passengers it has to pay taxation as a passenger vehicle.  That is a sufficiently heavy burden.  Between the two we consider that the situation is properly met. 
     
     
      
       Supposing a lorry is taken out on Sunday on which seats have been erected for the purpose of giving employees an outing, would that be legal or illegal? 
     
     
      
       It would depend on whether they were carried for reward or not.  If money passes it will be unlawful under the Road Traffic Bill when it passes.  The owners would be subject under the Finance Act of 1929 to the payment of tax as if it were a passenger bus.  There are two ways of getting at this question.  If there is no reward the matter is different. 
     
     
     
      
       Under the Finance Act they pay the revenue duty; there is nothing else to prevent them. 
     
     
      
       They start off with that and rank as a passenger service and then they are caught under this Bill.  They are caught in three ways. We have control of the passenger service. Anyone who sets out to become a passenger service in that way, we seize hold of, and with other Acts could prevent the occasional use, which is I think what is aimed at, of a lorry for passenger conveyance.  They can be got at in that way.  The tax has to be paid and after that there is the question of the Road Traffic Bill, under which the Minister can make provision with regard to seating accommodation and as to the type of vehicle.  In Section 81 certain things are rendered unlawful and penalties are attached.  I think the occasional use of a lorry is guarded against. 
     
     
      
       Notwithstanding what the Minister has said regarding the extent to which legislation may provide penalties under the Finance Act there has been for a considerable time very grave abuses in this respect, without as far as I know any detection or penalties being imposed.  I referred to this matter on the Second Reading and I was wondering whether the Minister had in the meantime made inquiries as to the number of cases brought in the District Courts or by the Revenue Commissioners in which penalties had been imposed.  I admit that the remedy is there under existing legislation but, as far as I know, there is no supervision in order to see that the existing legislation is strictly enforced. If the Minister toured the country, particularly on Sundays, he would know that to a very great extent lorries are used for the carriage of passengers and that they take away from the railway and the other carrying companies passengers that they would otherwise get.  All I want is an assurance that the law as it stands will be rigidly enforced, if the amendment moved by Deputy Alton is accepted. 
     
     
      
       And if the amendment is accepted what about the enforcement   of it?  What extra help is there?  According to the Deputy there is sufficient law in force to prevent what he wants to have prevented.  The only question is that of enforcement. The Deputy wishes the amendment to be enforced by a new section. 
     
     
      
       I would feel more assured if the Minister and his Department accepted responsibility.  Knowing that the responsibility for co-ordination and control of traffic was on his Department I would feel more assured if he accepted the amendment in order to see that whatever legislation is passed through this House will be strictly enforced. 
     
     
      
       The only enforcement there can be is through the Civic Guards.  How am I going to control them otherwise than under previous legislation? 
     
     
      
       How many cases have come under the notice of the Minister where penalties have been enforced under the terms of the Finance Act? 
     
     
      
       I do not know, because they have not been looked up. That is no answer to the question.  I have no greater force against abuses as a result of the acceptance of the amendment than I have at the moment. The situation is not to be met by a new section in the Bill; it is to be met by a better enforcement of existing laws. 
     
     
      
       Is there any objection to inserting the words of the new section?  Does it weaken the section? 
     
     
      
       It brings in a new principle.  It imposes a certain control of lorries.  In the Bill as at the moment designed there is no control of lorries. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 7 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 8. 
     
     (3)  Every person who applies under this section for a passenger licence shall when required by the Minister so to do, furnish to the Minister all   such information as the Minister may require for the consideration of such applications. 
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy J.X. Murphy I move amendment 4:&mdash; 
       In sub-section 3, line 41, after the word &ldquo;Minister&rdquo; where it first occurs to add the following:&mdash;&ldquo;particulars of the services and of the routes regularly operated by the applicant during the period of twelve months prior to 31st December, 1930, and.&rdquo; 
       Amendment 6 proposes to insert a new section in order to give existing companies a chance of competing for new services and in order that they might be able to do so, it is necessary that they should have certain information. This amendment is designed to see that such information is furnished to the Minister by the interested parties. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection in a way to what is contained in the amendment except only on the point of draftsmanship.  We take power to enforce this, that when there is a requisition made by the Minister, people who apply for a licence shall give all such information as the Minister may require for the consideration of such application.  We think that the more general it is kept the better.  If you have a specific phrase, in the interpretation of that generalities may be excluded.  I would rather keep it general.  I think it would be quite clear to the Deputy, where one of the points at issue is whether the service has been run regularly and efficiently for a year, that the only way to establish that point is to get information about it. We would rather keep the section as it stands. 
     
     
      
       I shall withdraw the amendment and I hope the Minister will keep the matter in mind when he is making regulations on this subject. 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       I think the date in the amendment should have been 31st   September and not 31st December.  It is a mistake in drafting. 
     
     
      
       I understood the amendment was being withdrawn. What we are looking for are particulars to enable us to say whether the service had been in operation for twelve months from a date in October of this year. 
     
     
      
       Do I understand that the Minister is prepared to bring in an amendment with improved wording, to give effect to the intention which Deputy Alton had in mind, on the next stage? 
     
     
      
       It is covered by the section already, but not precisely, and I do not intend to make it more precise, because if I did it would suffer from the objections which I have made, that we want general power. We do not want to have these limited by court interpretations.  We want general powers to obtain all such information as we may require for the consideration of the application. 
     
     
      
       Including information of this kind? 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  How can a decision otherwise be taken as to whether an efficient service was regularly run as from twelve months prior to the Act to October of this year?  How can that decision be properly taken unless this information is called for? Necessarily it will be called for. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 8 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       Section 9 agreed to. 
       SECTION 10. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Murphy I move amendment 5:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(3)  No persons, save the holder of a passenger licence operating the services in the district where the traffic originated for which the occasional licence is sought shall be granted an occasional passenger   licence unless the Minister is satisfied that such holder is unwilling or unable to operate the service in respect of which the occasional passenger licence is sought.&rdquo; 
     This amendment is really designed to prevent pirating.  It seems reasonable that the holder of a passenger licence on a particular line should have a chance of getting an occasional licence and that the intervention of another party should not be encouraged.  Of course, if the actual holder of the licence refuses this occasional service, then I think there would be a fair case for calling in another person.  I think the holder of the licence should have first claim to the occasional licence. 
     
      
       Again I am in agreement with the policy proposed by this amendment, but I think the insertion of the amendment is unnecessary. The policy would be distinctly that people who are regularly on the route would be given the first opportunity of providing an occasional service, but if such persons were unwilling or unable to do so, I am not sure that this amendment would cover all the points that we should like to make.  I would prefer general powers, so as to secure the provision of public facilities when required.  Certainly, the policy would be distinctly to enable a regular operator in an area to run an occasional service where such a service is required, but if for some reason or another that person did not run the service we would rather have general power, by not having these words inserted. The words &ldquo;unwilling or unable&rdquo; do not seem to carry the thing far enough. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say what the position would be in a case where a football match was being played in a particular place?  If the holder of the existing licence for service in that area could not possibly cope with the crowd, could the holder of a licence in respect of the service in some other area, obtain an occasional licence for the purpose of assisting the transportation of the crowd in this area? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  We hope to   operate it in this way.  We give the regular operator two things.  He may have stand-by buses which he can call out for the occasion, or he may hire buses from other people.  Alternatively if we do not do that we can ask other people in the neighbourhood or people far away to put on sufficient service of buses for that occasion.  We tie ourselves to the extent that we approach the regular operator in the first instance in the hope that he will give the necessary service either by means of his own buses or by hiring buses from other owners.  If he cannot do that we go to other places. 
     
     
      
       The point I want to stress is not alone the protection of the legitimate operator, but also the convenience of the public.  Even at present in some cases with unlimited competition it happens frequently that there are not adequate transport facilities for people going to large football matches or sporting events of that kind.  It would be most undesirable if the occasional licence were given to one operator only and it was discovered in practice that that one operator was not able adequately to deal with the situation even though that particular situation meant a windfall for himself. It may happen that a particular operator would contend that he would be able to deal with the situation so as to get the full benefit of the traffic whereas in fact considerable public inconvenience might be occasioned by confining the occasional licence to that one operator. 
     
     
      
       We would not confine ourselves to that extent.  I see the difficulty, but I do not see that it would be possible to get a sufficient number of vehicles to carry all the people who want to attend football matches on all occasions.  The situation we want to safeguard here is to try to secure a sufficient number of vehicles for the peak load traffic.  You cannot have everybody carried on all occasions, but you can get the nearest possible service to it by having first your regular operator and then by having power as we have here to grant occasional licences to other people for special occasions. 
     
     
     
      
       What Deputy Lemass appears to be thinking about is the case of the small bus owners who would not be able to provide a sufficient number of buses in certain circumstances to meet the needs of the locality on a particular occasion.  A few big bus companies in the country &mdash;and the fewer there are the better &mdash;would naturally have stand-by buses up to a certain number.  They would also have operating other areas buses which might not be required on that particular occasion and that is the case which we have to bear in mind in considering an amendment of this kind.  I think there is a clear case, and I think the Minister is glad there is, for preferential treatment being given to the people who normally operate in a particular area against bus owners coming in from other areas who cadge the best traffic that can be got on an occasion of this kind.  I am glad the Minister is prepared to give a preference to the company which operates the line normally provided that that company is prepared to meet the needs of a special occasion. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 10 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 11. 
       (1)  Subject to the provisions of this section, the Minister shall have absolute discretion to grant or to refuse an application for a passenger licence. 
       (2)  In the case of an application duly made in accordance with this Act for an annual passenger licence to commence on the appointed day by a person who carried on an existing service (as defined in this section) identical or substantially identical with the passenger road service (in this sub-section referred to as the proposed service) in respect of which such application is made, the Minister shall not refuse such application except upon one or other of the following grounds, that is to say:&mdash; 
     
     (a)  on the ground that in his opinion such existing service was not carried on efficiently with a due   regard to the requirements of the public; 
     (b)  on the ground that in his opinion such existing service was not sufficient, in regard to frequency of service or in regard to daily duration of the service or in regard to any other matter, to meet the requirements of the public; 
     (c)  on the ground that in his opinion the organisation and equipment at the disposal of the person making the application are not such as to enable him to carry on the proposed service in accordance with the conditions which the Minister considers should be inserted in the passenger licence to which such application relates; 
     (d) on any ground on which the Minister is expressly authorised by any other section of this Act to refuse such application. 
     (3) In considering the grant or refusal of an application for a passenger licence to which the foregoing sub-section of this section does not apply, the Minister shall (without prejudice to the absolute discretion conferred on him by the first sub-section of this section) have regard to the following matters, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a) whether the service (in this sub-section referred to as the proposed service) in respect of which such application is made is required in the public interest having regard to the passenger road services and other forms of passenger transport available to the public on or in the neighbourhood of the route of the proposed service; 
     (b) whether the proposed service is sufficient in regard to frequency of service, daily duration of service, and other respects to meet the requirements of the public; 
     (c) whether the organisation and equipment at the disposal of the person making the application are sufficient to enable him to carry on the proposed service in accordance with the conditions which the Minister considers should be inserted   in the passenger licence to which such application relates. 
     (4)  In this section the expression &ldquo;existing service&rdquo; means:&mdash; 
     (a)  in the case of a continuous passenger road service, a passenger road service which was carried on continuously during the whole of the twelve months ending on the 31st day of October, 1931; and 
     (b)  in the case of a seasonal passenger road service, a passenger road service which was carried on continuously during the whole of a particular part of the year ending on the 31st day of October, 1931. 
     (5)  A person applying for a passenger licence to commence on the appointed day shall, for the purposes of this section, be a person who carried on an existing service if he is carrying on such existing service at the date of such application and such existing service was, during the whole of the period necessary to constitute it an existing service and up to the date of such application, carried on either by such applicant or successively by persons from or through whom such applicant claims to be entitled to such service and by such applicant. 
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy J.X. Murphy I move amendment No. 6:&mdash; 
       Before Section 11 to insert a new section as follows&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(1)  Whenever an application is made for a passenger licence in respect of a passenger road service which was not being regularly operated during the period of 12 months prior to the 31st day of December, 1930, a copy of the application shall be furnished by the Minister to the holders of passenger licences in respect of passenger road services similar in whole, or in part, to the service for which the licence is sought, and also to any railway company which, in the opinion of the Minister, may be affected if the application were granted.  The holders of such passenger licences,   and any such railway company, shall be entitled to make representations to the Minister against the granting of the application, provided always that no such application shall be granted unless there is no holder of such passenger licences or railway company who has made a representation pursuant to this sub-section willing to operate the service in regard to which such representation has been made. 
     (2)  In the event of there being more than one holder of such passenger licences, or railway company willing to operate such service, the Minister shall determine which licence holder or railway company shall operate the service, and may issue a passenger licence accordingly.&rdquo; 
     I think the Minister has not replied to the point which I raised on amendment No. 4.  The point is that he should give an existing undertaking or railway companies a chance of competing for a new service or at least giving them proper notice when it is proposed to institute such new service. It seems only fair that they should get such a chance and that an opportunity should not be given to a new company to give a similar service in the same district and that the railway company in that district should not get, I will not say preference, but a fair warning. 
     
      
       Amendment No. 7 which appears in the Order Paper in my name is somewhat similar to that amendment. It was not my intention that an opportunity should be given to a railway company or any other company to bid against an applicant for a licence in respect of a new service, but that such a company or any other company operating the service should be informed of such application if in the opinion of the Minister the new service was likely to affect the services they were running there and that they should be entitled to make such representation to the effect that the new service was unnecessary in so far as it was proposing in a different way to cover the route that was covered by the existing service.  I think a provision should be inserted in the Bill that would require the Minister to give   notice to either the railway companies or to others likely to be affected by the Minister granting the application.  My idea was to provide that such people operating existing services could make representations to that effect to the Minister if they thought their existing services would be damaged by the institution of a new service. 
     
     
      
       There are two points in this.  One is a point which is made both in this amendment and the next.  There is this in common, that when an application is made there should be proper notification in regard to that application given to the people who already hold a passenger licence in respect of services in the same area and that they should be entitled to make representations.  There were two points, first in regard to notice and secondly in regard to making representations. The amendment also proposes that no such application shall be granted unless no holder of such passenger licence or a railway company which has made a representation is willing to operate the service in regard to which such representation has been made.  The first two points are in respect of giving notice to people who are already there and allowing them to make representation. 
     
     Secondly there is the question of preventing licences being given except when the existing licence holder is not going to run a service.  I meet that again in a more general way.  Section 11, sub-section (3), paragraph (a) states that &ldquo;in considering the grant or refusal of an application the Minister shall have regard to the following matters, that is to say (a): Whether the service in respect of which such application is made is required in the public interest having regard to the passenger road services and other forms of passenger transport available to the public.&rdquo;  That adverts to the other service there, whether the public requirements are met and so on.  We do not insist on notice and we do not precisely say that representations may be made but under the procedure we have established under the provisions of the Road Vehicles Act, the practice is that we do give notice to those we can easily discover as being already   on the route and we do await representations from them, but I would hesitate to be bound in the way that these two amendments would bind me. 
     That would mean that applications for a licence might be granted and might be turned down afterwards in the court on the ground that somebody who would be interpreted as having a service on the route had not had notice or alternatively although notice had been given, that they were entitled to make representations.  There might be a complaint made that the time was too short to enable them to make representations. Again I have the same attitude as I had previously, that the practice would be as far as giving notice and allowing representations are concerned, in the main&mdash;I do not tie myself to details&mdash;what he sets out.  I do not want to get that laid down as an obligation and I do not want to have the second point precisely stated namely, &ldquo;that no such application shall be granted unless there is no holder of such passenger licence or railway company who has made a representation, willing to operate the service in regard to which such representations had been made.&rdquo; 
     I think again that the policy I declared on Second Reading is very much in line with that, that the preference would be always there towards consolidation and putting the service in the hands of the people already there, the entire public service in a particular area in proper circumstances, or even the extensions where an extension might be required.  I would indicate the further policy that where there was a railway-owned service, that the railway-owned service should be given the preference both towards consolidating the services in their area or in regard to extensions, but I would again dislike to have it precisely stated.  The conditions will require a lot of dovetailing of services into one another.  I maintain the matter should be left in a rather discretionary form, allowing the Minister to deal with the circumstances as they arise. 
     
      
       Would the Minister consider the advisability of having any   such application, and the route published in the official gazette? 
     
     
      
       I would again object rather strongly to that, because we are told it is necessary to get consolidation of the services with the greatest possible speed.  We speak of an appointed day in the Act which may be three or six months after the passing of the Act.  We want to get, consistent with fair play to those already engaged in the services, consolidation arrangements made as quickly as possible.  If there must be publication applicants would have to have their applications put in a much more formal way.  Then you could not entertain an application in which there were some obvious errors with regard to route or otherwise.  If you insist on publication in an official gazette, it will be necessary to have a more rigid form of application.  As the Bill stands, it makes for much greater ease in the working of it, and I do not think there is any possibility of any injustice being done to the various interests involved. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister indicate what steps he proposes to take to ascertain the view of the public in the areas of the proposed service?  If representations are made to the Minister that an existing service is inadequate and that a new service is needed will any steps be taken by the Minister through the Civic Guard or otherwise to ascertain whether these representations are correct? 
     
     
      
       I think that would be a second stage in the programme. The first thing to do would be to get established all the areas in the country where people must get licences and who are the people to whom the licences must be given.  Once you have established that you have got before your mind a picture of the country showing, perhaps, a meagre service in certain areas and a rather overwhelming service in other areas.  Then there will be the stage at which we can proceed to distribute these services more evenly by agreements perhaps between the bus owners.  It will be only in the first twelve months that there will be any necessity to go to the public, the Civic Guards, or prominent people in an   area, to ascertain whether or not a service as then established is adequate to the needs of the community.  That is a good step on.  The procedure will be somewhat as the Deputy stated when that stage is reached. 
     
     
      
       Does Deputy Lemass suggest that the Civic Guards would be the proper channel to express the views of the general public in cases of this kind? 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I have in mind a certain area in regard to which I spoke on the Second Reading of the Bill. I would like the Minister to be as clear as possible about it at this stage.  In this area there is an existing service which for five years has been adequate to the needs of the district, which is not served by rail.  One of the larger bus services has come in recently and for the past month is running on that line.  What is the position or suggestion in regard to the company which has been giving an adequate public service for the past five years?  That is the point on which I want to hear the Minister. 
     
     
      
       The bus that has been there for a month only prior to the introduction of this measure has no standing under the Bill.  It has no standing under which it can claim a licence.  It is in the discretion of the Minister to give one.  It then comes to the point of what will be an adequate service.  That will depend on the circumstances of each application in each area.  If you found an operator in a district for four or five years running at certain times of the day, say, morning and evening, and not running at midday and that some other bus made its appearance and ran a midday service and appeared to be getting a good number of passengers for that midday service, then you would have to come to the conclusion that the first service was not entirely adequate. That does not mean that the newcomer would get a licence.  What you would do would be to see the man who had established himself in the area and put it to him that there seemed to be need for another service at a different time of the day and ask   him if he would consider that it would be economic for him to put on that service. If he did not think so, then you would have to look for somebody else, but the policy would be to give the man who had established himself in the area the preference. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Amendment No. 7 not moved. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 8:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), page 4, line 26, to delete the words &ldquo;as defined in&rdquo; and substitute within the brackets the words &ldquo;within the meaning of.&rdquo; 
       This is a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 9:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), before paragraph (d), to insert a new paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(d) on the ground that road tax in respect of the vehicles engaged in such existing service has not been paid to the appropriate authority in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
     
     The section states that, subject to the provisions of this section, the Minister shall have absolute discretion to grant or to refuse an application for a passenger licence.  As far as existing services are concerned the Minister using his discretion has power to refuse a licence under certain conditions.  One of the conditions is that the service is not efficient.  Another provision is that existing service was not a sufficient service, and a third is that the organisation and equipment is not sufficient.  My amendment aims at adding to the existing section a further paragraph stating that the Minister may refuse a licence on the ground that the road tax in respect of the vehicles engaged in such existing service has not been paid to the appropriate authority in Saorstat Eireann.  It might be information to a large number of Deputies that there are buses owned by an exceptionally large bus company at the present time which are using and abusing the roads in the Saorstat and   who at the same time are not paying any road tax to any local authority in the Saorstat.  I refer to bus companies which are owned and registered and which pay their road tax in Northern Ireland.  As I pointed out such services are peculiar to Border traffic. 
     There is a bus service competing against the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway Company and against the Donegal Railway Company.  There is also a bus service from Dublin to Belfast competing against the Great Northern Railway Company.  As far as I am aware some of these buses are paying absolutely no tax to any local authority in the Saorstat.  It is true, as the Minister may point out, that if a bus is garaged for a certain number of nights in the Saorstat it can be compelled to pay the road tax here but the proprietors understand these regulations and have succeeded in evading them.  They will keep them for a certain number of hours in the Saorstat and then run them back to Northern Ireland.  This is detrimentally affecting the ratepayers inasmuch as these buses are contributing nothing in the way of road tax.  No contribution is coming from them to the Road Fund although they are using and abusing the roads.  Consequently there is an additional charge on the ratepayers. They are also detrimentally affecting the railway companies inasmuch as they are taking the passenger traffic that should in the ordinary course of events be carried by the railway companies. It is well known and the Minister is aware of it that the railway companies have to pay for the upkeep of the permanent way and have also to pay rates. 
     Take as one example the Donegal Railway Company.  The Donegal Railway Company has been very badly affected by these buses which are owned and which are registered and pay their road tax outside the Saorstat, namely in Derry City. Although the Donegal Railway Company paid £900 to the Donegal County Council these buses competing against it and using and abusing the roads and throwing the railway employees out of work and causing unemployment among the hackney carriage owners   also, pay no rates whatever to the county council.  Not alone does that apply to the Donegal Railway Company, but it applies also to a large extent to the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway Company.  It further applies to the Great Northern Railway Company.  We have one firm, Catherwood and Company, who are competing against the Great Northern Railway Company and who are running buses from Belfast to Dublin. In the course of the journey they are travelling over the roads in the counties of Louth and Dublin and they are in an identical position with the buses I have referred to operating from Derry City in the County of Donegal. 
     The Minister in his reply may point out that there is a reciprocal arrangement in regard to the traffic going over the Border.  I do not think that reciprocal arrangement is in favour of the railway companies or of the bus owners in the Saorstat and I should like to quote one specific case.  We had until comparatively recently buses coming from Derry City into Donegal competing against the Donegal Railway Company over a certain route.  The Donegal Railway Company, in order to cope with that unfair competition, endeavoured to inaugurate a bus service from Stranorlar into Derry.  On its route it would have to go through part of Tyrone and part of Derry.  The competent authority in Northern Ireland refused to allow that railway company to run buses from Stranorlar to Derry or from Strabane to Derry, as they maintained that the existing bus service was adequate.  So much for the plea that there is a reciprocal arrangement. 
     This arrangement, as far as I can see, is detrimental to railway employees, to railway companies and to hackney carriage owners.  I hope, therefore, that the Minister will accept the amendment.  I have pointed out that the railway companies are paying rates and employing a large number of people in Donegal.  As far as the bus company is concerned, it is employing very few, and the majority of the employees are resident outside the Saorstat.  I hold that it is in the   interests of the railway companies, the ratepayers, the railway employees, and the bus employees, that the Minister should accept the amendment, because I believe it is going to be beneficial to the G.N.R. Co., the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Co., and the Donegal Railway Co., as well as to the hackney carriage owners and the ratepayers in the Saorstat. 
     
      
       I oppose the amendment mainly because I contest the reasons that the Deputy gave for moving it.  This whole question of cross-Border buses is regulated by certain agreements which are sanctified to a certain extent by a certain international regulation, and also have been agreed to as between the two Governments. They are fair agreements.  If anything, I am told by the people concerned with this road tax, that they work out more to our advantage than a breach of the agreement would leave it.  The situation at present is that bus companies which ply across the Border although entitled to pay in any one of the two places, and might be made to pay in both, in fact pay on a fifty-fifty basis.  I simply rely on the information I have got, that any breach of the agreement would leave us in a much worse position from the point of view of the road tax than we are.  As to being detrimental to the railways, I do not see how the situation will be changed.  If the bus services are warranted they are going to be run.  It is only the running of the buses. not where the tax goes, that can be said to be detrimental to railway employees and to hackney carriage owners.  Where the tax actually goes does not make any great difference there.  It is competition that matters. If the bus services are warranted, the competition is going to be there whether the tax is paid into the Exchequer of one State or into the Exchequer of another.  There are not a very big number of buses concerned in this.  A number are registered and pay taxes here.  I am told the arrangement is an absolutely equitable one and I do not propose to disturb it. 
     
     
      
       The Minister said that this is a fair arrangement.  He says that   it is an agreement between his Government and the Northern Government and he points out that it is to the advantage of the people here.  I hold quite the reverse as far as the particular case I have quoted is concerned.  I have already pointed out that these buses are running from Derry and competing with the Donegal Railway and the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway and using and abusing the roads and paying no taxes in the Saorstat. At the same time, when the Donegal Railway Company made an application to run a bus service in the Six Counties it was refused.  I cannot see where the fair arrangement is, and I cannot see where it is to our advantage. I think that if the Minister makes inquiries he will find that the Donegal Railway Company made an application to run a bus service which was turned down by the Northern Government on the plea that the existing service was adequate, and consequently, they would not let them run a bus service.  If that is a fair agreement I do not know what a fair agreement is.  A further point is that for a number of years past the Dail has voted a subsidy to the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway, and quite rightly so. At the same time, if there was not this Six-County competition going on, the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway Company would be in a much better position and might not need such a subsidy. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has again mixed up the two things.  What the Government gets from the proceeds of the tax is one thing.  Whether the buses operate detrimentally to the railway company, as the Deputy puts it, is an entirely different thing.  The only thing that is at stake here is the question of the tax.  I do not believe it is going to lessen competition, no matter where the tax is paid.  It will only mean that the arrangement will be broken.  The only way there could be an effect on the competition would be if both Governments insisted on the cross-border buses paying into both Exchequers, and I doubt even if that would militate very much against the frequency of the service. 
     
     The Deputy raises another point   which is not in this amendment, that certain people when they applied for permission to run a bus service in the Six Counties were refused permission on the grounds that the services there were already adequate.  That has nothing to do with the tax.  It depends on an entirely different set of circumstances, that is, that the Northern Government have certain regulations with regard to buses and they do not allow people on a route already served. We are going to be in that position once this Bill is passed, and there is going to be equality in that respect immediately.  That has nothing to do with the amendment about the tax. 
     
      
       Perhaps I might get some light from the Minister on a matter I have been thinking about since the Second Reading.  The Minister said he contemplated the division of the country into three zones, one the Dublin city area, another, the Great Southern Railways area, and another, the Great Northern Railway area, and that in these zones in due course road transport service would, to a very great extent, be controlled by the Dublin Tramways Company or by either of the railway companies.  How does he propose to fit into that arrangement any of these bus companies operating here with their headquarters in the Six Counties?  Does he contemplate ultimately excluding such people from picking up passengers in the Free State, or operating in competition with any of these services licensed by him?  Presumably the Six-County companies will be required to obtain licences under the Bill from him in order to operate here.  The other point I should like information on is, in which of these zones, if any, will Donegal be?  What does he contemplate as the future of road transport in Donegal? 
     
     
      
       The services there will probably be in the hands of the two railway companies in future, the G.S.R or the G.N.R.  The other point the Deputy raises is as to what is going to happen to cross-border buses owned by either of the two railway companies. 
     
     
     
      
       The reverse.  Owned by Six County firms. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy answered himself then.  They will have to get licences and the ordinary conditions will apply to them.  Why segregate these out? 
     
     
      
       The Minister said he contemplated, for example, that in the G.N.R. area after some years, all the buses would be operated by the G.N.R. Company with some slight exceptions. Does he contemplate the exclusion of the Six-County buses operating in that area? 
     
     
      
       First of all, I want to put in a reservation to what the Deputy said.  He is making my statement of policy more definite than I made it myself.  I said that I thought, and I hoped, the situation would work out that way, but not immediately.  It is not going to work out immediately that way.  The general line of policy will be to throw transport more and more into the hands of the three companies named.  That does not by any means indicate that there is no future for the bigger bus holders who can give a good service and who have been carrying on efficiently and regularly and are likely to continue to do so even under conditions of competition from the other quarter.  The Deputy, however, asked me how am I going to fit these buses into the cross-Border picture.  They will fit in.  Some of them are one-man concerns.  I should say these people would not have much chance of lasting.  Some of them are &ldquo;biggish&rdquo; concerns and they will have a good chance of lasting if they can establish that they are running an adequate service.  The future will probably be that after a bit there will be a sort of co-ordination achieved by a process of absorption as much as by a process of competition and destruction. We will facilitate that process. It is quite possible that the G.N.R. might purchase some of them. They have already purchased certain buses that ply across the Border.  It is quite likely that that process will be hastened by the passage of this   measure.  Donegal will not fit into that at all.  Donegal will have to be looked upon as an area apart.  If the G.S.R. extends up that way with a bus service they naturally will be given preference. The service will probably fall into the hands, in the northern part of the county, of the railway which already has a monopoly of the bus business in the northern part of Donegal.  The rest will have to be handled as the situation permits. 
     
     
      
       As the Minister is not prepared to accept the amendment, might I ask if he will be prepared to accept amendment 18 on the same subject? 
     
     
      
       Might I point out on that question that that amendment is only in relation to renewals of licences, not to the original grant of licences.  I am going to object to it and make an argument founded upon that very point, that I do not see what good there is in giving a man, who has established his footing in an area by being there a year, a licence and then going on to say, after one year, when he comes for a renewal, that you may neglect the fact that he has been on that route and may cut him out entirely.  I do not think the amendment is acceptable. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 10 on behalf of Deputy Murphy. 
       In sub-section (4) (a), line 11, to delete the words and figures &ldquo;31st day of October&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;30th day of September.&rdquo; 
       Probably there may be some reason for choosing October 31st as the termination of the twelve months of continual service, but I cannot see it.  Perhaps the Minister would justify it.  Otherwise I would suggest that the end of the licensing quarter would be more appropriate, and for that reason 30th September is suggested in lieu of 31st October. 
     
     
      
       I do not think there is sufficient reason shown for accepting that.  I prefer my own date.  It is the date nearest to the introduction of the   Bill.  This really extends the time by another month.  There is no reason from the licensing point of view that would arise. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister made up his mind not to accept any amendments to the Bill? 
     
     
      
       I would not like to say that. 
     
     
      
       I suspect it looks like it. 
     
     
      
       I would not like to say I was disposed to accept amendments simply because they were put down. 
     
     
      
       Surely if some service thinks of coming into operation it would like to know it was fit before being compelled to pay for another quarter's licence.  Would the Minister think over it? 
     
     
      
       I put this argument before the Deputy.  I understood the purport was to cut out a particular service, and even if the date is changed to the 30th of September it does not achieve that object. 
     
     
      
       I can assure the Minister I have no sinister object in the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Amendment 11 not moved. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 12:&mdash; 
       In page 5, at the end of the section to add a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(5) A person applying for a passenger licence to commence on the appointed day shall, for the purposes of this section, be a person who carried on an existing service if he is carrying on such existing service at the date of such application and such existing service was, during the whole of the period necessary to constitute it an existing service and up to the date of such application, carried on either by such applicant or successively by persons from or through whom such applicant claims to be entitled to such service and by   such applicant.&rdquo;&mdash;(Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala.) 
     The aim of this amendment is that we want to establish as a person carrying on an existing service if it was carried on for a 12 months' period either by himself or by people from or through whom he acquired it.  In other words, if we have an individual actually running a bus for 6 months and a person from whom he bought it running it for 6 months previously, we join these two up and make it a yearly period. 
     Question agreed to. 
     
      
       I move amendment 13: 
       To add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       (5) Whenever the Minister refuses an application for a passenger licence, he shall state the reasons for such refusal. 
       I propose that whenever the Minister refuses an application for a passenger licence he shall state the reasons for his refusal.  In one sense this amendment is consequential on that following it, where I propose that if a person were refused he shall have the right of appeal to the Justice of the District Court.  In any case, I think the applicant should be informed of the reasons for the rejection of the application.  It might be that in certain cases an amendment of the application or an alteration of the proposed service would enable him to secure a licence from the Minister.  The whole procedure under the Bill in which the Minister can consider the case made by the applicant and the case made by his opponent, and arrive at a decision to refuse the application without giving any reason for it is, in my opinion, unwise as well as being unfair to the parties concerned.  I think that satisfaction would be much more general if a person refused a licence had a clear statement from the Minister of the reasons for the refusal. 
     
     
      
       I am taking, in the first instance, at any rate, this amendment in conjunction with the next amendment.  That is I am taking 13 and 14 together because I think   originally the purpose of putting this was to enable an appeal to be made. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy outlined that policy on Second Reading.  I object to any appeal and I certainly object to an appeal to the Justice of a District Court.  What is the District Justice going to consider an appeal on? I refuse an application, say.  Under Deputy Lemass's procedure I would state the reasons for doing that and then the person by whom the application was made might appeal against such refusal to a Justice of a District Court.  Supposing it is &ldquo;Refused on the grounds that this does not come within paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of the sub-section,&rdquo; what is the District Justice going to decide?  It is not a question of law, and it is not a question of fact.  It is a question of policy.  There are a number of District Justices in the country.  It seems to me the worst possible court for this purpose, because there might be varying views of policy in their respective areas.  Is it intended to have people who might be so varied in their views deciding in the end that an application turned down must be granted, when it is not a question of law, a question of fact, but is a question of policy, and are they to have a different line of policy from a member of the Government in regard to transport matters?  I object to this appeal.  On the other hand, if you take the amendments singly without the matter of an appeal, and simply say that whenever an application for a licence is refused, that the reason shall be stated.  I do not think it would achieve very much.  I do not think the amendment is worth anything without the appeal, and to that I object.  If considered without an appeal, ordinarily speaking, in the course of a discussion more than by formal statement, the individual making the application will arrive at the conclusion that his application was turned down on any one of three grounds. 
     
     I would think that the procedure mainly would be: there would be an examination of the existing service;   there would be certain doubts raised as to whether it was efficient having regard to the requirements of the public; whether it was sufficient with regard to the frequency of the service or in regard to daily duration of the service, or in regard to any other matter to enable him to give a good service. It will hardly ever be decided without the person being present and having heard these matters argued and without being given an opportunity under paragraph (b) of stating why a particular service which seems not sufficiently frequent was run and of establishing his case.  I do not think you get any further by saying that the reasons for refusal must be given. There the Minister would be almost definitely driven into saying that the application was refused under Section 11, sub-section (2), paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).  Unless it were something arising under (d), I do not think you would get much further.  I think the amendment would be only valuable in the case of an appeal, and I object to the idea of a District Justice sitting in judgment upon transport policy in a particular area. 
     
      
       I have no objection to the two amendments being taken together. In fact, I stated that amendment 13 is to a large extent consequential upon 14.  I do not propose that District Justices should sit in judgment upon transport policy in any particular area.  I only propose that this right of appeal should be inserted in the case of persons operating an existing service, and who would be deemed to be entitled to a road service licence in respect of that service under this section, except it is refused on any of the grounds specified in the section.  I also proposed the right of appeal in the case of a person holding a licence if renewal of the licence is refused on similar grounds.  In these cases questions of facts do arise.  There are no cases in which a licence will be refused or the renewal of a licence will be refused on general grounds of policy.  There are cases where the Bill as drafted presupposes that the person will get a licence unless definite objection is raised in one or other of those   subheadings, either that the service was not sufficient with due regard to the requirements of the public or that having due regard to the daily duration of the service or the frequency of the service, it did not meet the requirements of the public, or upon the grounds in paragraph (c). 
     
     The question of fact arises there and it might be possible for the holder of a licence or the operator of the service who is refused a licence to submit evidence on the part of the public on appeal&mdash;from the local clergy, the local Peace Commissioner, the local publican or the captain of the local football team&mdash;to present the view of the people, and to say that the refusal of the Minister to grant a licence had been arrived at on a misunderstanding of the facts.  In such a case I think the District Justice might upset the Minister's decision and should upset the Minister's decision.  As the Bill stands at present the Minister has practically despotic powers.  He can say he shall or shall not operate a public service in any part of the country.  He has absolute control.  He could even go so far as to refuse a licence to any of the three big companies he mentioned.  He could refuse a licence to the Dublin United Tramways Co. or to the Irish Omnibus Company. Power to do that is given to him under this Bill.  He has declared his intention of not using his powers in that way, but the power is there. If the Dail is disposed to give the Minister this power it should provide some means by which an appeal could lie from a decision arrived at perhaps from a misunderstanding of the facts. I bring in the Justice of the District Court because he is the judge who comes into the Traffic Act in a somewhat similar capacity.  The person who gets a road passenger's licence has to get a number of other licences as well.  He has to get so many licences that he is liable to get mixed up.  He has to have a licence for his bus, a licence to run his bus, a licence for his driver and a licence for his conductor.  In the case of these licences there is an appeal under the Traffic Act to the Justice of the District Court, and in this case also an   appeal should lie from the decision of the Minister in view of the wide powers the Bill gives him in respect of these matters. 
     
      
       I argued before it is not a question of law, not a question of fact, and I still think that neither of these two matters can be said to arise.  The District Justice will have to operate on the refusal set out in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) or all three together. 
       With regard to (a) if on appeal he desires to direct the Minister to grant the licence which is the subject of the refusal he has to do it because, in his opinion, such existing service is not carried on efficiently with due regard to the requirements of the public.  You are going to make the District Justice judge of the requirements of the public. The second test is also the requirements of the public.  Then look at the third reason as set out in paragraph (c) &ldquo;on the ground that, in his opinion, the organisation and equipment at the disposal of the person making the application are not such as to enable him to carry on the proposed service in accordance with the conditions which the Minister considers should be inserted in the passenger licence to which such application relates.&rdquo; If the situation is going to develop, the Minister can pile up conditions that would really put it out of the power of the District Justice; it would be all artificial and bad.  It is transport policy that would have to be decided. I say that even if that appeal does lie there is another section which deals with attachment of conditions.  I can imagine an appeal being taken just because of the very circumstances the Deputy related&mdash;the parish priest, the captain of the local football club, the publican&mdash;would all come in and say that in their opinion this is a decent sort of appeal.  It is the same sort of appeal that is put up under the Old Age Pensions Acts.  It would be said this is a decent sort of person and he should get his licence.  There would be a sort of  ad misericordiam  appeal and on that the District Justice is going to govern transport conditions in the country. 
     
     
        [ An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. ] 
     Supposing it does happen?  Supposing the District Justice does decide? He attaches conditions to the granting of a licence.  If you are going to imagine that the Minister is not going to be conscientious in his duty and your point of view about transport in a particular circumstance at a particular time is peculiar, then you operate that peculiar mentality on the conditions that he is to attach to the licence once he has been made give it by the District Justice.  I think we should leave this; I admit it is a discretionary power, it gives almost despotic powers to the Minister but there are ways of calling attention to the matters of the refusal of a licence.  There are ways in which an abuse of the power could be brought to the notice of the public. If the amendment were passed the decision of the District Justice could be completely upset by the conditions which the Minister may at any point establish. 
     I would have thought that if the Deputy is going to have anybody to decide this he would have thought of somebody who would have at any rate his mind directed specially to transport matters and not to whether a man is physically fit to drive a bus&mdash;merely his physical powers.  The Deputy might have thought of some body like the Railway Tribunal.  But bus owners would say that the Railway Tribunal is too railway-minded and that they would have a prejudice operating one way.  But I do object to the idea of a District Justice being brought in to direct transport policy in his area. That is what it amounts to. 
     
      
       I am not very much concerned about the form of the appeal, but I do think that there should be some appeal to some Tribunal giving a right to review the Minister's decision if the person affected by that decision believed he had been wronged in any way either through a wrong decision or through a decision arrived at from wrong information.  I believe that a right should be given to him under this Bill to appeal to some Tribunal which would have the power to   reverse that decision if a wrong had been done.  I do not mind whether that appeal should be to the district court or to an Advisory Committee appointed under the Department, but I would like to see that power reviewed in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       It is the difficulty of getting the proper tribunal adverted to here.  I was at first very much affected by the thought that there were very wide powers in the section that might very easily be abused&mdash;very wide powers to the political head of a certain Department&mdash;but when I began to consider the possibility of an Appeals Tribunal then I found myself up against it.  Judicial persons would not know how to operate the Bill.  It is not a Bill dealing with a question of law or fact.  If there is a breach of law no matter how widely drafted the section is, it will be found that there are ordinary rights at law where the decision may come in conflict with the statute.  For instance, if there was a refusal in the case of the Dublin Tramways Company that would be such a glaring abuse that an ordinary court would deal with it.  But in the ordinary case of such appeals judicial people would turn away from such appeals in horror, because they would not know what they would be called on to decide upon.  They would not know on what principles they were to give their decision. I left the Railway Tribunal out of consideration for other reasons, particularly because there might be a reconstitution of that Railway Tribunal, with extra members.  Possibly the Deputy knows sufficient about administrative matters to know that the Minister does not decide this sort of thing on his own outlook and decides only after a particular discussion and examination being brought to bear on it with the expert information that his Department can give.  That being the case one might say that an Advisory Committee is already in existence there. 
     
     
      
       I do not mean officials of the Department. 
     
     
      
       An Advisory Committee composed of outsiders.  One has   to think of people in some way experienced in road transport.  Are they experienced in regard to transport on the railway side or on the road side? Are you to have that sort of body set up which is weighted in such way that its tendency will be anti-bus or pro-railway, such a body as would have more inclination to give or more inclination to refuse a licence?  Once a man has established a footing he automatically goes on.  There is no means of getting rid of him.  It is difficult to get a tribunal.  I am aware of the very wide powers given to the Minister in this Bill and I know these powers are liable to be abused but I think there would be sufficient public opinion to guarantee very definitely against the probability of any abuse.  Certain weighty public opinion would go against the individual who abused that power.  I know there is a difficulty there. 
       Amendment 13 withdrawn. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 11, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
     
     
      
       It is agreed to with reluctance. 
     
     
      
       That will not alter the section. 
       Section agreed to. 
       SECTION 12. 
       &ldquo;Whenever the Minister grants a passenger licence he may attach to such licence such conditions as he shall think proper and shall specify in such licence and, in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, conditions in respect of all or the following matters that is to say&mdash; 
       (j) the notification to and approval by the Minister of agreements or arrangements made in relation to such service by the licencee under such licence with other persons engaged in the business of road transport.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I am not moving amendment 14. 
     
     
     
      
       I move amendment 15: 
       In page 5, paragraph (j), line 45, to delete the words &ldquo;business of road transport&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;transport of passengers by rail, road or water, or any of them.&rdquo; 
       I want to delete these last four words and to substitute the words in the amendment.  The effect of the amendment is not merely that it covers road transport, but transport of passengers by rail or by water.  As originally drafted it would look as if we could only have notified to the Department arrangements made by a person applying for the licence with other road users. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 15 (a): 
       To add at the end of the section a new paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(k) the rates of wages and hours of duty of employees and agreements or arrangements in reference thereto in the working of the passenger road service to which a licence relates.&rdquo; 
       I understand, sir, that it is not permissible to move amendment 25 that stands in my name. 
     
     
      
       There are three amendments upon the Order Paper which seem to me to have more or less the same aim&mdash;amendments 16, 25 and 26.  It appears to the Chair that looking at the Bill as a whole it would not be possible to accept amendment 16 or 25.  I think that the point aimed at can be best got by way of an amendment to insert in Section 12 a new paragraph such as Deputy O'Connell has now moved.  The Bill is a discretionary Bill and this question of rates of wages and hours of duty might be dealt with here in this way if the Committee thought fit.  I take it that the decision on this amendment will cover amendments 16 and 25.  They seem to me to be out of order and amendment 26 could not be moved when this has been disposed of. 
     
     
      
       Deputies on these benches endeavoured during the   passage of the Road Traffic Bill to have amendments much in the line of amendments 16 and 25 moved, but it was suggested that that was a matter for the Road Transport Bill, but it is not right now in the Road Transport Bill either. 
     
     
      
       It was not the Ceann Comhairle suggested that. 
     
     
      
       In any case, it appears that this is the most appropriate way in which we can get into this Bill the conditions which we are very anxious to have inserted, so I am moving the amendment.  There is set out quite a number of things which the Minister would take into account in deciding whether or not he grants a passenger licence to a particular company or applicant regarding which he is entitled to make conditions.  I suggest that one of the things which he should take into account, and one of the conditions which he should lay down, should include the rate of wages and the hours of duty of employees and agreements or arrangements in reference thereto in the working of the passenger road service to which a licence relates. 
     
     I think it is most essential that the Minister should take into account, in considering whether or not a licence should be given, the conditions of service which are imposed on the employees of that particular service, and the conditions under which the men engaged on that particular service will have to work.  That is not alone necessary in the interests of the employees themselves, but it is necessary also in the interests of the fare-paying passenger public.  Numerous cases have from time to time been cited in this House in which men were asked to work for long periods of hours.  Men who have to do that are undoubtedly not able to give efficient service.  Continuing that work involves danger to the fare-paying public. Apart from that the Minister has indicated to us more than once that his policy is rather to encourage the company that is in a position to give adequate service generally to bigger companies, such as the tramways and the I.O.C. and companies of that kind.   That is his declared policy.  In the case of companies of that kind employees are generally speaking, given good conditions of service. Agreements are made between the employees and the companies concerned and in the main these agreements are observed.  There are ways of seeing that they are to be observed. The Minister may have to consider another applicant over the same route.  Naturally one of the conditions that it would be necessary to take into consideration in that case would be whether the same conditions of service would apply to the case of the new applicant as in the case of the larger company.  It certainly would not be fair where there is competition between two bodies, two companies or two applicants, if some power did not lie with the Minister to see that the conditions of service were equal in each case.  I think it would be a very great mistake and a very great weakness in the Bill if the Minister did not take the powers that are suggested in this amendment. 
     
      
       The phraseology of the Deputy's amendment makes me believe that he has not adverted to the section to which he wants to make this addition.  Section 12 has nothing to do with the matter that I take into consideration before granting a licence. Under Section 11 I must grant licences in named circumstances, giving me always the right to refuse licences.  In Section 11 I make up my mind whether a licence is to be granted or not. Having done that I come in under Section 12, and say that I attach certain conditions to the licence. 
     
     
      
       A licence is not granted until the conditions are laid down. 
     
     
      
       Section 11 prohibits me from granting a licence unless satisfaction were given me with regard to rates of pay and the hours of duty or agreement with regard to passenger road services.  That is one thing. Merely to say that conditions might be attached to the passenger licence which it has already been decided to grant. and that these conditions may relate to   any or all of the following matters&mdash; rates of pay, hours of duty&mdash;may I say, putting it from any angle, that the amendment, if I may use the word, is harmless; and if I might use another word, useless.  I will go further, and say that it simply will not be effective. What conditions can the Deputy imagine me attaching to a particular licence with regard, say, to rates of wages? 
     
     
      
       What about hours of duty? 
     
     
      
       I may do that.  I am agreeing with the Deputy that I might make up my mind with regard to hours of duty. 
     
     
      
       In order to carry out what you undertook at Geneva. 
     
     
      
       That is being carried out. 
     
     
      
       Would it be more appropriate under Section 11? 
     
     
      
       It would not be more appropriate.  The granting or the refusing of a licence is confined to the party previously on the road and regularly working it. 
     
     
      
       Having decided that a particular type of amendment on the Order Paper was out of order, I asked Deputy O'Connell, with very little notice, to frame another type of amendment.  This amendment was framed possibly without referring to the appropriate place in the Bill.  There must, I presume, be a place in the Bill where such an amendment could be offered. 
     
     
      
       It can come under Section 12 but I am pointing out that it is not going to be very effective. If it were on Section 11 it could be more effective. 
     
     
      
       It would be effective in the hands of a sympathetic Minister. 
     
     
      
       Undoubtedly.  The whole thing can be very effective without any amendment in the hands of a sympathetic Minister and this can be arranged without any amendment. Assuming it is moved on Section 12 my   objection is that it is not going to have any effect.  Supposing it is carried and I am given power to attach conditions to a licence and that I made up my mind to grant it with the conditions in relation to the rate of wages, how is that going to be done by the Minister?  Minimum wages will have to be placed so low that it will certainly give a bad indication to bus proprietors as to what they may do. Supposing that there are two operators along a route and that one firm pays its drivers and conductors £4 a week and the other firm something less, £3 10s. or £3 15s.  What is going to happen? The Minister will make up his mind that £3 15s. is the minimum wage. What is going to be the effect?  If I were a Labour Deputy I would think that it would make the man paying £4 a week think that £3 15s. was enough. It is certainly not going to make the man who is paying £3 15s. pay £4. 
     
     
      
       What about the 25/- a week men? 
     
     
      
       Supposing there is a firm paying 25/- a week to its men along a road and that it seems to a Minister that that is fair and reasonable, if that amount is put in as the rate of wages surely it would have a very bad effect from the Deputy's angle on other bus proprietors who may be paying more.  I do not think the amendment is of very great value. Clearly it does not compel the Minister to attach this condition.  I think the question of compelling a Minister to attach conditions except as regards hours of duty is so difficult that no conditions will be attached.  The hours of duty might be dealt with.  Unless we are going to get the same rigid system of hours that holds on railways, I do not see any great difficulty of a condition being attached with regard to hours except that there will be great elasticity with regard to change in particular districts.  I do not think the amendment is of any avail or effects the Deputy's purpose in any detail. 
     
     
      
       The chaos which exists in the transport industry to-day, for which the Minister is largely responsible, and about which I am sure he   knows more than anyone else in the House, is due to certain causes which the Minister has made no attempt to control.  If, as there appears to be, competitive transport industry by rail, road or canal, and if the Government is going to take them under control as a separate section of the transport industry, I think it is in duty bound to see that the different sections which make up the industry compete against one another under fair conditions. When we come to talk about competition and fair treatment we will have to pay some regard to the capital outlay of the competing companies, to the cost of initiating the services and the conditions under which they are operating.  We know that there is no comparison whatever between the conditions under which passenger road services compete with railway companies because the same capital was not found and need not have been found for the construction of a permanent way.  There is no comparison in the original cost of initiating road services when compared with railway services.  I think some regard should be paid by the Minister in a Bill of this kind to conditions which make it possible for pirate road companies to carry on services which a railway company and other transport companies carry on under Christian conditions for the public.  I referred to this matter on many occasions. 
       I am personally aware of one service in the suburbs plying for profit where the men are at present paid 10/- a week for sixteen hours a day.  Does the Minister know anything about the Papal Encyclical or the conditions with which it dealt?  These conditions have often been referred to when it suited some of the Minister's supporters when dealing with the wages or conditions of workers generally.  I am sure the Minister will make use of the Encyclical when he speaks during the coming general election. 
     
     
      
       The coming general election is not in the Road Transport Bill. 
     
     
      
       I do not think anybody with a Christian mind, inside or outside this House, would say it is fair in   present circumstances to employ a young man for sixteen hours a day and pay him 10/- a week to operate a bus service. 
     
     
      
       That matter could be raised by the Transport Union. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy has anything to say let him say it so that it will be on record.  When dealing with the matter on a previous debate on the Road Traffic Bill the Minister endeavoured to persuade the House&mdash;and I think it is only those Deputies sitting behind him that he could persuade&mdash; that unions were in existence for the purpose of enforcing or maintaining unreasonable conditions of service so far as the buses were concerned.  The Minister is aware that single bus owners have been operating in this country for the last four or five years and he is aware of the extent to which they have stolen traffic from other carrying companies who have been giving reasonable conditions of service to their employees.  I do not think the House could reasonably pass a measure of this kind, which purports to regulate the road transport services, so far as they apply to passenger-carrying companies, without standing for fair competition and enabling the Minister to attach to it conditions of the kind suggested.  The Minister's answer to Deputy O'Connell is a mere quibble. If he is serious in what he says that a condition of the kind suggested in the amendment should be made to Section 11 instead of to Section 12 I make him a present of it.  I will see that an amendment is moved in the appropriate place on the next stage provided the Minister is prepared to consider it sympathetically.  A day will come, either during the lifetime of this House or certainly in the near future, when the Minister or his successor will be forced to adopt a policy which will coordinate and regulate under one Department of Government transport services which are to-day carrying on a cut-throat competition. 
     
     In giving power to the Minister to grant licences to pirate bus companies under the terms of the Bill, those who do it are merely stereotyping the old conditions which they know to exist in   certain parts of the country to-day.  I am sure if Deputy Anthony wanted to, and I hope he will, he could say something as he did on the previous stage of the Bill about the conditions of service which exist in some of the small companies in the City of Cork.  The same remark applies to Limerick and elsewhere, and I ask Deputies not to give the very drastic powers which the Minister seeks to impose as a condition to the granting of licences unless these powers compel the Minister, as a condition of granting such licences, to see that fair and reasonable conditions of service are given to those who either drive or conduct buses in this country.  If he wants to pay any regard to the Pope's appeal and to what was laid down in the recent Encyclical, let us now, when we have the opportunity, put it into a section of a Bill of this kind, and enable those transport companies, who are competing against those who are using the manhood of the country, the young men and boys, more as machines than as Christians, to pay fair and reasonable wages and grant reasonable conditions of service. 
     
      
       After the moving appeal which has been made I must modify my previous attitude, but I want to point out to Deputy Davin that with what he calls a sympathetic Minister, what he reads into the Pope's Encyclical can be put into the conditions attaching to a licence without this amendment.  The opening words of Section 12 read:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Whenever the Minister grants a passenger licence he may attach to such licence such conditions as he shall think proper and shall specify 
       conditions in respect of all or any of the following matters.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       We know what you have done before. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should not consider it in relation to me at all, but in relation to the sympathetic Minister of whom he dreams.  That man can put into the clause as it stands all that the Deputy has been talking   about.  If the Deputy likes to specify things further than those mentioned in the section, I put this to the Deputy. I do not see the possibility of any effective use being made of this amendment with regard to rates of wages where the Minister is going to be given power to decide rates of wages which he considers proper to attach to the conditions of a licence which he shall grant.  In regard to hours of duty I do say that there is a possibility that that might not be as ineffective as the rest.  I do not know what this means exactly&mdash;&ldquo;agreements or arrangements in reference thereto.&rdquo;  If that means something corresponding to what is in the Railway Act of 1924 then I think it may be of use.  The Act of 1924 provides or at least establishes this sort of procedure, that there should be registered agreements that were entered into as between the unions and the companies and that where these agreements were registered they should be brought within the framework of the Act.  If this amendment means the same thing it may be of use.  The point about it is that where there was no agreement between employers and employees governing the rates of wages, I think it would be impossible for the Minister to determine these.  The amendment will have some use in relation to the hours of duty.  It may be of some use in relation to either hours or wages where these things are in particular areas covered by agreements entered into by the unions and the men.  Because possibly it will have some good effect in these cases and also because it is only an extension of what was already in the clause, making explicit what is already implicit in the opening words of the clause, if the Deputy considers that it is giving an indication to the Minister of something he should attend to, I accept it for what it is worth. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 12, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 13. 
       Amendment 16 not moved. 
     
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (2), page 5, line 50, to insert after the word &ldquo;Act&rdquo; but within the bracket, the words &ldquo;and subject to any suspension under this Act.&rdquo; 
       That is a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 13, as amended, agreed to. 
       Section 14 agreed to. 
       SECTION 15. 
       (1) The Minister may refuse an application for a renewal of an annual passenger licence on one or more of the following grounds but on no other ground, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  on the ground that in his opinion the passenger road service to which such licence relates has not been carried on efficiently with a due regard to the requirements of the public during the currency of such licence or the last renewal thereof, as the case may be; 
       (b)  on the ground that in his opinion there was, during such currency, a breach of or a failure to observe or comply with one or more of the conditions attached to such licence; 
       (c)  on the ground that in his opinion there was, in relation to such service and during such currency, a breach of or a failure to observe or comply with the provisions of this Act and the regulations made thereunder; 
       (d)  on the ground that the licensee under such licence has during such currency been convicted of an offence (whether under this or any other Act) in relation to the said service or the vehicles used therein. 
     
     
      
       I move, on behalf of Deputy J.X. Murphy, amendment 17:&mdash; 
     
     In sub-section (1) to add at the end of paragraph (d), line 34, the following words: &ldquo;provided that the Minister shall not refuse to renew an annual passenger licence on any of the grounds stated in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this sub-section, unless he is   satisfied that the breach or the failure, as the case may be, was of so grave a nature or so frequent as to render his refusal to renew such licence advisable.&rdquo; 
     I assure the Minister that in this case there can hardly be any ulterior motive underlying the amendment.  Certainly if there is it has escaped my notice.  It seems to me a most admirable amendment, and, as such, it will appeal to the Minister.  It possibly softens the severity of Section 15, and prevents a Minister, who is not as sympathetic as the present Minister, adopting a Draconian attitude and refusing a licence upon the slightest breach either of the conditions of his licence or the provisions of the Bill.  For instance, we have seen charges of overcrowding brought against a company, or an inspector might discover a bus with the wrong colour on a particular route, or there may be a failure to display a time table.  These are all offences under Section 15, and breaches of the conditions of the licence.  I would suggest that this proposed addition to the sub-section will be an indication to those who may have to administer the Bill, that they are to do so with sympathy.  After all, we may allow a licensee a single offence of not too grave a character.  I consequently move this amendment. 
     
      
       This amendment does not limit the Minister's discretion overmuch.  The Deputy has moved it in a way which shows that he wants it to be an indication to the Minister, and I accept it in that sense. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       The following amendment stood in the name of Deputy Lemass:&mdash;&ldquo;To add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows: &lsquo;(3) Whenever the Minister refuses an application for a renewal of an annual passenger licence he shall state the reasons for such refusal&rsquo;.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The Report Stage is being taken this evening.  My trouble is that I feel that I should like to have an opportunity of reconsidering the question of instituting some appeal from the Minister's decision other   than to the justice of the District Court.  As it is proposed to take the Report Stage this evening that is not possible.  However I should like to state my opinion that there should be some appeal.  But we have got to leave it at that and to hope for the best. 
     
     
      
       May I state again that I agree with the Deputy on the principle that it would be better if there was an appeal, but there is a difficulty in arriving at what the proper tribunal should be.  However, if the worst happens, we could guard against it in another way. 
       Amendment not moved. 
     
     
      
       On the section, I should like to point out to the Minister that there is a certain conflict between Section 15 and Section 21.  Section 15 states that the &ldquo;Minister may refuse an application for a renewal of an annual passenger licence on one or more of the following grounds but on no other ground.&rdquo;  Then if we turn to Section 21 we find: &ldquo;When considering the grant or refusal of an application for a passenger licence or for a renewal of a passenger licence the Minister shall have regard to the extent to which the vehicles used or intended to be used on the passenger road service to which such application relates are or will be manufactured (in whole or in part) in Saorstat Eireann and also the extent to which such vehicles are or will be kept in repair by Saorstat Eireann labour.&rdquo;  There is there an additional condition that the Minister is to take into consideration when he is considering an application, and Section 15 distinctly states that no other ground is to be taken into consideration except the four which are set out in the sub-section of the section. 
     
     
      
       Under Section 15 the Minister may refuse an application for a renewal of an annual passenger licence &ldquo;on one or more of the following grounds, but on no other ground.&rdquo; Then certain grounds are laid down. I would point out to the Minister that while on certain routes in the Saorstat there are a large number of passenger   bus services, the Minister has no power to refuse a licence or renewal of a licence on the plea that that particular service is already adequately served either by bus or railway.  I think the Minister should have power along the lines of the regulations in operation in Northern Ireland, in England, Scotland and Wales, in cases where the route is sufficiently served by rail or bus, to refuse a licence on that ground.  I happen to be one of those persons who believe that buses should not be allowed on routes which are already adequately served by railways. 
     
     
      
       There are two distinct points raised by the Deputies. Deputy Good called attention to Section 15, which provides that the Minister &ldquo;may refuse an application for a renewal of an annual passenger licence on one or more of the following grounds, but on no other ground, that is to say,&rdquo; and four grounds are mentioned. Then the Deputy turns his attention to Section 21: &ldquo;(1) When considering the grant or refusal of an application for a passenger licence or for a renewal of a passenger licence the Minister shall have regard to the extent to which the vehicles used or intended to be used on the passenger road service to which such application relates are or will be manufactured (in whole or in part) in Saorstat Eireann, and also to the extent to which such vehicles are or will be kept in repair by Saorstat Eireann labour. (2) Without prejudice to any power of attaching conditions to passenger licences conferred on the Minister by any other section of this Act, the Minister may attach to any passenger licence a condition requiring the use (either exclusively or to a specified extent) on the passenger road service to which such licence relates of vehicles manufactured in whole or in part in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo;  It may be that another method of wording might achieve the same purpose, but I do not think there is any conflict.  We do not look forward to having to refuse a licence on the ground that the applicant will not get his vehicles either manufactured or repaired in the Saorstat.   If he is  prima facie  entitled to a new licence or to a renewal and if we think that he should have his vehicle manufactured or repaired in the Saorstat we are going to attach such conditions as will achieve our purpose.  The refusal is not likely to happen.  If a man has established his footing on a particular route and is looking for a renewal, if it will come to the point that we are going to refuse him his licence, he will come in if he knows that onerous conditions are to be attached.  We think we can achieve what we want in that way. Another method of dove-tailing the sections may be considered, but I do not think there is any conflict. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister consider that there is anything more in Section 21 than in Section 15? 
     
     
      
       Oh, yes.  Deputies have already called attention to the very wide discretion given to the Minister.  If you cut out the words &ldquo;on no other ground&rdquo; you are increasing the general character of the powers given.  I think the only semblance of conflict between Section 15 and Section 21 is that we achieve our purpose of seeing that the vehicles are manufactured in the Saorstat not by refusing a licence but by simply saying:&mdash;&ldquo;We are going to impose upon you the necessity of having all your fleet manufactured and repaired in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo;  Deputy Cassidy's point is a different one.  It is that there is no power given here to refuse a renewal on the ground that the area is already supplied with a sufficient service.  Possibly not.  But we are going to get that matter attended to in the main section, Section 11, dealing with the granting of licences.  A renewal after all is a continuance, as the term implies, of the existing service.  We have got to look at the third sub-section of Section 11. 
       &ldquo;In considering the grant or refusal of an application for a passenger licence... the Minister shall ... have regard to the following matters, that is to say, 
     
     (a) whether the service (in the sub-section referred to as the proposed service) in respect of which   such application is made is required in the public interest having regard to the passenger road service and other forms of passenger transport available to the public on or in the neighbourhood of the route of the proposed service.&rdquo; 
     We think that if a man has established his footing originally by having his service run efficiently and satisfactorily, we should not put further onerous conditions upon him.  Under the policy outlined he will suffer from competitive effort.  The stress of competition will drive the weaker man to the wall. 
     
      
       I had in mind a different set of circumstances to that which the Minister envisages.  Some of the branch railway lines are closed down at the present time and the Minister may grant licences on these routes.  If in later times the railway company succeeded in increasing their passenger and other traffic circumstances might arise in which the Minister may find it necessary to refuse a renewal of the licence on these grounds. 
     
     
      
       I submit that the Minister has made rather a powerful case for the appeal tribunal that Deputy Lemass pleaded for a while ago.  Practically he says that while we are compelled under this Bill when it becomes an Act to grant a renewal of licences provided certain conditions are complied with, we can defeat the granting of licences by putting in certain conditions.  That is the effect of his speech.  I find no fault with the particular end he was aiming at in the matter of securing Saorstat manufacture as applied to the bodies of vehicles, but if it were possible that anybody could insert a stipulation that the chassis should be manufactured in the Saorstat that would be an easy way of defeating the provision which compels the Minister to grant a licence or renew a licence provided certain conditions are complied with.  I do not want to attach too much importance to what the Minister says, but it is a daring implication. 
     
     
      
       I said in answer to the amendment of Deputy Lemass that   an appeal under the Bill could be defeated the next day.  A District Justice may reverse the Minister's decision and say that the Minister has got to give a licence.  But the Minister may next day say: &ldquo;Very good, I can give a licence, but here are five conditions that I attach to it,&rdquo; and in that way he could get completely outside the reversal by the District Justice. The Minister is given powers to attach conditions as regards manufacture.  I took that out of the general section and gave it a provision by itself in order to emphasise the importance we attach to it. 
       Section 15, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 16. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 18 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       Every renewal of an annual passenger licence shall commence immediately upon the expiration of the licence or of the last renewal of the licence (as the case may be) of which it is a renewal and, unless it is previously revoked under this Act, shall continue in force until midnight on the 31st day of October next after such commencement. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In page 6, line 42, after the word &lsquo;Act&rsquo; to insert the words' and subject to any suspension under this Act.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
       That is a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 16, as amended, agreed to. 
       Section 17 agreed to. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 18 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       SECTION 18. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that he is doing justice to the unfortunate bus companies in putting in this provision: &ldquo;A passenger licence shall not be transferable by the license or by operation of law to any other person&rdquo;? It means, as I pointed out on the Second Reading, that a company in existence at the moment loses all its goodwill by the passing of this Bill into an Act.  It becomes absolutely unsaleable, and, therefore, except in   so far as it brings in a daily revenue, it is valueless with regard to a person who is not in a position to continue carrying on his business.  Such a person is deprived of his only asset.  If you take the case of a man who has put any capital he had into such a service as this, who has saved and borrowed and got his friends to support him in an undertaking of this kind, and who has given good service to the public for several years past, is it fair or right that we should now deprive his property of any value that it has?  I think it is a very serious proposal, and I should like to hear what the Minister has to say, in defence of it, why it is necessary. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that the Deputy has gone beyond the first sub-section.  If he had gone to sub-section (2) he would have got his answer.  He would have seen that the property had a value.  That sub-section has established its value.  All we are doing is to prevent his trafficking in his licence.  We allow the property to pass, and we allow further that when the property does pass, the Minister may transfer the passenger licence to the person who has purchased the original property. 
     
     
      
       He may transfer. 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  The best analogy I can give the Deputy is the analogy of the licensed house.  In that case the property may pass and may change hands, and then an application can be made for the transfer of the licence at the next opportunity for the transfer, to the new holder.  It is exactly the same thing here.  We give the Minister a certain discretion with regard to it.  When the Minister has the discretion right through in the case either of granting a licence or in the case of a renewal, why should he not have a discretion in the matter of the transfer? 
     
     
      
       There are precautions against a Minister being too arbitrary in the case of a person running an existing service.  It is provided that he shall only refuse a renewal of the licence on certain grounds.  But in the   case of the section we are discussing there is no compulsion on the Minister to transfer the licence to the purchaser of an existing service, and I do not know why the Minister finds fault with the statement I have made that the service loses all its goodwill on the passing of this Bill.  Surely if it is within the Minister's discretion, who would give money for a service in the hope merely that the Minister will be good enough to renew the licence? 
     
     
      
       It is the case of a new person coming in, it is the case of a new applicant, and it is entirely within the Minister's discretion whether the licence will be given or not.  I do not think there is any reason why he should not have that discretion.  I am going to make the Deputy do a good deal of reading to-night.  Will the Deputy go on to the third sub-section: &ldquo;The provisions of this Act in relation to an application for and the grant of a passenger licence shall apply, so far as applicable, in relation to applications for and grants of transfers of passenger licences&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       Surely it is the renewal provisions that should apply. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy made the case that, whereas in the case of granting a licence I am bound in certain ways, I am not bound in the case of a transfer.  By this third sub-section I do carry forward the provisions applicable to an application for a licence, and the application for a transfer rests upon the application originally made for a grant, and whatever limitation there is on the discretion of the Minister in the case of the granting of the licence, that limitation also exists in the case of a transfer. 
       Sections 18 and 19 agreed to. 
       SECTION 20. 
       (1)  There shall be paid to the Minister on every grant, every renewal, and every transfer of a passenger licence a fee of such amount as the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, shall from time to time appoint. 
     
     (2)  Different fees may be fixed in   respect of grants, renewals, and transfers respectively of passenger licences or of different classes of such licences, and such fees may be of fixed amount or of an amount calculated by reference to a scale applicable to different classes of passenger road services. 
     (3)  Every fee payable under this section shall be payable at the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (3), page 7, lines 49 and 50, to delete the words &lsquo;payable at the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner&rsquo; and substitute the words &lsquo;collected and accounted for in such manner as shall be prescribed by the Minister with the sanction of the Minister for Finance.&rsquo;&rdquo; 
       The effect of this is to secure that the method by which the fees payable shall be collected shall be arranged by the Minister with the sanction of the Minister for Finance. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister give us any indication of the amount of the fee which it is intended shall be fixed under this section?  The fear has been expressed in some quarters that very substantial fees would be imposed which would operate automatically to exclude a number of small bus owners from applying for licences.  We have had this matter of the licence fees discussed on the Traffic Bill, and we have heard that a man operating a large bus service might hold a host of licences, and that such a man has to pay a fee for every one of them.  Some provisions were inserted in the Traffic Bill as to the maximum amount of the fees which might be asked for the licences to be obtained under that Bill.  I should like to have some indication of the amount of the fees under this Bill. 
     
     
      
       This point has been already made by certain deputations that have come along, and I do not think that they have any great fear of the section after the explanation given. We intend to have such fees as will merely pay for the administration, and not even all that. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the fee operate in relation to the service?  Will the Minister say that every application must be accompanied by a £5 fee, or will the fee vary in accordance with the importance of the service? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say that the procedure has been worked out yet.  I think that the procedure outlined by the Deputy would be the proper one. 
     
     
      
       Does not Deputy Lemass suggest that the fee paid by the pirate bus should be smaller than that paid by the others? 
     
     
      
       If the Bill passes the pirate will be extinguished. 
     
     
      
       The Minister does not tell us whether these fees are going to be retained by the Department of Finance or whether they are going to be retained by the local authority.  I may point out that, as far as the road tax is concerned, while the owners of road buses pay a road tax to the respective county councils, that goes to the Central Fund and only a percentage is returned.  I suggest that the Minister would be well advised if he would allow these fees to go to the coffers of the local authority. 
     
     
      
       What expense are they at? 
     
     
      
       The expense they are at is that the owners of the buses are using and abusing the roads to a very large extent and they are creating unemployment, which puts an additional charge on the board of health.  Consequently I suggest to the Minister that the local authority should retain these fees. 
     
     
      
       We intend that the local authority will not come into this at all.  We do not think that any burden is put on the local authority under this and the local authority will not get any of this money. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 20, as amended, agreed to. 
       Amendments 25 and 26 not moved. 
     
     
        SECTION 21. 
     Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 21 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Would the Minister tell us what he has in his mind under this section as to the use of Saorstat manufactures and labour&mdash;whether he means it or not? 
     
     
      
       Read the Tariff Commission Report on coach bodies and find out how it has been operated up to date. 
     
     
      
       Is this window dressing? 
     
     
      
       Read the Tariff Commission Report. 
     
     
      
       I believe this is window dressing, inasmuch as the Minister has already refused to accept amendment No. 9 in regard to vehicles which do not pay taxes in the Saorstat. The Minister says that there is a reciprocal arrangement in operation.  If the Minister is going to stand by the arrangement and is also going to stand by Section 21, it means that he will give licences to buses which are owned and registered and pay taxes in Northern Ireland and which are not manufactured here.  Is that the Minister's interpretation of the section? 
     
     
      
       I say with regard to approved routes, which is the only power I have had up to date, that on those you will find that the bodies of the buses were almost entirely manufactured in Saorstat Eireann or are becoming progressively manufactured here day by day.  Buses bought originally before the application was made on an approved route are being replaced under the administration of the Department by buses manufactured here. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister prepared to give an assurance that he will not grant a licence to any company the bodies of whose buses are not built in the Saorstat? 
     
     
      
       No, I would not like to tie myself so rigidly, but the intention is given in Section 21. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Section 22 put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 23. 
     
     
        (1)  The Minister may, by regulations made by him under this Act, prescribe a scale of maximum charges for the carriage of passengers, passengers' luggage, and (where permitted) merchandise by passenger road services and the mode of application of any such scale to any particular passenger road service, and the Minister may so prescribe different scales of maximum charges and different modes of application thereof for different passenger road services either in respect of the route or character of or the district served by such services. 
     (2)  The Minister may by the conditions attached to a passenger licence appoint maximum charges in respect of the passenger road service to which such licence relates differing from the maximum charges prescribed by regulations made under this Act, and where any such condition is attached to a passenger licence the said regulations shall have effect in respect of the said passenger road service subject to such condition. 
     (3)  The Minister shall not by regulations made under this section or conditions attached to passenger licences prescribe or appoint different maximum charges in respect of different passenger road services of the same character carried on over the same or substantially the same route. 
     (4)  Whenever any sum is charged for the carriage of passengers, passengers' luggage, or merchandise by a passenger road service which exceeds the maximum charge prescribed or appointed under this section in respect of such carriage, the licensee under the passenger licence relating to such passenger road service shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding ten pounds. 
     
      
       I move amendment 27: 
       To delete the word &ldquo;maximum&rdquo; wherever it occurs in the section. 
     
     
        I would not move the amendment if the Minister had seen his way to seek powers to prescribe a scale of maximum and minimum charges.  I can see certain dangers in inserting the word &ldquo;maximum&rdquo; without having regard to the necessity for fixing minimum fares.  I should like to know why the Minister did not seek powers to frame minimum fares as well as maximum. 
     
      
       May I point out that under the British Road Traffic Act power is vested in a certain authority to fix minimum fares in addition to maximum fares?  I suggest that if the Minister is not prepared to fix minimum fares he is going to intensify the cut-throat competition going on at present between the buses and the railway companies.  I may point out that as far as Northern Ireland is concerned a certain bus company some time ago made application to the Traffic Tribunal to be allowed to ply at excursion fares.  That application was opposed by the London, Midland and Scottish Company and the County Down Company, with the result that it went against the bus company because the tribunal did not want to intensify the cut-throat competition that was going on.  I suggest to the Minister that for the benefit of the railway companies and the buses themselves it would be much better if he took power to fix minimum in addition to maximum fares. 
     
     
      
       That may be an interesting suggestion, but it is not the amendment.  The amendment is to cut out the word &ldquo;maximum&rdquo; where it occurs.  That means that I would prescribe, not maximum or minimum fares, but the actual fares.  That is quite impossible and the Deputy knows it. 
     
     
      
       There is nothing impossible to the Minister. 
     
     
      
       Only in these circumstances could it be considered.  To everybody else it is quite absurd.  It is not possible to prescribe actual fares.  The minimum fares point is not in the amendment.  I would not care at present to take power to establish minimum fares.  I do not look forward   to a complete discontinuance of competition, or even of cut-throat competition, if this measure becomes law&mdash;by no means.  I think that the railway companies cannot complain if they are being put on an equal footing with everybody else.  They have in fact certain advantages over most people who will be operating public services in future.  I may say that if there is going to be cut-throat competition, the fiercer and more intense it is the less likely is it to be prolonged. 
     
     
      
       Even if it is uneconomic. 
     
     
      
       It will be only uneconomic to those who engage in the practice.  From the point of view of the public it might be quite good.  If it is only for a short period, the fiercer and more intense it is the less likely it is to be prolonged. 
     
     
      
       What about the waste of capital? 
     
     
      
       That will possibly be a disadvantage to the people whose capital will be wasted.  Unless I am going to operate minimum or maximum fares from the point of view of stereotyping present conditions I do not see the advantage.  I am prepared to let competition have a certain amount of sway in future, having equalised the conditions under which that competition will be placed.  I would not like to consider the question of minimum fares at present.  When the position has cleared itself there may be a good case for it. 
     
     
      
       If this is evidence of the policy outlined in this Bill of equalised conditions under which competition can be carried on, the Minister has certainly convinced very few people in the industry.  The Minister is living in a glass-house so far as transport is concerned. 
     
     
      
       On the passenger side it does. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 23 put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 24. 
     
     (1)  Save as is otherwise provided   by this Act, it shall not be lawful for any merchandise or mail-bags to be carried by a passenger road service. 
     (2)  The Minister may, by a condition attached to a passenger licence, authorise or require the carriage by the passenger road service to which such licence relates of merchandise (either generally or of a specified character or quantity) or of mail-bags or of both such merchandise and mail-bags, and where such a condition is attached to a passenger licence the carriage in accordance with such licence of merchandise or mail-bags (as the case may be) by the passenger road service to which such licence relates shall not be a contravention of this section. 
     (3)  Whenever any merchandise or mail-bags are carried by a passenger road service in contravention of this section, the licensee under the passenger licence in respect of such passenger road service shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding twenty pounds and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine of three pounds for every day during which the offence continues. 
     The following amendments were agreed to:&mdash; 
     28.  In page 8, lines 56, 61 and 62, to delete the word &ldquo;mail-bags&rdquo; where that word occurs in those lines and substitute therefore the word &ldquo;mails&rdquo; in each case.  &mdash;(Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala). 
     29.  Before sub-section (3) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(3)  The Minister shall not authorise or require under this section the carriage of mails by a passenger road service save at the request of or after consultation with the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs.&rdquo;&mdash; (Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala). 
     30.  In sub-section (3), page 9, line 1, to delete the word &ldquo;mail-bags&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;mails.&rdquo;&mdash; (Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala). 
     Section 24, as amended, agreed to. 
     Sections 25 and 26 agreed to. 
     
        SECTION 27. 
     This Part of this Act applies to every company which, at the passing of this Act, carries on in Saorstat Eireann under a royal charter, special statute, or statutory order the business of carrying for reward (otherwise than by road transport or by sea) passengers and merchandise or either of them, whether such company does or does not also carry on the business of road transport or of carriage by sea or any other business. 
     
      
       I move amendment 31: 
       In line 26 to insert before the word &ldquo;special&rdquo; the word &ldquo;Statute&rdquo;. 
       The object of the amendment is to give the Grand Canal Company the same power as the other companies will have under this section.  This old-established company has been suffering certain losses as a result of competition in transport and it is thought that the words &ldquo;special statute&rdquo; do not give them the powers they ask for. 
     
     
      
       This section was intended to apply to the Grand Canal Company as well as to other companies. It has been represented that neither the phrase &ldquo;royal charter&rdquo; nor the phrase &ldquo;special statute&rdquo; covers the Grand Canal Company in the entirety of its operations, that part might be covered by the expression &ldquo;royal charter,&rdquo; but that the rest would not be covered by the phrase &ldquo;special statute.&rdquo;  It is, therefore, proposed to put in the word &ldquo;statute&rdquo; and I am agreeing to that. 
     
     
      
       Are they going to carry passengers on the canal? 
     
     
      
       No.  They are precluded from doing that but they may engage in other business. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 27, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 28. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 28 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
     
      
       I am rather alarmed at the prospect held out in paragraph (b) of this section: 
       (b) purchase the whole or any part of or any share or interest in any road transport business carried on by any other person (including any business carried on by such person which is ancillary or incidental to such road transport business) and the property and assets used in or in connection with such service or business. 
       Under that paragraph the railway company, for instance, can buy up about two-thirds of the garages of the country because I know that transport business is the main part of their business.  In buying up the transport side they are empowered to buy up any business which is ancillary or incidental to such business.  Is it desirable that the railway company, for instance, should become a monopoly to that extent? 
     
     
      
       How could they? Does the Deputy advert to the phrase in brackets &ldquo;(including any business carried on by such person which is ancillary or incidental to such road transport business)&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       Take a man running a lorry or two lorries for hire who has also a public garage.  It will be a legal question as to which is the main business, but take it that the railway company buys up the transport business. At the same time they could under this provision buy the garage.  I do not think it is desirable that we should create a monopoly, that the railway company should go into such a big business as that.  It may not be any more than a possibility, but it certainly is a very undesirable possibility.  If the Minister has not considered the full effect of the provision, I suggest that he should consider it. 
     
     
      
       First of all, the clause is only permissive.  It allows every company to which this Part of the Act applies to do certain things. One of them is the purchase of what? &ldquo;The whole or any part of or any share or interest in any road transport business carried on by any other person.&rdquo;  First of all, you have to have a road transport business carried on by somebody else.  Then it says &ldquo;(including any business carried on by such person which is ancillary or incidental to such road transport business).&rdquo; The cases in which you will have the owner of a couple of lorries, which the railway company is likely to buy, owning a public garage, which is not merely for his own lorries, but for others, will occur very infrequently. Where it does occur, we allow the railway company, at its discretion, to go into that business. 
     
     
      
       There are a great many more cases than the Minister thinks, and the possible development is not desirable. 
     
     
      
       We only give them power under the Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Sections 29 and 30 agreed to. 
     
     
      
       The further amendments setting out a new Part IV are entirely outside the scope of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I am sure the Minister feels the regret that I feel that there is not an opportunity of discussing the matter. 
     
     
      
       I would like to have them voted upon. 
       Schedule and Title agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be reported. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Bill reported with amendments. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Fourth and Fifth Stages. 
     
      
       I move that the Bill be received for final consideration. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that it is unfair that the Report Stage should be taken to-day.  This is a very important measure and has a direct bearing on the railway companies and their employees, upon the bus companies and their employees, and upon the owners of hackney carriages, and also upon the ratepayers generally.  In   view of the fact that we were promised this Bill for years past and now are endeavouring to rush it through in undue haste, I contend, is not treating the subject with the consideration it deserves.  I suggest to the Minister the reason he is anxious to take the Bill, in all its stages, is because the Dail is going to adjourn.  I submit that the Dail should not adjourn until they give very serious and due consideration to the Road Transport Bill, in addition to many other important problems that are awaiting consideration. I suggest to the Minister that in view of the fact that he has allowed bus traffic to develop to such an alarming extent, creating cut-throat competition for a number of years past, he is treating Deputies and the House generally very unfairly in trying to rush this Bill in this particular manner. 
     
     
      
       I cannot see what more serious consideration could be given to this Bill than has been given to it.  It has passed through Committee; there have been a certain number of official amendments, but the majority of them were drafting amendments. There were two others, one of which I accepted because I said it was merely an indication that there should not be much use made of a particular sub-section, and the other that it might be made effective in a certain small particular.  It was not a mandatory clause, it was only permissive.  I do not know what other consideration Deputies are likely to give to this subject. There are not any further amendments really that can be moved.  The Bill is essentially or almost essentially a second stage measure.  Once the principle is accepted the details are not of such a great matter.  The details have been examined here. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill do now pass&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Moneylenders Bill (1929). 
     
      
       I move that the report of the Select Committee on the   Moneylenders Bill, 1929, do lie upon the Table of the House and that the report together with the minutes of evidence and proceedings of the Committee be printed. 
       Ordered accordingly; Report Stage ordered to be taken the 10th of February, 1932. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Railways (Miscellaneous) Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution (in Committee on Finance). 
     
      
       I move&mdash; 
       That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of the expenses of carrying into effect any Act of the present Session to amend in divers respects the law relating to railways, other than the expenses in connection with public inquiries recoverable from companies owning the railway lines in relation to which such inquiries are held. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Report of resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Railways (Miscellaneous) Bill, 1931&mdash;Committee. 
     Section 1 agreed to. 
     SECTION 2. 
     In this Act&mdash; 
     the expression &ldquo;the Minister&rdquo; means the Minister for Industry and Commerce; 
     the expression &ldquo;the Principal Act&rdquo; means the Railways Act, 1924 (No. 29 of 1924); 
     the expression &ldquo;road transport&rdquo; means the carriage of passengers, passengers' luggage, merchandise and mail-bags, or any of them, for reward by road in mechanically propelled vehicles not running on permanent rails; 
     the expression &ldquo;mechanically propelled vehicle&rdquo; includes a vehicle drawn by a mechanically propelled vehicle; 
     the expression &ldquo;statutory order&rdquo; means an order made under the authority of a statute, whether such   order was or was not confirmed by statute; 
     the expression &ldquo;statutory agreement&rdquo; means an agreement recognised, approved of, or confirmed by statute or by statutory order. 
     
      
       I move amendment 1:&mdash; 
       In page 2, line 22, to delete the word &ldquo;mail-bags&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;mails.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 2:&mdash; 
       In page 2, to add at the end of the section the words &ldquo;the word &lsquo;merchandise&rsquo; includes goods, wares, minerals, and animals but does not include passengers' luggage or mails.&rdquo; 
       This is to clear up a doubt as to whether the word &ldquo;merchandise&rdquo; includes livestock, and the amendment makes it clear. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 2, as amended, agreed to. 
       Section 3 agreed to. 
       [ An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
       SECTION 4. 
       This Part of this Act applies to every railway line (whether forming or not forming part of a larger railway line or of a system of railway lines) for or towards the construction of which a free grant was made out of public moneys or which was constructed under a statutory order whereby a presentment by a grand jury guaranteeing payment of dividends by the company constructing such line was confirmed. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy J.X. Murphy, I beg to move amendment 3: 
       3. To insert at the end of the section the following words:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;This Part of this Act, save Section 6 thereof, applies to every railway line other than a railway line mentioned in the foregoing sub-section (whether forming or not forming part of a larger railway line or of a system of railway lines) which or   part of which, a railway company is prohibited by statute or agreement from singling or closing, or in respect of which a railway company is by any statute or agreement under an obligation to maintain any service of trains for passengers or merchandise.&rdquo; 
     Under this Bill the company is able to close or single a baronially guaranteed line or lines.  It was pointed out on Second Reading that possibly they had not power to do the same with regard to one of its own lines.  The Minister was of a different opinion.  It is suggested that to prevent any doubt it would be well to make the matter explicit by inserting words such as are set out in the amendment I have proposed. 
     The amendment, I should point out, is a little confusing.  The words &ldquo;in the foregoing sub-section&rdquo; should read &ldquo;the words in the foregoing section.&rdquo; The intention of the amendment is perfectly clear and I think it would be well to make the position unambiguous in the interests of the railway company. 
     
      
       That explanation hardly gives the point of the amendment.  The point of the amendment is to make it clear that a railway company may at its own discretion single or close down any part of its lines.  That is the purpose of the amendment.  We have dealt in this legislation with certain railway lines for or towards the construction of which a free grant was made out of public moneys or were constructed under a statutory order whereby a presentment by a grand jury guaranteeing payment of dividends by the company constructing such line was confirmed.  In other words, we are dealing with the baronially guaranteed lines or of lines built out of public moneys.  This amendment goes further and says that this Part of the Bill about having power to close down or single a line should apply to every part of the company's lines and will sweep away every restriction on the railway company with regard to its main line.  I would like to have that   explained as the full effect of it because I think it is a point in which the traders generally would be interested. 
       The exact situation as I understand it is this, that a railway company has power to single its main lines.  It has also power to close down, subject to this, that it is tied down by certain port protection direction clauses, and also by a clause which provides that reasonable facilities must be given to the people in the area.  It may, however, get permission to close down a line on making application to the Railway Tribunal, if the Railway Tribunal, having heard representations in relation to the port protection clauses or in relation to the granting of reasonable facilities, decides that either singling or closing has to be allowed in the circumstances.  But this amendment would sweep away the necessity for coming before the Railway Tribunal and would allow the railway company to close any part of its lines or to single any part of its lines without adverting to the port protection clause obligation on them to grant reasonable facilities and to prove to the Railway Tribunal that it is nevertheless, though closing down part of its line, continuing to grant certain facilities.  This is an unreasonable amendment.  It would remove from the railway company the only obligation they are under at present to go before the Railway Tribunal and make their case with regard to singling or closing down, that the port protection side is being adverted to, and that reasonable facilities are afforded the public.  I do not think that that is a discretion to give the railway companies at all. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Sections 4 and 5 agreed to. 
       SECTION 6. 
     
     (2) In the case of every railway line to which this Part of this Act applies and over which no specified service of trains is required by the preceding sub-section of this section to be run, it shall, from and after the passing of this Act until otherwise provided by an order under this Part of this Act, be obligatory for the company owning such line to run over   such line a service of trains giving facilities for transport of passengers and merchandise not less in quantity or convenience than the facilities for such transport given by the service of trains run over the said line during the month of October, 1931. 
     
      
       I move amendment No. 4:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), page 3, line 22, to delete the word &ldquo;and,&rdquo; and in line 23 after the word &ldquo;merchandise&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;and mails.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 5:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2), page 3, line 25, after the word &ldquo;during&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;the last seven days of&rdquo; and to delete the word &ldquo;October&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;November.&rdquo; 
       We have had it represented to us that the time tables of the Great Southern Railways Company were altered in the month of November and we want this suggested amendment to meet that alteration. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that the last seven days of the month of November would probably be the period of the year in which the railway service would be at its lowest, when the number of trains run and other services provided would be at the very lowest point?  Is it intended that that should represent the limit of the company's obligations under the Act in respect of provision of services? 
     
     
      
       I am sure the Deputy has the scheme in his mind, and if he has he will see that the amendment is not unreasonable.  The scheme is this: Where there is an obligation to run a service, then we say in the first sub-section that all the services mentioned or required would have to be run.  It also says where services are not required by statute, we are imposing a new obligation, and we take a particular period.  It is right to say that that is a point at which the railway services will be at their lowest. That is so, but when we are imposing new services we do not think it is unreasonable.   The distinction between the services run in the period covered by the amendment and during the month of October is not very important. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 6, as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       On the Second Reading I raised the point about the Minister requiring the railway companies to run certain statutory services upon those baronial lines.  I tried to point out that if it were found uneconomic to run these statutory services and that alternative accommodation in some case by buses could be found equally useful for the service, and very much more economical, the Minister should be given power to sanction such alternatives.  I raised that point on the Second Reading.  Has the Minister agreed to it? 
     
     
      
       The scheme is really what the Deputy has outlined.  Section 6, taken by itself, gives a wrong impression of what the future will be.  Circumstances may stabilise.  We start off with obligatory statutory services; otherwise we start off with services actually in operation at a particular date.  Then we come to another service, and say that the order made might relieve the railway company from the obligation to run a particular service. 
     
     
      
       Will that include the statutory service on a baronially guaranteed line? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  Section 7 provides for that.  They are made obligatory for the first time in sub-section (1) of Section 7. 
       Section 6, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 7. 
     
     (1)  The Minister may, by order made on the application of a company owning a railway line to which this Part of this Act applies, relieve such company from any obligation imposed on such company by or under this Act of running a particular service of trains over such railway   line and, in lieu thereof, shall by such order impose on such company the obligation of running over such railway line the modified service of trains specified in such order. 
     (3)  Whenever the Minister makes an order under this section imposing on a company the obligation of running over a railway line owned by such company a modified or reduced service of trains, it shall, from and after the coming into operation of such order until otherwise provided by a subsequent order under this Part of this Act, be obligatory for such company to run over such railway line the modified or reduced service specified in such order. 
     
      
       I move amendment 6, which stands in the name of Deputy J.X. Murphy: 
       In sub-section (1), line 29, to delete the words &ldquo;by or under this Act&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;by statute, statutory order or statutory agreement.&rdquo; 
       This is a drafting amendment which seeks to relieve the company of statutory obligations imposed by the Bill. 
     
     
      
       That is consequential on a previous amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment No. 7: 
       In sub-section (3), page 3, lines 42 and 46, to delete the words &ldquo;or reduced&rdquo; where they occur in those lines. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 7, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 8. 
       (1)  The Minister may, by order made on the application of a company owning a railway line to which this Part of this Act applies, authorise such company to cease, as from the coming into operation of such order until otherwise provided by a subsequent order under this Part of this Act, to run any trains over such railway line. 
     
     (2)  The following provisions shall   have effect in relation to an order made under this section, that is to say&mdash; 
     (a)  the Minister shall not make such order unless he is satisfied that, having regard to the alternative transport facilities which are or will be available in the district served by the railway line to which such order relates, adequate transport facilities will be available to the public in such district notwithstanding the cesser of the running of trains over such railway line; 
     (b)  from and after the coming into operation of such order and unless or until such order is revoked by a subsequent order under this Part of this Act, it shall not be obligatory under this Act or otherwise for the company owning the railway line to which such order relates to run any trains on such railway line; 
     (c)  such order shall not relieve from or affect any liability of the company owning the railway line to which such order relates to maintain all bridges, level crossings, fences, drains, and other works constructed and maintained for the use, accommodation, or protection of the public generally or of any section of the public or of the owners or the occupiers of particular lands. 
     
      
       I move amendment 8: 
       In sub-section (2) to delete paragraph (a). 
       The object of this amendment is to relieve the company of what seems to be a hardship.  They cannot give up an unremunerative service unless they apparently establish an alternative service which may be itself a losing service. It seems to me to be from the frying pan into the fire.  Perhaps the Minister would look into it.  The condition is that the Minister shall not make any order until he is satisfied that the alternative transport available would be adequate transport.  That might throw it on the railway company itself to provide the alternative transport. 
     
     
      
       I have a very strong   objection to the amendment.  The scheme is that we stereotype certain services.  We allow applications to be made for modification or cesser of the services.  We say the Minister shall not make such order unless he is satisfied that there are adequate alternative transport facilities in the area. These alternative transport facilities may be provided by the railway company or by somebody else.  We think it would be wrong to allow the railway company to discontinue running a line on which public money has been spent and leave the district entirely unprovided for.  The hardship is only to be thought of in connection with an area where nobody will run any service but where there was previously public money spent on the building of a railway. I think these cases are not likely to occur.  The amendment would allow the railway company to close down such a line whether or not there were adequate transport facilities available for the people in the area. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 9: 
       In sub-section (2), page 4, to add at the end of the sub-section a new paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(d) from and after the coming into operation of such order and unless or until such order is revoked by a subsequent order under this Part of this Act, so much of section 47 of the Railway Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, as makes it obligatory on a railway company to employ proper persons to open and shut gates at a level crossing shall not apply to any level crossing on the railway line to which such order relates if and so long as all the gates of such level crossing are kept and secured in such position as to permit the free passage of road traffic across such line at such crossing.&rdquo; 
     
     This amendment is to make it clear that where a cesser order has been passed allowing a railway line to be closed, the railway company will not be under any obligation to employ a proper person to open and shut the gates at any level crossing to which   such order relates, if and so long as the gates of such level crossing are kept and secured in such a position as to permit of the free passage of road traffic.  In other words, if a railway company is allowed to close down a branch line they need not be obliged to keep people there to open and close the accommodation gates. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that &ldquo;adequate&rdquo; transport facilities are the only things that should be taken into account when he is determining whether an application to close some of these lines should be granted or not?  There might be adequate transport facilities that would be by no means as cheap as the facilities that were there.  It is impossible, for instance, that a road service from Tralee to Dingle would be as cheap as railway transport.  At least from what I have gathered with regard to that line it would be very hard to see how a road service could be run as cheaply.  As the section stands at present, all the Minister is required to take into account is whether adequate transport facilities will exist when the line has been closed.  There is to be no question as to whether these facilities will be less of a tax on the people or whether they will be a greater tax on the people than the railway was.  It seems to me in view of the talk we hear in this House as to the importance of keeping production costs low that there might be a great danger if a line is closed that the adequate transport facilities might be a great deal dearer than previously. 
     
     
      
       The point is the application of the word &ldquo;adequate.&rdquo; That is unless the Minister is satisfied. It is in the discretion of the Minister. I think the word &ldquo;adequate&rdquo; must relate to the cost and the frequency of the service to be given. Two items must be taken into consideration. I do not think at all that the service will have to be ruled out as being inadequate simply because it was dearer than the previous service. The previous service may have gone   out of existence because it was uneconomic and you cannot insist on having a new service given at a rate which the previous service had found to be unremunerative.  The whole thing will have to be balanced by the economics of the district.  The word is wide enough to cover the frequency of the service at the rate at which the service is to be given. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that the word &ldquo;adequate&rdquo; embraces these conditions? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       It is a very strained meaning for the word.  With regard to what the Minister further said that he could not be constrained against giving an order for the closing of a line by reason of the possibility of the rate being dearer, does not that create a new situation altogether with regard to the railways?  Would not that justify the proposal made by Deputy Alton that they should be entitled to close down a line no matter what the inconvenience to the public may be? Surely the big consideration with regard to whether any line will be closed or not is what it is going to mean to the public served by the line, whether it is to mean inconvenience and to greatly increase the costs, particularly to those producing in that area.  I am surprised to hear the Minister suggest that he would not necessarily be constrained by any possibility of dearer rates and bigger costs for carriage of goods prevailing in the district in consequence of such order being granted. 
     
     
      
       I have two observations to make.  One is that I object to Deputy Murphy's amendment moved by Deputy Alton on the grounds that this Bill gives the railway company discretion to close down a line.  It does not.  It gives that discretion to somebody else, to somebody not interested.  The railway company would be interested.  The amendment would give power to close whether the service is adequate or not.  That should not be left to the decision of the railway company.  I stand by what I have   said previously.  It is merely that because a service replacing a railway service is to cost more that it should not be ruled out.  That is the suggestion. Nobody can say because people in an area chanced to get a service which was proved to be economic that somebody is bound to continue that irrespective of the economics of the situation. 
     
     
      
       There is no question that the railway company before having such an order granted must prove that it was uneconomic to have to continue running it.  There is no provision there of that kind. 
     
     
      
       There is a provision that the Minister must be satisfied that the new service is adequate. 
       Section 8, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 9. 
       Amendments 10 and 11 on the Order Paper read: 
       10.  Before Section 9 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Whenever an order is made by the Minister under sections 7 and 8 of this Act and, as a result of such order, any employee or servant of the railway company which applied for such order becomes disemployed, such railway company shall pay to such employee or servant compensation at such rate and in such manner as the Minister may by order prescribe.&rdquo;&mdash;(Deputy Lemass.) 
       11.  Before section 9 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;Every existing officer or servant of a company owning a railway line, whose office or situation is abolished, or whose services become unnecessary, or whose remuneration or emoluments are reduced, or, who otherwise suffers any direct pecuniary loss as a result of an order made under sections 7 or 8 of this Act, shall be paid compensation for any such loss by the said company on the terms and in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the Third Schedule to the Railways Act, 1924, which, for the purposes of this section,   shall be deemed to be operative.&rdquo;&mdash;(Deputy Davin.) 
     
      
       My amendment is similar in purpose to amendment No. 11 in the name of Deputy Davin and perhaps they may be discussed together.  Personally I am not concerned which amendment is adopted if the principle embodied in both is translated into the Bill.  I think the Dail should decide that whenever an order is made by the Minister to close down a railway line, or to reduce the services which the railway company is required to maintain over part of its line, any employee or servant who loses his employment or whose remuneration is reduced in consequence of that order should be given compensation.  That is the principle contained in both amendments, and I think it is one that must commend itself to every member of the Dail. 
     
     For some time past there is probably no Deputy who has not had representations made to him by persons who were for a very long time in the service of the railway company, and whose services were recently dispensed with. They now find themselves, probably for the first time in their lives, without work and without the training that would facilitate them in getting work in any other branch of industry.  Not merely did a number of these people lose employment, but they did not secure what similar workers in other occupations would have been entitled to secure, benefit from the Unemployment Insurance Fund.  Railway workers were exempt from the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Acts on the ground that they were to be regarded as being in permanent employment and not liable to unemployment. When conditions changed and their services were dispensed with, they found themselves in the position that they had nothing whatever to fall back upon, except whatever assistance might be available out of the rates struck by local authorities for the purpose of providing home assistance.  If, as a result of the passage of this Bill, and of the operation of orders made by the Minister under it, an additional number of railway employees are to be   dispensed with, I think the Dail should take the attitude that the railway company which employed them should pay them compensation for the loss of that employment. 
     I think comment might be made on the different treatment which this Bill proposes should be meted out to the employees and servants of the company and to that proposed to be given to the redundant directors of the company. In one case workers have been dispensed with without compensation and with no unemployment insurance benefit.  What is to happen to them? In the other case a redundant director is to be allowed to hold office and to draw fees until he dies or retires, in which case the position he occupies will not be filled.  This consideration for directors is probably much less needed than a part of the same consideration would be by the workers. Most of these railway directors are people who have not got all their eggs in one basket.  If they cease to be directors of the company and to draw the fees attached to their directorships they would not have to starve.  They could fall back upon other sources of income.  The workers of the company have only one source of income, and when they lose that they are brought face to face with destitution. 
     I think that the Dail would be responsible for a great injustice if it allowed this Bill to pass without making the provision that Deputy Davin and I suggest, namely that the railway company which had the benefit of the services of these people should be required to compensate them in some way for their loss of employment when their services were no longer needed.  It may be said that the railway company are no longer in a prosperous condition.  We know that.  But that fact has not removed from them the obligation, which appears to us to rest upon them, to see that the men who have given them loyal and faithful service for a number of years should not be cast upon the scrap heap when, as a result of competition, or anything else, particular parts of the railway service have to be dropped.  I strongly urge that the amendment with these proposals be embodied in the   Bill before it passes through the House. I hope the Minister will favourably consider it and that the members of his Party will support it. 
     
      
       I suggest to Deputy Lemass that the amendment in my name more definitely prescribes the conditions under which compensation is to be paid than the wording in his amendment would suggest. 
     
     
      
       I will accept the Deputy's amendment. 
     
     
      
       The intention is certainly the same, and I hope the House will agree that if the Minister should be given power to close down branch lines of a company upon which servants have been employed from anything up to forty-five years it will also insist on the Minister making proper provision for the payment of compensation to those who will lose their employment as a result of such order. I think compensation for the loss of employment should be accepted by every Deputy who, as a result of the passing of legislation of this kind, takes responsibility for depriving citizens of their livelihood.  The Treaty made provision for the payment of pensions and compensation to civil servants and to those who served in the Royal Irish Constabulary up to the time the Treaty was accepted by the people.  Members of the Royal Irish Constabulary who resigned as a result of their national sympathies during the pre-Truce period also received, as the result of the Superannuation Act of 1923, pensions for having surrendered their employment in the interest of the country. 
     
     The House has also made provision for the payment of pensions and gratuities to soldiers and officers in the National Army who were disbanded after having served during a certain critical period.  The principle of the payment of compensation to those who lost their employment has been accepted by this House on many other occasions.  I think it is unnecessary for me to elaborate at great length the case that can be made for compensation for those who will undoubtedly lose their employment as a result of the operations of this section of this Bill.   Unless the Minister accepts the principle of this section and prescribes the conditions under which the payment can be made I intend to ask the House to divide on the issue. 
     
      
       While one has a very considerable amount of sympathy with those whom Deputy Davin and Deputy Lemass have spoken for, we cannot let that sympathy carry us too far.  In connection with railways it has to be pointed out that alternative methods of transport have grown up.  Transport by road, and in some cases by sea, is a cheaper alternative.  Except we can get the railways to adapt themselves in some way to compete with these alternative services, bad as their condition is at the moment, it will be very much worse in the near future. When considering a matter of this kind we must remember that we are dealing with a very difficult problem. Our biggest industry is agriculture, a very large proportion of the product of which is sold in other countries.  The welfare of that industry depends very largely, if not entirely, on its ability to compete against all comers in the great markets of the adjoining country.  It is essential in the interests of the industry that we should have cheap transport.  Nobody who studied the question will disagree with that. Cheap transport is essential to the welfare of the industry.  If, by reason of certain factors that have arisen in connection with transport, the railways are unable to lighten their burden, and in that way to discharge their obligations, they are going to be wiped out altogether.  In other words, if it is too expensive to carry the produce over the railways then that produce will be forced over the roads.  Alternative cheaper methods would be adopted, and the railways left high and dry.  Have Deputies considered what the situation will be in that case? 
     
     Supposing the railways are forced into the position that they have to liquidate, what condition would they be in?  Is that going to meet the situation? It is not at all an unlikely contingency. In debating this proposal we are going to take a step that will neither help the industry by which this   country is very largely maintained nor will it be to the interest of the workers concerned, because if the railways are forced into this position not alone will the people at present employed be thrown out of employment but a great many with contracts&mdash;I mean those with pensions&mdash;may find that under the altered circumstances the pensions may not be forthcoming.  These are all problems that arise out of proposals of this kind.  I would ask the Minister before he considers adding to the burden of the railways, to visualise what the possible alternatives to that policy are. 
     
      
       There are a few points of view definitely in conflict in this matter.  They have been stated by Deputy Lemass, Deputy Davin and also by Deputy Good.  I share to a great extent Deputy Good's views on this matter.  In a great many instances I think the railway company will see fit to pay compensation.  I object to putting it on them as an obligation. At any rate, I hope they will see their way where the service is not remunerative to any great degree, but not entirely unremunerative, and where they have substituted a more or less remunerative bus service, to carry the cost of compensation on that service if it is not too high.  There are branch lines which have been beaten by other methods of transport and become definitely obsolete.  I hold that the carrying of any of these amendments would mean that the branch lines would not be closed.  I think it would be better business for the railway company to keep on an unremunerative branch line rather than to close it and to run bus services in which they will not get much profit and have to carry on their backs the burden of compensation for people put out of employment. The district, to a certain extent, will bear the cost of compensation. The railway company will be providing in the main the alternative road services, and it will be for them to take it out of the transport users in the area.  Alternatively if they do not do that, and Deputy Lemass thought it should not happen, the railway company will say they will carry the burden of compensation not on the areas   served by the alternative bus service but on the main lines.  The main lines are sufficiently weak economically without an extra burden, and if the main system crashes through, all this heavy burden having been thrown on them, the railway workers as a whole are going to be in a worse position. We had that exemplified by what occurred in County Donegal, where a railway system was forced out of commission. 
       There was no attempt made there to get away from the rigid conditions of service of the railway workers, no attempt to spread the burden.  The result was the railway had to close down and when it reopened it only took on about 50 per cent. of the people who had formerly been employed. If we insist on making the railway companies carry on these unremunerative branch lines the position of railway workers will not be any better, but much worse than at the moment.  Deputy Lemass referred to the directors.  The directors, of course, are in an entirely different position.  First of all, we do not insist on any payments being made to the directors.  Casual vacancies may be brought about in different ways.  We do not insist on directors being retained above the minimum number. The shareholders are the proprietors of the business at the moment and if they insist on a lesser number of directors being employed we would be quite willing to meet them.  We are not imposing any obligation and the position is not at all analogous to that of Civil Servants under the Treaty. What happened there was a completely new situation came about.  The ordinary run of life for these people was interrupted and it was felt that some advertence should be paid to that fact and that compensation should be paid to them. 
     
     The question of amalgamation was an entirely different thing too.  There was definite State action bringing about the amalgamation and bringing it about on the basis that the railways, when amalgamated, were going to be in a much stronger position financially, that they were going to have the way made easy to them to effect certain   economies and that the second situation was going to be much better than the former one.  In these circumstances, where the State was bringing about the dismissal of certain people and the railway company were being put in a better position to bear the burden, it was equitable that this burden should be put upon them. What has happened here is that competition has forced a lot of branch lines to close down.  We say that an order may be got to close down a branch line, but only after a public inquiry, and where the circumstances show that the railway service has in fact become obsolete, that it has been wiped out by a better service in competition with it. 
     
      
       What will be the position of the men who were dismissed in case the line is re-opened? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must realise that if at all it will be very rarely that a line once closed will be ever re-opened.  We have to take certain precautionary measures in regard to the outside chance of a railway line once closed being restored.  If a railway line is closed down the possibility of its ever being re-opened is very small indeed. 
     
     
      
       So that this is a railway closing down Bill. 
     
     
      
       It is a Bill which will enable, after public inquiry and consideration of all the circumstances, the closing down of a certain number of unremunerative branch lines. 
     
     
      
       We know what you mean now all right. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Deputy does yet. 
     
     
      
       What does Section 9 mean? 
     
     
      
       The section is plain. After an inquiry an order may be granted, but the line has to be kept in reserve.  That is, I think, a little bit away from this amendment. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy forgets that if the company does not earn a dividend it will close itself. 
     
     
     
      
       That is the point I have been making.  I want the Deputy to advert to what he is doing in this amendment.  &ldquo;Whenever an order is made by the Minister under Sections 7 and 8,&rdquo; is the phrase used by Deputy Lemass.  Deputy Davin's phrase, although vaguer, brings in these lines on which there is no obligation to run any service.  We say that if any man is put out of work or adversely affected in any way by a closing order then compensation has to be paid, but on the main line compensation has not to be paid.  The terms of the Amalgamation Act were clearly that compensation would only be paid to such people as could prove that the change in their circumstances, whether it was dismissal, reduced pay, worse hours or anything like that, was directly due to amalgamation, but no compensation would be payable where the change was brought about by competition. This is looking to competition which has made certain types of lines obsolete.  After public inquiry and after getting the views of the people of the locality the Minister is going to make an order closing down a certain line.  Notwithstanding all that, the contention is that there has to be compensation paid, although the same railway company, if it comes before the Railways Tribunal, either for the singling of the line, which may lay off a certain number of men from the maintenance point of view, or the closing down of a line if they can prove they are still giving reasonable facilities, can then close down the line and the men who are thrown out of employment are not to be given any compensation.  That surely is a very big defect in the whole scheme.  It goes to the root of the whole thing.  I do not think that any Deputy in this House is going to go to the extent of saying that any man who goes out of employment, whether his disemployment is due to amalgamation or competition, ought to be compensated. That is the effect of this amendment. 
     
     
      
       To a large extent, is it not true that the railway company is competing with itself? 
     
     
      
       It may be, but it   does not necessarily follow that it will be.  Somebody may come along and give what is considered to be an adequate service.  The position is that Deputies want to stereotype the railway personnel at the point it is at at the moment, and to say that any man who goes off from this time has to be compensated.  You may persuade a certain number of people to vote for that, but to my mind you are going to bring about the County Donegal conditions all over again.  The railway company may have to close down, and when they re-open they will re-open with 50 per cent. of the employees. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister whether the men who were dismissed from the different workshops recently are entitled to compensation. 
     
     
      
       May I point out to the Minister that there is more in this matter than what he has actually outlined? It is not the case of a railway branch line being closed down owing to competition.  Power will be vested in the railway company to run an alternative system&mdash;for instance, a passenger bus service.  In other words, it means that, although the passenger traffic is up to normal, the company will be allowed to close down a particular line and substitute for it a bus service, with the result that many railway employees, some of them having long service, are going to be rendered redundant and thrown out of work.  Where a branch line is going to be closed down we do not find any directors being rendered redundant because of that fact.  It might be said that the directors had invested their money, but the railway employees have invested their lives in the business. It is their livelihood.  If a branch line closes down and the company opens a bus service, the Minister should make a stipulation that no man will be dismissed until such time as a vacancy occurs in the road service, so that he can be absorbed.  The company should not be entitled to get rid of their employees and to bring in new men to run bus services in a cheaper way.  They should agree to some stipulation that will safeguard the railway employees who may be rendered   redundant.  It is not a question of competition, but of an alternative service being run by the railway company. Their passenger service may be up to normal. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Bourke inquired as to whether men who had been dismissed from workshops were entitled to compensation.  The workshop men in the conditions he speaks of would not be entitled to compensation. 
     
     
      
       Up to twelve months ago such men were compensated by way of pension.  I think it is very hard now that men who have given from 20 to 50 years' service should be thrown on the rates.  The Minister should consider the position of the wives and children of these unfortunate men. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Cassidy made one point which is entirely new. He asked that where men are put out of employment by reason of the closing down of a branch line, in special circumstances, I should see that these people would get the first chance of employment.  He goes further and says that no man should be put off the line until a vacancy would occur in the road service.  That clearly could not be carried out.  This part of the Bill looks to the baronially guaranteed lines.  It also looks to lines not baronially guaranteed which have a statutory obligation on them to run a service.  It also looks to other lines on which we impose for the first time an obligation to run a service.  I am making a discrimination in regard to baronially guaranteed lines, where by previous statute compulsion was put on the railway company to run services.  In those circumstances, where the railway company becomes the proprietor of the alternative road transport service, I would certainly make it my business to see that as many men as possible of the branch line services would be put into employment, but that is the most I could do.  One has got to bear in mind that quite a number of these men will not be capable of taking up service on the road section.  I imagine that will be the case.  If so, it would be almost impossible to insist that these men should get employment.  I certainly   would indicate this point of view.  I would approach the railway company in the circumstances I have mentioned with a view to getting them to act in the most sympathetic way towards these men, but I would not put it upon the railway companies as an obligation that they should either employ these people or pay them compensation. 
     
     
      
       May I point out that a similar promise was not fulfilled in the case of the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway?  I would press the Minister to go further and say that where a railway line is closed down owing to the running of an alternative service, the men should be paid adequate compensation for the years of their lives that they have invested in the railway company. 
     
     
      
       I do not see any great probability of a line being closed down in the circumstances to which the Deputy referred.  If the local inquiry does not show that there is a falling off in the passenger receipts I do not see any case for a closing order being made at all. 
     
     
      
       What about the Lough Swilly Railway Company?  That is a parallel case. 
     
     
      
       On the Londonderry and Lough Swilly line, the passenger receipts had fallen to a vanishing point. 
     
     
      
       The Company are operating an alternative road service. 
     
     
      
       If I had given a guarantee like what I have given here I probably would have made certain representations to them.  The conditions the Deputy spoke of did not hold up there.  The passenger receipts had not merely fallen, but they had almost disappeared entirely.  I repeat what I said about the conditions on a baronially guaranteed branch line; where the railway company becomes the owner of the alternative road transport service then I would put it to them that they should employ as many as possible of the men who are being put out of work.  I certainly think that would be a consideration that they should advert to. 
     
     
     
      
       Could not the Minister make representations in regard to those already unemployed on the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway? 
     
     
      
       I do not mind looking into that again. 
     
     
      
       Are we to expect the same results from this guarantee as we got in the case of the Cork Tramway Company? The position is that the railway companies have a large number of employees who have given from 20 to 30 years' service.  They are under a certain obligation to these employees. Perhaps in ten years they would be obliged to pension them.  In order to get rid of their obligations now they are going to turn around and run alternative bus services.  They can put in young men and thus get rid of their unfortunate employees without compensation.  We heard any amount of lip sympathy in connection with the Cork tramwaymen.  They were to be absorbed in the bus service, but they are not absorbed yet.  They are still walking the streets of Cork unemployed, owing directly to legislation brought in here by the Minister. 
       We are going to be faced with the same position in regard to the railwaymen. If they are not going to be a burden on the railway company they are going to be a burden on the farming community, who will have to provide home assistance for them.  The company can afford to pay off their directors very well after giving one or two years' service, and they can afford to pension off their higher officials, but when it comes to the ordinary employees they will allow them to become a burden on the State.  Now is the time to see that these people do not become a burden on the State. We have before us what happened in Cork in the case of the change over from the tramway system to the motorbus system.  I think now is the time to see that the railway company are compelled to stand up to their obligation. 
     
     
      
       The Minister, in opposing this amendment, has let the cat out of the bag.  He has made it quite clear now that any branch line that   will be closed down as a result of orders which may be made by him under certain sections of this Bill will be closed down never to re-open.  What is going to happen in most of the cases where these branch lines will be closed down?  The railwaymen with service up to about 45 years in some cases will be replaced by the bus service people.  I would like to ask the Minister&mdash;and I hope he will answer before this matter is finally disposed of&mdash;what branch lines he has in mind as having certain claims to be closed down if and when he gets the powers asked for in this Bill?  Where these branch lines are likely to be closed down will he say whether the bus service which will have to provide an alternative service for the travelling public is controlled alone by the Irish Omnibus Company, which has been purchased out of revenue provided by the railway companies' shareholders? 
       The Minister talked about the difference in the position now and when the Railways Act came into operation in 1924, and the prosperous position which the company was in at that particular period as compared with the financial position it now occupies. Would the Minister, for the same reasons in the case of the State, or would Deputy Good for the same reasons, say that because the Minister for Finance has not been able to balance his Budget that the pensions that the Royal Irish Constabulary or civil servants received under the Treaty should be reduced or cancelled?  If there is a reason why the railway company should be allowed to get out of their obligations because as a result of mismanagement they are not able to meet them, then there is the same case for the cancellation or reduction of pensions, because the Minister for Finance is not able to balance his Budget. 
     
     
      
       The State does not get its income from competition in trade. 
     
     
      
       The competition which has led up to the closing of these branch lines is due to the fact that the Minister allowed uncontrolled road services to compete under conditions laid down by themselves.  Can the Minister,   for instance, visualise a time when the ratepayers of a locality may say that they are not going to pay for the damage to those roads?  Can he visualise a time when the services themselves will become uneconomic and when it may be desirable to have the branch line reopened?  I think he has been advised by somebody in this case who has got the road mind on the subject.   We will put this amendment to a vote of the House and let Deputies afterwards go back to their constituents, including the railwaymen, and give their reasons for their attitude on it. 
       [ An Ceann Comhairle took the Chair. ] 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 54; Nil, 63. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clancy, Patrick. Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. 
             Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Harris, Thomas. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Lemass, Sean F. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave, William T. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John.
 Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Rice, Vincent.
 White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Davin and G. Boland; Nil: Deputies Conlon and P. S. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       I beg to move amendment 12:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;In sub-section (2) to delete paragraph (b).&rdquo; 
       I do not think the Minister should be given the power which he seeks in paragraph (b).  In view of the speech he made in opposing the previous amendment I can now quite understand the mind that lies behind this whole section.  The Minister practically admitted in that speech that he cannot see any set of circumstances which would justify the re-opening of a line closed down.  Notwithstanding that he asks the House to give him the window-dressing powers conferred by this section. 
       Can the Minister not visualise a position when, as a result of the cutting up of roads, protests made by the ratepayers and the possibility of the alternative road service becoming unsafe and uneconomic, he might be compelled to re-open a line which had been closed down by order following an inquiry?  Is it not possible that the further increase in the petrol duty imposed by the Minister for Finance may mean that the road services will become uneconomic and the people running the alternative road service will be forced out of existence?  I do not like the wording of the sub-section, particularly in view of the Minister's speech on a previous amendment. I ask the House to accept this proposal for the deletion of the paragraph. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy apparently has not understood my speech on this section.  I said I could hardly visualise circumstances in which a railway company would have to re-open a branch line once it was closed. I say that again.  Nevertheless, this section is not mere window-dressing. Suppose a railway company gets an order to cease running a particular service on the grounds that they are going to establish an adequate alternative service.  Suppose afterwards they decide that they are not going to continue this previously judged adequate service.  What power have we to make them continue this service unless what is in this section? 
       I hold that the section will not be put into operation, but at the same time I hold the threat of it is necessary. The Deputy who wants these branch lines re-opened is now moving to take away from the section the only part of it that is really valuable.  If we cut out paragraph (b) what will the section mean? 
       The following provisions shall have effect in relation to the making of revocation orders under this section, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  the Minister shall not make a revocation order without giving notice of his intention to make such order to the company affected by the original order intended to be thereby revoked and affording such company an opportunity of making representations to him in regard to such intended revocation order. 
       Notice is given to the company affected and the company gets an opportunity of making representations.  The Deputy now moves to cut out paragraph (b) and, if that is cut out, the section will then be completed with paragraph (c), which says:&mdash; 
       a revocation order shall operate to revive and reinstate every obligation imposed by this Part of this Act or an order thereunder which was in operation immediately before the making of the original order and was expressly or impliedly relieved against or removed by such original order. 
     
     
     
      
       I suggest the Minister should accept the amendment.  The Minister says he can envisage a situation in which the railway company will provide an alternative service, namely, a bus service, if a branch line be closed down.  He cannot visualise a situation in which the company would ask to re-open the line.  I will submit one example to the Dail.  The Great Northern Railway Company have, during the last few years, been running a bus service.  Having run the bus service for a considerable time, they found last year that on that bus service they lost approximately £12,000 or £13,000. They found that as far as the road services were concerned they were uneconomic. Let us say that the company decides to close down a certain section of the line.  If the Great Northern Railway Company were to continue the road service for a number of years at a loss they might find it necessary to reopen a branch line that at another time they considered it advisable to close. 
       I can foresee the very same thing occurring so far as the Great Southern Railways are concerned.  It is quite possible that they would consider a road service more economic for a particular route, not perhaps because of a falling off of traffic, but for general reasons and, after running that bus service for a period, they might then consider it necessary to make an application in order to take the buses off the road and re-open the railway line.  If the Minister gives this matter more serious thought I think he will see that there is quite a lot of sense and reasonableness in it. 
     
     
      
       If the section goes through as it stands it will not be possible, in my opinion, for the Minister to make a revocation order which the railway company may ask for unless this position has been created, that the alternative transport facilities have ceased to be available. If the railway company making the original application and obtaining an order closing the line provide alternative transport services and if, after a time, they decide upon a change of policy&mdash;if they decide to get back to the original position, re-open   the line and cease running the alternative service&mdash;if this sub-section remains the Minister cannot make a cancellation order. 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       The Minister cannot make such an order unless, by reason of the alternative services having ceased to be available, there are not adequate transport facilities in the district. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy envisages circumstances in which the railway company will keep on an uneconomic service. 
     
     
      
       I am envisaging circumstances in which the railway company may decide to get back to the original position, re-open the line and drop the road service.  They will ask the Minister for an order permitting them to do that.  The Minister could not give them that order unless they take up this attitude, that they stop the road service and, for a period, leave the district without transport facilities. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has made the point that under the section I cannot revoke an order, but that does not finish the railway company.  The railway company can reinstitute a service without a revocation order being given by me.  They have not to get permission from me to reopen the line. I want to limit the enforcement of an obligation on them to resume rail services on a particular line.  I do not want to do that except the alternative road service which they have provided has ceased to the point of not being, to my mind, an alternative service.  I consider I should then have the power to say to the railway company: &ldquo;If you do not continue to run a road service that is adequate to the needs of the community, I will insist on you resuming the rail service," and the only way is by a revocation order.  If the company want to do it they can. 
     
     
      
       In that case I would like to go back to amendment 9.  I can see difficulties arising in that connection because we agree that where this order is made permitting the railway   company to cease running the service the company is exempted from certain obligations in regard, for instance, to the employment of men at accommodation crossings.  The position now apparently is that the railway company can run trains upon that line, even if an order is made, but yet they are exempted from these obligations. 
     
     
      
       Let us say the railway company want to resume a service. They have already got the cesser order and they have been relieved of the obligation of having these men at accommodation crossings.  The Deputy envisages the situation when they want to resume, but do not want men at accommodation crossings.  How often is that likely to arise? 
       Amendment put, and declared lost. 
       Section 9 agreed to. 
       SECTION 10. 
       Amendment 13: To delete sub-section (3)&mdash;(Deputy J.X. Murphy). 
     
     
      
       This amendment seems to me to be out of order. The effect of it would be to put a charge on public funds. 
     
     
      
       If I may, I would propose to delete the section. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can vote against the section. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 10 stand part of the Bill." 
     
     
      
       On the section, I think the word "may" in the third line of sub-section (1) should be deleted and the word "shall" substituted.  An application is made to the Minister to close down a railway line on the grounds that alternative transport facilities are available.  In such a case a public inquiry should be held for the purpose of getting the views of local traders and others affected by the closing down of the line.  I hold it is important that their views concerning the adequacy of the alternative service should be obtained.  Under the section as it stands it is optional with the Minister to say whether a   public inquiry shall be held.  I do not think it should be optional.  I think it should be compulsory, in every case where it is proposed to make an order closing down a railway line, that a public inquiry be held before which traders and others interested could make representations. 
     
     
      
       There was no amendment put forward proposing to substitute the word "shall" for &ldquo;may.&rdquo;  Had such an amendment been proposed I would have opposed it.  I think a certain amount of discretion ought to be allowed.  In the main, I think circumstances will compel the Minister to hold an inquiry in the case of any important application.  I think that a certain discretion ought to be given. 
     
     
      
       With regard to sub-section (3) I would like to know from the Minister what sort of a public inquiry he contemplates should be held. Will it be of such a character as to cause a good deal of expense?  It seems to me that such an inquiry may be very expensive if witnesses representing various interests are to be summoned on both sides.  It would be rather hard on a railway company when it makes an application for a cesser order that it should have to bear the cost of a public inquiry.  I do not think that such a burden should be placed on it. I would like to know from the Minister if he proposes to have an inquiry in every case. 
     
     
      
       Very nearly. 
     
     
      
       In such circumstances is it possible that the Minister for Finance would ever give his sanction to the proposal that the State should bear the cost of the inquiry instead of the railway company?  It seems to me to be rather hard that this extra expense should be placed on the railway company. 
     
     
      
       In support of what Deputy Alton has said, it appears to me that sub-section (3) on the face of it is manifestly unfair.  Even if the railway company proves its case the Minister is taking power under the sub-section to say that it shall have to bear the cost of the inquiry.  To me that   does not seem fair.  Even though you are dealing with a railway company they are surely entitled to a little fair play.  To make them pay in a case like this does not seem to me to be playing the game.  The sub-section contains a principle which is without precedent. It is one that I hold ought not to be accepted by the Minister, and I think the sub-section ought to be deleted. 
     
     
      
       The purpose of the sub-section is to relieve the railway company of an obligation that they represent is becoming too onerous for them.  Under the sub-section relief will be sought by the railway company and the relief, if granted, will be entirely to the benefit of the railway company. There are certain phrases in the sub-section which are intended to meet exceptional cases.  It is provided that the Minister for Finance may &ldquo;otherwise direct.&rdquo; It is clear that the Minister for Finance can only otherwise direct in this sense, that he will bear the cost of this from State funds.  Under a later sub-section the person holding a public inquiry may order the costs incurred by certain people to be paid by certain other people.  There is a certain amount of power given to meet exceptional circumstances, but in the main the relief will be given to the railway company and they ought to pay.  I should say that the expenses will be very small, unless action is taken on the part of the railway company in the sense of bringing a big number of people, thereby making the expenses heavy.  In the main, as I have said, the expenses will be low, although I believe that in the majority of cases an inquiry will be held. 
       Section put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 11. 
       In this Part of the Act&mdash; the word "director" does not include a director nominated under the Railways (Directorate) Act, 1924 (No. 61 of 1924). 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 14:&mdash; 
       To delete lines 12 and 13. 
     
     I regard this amendment as a very important one.  The Railways (Directorate)   Act of 1924 gave the right to an English railway company, the L.M.S., to appoint a director on the Board of the Great Southern Railways. When that Bill was introduced here it was very strongly opposed at the time by the Labour Party.  In their opposition they had the support of the present Minister for Local Government, the Parliamentary Secretary for Posts and Telegraphs, of Deputy Esmonde, Deputy Gorey and other members of the House. 
     
      
       Were there any defections from the Deputy's own ranks? 
     
     
      
       Such things do occur occasionally, but members get sense. When introducing the Bill the point was made by the Minister that it was brought forward in order to implement some kind of an agreement or contract that had been reached between the L.M.S. and the Board of the Great Southern Railways.  It appeared there was some outstanding arrangement between the L.M.S. and the old Dublin South Eastern Railway Company under was some concession which they which they lent £100,000 to the Dublin South Eastern Railway Co., and there was some concession which they claimed to be worth £20,000.  At any rate, it was variously estimated at £10,000, £15,000, or £20,000, and because of that they had the right to nominate a director on the Board of the Dublin South Eastern Railway Company.  That was some private arrangement they had between themselves. 
     
     The Minister came here in 1924 and got a special Act passed empowering this English railway company to have a director on the Board of the Great Southern Railways.  At the time the Minister scoffed at the idea that this director, who would be one in fifteen. would be able to exert any great influence on the policy of the Irish railways.  That Bill was opposed at the time from the point of view of the national status of the country.  It was opposed also on the grounds that, as a matter of fact, there would be interference, and very great interference, in matters of policy by the particular director who, as was known at the   time, was going to be appointed. The idea was scoffed at then, but the events of the past seven years have borne out to the fullest what was said by the opponents of the measure in regard to what was going to happen. It is known now, and perhaps best of all to the Minister himself, that the representative of the L.M.S. who is now director on the Board of the Great Southern Railways, has exercised a great influence.  To borrow the terminology of Deputy Seamus Bourke, he has exercised a malign and potent influence on the affairs of the Great Southern Railway.  That is common knowledge amongst people who are acquainted with railway affairs.  Some of those who spoke in favour of the Bill at the time said &ldquo;Oh, this particular director will be there only for the purpose of looking after the interests of the L.M.S.&rdquo; But that has not been so.  The particular person appointed to that position has been most active in the management of the affairs of the company&mdash;in creating trouble, as Deputy Corish reminds me&mdash;and in directing the policy of the company. When the company acquired indirectly the I.O.C. bus company, this particular gentleman was made chairman of that company.  We know what one of the developments was in regard to that company, and how at length he was compelled to retire from the chairmanship of it.  Now, when they have acquired another carrying company, this gentleman is again made chairman of it, and in addition to the £7,000 a year pension which he has from his own company he gets £14,000 a year as chairman of this company. 
     
      
       £14,000 a year? 
     
     
      
       Did I say £14,000? I should have said £1,400.  My slip, I think, is excusable when I remind the House that this particular gentleman is one who thinks in thousands. Very grave objection was taken to his appointment at the time.  As I mentioned already there was only the question of something like £100,000 capital involved out of the total capital of £25,000,000 or £26,000,000 invested in the Irish railways.  Objection   was taken that he should be appointed as one of the fifteen directors.  Now we are told that the number of directors is going to be reduced, that eventually the number will be eight.  But this particular director will still continue to hold office.  That is why I am moving to have the two lines in the section deleted.  They are put in to say that no matter what director may be interfered with, this particular representative of this English railway company will not be interfered with. Even if a vacancy happens to be created in his case, this company would still have the right to appoint a representative. 
       Whatever case may have been made in 1924, and we do not agree that there was any justification in 1924, there is none now.  This railway company, after doing its best to prevent the amalgamation of the railway companies here, practically held a pistol to the Minister's head at the time and threatened that they would seek to recover their £100,000 if they did not get this particular concession.  It appears that they got this privilege. I believe, and those specially acquainted with railway conditions believe, that the £20,000 they were supposed to get out of the agreement cannot be recovered now because it was based on an arrangement about traffic receipts which have largely disappeared.  I can see no justification for continuing this arrangement and making this man's position absolutely secure.  No matter how the directorate may be reduced, this representative is going to continue and his power is going to increase, because whereas before he was one in fifteen he is now going to be one in eight. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is arguing not against the principle of the Railway Directorate Act at all but against an individual.  You have to take into consideration the other side of the bargain.  There was an arrangement made and the Railway Directorate Act was in the way of implementing that particular agreement. If that is broken it means that the Great Southern Railway Company   will have to pay back this £100,000 plus arrears of interest accumulated since 1906, and in addition they will lose what they estimate is worth £20,000. I do not think it fair to put that burden on them in the present circumstances. There is one man out of a Board of nine.  I do not think that person is going to be so full of power as the Deputy imagines.  I think any speeches made on that point would be more of criticism of the other directors.  The way to amend it is to attend to it through the directorate. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy O'Connell has put up an irrefutable case as to why his amendment should be carried.  As Deputy O'Connell has pointed out, the London and North Western Railway, now merged in the London, Midland and Scottish, lent £100,000 to the Dublin and South Eastern Railway Company.  That money was lent in the ordinary way. They were supposed to pay interest.  As Deputy O'Connell suggested there is no justification as to why the London, Midland and Scottish Railway Company should have a director on the Great Southern Railway Company.  It might be pointed out, in so far as that £100,000 is concerned, it is only altogether one two hundred and sixtieth of the total capital of the Great Southern Railway, which is approximately £26,000,000.  Nevertheless they have one out of fifteen on the Board of Directors.  However, if this Bill is passed as the Minister lays it down it means that they will have a stronger representation than hitherto. 
     
     It was pointed out by the Minister that the particular director he had nominated would only hold a watching brief on behalf of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway, but I think the Minister realises to-night that not alone does he hold a watching brief, but he is actually dominating the whole situation as far as the Great Southern Railway Company is concerned. He is there purely and simply to look after the interests of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway. He is drawing a pension from the London, Midland and Scottish  Railway of £7,000 per annum; in addition he has £1,400 as chairman   of Wallace's, with which he was connected. In addition to that he has £800 a year as director of the Great Southern Railway Company.  I would point out to the Minister that he is not there in the interests of the Great Southern Railway or of the trading and travelling public.  He is there to manipulate the through rates and to look after the railway company of which he was general manager. 
     I suggest, seeing that amalgamation has been agreed upon, that the directors should be men who have the interests of the shareholders and the employees of the Great Southern Railways at heart and not a director whose principal aim and object is to manipulate things not in the interests of the shareholders and employees, but in the interests of a foreign railway company. 
     
      
       The Minister has suggested that I was opposed to the principle of the Railway Directorate Act. 
     
     
      
       No, that your argument had not been in fact directed against it, but only against an individual. 
     
     
      
       The principle is as unsound to-day as it was in 1924, but I did point out that it was prophesied in 1924 what was likely to happen.  I was pointing out in fact what did happen. Now the Minister has put up as his principal argument that the railway company would have to pay that sum. Is he so sure of that?  A demand may be made on them for this £100,000. That is the plot that is being worked and the pistol held at the head of the railway company and the Minister.  We do not know exactly what were the exact terms on which this £100,000 was given, but there is very good reason to believe that it would be affected in some way by the change which has come about since the money was lent.  In any case this concession, which was valued at from £15,000 to £20,000, would undoubtedly be affected by the loss in traffic.  Surely it is not of that value to the Great Southern Railway now? 
     
     
        It is clear to me in any case that the London, Midland and Scottish are anxious to have this particular representative here to influence railway policy here in the interests of an insurance company.  On that principle alone I think it is wrong.  I think that it might be well worth while for the country to pay back the £100,000 to get rid of that influence.  We know what that influence has meant in the past to the development of railway affairs in this country.  It has always been in the interests of imports rather than developing the internal carrying trade.  It might be well worth getting rid of that director and facing the problem of having to pay back whatever   it might be decided would be the just thing to pay back in these circumstances. I do not think the suggestion that that burden might be put on the railway company is a sufficient justification for the continuance of a representative of an English company on our board of directors here.  I am still strongly opposed to it, especially as under this Act we are giving the representative a greater power proportionately than he had under the old arrangement. 
     Question put: &ldquo;That the words proposed to be deleted stand.&rdquo; 
     The Committee divided: Ta, 63; Nil, 52. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brennan, Michael. Brodrick, Sean. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cosgrave William T. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Good, John. Gorey, Denis J. Hassett, John J. Heffernan, Michael R. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Jordan, Michael. Kelly, Patrick Michael. Keogh, Myles. 
             Law, Hugh Alexander. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. MacEoin, Sean. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Nally, Martin Michael. Nolan, John Thomas. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Higgins, Thomas. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Reilly, John J. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Redmond, William Archer. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, John. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. Wolfe, Jasper Travers.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Carty, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Clancy, Patrick.
 Goulding, John. Harris, Thomas. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kent, William R. Killilea, Mark. Lemass, Sean F. Moore, Seamus. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. 
             Clery, Michael. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Geoghegan, James. Gorry, Patrick J.
 O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Kelly, Sean T. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies P.S. Doyle and Conlon; Nil: Deputies Cassidy and G. Boland. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Section put and agreed to. 
     Section 12 agreed to. 
     SECTION 13. 
     (1)  If the number of directors of the company at the passing of this Act is more than eight, then, notwithstanding anything in the scheme or in Part II of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act, the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  the legal number of directors shall be and, until reduced by the operation of the next following paragraph, continue to be a number equal to the number of directors of the company at the passing of this Act and no greater number; and 
     (b)  until the legal number of directors is by the operation of this paragraph reduced to eight, the legal number of directors shall, whenever and so often as a casual vacancy occurs amongst the directors, be reduced by one and accordingly such casual vacancy shall not be filled; 
     (c)  as on and from the date on which the legal number of directors is, by the operation of the next foregoing paragraph of this sub-section, reduced to eight, the legal number of directors shall be eight and no greater number. 
     (2)  If the number of directors of the company at the passing of this Act is not more than eight, then, not withstanding anything in the scheme or in Part II of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act, the legal number of directors shall be eight and no greater number. 
     (3)  Paragraph (5) of Section 34 of the scheme shall cease to have effect. 
     
      
       I move amendment 15: 
       Before Section 13 to insert the following new section:&mdash; 
       On and after the date of the passing of this Act the legal number of directors of the company shall, notwithstanding anything in the scheme or in Part II of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act be eight and no greater number. 
       The purpose of the amendment is to effect a reduction in the number of directors of the Great Southern Railways to eight, instead of doing it in the manner suggested by the Minister, that casual vacancies which arise from time to time should not be filled until, over a number of years, the desired reduction has been achieved.  I propose, instead of this elaborate procedure which the Minister suggests that we should enact that as and from the passing of this Act the number of directors shall be eight and no more than eight.  It seems to me that that is the proper procedure to adopt, and as it corresponds with the procedure adopted in the case of the ordinary railway workers, I do not see why any special privileges should be given to directors. 
     
     
      
       The only point I have to make is that the conditions applicable to directors are not conditions applicable to workers.  The directors can be kept on by the shareholders. It is a matter for the shareholders whether they will reduce this number by degrees.  Deputy Davin, if he were here, would tell the Deputy   that quite a number of these directors are aged men&mdash;he thinks too aged&mdash; and that their term of office is not likely to be very long. 
     
     
      
       It is not correct to say that the railway company can retain a greater number of directors than eight, after the number has reached eight. The Minister proposes that the number shall be eight and know greater number after the eight has been reached by the process of retirement or elimination of some other kind over a number of years.  I see no reason why this method should be adopted, or why we should not enact now that the railway company shall have eight directors and no more.  Let them decide amongst themselves who the eight directors are to be. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy J. X. Murphy I move amendment 16: 
       In sub-section (1) (c), line 39, to delete the words &ldquo;eight and no greater number&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;not more than eight and not less than six, of which three shall form a quorum.&rdquo; 
       The section as it stands says that the number of directors shall be eight and no greater number.  No lower limit is set.  The amendment sets a lower limit and also fixes a quorum, which seems to be desirable. 
     
     
      
       The only purpose I see in this is that it allows for certain emergencies that may happen, say, for the filling of casual vacancies.  I think that the amendment was put down without advertence to the fact that a certain other Act has to be read with this Act.  The Companies Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, which is incorporated in the amalgamation scheme, allows for the filling of casual vacancies and, therefore, the amendment is definitely unnecessary. 
     
     
      
       As regards the quorum? 
     
     
      
       That point is attended to in that way. 
     
     
        Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     Amendment 17 not moved. 
     Section put and agreed to. 
     Sections 14 and 15 agreed to. 
     SECTION 16. 
     
      
       I move amendment 18: 
       To delete Section 16 and to insert in lieu thereof a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in Sections 127 to 131 of the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, a railway company may at any time sell or lease in such manner and on such terms as it thinks proper any land not required for the purpose of its railway. 
       (2)  The said Sections 127 to 131 of the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, shall not apply to any sale or lease of land by a railway company under this section. 
       (3)  Land forming part of or used for the purposes of a railway line on which the running of trains has ceased under an order made under Part II of this Act shall not, merely by reason of such cesser, be land not required for the purposes of a railway within the meaning of this Act. 
       The new section is simply re-enacting in a clearer form what was contained in the previous Section 16. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       New Section 16 ordered to be inserted. 
       The following amendment stood in the name of Deputy J.X. Murphy:&mdash; 
       19.  Before Section 16 to insert the following new section:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Notwithstanding any statutory provision to the contrary the company may from time to time sell, lease, let or otherwise dispose of any lands, hereditaments or premises owned or held by them and not required for the purposes of the undertaking.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Deputy Davin to move for Deputy Murphy. 
     
     
     
      
       On whose authority do you mention my name? 
     
     
      
       There is a letter to the Ceann Comhairle from Deputy Murphy asking him to allow Deputy Davin to move the amendments in his name. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Murphy has not spoken to me. 
     
     
      
       I formally move the amendment on behalf of Deputy Murphy. 
     
     
      
       It is the same thing as the amendment which I have just got carried. 
     
     
      
       Will the Leas-Cheann Comhairle read the letter that he has mentioned?  I was not aware that you were in possession of a letter from Deputy Murphy to that effect.  Nobody supplied me with the information previously, and I have not spoken to Deputy Murphy on the matter. 
     
     
      
       I do not know anything about that.  There is a letter on the desk before me, addressed to the Ceann Comhairle from Deputy Murphy. 
     
     
      
       I think I should have been shown that before I was called upon to act on his behalf. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 17 agreed to. 
       SECTION 18. 
       (1)  No road transport business carried on by a railway company shall be deemed to be part of the business of such company for the purpose of any agreement between such company and the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs entitling such company to send telegrams free or at a reduced rate. 
     
     (2)  All road transport business carried on, directly or indirectly, by the Great Southern Railways Company shall be deemed to be business ancillary or subsidiary to the railway of that company, and accordingly charges made by that company for carriage by road transport shall not   be subject to the jurisdiction of the Railway Tribunal. 
     
      
       I move amendment 20: 
       In sub-section (2), line 51, to delete the words &ldquo;or indirectly.&rdquo; 
       I am moving for the deletion of the word &ldquo;indirectly&rdquo; because I thought the object of the Bill was to make it impossible in the future, provided, of course, the railway companies would agree, to have railway and road services, whether goods or passenger, under the control of one body.  The wording of the Bill as it stands apparently contemplates the continuance of the method of running road services indirectly by the railways.  If there was an excuse for it before there is none now, as the Road Transport Bill and this Bill give the company the fullest powers to use their resources for road services in the name of the railway without any subterfuge.  Under the existing method whereby the railway companies run goods and passenger road services they have separate directorates, separate officers, and in some cases separate workshops.  That means unnecessary duplication and additional expense that need not be incurred if the word indirectly is cut out of the section as it stands.  It is with the object of enabling the company that controls all these road services and whose directors are on the railway board as well as on the board of Wallace and the board of the I.O.C. to bring all those services owned and controlled by the railway either directly or indirectly under one board. 
     
     
      
       The amendment does not do what the Deputy wishes. The only thing the Deputy does is to delete the words &ldquo;or indirectly&rdquo; where they stand in sub-section (2) of Section 18.  The only effect then will be that all road transport business carried on directly by the company shall be deemed to be business of a particular type.  The only change is that it shall not be subject to the jurisdiction of the Railway Tribunal. The only effect is to make a distinction between indirectly run and directly run services, in so far as they will be   capable of being brought under the jurisdiction of the Railway Tribunal. It does not prevent the company having services which they will have in this indirect fashion.  The Deputy has failed in his purpose if that is his purpose. 
     
     
      
       That is the intention of the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Then it is the wrong section and it is the wrong Bill. 
       [ An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. ] 
     
     
      
       I ask leave to withdraw the amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 21. 
       In sub-section (2), page 6, line 52, immediately after the word &ldquo;shall&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;for the purposes of section 53 of the Principal Act.&rdquo; 
       It is purely a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 18, as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I want to get some indication as to the effect of sub-section (2) of Section 18.  One of the reasons the Railway Tribunal was established was to prevent discrimination between trader and trader and town and town by the railway company. If the Bill works out as the Minister contemplates in the establishment of a transport monopoly in particular places by the railway company it might be possible that some such discrimination might be practised and different rates charged to different traders in the same town or rates might be charged in respect of two towns for the purpose of diverting traffic from the one to the other. 
     
     Under such circumstances would it not be advisable that the Railway Tribunal should have powers to interfere? If the sub-section goes through   as it stands it will have no such power. But it seems to me that circumstances may arise to make it desirable that the Railway Tribunal should have power to interfere in respect of rates and charges. 
     
      
       What the Deputy says is correct.  At the moment there is a definite safeguard against undue preference being given.  For the future the road vehicles of the railway company, as the road vehicles of any other private company, will be in a position to charge any rates they like, and we want to establish them on the footing that they will have to be in competition with other road services.  We want to put them in exactly the same condition, but we still keep up the regulation with regard to passengers. 
     
     
      
       I can see the possibility of that situation having to be dealt with by further legislation. 
     
     
      
       It may have to be. We may get to the point when the three companies in the main will get a monopoly of the goods traffic on the road.  Then this will have to be attended to, not now. 
       Section 18, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 19. 
       (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 of the Railway Companies (Accounts and Returns) Act, 1911, the Minister may, if and whenever he thinks proper, by order made on the application of a railway company or without any such application alter (by addition, omission, or variation) the First Schedule to that Act. 
       (2)  Whenever the Minister makes an order under this section altering the First Schedule to the said Act, the said Act and the said Schedule there to shall have effect, subject to and with the alteration made by such order. 
     
     
      
       I am not moving amendment 22.  I am taking the decision arrived at on Section 14. 
       Amendment 22 not moved. 
     
     
      
       I formally move amendment 23. 
     
     
        Before Section 19 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
     The provisions contained in Section 47 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, in respect of the employment by the company of persons to open and shut gates shall apply only in the case of crossing gates which are situate at a place where, at the time of its construction, the railway crossed a turnpike or public carriage road on the level. Any obligation assumed by the company, other than by the terms of a contract in writing, to employ or provide the services of persons to open or shut accommodation gates, or crossing gates other than gates to which the provisions of the said Section 47 as amended by this section apply, is hereby terminated. 
     
      
       This is the most contentions amendment that has been moved.  If it were carried it would require that the accommodation at every crossing would have to be examined to see in what condition it was.  It would impose a most extraordinary amount of difficulty and trouble. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw that amendment.  I thought the Minister might find something instead of it. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 24: 
       Before Section 19 to insert a new section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     The Railway Tribunal shall have power on the application of any party thereto to very or rescind all or any of the terms of any agreement or arrangement such as is referred to in Section 61 of the Principal Act if, in the opinion of the Railway Tribunal, the general conditions under which the agreement or arrangement was arrived at was so materially altered as to render the continued enforcement of the same or any portion thereof an undue hardship on either party, or prejudicial to the interests of the public in the district of Saorstat Eireann affected by such agreement or arrangement, or on such other grounds as to the   Railway Tribunal shall appear adequate. 
     This is merely moved for the purpose of finding out whether, in the opinion of the Minister, the Chairman of the Railway Tribunal has power to hear parties in support of cases for the variation of existing agreements.  There was a feeling that although the company had the right to go to the Tribunal, that the Chairman or the Tribunal has not power to vary existing agreements and hear the case made for and against. 
     
      
       The amendment is much more restrictive than Section 61 of the Principal Act which it seeks to amend.  Under Section 61 of the Principal Act an application can be made by any interests or by any body in the neighbourhood.  Under this amendment application could only be made by one party to the agreement. The amendment therefore restricts the original section.  Already there is power under the Principal Act on the part of any representative body of traders in the locality to come before the Tribunal.  The Bill is much wider than the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I was surprised to find Deputy Davin moving this amendment.  His amendment limits the power to have these agreements amended, varied or rescinded by the application by any party to such agreement, that is the railway companies or the transport companies; whereas in the Act of 1924 Section 61 provides that other bodies such as harbour commissioners, representative bodies of traders and others in the locality affected may make representations to the Railway Tribunal to have the agreement altered or to have a rescission made.  I feel sure when Deputy Davin understands the purport of the amendment that he will withdraw it.  It is not in the interests of the public. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has, under the section of the Act of 1924, to satisfy all parties.  I do not see the necessity for this amendment at all.  Still I would like an assurance from the Minister that if he does   accept this amendment&mdash;I hope he will not and that Deputy Davin will withdraw it&mdash;that he will give an assurance that the interests which so far have been protected will be continued to be protected. 
     
     
      
       They are protected under Section 61 of the Principal Act and I propose to abide by that. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       SECTION 19. 
       (1)  Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 of the Railway Companies (Accounts and Returns) Act, 1911, the Minister may, if and whenever he thinks proper, by order made on the application of a railway company or without any such application alter (by addition, omission, or variation) the First Schedule to that Act. 
       (2)  Whenever the Minister makes an order under this section altering the first Schedule to the said Act, the said Act and the said Schedule thereto shall have effect, subject to and with the alteration made by such order. 
     
     
      
       I would suggest to the Minister that he is introducing a precedent of a very unusual kind. Under the existing law certain forms of account and materials necessary for these accounts on the part of the railway company are provided by statute. It is now proposed to hand over to the Minister power to repeal, alter or modify that section.  I suggest that it is an unusual step to hand over to the Minister what could only be done by the Oireachtas.  I put it to the Minister that the whole of Section 19 could be usefully deleted. 
     
     
      
       The only point is that the power that I have with regard to the amalgamated company I have not with regard to other companies which operate here.  I want both to be on the one footing. 
       Section agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be reported. 
     
     
        The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Bill reported with amendments. 
     Report Stage ordered for Thursday, 17th December. 
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Town Tenants Bill, 1930&mdash;Amendments from the Seanad&mdash;Report. 
     
      
       The House will now take into consideration the report of the Committee on the amendments made by the Seanad to the Bill, to which certain amendments have been made by the Committee. 
     
     
      
       I propose to add the following amendment to Amendment 10 inserted by the Senate, which I think will meet the views that have been expressed from different quarters of the House: 
       At the end of the amendment to insert the following words:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Provided that the failure to serve such notice shall not deprive a tenant of his right (if any) to compensation in respect of such work if such tenant satisfies the court that his landlord did not suffer any loss or damage by reason of such failure.&rdquo; 
       That does away with the complete loss which the tenant might have incurred in certain very rare circumstances as to the value of improvements made. 
     
     
      
       As the Minister states, this does away with the complete deprivation of the tenant of his right to compensation.  I do not think it confers much benefit on him.  The tenant will have very considerable difficulty in proving to the court that the landlord has suffered no loss or damage.  This is an advance on the Seanad amendment.  I would prefer the Minister to put the burden of proof on the landlord and not on the tenant, but I do not suppose it is possible to change it now.  The amendment I would have suggested would provide that the landlord should satisfy the court that he was substantially prejudiced by the omission of the tenant to serve such notice.  I think it would be easier for the landlord to prove his   loss than for the tenant to prove that the landlord had suffered no loss.  That is the type of amendment I would have preferred.  As the Minister is going to go as far as this I am prepared to accept it. 
     
     
      
       The tenant is the person in fault.  I think the matter is very largely theoretical because I doubt if more than a few improvements will be carried out as a result of a notice served by a sanitary authority. If the tenant in a case contemplates his own default I think it is only right that the onus should be thrown on him.  The tenant is clearly the person in fault. 
       Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
       Report of the Committee, as so amended, agreed to. 
       Message to be sent to the Seanad acquainting them accordingly. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Bills Received from the Seanad. 
     
      
       The following Bills have been received from the Seanad with amendments:&mdash;  Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill, 1931; Merchandise Marks Bill, 1931; Railways (Valuation for Rating) Bill, 1931; Public Charitable Hospitals (No. 2) Bill, 1931; the Apprenticeship Bill, 1930; and the Public Charitable Hospitals (Amendment No. 3) Bill, 1931, without amendment. 
     
   
   
     Road Transport Bill, 1931&mdash;Money Resolution. - Railways (Valuation for Rating) Bill, 1931.&mdash;From the Seanad. 
     
      
       I do not object to the Railways (Valuation for Rating) Bill, 1931, being passed now. 
     
     
      
       There is an amendment from the Seanad: &ldquo;Section 5, sub-section (2).  Before the word &lsquo;deduction&rsquo; in line 61 the words &lsquo;amount of the&rsquo; to be inserted.&rdquo;  Is the amendment agreed to? 
     
     
      
       I do. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Seanad in the amendment&rdquo;&mdash; put and agreed to. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.15 p.m. until Thursday, December 17th. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Congestion in Co. Mayo. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parish of The Neale, where the Poor Law valuations of over 100 tenants is under £5 each, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken to acquire the large grazing ranches at Neale Park, Carrowkeel, Killower, Carn, Milehill, Collisduff and Ballykilgarn, which contain over 1,200 acres in that parish, for the relief of the existing congestion. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have under consideration the question of the congestion existing in The Neale area and in connection therewith have made inquiry regarding the lands of the Reps.  of Patrick Brown at Killour and Carn, the lands of Coolesduff on the Mellett Estate, and the lands of Nealpark on the Moylette Estate. The question of the acquisition of the lands of Killour and Carn and Coolesduff is under consideration, but it is not proposed to acquire the lands of Nealpark.  An area of about 98 acres on the townland of Ballyergodaun held by Mr. Thomas Carney will be inspected shortly; these may be the lands referred to as Milehill.  Inquiries are being made regarding the lands of Carrowkeel. 
       It has not been possible to identify the lands in Ballykilgarn to which the Deputy refers. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parish of Keelogues, Co. Mayo, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the lands known as Deerpark, containing 150 acres, in the townland of Gortnafolla, Ballyvary, on the Fitzgerald Estate, and the lands known as Frankpark, held by the representatives of the late Thomas Moran, on same estate, for the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       No proceedings are before the Land Commission for the acquisition of the lands referred to by the Deputy.  The demesne lands in the occupation of Mr. D. G. Fitzgerald are subject to a land purchase annuity and the holdings in the occupation of Mr. John Moran have been listed under the Land Act, 1931, all the holdings in the vicinity having been enlarged. 
     
   
   
     Written Answers. - Repayment of Dail Loan. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state if he has received an application for the repayment of Dail Loan, 1919-20, from John Redmond, 5 Clifford Street, Wexford, and now resident at Tottingham   Green, Taghmon, Co. Wexford, and from David Eagan, Boley, Ballycullane, Co. Wexford, and, further, when it is proposed to repay such loans. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will, I hope, appreciate that the investigation which would be necessary in order to enable me to reply to questions regarding individual cases would divert the energies of the staff of the branch concerned from their normal task of hastening the progress of repayment of subscriptions.  I may say, however, that the examination of claims which were lodged before the expiration of the prescribed time is proceeding as expeditiously as possible. 
     
   
 