 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 10.30 a.m. 
   
   
     Order of Business. 
     Ordered: That Public Business be not interrupted at 12 o'clock. 
   
   
     Report of the Joint Committee on Standing Orders (Private Business). 
     Reported: That the Joint Committee on Standing Orders relative to Private Business have nominated the following Deputies to serve on the Joint Committee on the Cork Harbour Bill, 1932, viz:&mdash;Deputies Briscoe, Minch and Everett.&mdash;(An Leas-Cheann Comhairle). 
     Ordered: That the Report do lie upon the Table. 
   
   
     Estimates for Public Services. 
     The Dail, according to order, resumed the consideration of Estimates for Public Services in Committee on Finance. 
   
   
     Vote 60&mdash;Unemployment Insurance (Resumed). 
     Debate resumed on the following motion:&mdash; 
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £55,726 chun slanuithe na sume is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi i dtaobh Arachais Diomhaointis agus Malartan Fostuiochta, maraon le sintiuisi do Chiste an Diomhaointis. 
     That a sum not exceeding £55,726 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for Salaries and Expenses in connection with Unemployment Insurance and Employment Exchanges, including   contributions to the Unemployment Fund.&mdash;(Minister for Industry and Commerce). 
     
      
       I do not propose to unduly delay the Dail over this Estimate, but there were some points raised in the discussion last night that, I think, should be referred to before the discussion terminates.  In my concluding remarks last night I referred to the various criticisms that had been advanced in respect of the regulations made defining the order of preference to be observed in placing men in employment on schemes of work financed out of State funds.  I pointed out that the idea behind these regulations was two-fold: first, to ensure that in no possible circumstances should political influence operate in the selection of men for work; and, secondly, to ensure that so long as there was not sufficient work for all, such work as was available would be given to those who were in, relatively, the greatest need of it. 
     
     These two declarations of policy represent the intentions of the Executive Council, and the regulations which were made were designed to give effect to that policy.  If the regulations are defective in any way, or if they do not give effect to that policy in full, they can and will be modified, but that has not yet been demonstrated.  In fact, as I understand from the statements made, it is admitted that the regulations are satisfactory, but that cases have been known in which their operation might be subject to criticism.  I pointed out that any general regulation, no matter how carefully framed or no matter how praiseworthy the intention behind it, was bound to operate contrary to the intention in individual cases and that that could not be avoided.  The experience of my Department, however, is that the working of the regulations has been, on the whole, satisfactory.  The number of complaints we have received have been remarkably few in all the circumstances. They are confined to a few localities, and in these localities to a very small number of individual cases when one has regard to the total number of   persons placed in employment under these schemes.  The only substantial ground for criticism advanced is that the branch manager, unavoidably, occasionally places in employment a person with other means of livelihood when destitute persons are available. I pointed out that that was due to the fact that the employment exchanges are now being called upon to do work for which they were not originally designed. Originally, they were merely designed to enable unemployed men seeking work to get in touch with employers of labour.  At the present time we are endeavouring to use the exchanges, not merely for that purpose, but also to determine the relative degrees of hardship existing between classes and individuals in the community, in the selection of people for relief work.  It has taken some little time to adapt the exchange machinery to carry out that additional function. It is anticipated, however, that the difficulties which have arisen heretofore will be obviated when the information to be ascertained by the new registration form has been analysed and becomes available to branch managers.  A suggestion was made that, in cases where a large number of persons were being selected in a particular district for a relief scheme, the branch manager might get the advice of the local relieving officer.  That is a suggestion which I will have examined. 
     The other points related to the significance of the figure of registered unemployed.  Deputy McGilligan stated that we had to take three figures into account.  First, the figure of registered unemployed at this period last year; second, the figure of unemployed persons revealed by the Census of 1926, and thirdly, the present figure.  He gave his opinion of what significance was to be attached to each of these figures.  Under the old system, the number of registered unemployed represented part, and probably the most considerable part, of the persons who were ordinarily in insurable employment and who were seeking such insurable employment in urban areas.  It was not contended  &mdash;and I do not think it is seriously contended by anybody&mdash;that it could be regarded as an index of the number of unemployed persons in the country.  The Census of 1926, despite obvious difficulties to which the Deputy referred, did give us a figure. It showed a total number of 78,000 people out of work from various causes. 
     
      
       No&mdash;not working. 
     
     
      
       Not working from various causes.  Deputy McGilligan stated that he had had that analysed and came to the conclusion, as a result of the analysis, that included in that figure there were only about 50,000 who could be described as people anxious to get work but unable to obtain it.  That analysis is possibly correct and we would get more satisfactory results if we approached this problem with a figure of about 50,000 in mind.  I think that the situation has improved somewhat since then.  The present figure of 90,000 represents, as I said, not merely the persons without work or other means of livelihood and anxious to get it, but a number of additional classes.  It represents, to some extent, the volume of unemployment and under-employment in the country.  It includes a number of people who are in work but are able and willing to take additional work such as road work or other relief work, if it were offered to them.  It includes such classes as small shopkeepers, small landowners, or people in receipt of pensions, who would not be destitute if work were not available for them. I gave it as my opinion that 50 per cent. of that figure represents the number of genuinely unemployed persons for whom work should be found if they are not to endure severe hardship. We will have more definite information on that point in the near future when the analysis of the information supplied upon the new registration forms has been completed. 
     
     Deputy McGilligan referred also to the debt in the Fund.  He adverted to the fact that the indebtedness of the Fund showed an increase in this year over last year.  He was careful   to admit that the increased indebtedness might, to some extent, be due to the fact that the reduction in contributions, which took place at the beginning of last year, was not justifiable in full.  At the beginning of 1931 a Bill was introduced here reducing the contributions payable by employers. At the time I strenuously opposed the passage of that measure, as also did other Deputies in the House.  Our contention was that if the position of the Fund had improved, and if there were sums available which could be utilised for the reduction of contributions, they should be used instead for the payment of additional benefit. 
     
      
       Were there funds available? 
     
     
      
       Relatively speaking, yes. 
     
     
      
       Although the Fund was in debt by £250,000? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       That is a new idea of a Fund in debt. 
     
     
      
       The debt of the Fund was being reduced in a very rapid way, and one could contemplate without any uneasiness of mind the slowing up of the rate of reduction.  The Minister did that.  He introduced a Bill to slow up the rate of reduction, and utilised part of the surplus revenue available for the reduction of contributions.  But he cut it much too fine.  He reduced the contributions much more than they should have been reduced, and within a week of my taking office as Minister for Industry and Commerce I was informed that a sum of £25,000 or £27,000 had to be borrowed to make good a deficiency in the Fund. 
     
     There is another reason for the increase in deficit.  I referred to it here last night.  I stated that one of the instructions given to Branch Managers in selecting persons for relief work was that they should choose persons not entitled to benefit in preference to those who are so entitled.  Quite obviously there are two courses possible. We can make up our minds to save the Fund and give work to those   entitled to benefit, thus reducing the drain upon the Fund, or else we can take the opposite course, and allow those people to get in full whatever benefit they are entitled to, confining the work to those not in benefit.  We decided upon the latter course although we realised that it would produce an increase in the number of persons drawing benefit, and diminish the resources of the Fund.  We think, however, we adopted the right course, despite those facts, because obviously it is the best way to diminish hardship amongst unemployed persons. 
     Deputy McGilligan made quite a number of points of doubtful relevancy, and I do not propose to deal with them all.  He adduced the figures which I gave him yesterday in reply to a Parliamentary Question, in regard to the total annual contribution in a number of years.  He stated dogmatically that there was vastly increased unemployment in the country since the Fianna Fail Government came into power, but the figures I supplied him with&mdash;the figures upon which he purported to base that contention&mdash; proved quite the contrary.  They proved that the contribution income in this year had not increased in comparison with last year and previous years,&mdash;that it had not been increased relatively more than last year was increased over the previous year, but they certainly do not support the contention that there is vastly increased unemployment in the country.  Even though they do not support the opposite contention, that there is vastly increased employment in the country, they do indicate that there is some increase in employment. 
     We can discuss unemployment as such on another occasion.  It does not arise on this Vote.  The discussions here were confined merely to questions on the administration of the Unemployment Insurance Scheme, but I would like to say that it is a fact that a large number of people have been placed in employment as a result of the protection afforded to various industries here.  It is undoubtedly also a fact that there are efforts to promote employment in other quarters, and I would ask the Deputy when   putting those two facts in relation to each other to ask this question: &ldquo;What would be the situation here if the protection given to those industries were withdrawn?&rdquo; 
     Deputy Norton raised the question of reciprocal arrangements with Great Britain and Northern Ireland.  I want to say definitely that I see no hope whatever of getting reciprocal arrangements with Great Britain or Northern Ireland.  That is not a consequence of the present relationship that exists between the Irish Free State and the United Kingdom.  The late Government did everything possible&mdash; I would like to say that for fear there would be any misunderstanding of the position&mdash;to secure reciprocal arrangements. Every possible device and every possible method of securing them was at one time or another submitted to the Northern Ireland and British Government and in each case they were rejected.  In fact the Northern Ireland Government introduced an Unemployment Act in the Parliament there which practically ruled out the possibility of reciprocal arrangements altogether.  When this Government came into office we attempted to reopen the question and to try and get discussions going again upon one or other of the alternative methods by which reciprocal arrangements could be achieved.  We were not successful in that, and I see no prospect of success until there has been a change of mind in the other quarter. 
     Deputy Norton also refers to various proposals which have been made by the Irish Trades Union Congress for the amendment of the Unemployment Insurance Act.  I met a deputation on unemployment from the Trades Union Congress and we discussed various matters under the Unemployment Insurance Act.  Some of their proposals involved merely administrative changes, and in respect of at least one of them a change in the method of administration had been made, designed to meet the point raised by them.  Others of their proposals involved legislation, and not   merely legislation but the securing of increased revenue for the Fund by raising the contribution.  That is a matter which will require careful consideration in all the circumstances. I stated that I strongly opposed the decision of the late Government to reduce the contributions in 1931.  I think it should not have been done, but now that it has been done it is not easy to get back to the original position. It is all the more difficult because of the fact that the late Government reduced contributions unduly and put us in the position that if the Fund is to be put on a sound basis we have to increase the contributions in any case without giving any corresponding increase in benefit. However, the matter is being examined, and the views of interested parties are being ascertained. 
     I think these were the only matters raised except that mentioned by Deputy McGilligan in the concluding part of his speech.  He read out a fairly logical announcement which appeared on behalf of the Fianna Fail organisation at one time&mdash;an announcement to the effect that if people bought Irish goods there would be more employment in Ireland.  I take it the Deputy's sneer at that particular announcement is to be understood as opposition on his part to the idea contained in it.  If persons buy more Irish goods there will be more employment in Ireland&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       That is not all that is said here. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;and I would advise the Deputy to consider the advisability of advocating the same point of view. 
     
     
      
       They start with a different premise in this advertisement. 
     
     
      
       There are two things which I would like to ask the Minister, if I am at liberty to do so now.  He used this language while he was speaking this morning, that he had made arrangements that in no possible circumstances could political influences operate in the giving of work to unemployed persons.  I want to tell the   Minister that I think he will do a perfect service if he prevails on the Minister for Local Government and Public Health to see that a similar arrangement operates for all the local authorities in this country. I have in my pocket at present a letter from an unemployed man with a wife and two children, who was promised work by the county surveyor, and who, when he went to get the work, was told by the county surveyor that the local Fianna Fail Cumann had warned him that it was as much as his job was worth to give work to that man because he was a supporter of Cumann na nGaedheal.  I will place in the hands of the Minister full particulars at his convenience. 
     
     
      
       If the county surveyor was referring to work on relief schemes he had no right whatever to promise a man employment.  A county surveyor has no right to promise employment. The persons for employment are selected through the instrumentality of the Labour Exchanges and neither Fianna Fail clubs nor the county surveyor has anything to do with it. 
     
     
      
       I agree that Fianna Fail has nothing to do with it.  I am not saying it was a Relief Scheme, I am saying it was a scheme under the Local Authority, which authority is under the Department of Local Government and I assume when the Minister uses that language he speaks with the approval of the entire Executive Council. 
       Now I want to say one other word about the Minister's employment scheme.  I do not know why it is, although apparently there is plenty of goodwill in the matter of dealing with the unemployment problem in Dublin, whenever it comes to getting relief some kind of paralysis seems to fall not only on the local authority but on the Executive as well.  It must be common knowledge to anybody who walks down Cumberland Street or any other slum in this city that there is ample room there for the adoption of an unemployment scheme. 
     
     
      
       Surely the Deputy does not desire to discuss the   Dublin tenement problem on a vote for Unemployment Insurance? 
     
     
      
       There is ample opportunity for employment there in providing accommodation for these people. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, we are now discussing the unemployment vote. 
     
     
      
       Now if the Minister reads the Vote he will find what I am getting at.  There is ample employment there for a very large number of men who are at present on the Unemployment Fund.  I propose, in this House at an early opportunity, to ask the Minister at least to investigate the possibility of devoting the amount we are now paying for unemployment relief to providing work. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot advocate legislation on this Vote. 
     
     
      
       I am not advocating legislation at all.  I asked the Minister to inquire into the possibility as to whether a scheme could not be evolved whereby persons in receipt of out-of-work insurance benefit could not be employed upon schemes of public utility such as housing or any public service of that kind, and their unemployment benefit which is at present charged upon the fund which the Minister is now seeking to borrow money for, and which we are discussing under this Estimate&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Am I to reply to statements dealing with the unemployment problem or are we discussing&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The House is discussing the administration of Unemployment Insurance. 
     
     
      
       Surely the question of the fund debt would arise. 
     
     
      
       Certainly, but not the problem of the tenements. 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly clear that I am free on this Vote to recommend to the Minister ways and means of reducing the expenses and reducing the indebtedness of the fund which is at present before the House. 
     
     
     
      
       It does not arise on this discussion. 
     
     
      
       I am in the hands of the Ceann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       I submit the Deputy is a little bit late&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Answer the question. 
     
     
      
       What is the question, there is no question. 
     
     
      
       You would not understand it so it is not worth while. 
     
     
      
       I repeat that I have already asked the Minister to consider, at least the possibility, whether a scheme could not be evolved with a view to reducing the expenses of the unemployment insurance fund where-by persons who are ordinarily in receipt of unemployment insurance might not be employed on schemes of public utility so that in these schemes a part of the benefits which they are receiving might be shared.  I do not know why the Minister is so disturbed &mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am disturbed because the Deputy is allowed to make a speech that I would not be allowed to make. 
     
     
      
       That is a bad test. 
     
     
      
       If the Ceann Comhairle so rules I will not proceed, but I will not be brought to order by the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  I have already pointed out that to my mind&mdash;I am reluctant to press forward what I wish to say although I believe I am in order.  I do not want to leave the Minister under the impression that I am taking an unfair advantage of him.  I shall not say another word if the Minister feels that I am opening a question which would put him at a disadvantage, if he cannot answer me fully now. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had been here last night he could have made any point he was entitled to on the administration of the unemployment insurance scheme. 
     
     
      
       I have not the slightest desire to unduly embarrass the Minister.   I am not trying to steal a march on him, and I have no desire whatever to invole the Ceann Comhairle in reopening a debate on a contentious and difficult question.  The suggestion I make to the Minister is not with the intention of making it difficult for him. 
     
     
      
       It has nothing to do with the matter before the House. 
     
     
      
       That is a matter for the Ceann Comhairle, but I will not press the question now.  I hope to have another opportunity to bring the matter before the House when it can be properly raised.  I think it is a pity the Minister resents its introduction so violently but I see his difficulty. 
     
     
      
       That matter was discussed fully on Vote 56. 
     
     
      
       I take it, sir, you have ruled I can discuss it now, but I think as the Minister feels he has not been given an opportunity of answering me fully I will make such proposition on another occasion.  But I think it is a matter that ought to be discussed and I think it is a matter that ought to be looked into.  I believe it is a scheme that would be of material assistance to the Minister in over-coming the difficulties which I am quite certain he has.  I will not press the matter further except to ask him to look into the matter I mentioned at the beginning which is the question of the impartiality of the public authorities in this country in giving employment to unemployed men without any reference to political bias; I ask him to look into those questions from a purely administrative point of view with a view to assisting himself in the difficulties he must overcome. 
     
     
      
       I should like to point out as regards what the Deputy said concerning housing in Dublin, that a very generous provision is being made by the Executive Council to encourage the building of houses and the Dublin Corporation is proceeding with the construction of dwelling-houses here as rapidly as the machinery will permit. I discussed this matter with the Minister for Local Government last week   and he told me that he was informed by the Dublin Corporation that it was not physically possible for them to proceed faster than they are doing. That is a matter which is still being examined, because if the machinery of the Dublin Corporation does not permit of faster progress we will have to supplement that machinery in some other way, and I can assure the Deputy that any method we can think of in reducing the Unemployment Fund is not being overlooked. 
     
     
      
       I want to ask the Minister in view of the position brought about by the policy of the Minister for Agriculture and the large amount of unemployment caused through and by that policy would he consider&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Are we going to have all these irrelevant speeches? 
     
     
      
       I have not yet heard Deputy Anthony's question. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony is not referring to the administration of the Unemployment Fund. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister is very disorderly.  In view of the numerous cases of agricultural labourers who at present are not provided for by way of unemployment insurance, would the Minister consider, in conjunction with the Minister for Finance and any other Minister who may be as disorderly as the Minister for Industry and Commerce, the desirability of introducing legislation&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot advocate legislation on an Estimate. 
     
     
      
       Would he consider&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       It is not permissible to advocate legislation on Estimates. 
     
     
      
       I quite see, but I am asking him whether he would consider the desirability of doing so. 
     
     
      
       I should like to know from the Minister whether in a case where you have two individuals,   one receiving benefit and the other not in benefit, the man not in benefit is to get preference in any work that is going? 
     
     
      
       That is one of the factors taken into account, but I would ask the Deputy to bear in mind that there are two other regulations, one which requires a preference for married men and the other which requires a preference for persons longest out of employment.  I take it that as far as the question of length of unemployment is concerned, that coincides with the question of whether a person is in benefit or not and the preference would be given to those who are not in benefit but on the subject of the major regulations which requires a preference for married persons with dependants, I do not think it would affect it. 
     
     
      
       I inquired into this matter.  I do not know what instructions have been issued, but engineers in charge of work in some parts of the country believe that they have got to employ those in benefit first. 
     
     
      
       The instruction is directly to the contrary. 
     
     
      
       Is not the exchange manager's duty one of recommendation or must he compel an employer to take on a person who, he says, is to get first preference? 
     
     
      
       In all ordinary employment the exchange merely provides the employer with the names of suitable workmen of the required category who are available for employment, but on a relief scheme financed by State funds the exchange manager selects the persons. 
     
     
      
       Those entitled to unemployment benefit would be tradesmen largely.  In making recommendations in individual cases is the exchange manager to insist that persons out of benefit against those who are in benefit must be employed regardless of what the employer may think as to their individual qualifications? 
     
     
      
       Oh no.  The Deputy misunderstands the position.  I am   talking of unskilled labour.  If you require a skilled bricklayer, a carpenter or a stonecutter you must get a qualified man, but in so far as the selection of people for unskilled relief work is concerned, then the regulations operate. 
     
     
      
       I am speaking only of those who come under the unemployment insurance provisions. 
     
     
      
       There was one matter raised by Deputy Dillon the answer to which I did not hear from the Minister, that is if political prejudice would be allowed to weigh in giving work under the relief schemes.  I did not quite catch the Minister's reply but I take it he does not approve or will not tolerate any political prejudice being aroused either by county surveyors or by managers of branch unemployment exchanges.  Do I understand him to say that he would not tolerate that? 
     
     
      
       What I said was that the system of administration we have devised was designed to make it impossible for political prejudice to operate.  There is a definite preference laid down. 
     
     
      
       Apart from the ordinary preference you will not tolerate political prejudice being brought to bear to deprive a man of work? 
     
     
      
       Definitely the scheme was designed to make it impossible for political prejudice to operate. 
     
     
      
       The Minister might answer the question &ldquo;yes&rdquo; or &ldquo;no.&rdquo; Will political prejudice be allowed to operate to deprive an unemployed man of his livelihood? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had been here last night when we were discussing that matter&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am asking the Minister a straight question and he will not answer it, that is, will political prejudice be allowed to operate to deny a deserving man work? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not recognise a straight answer when he   receives it.  I replied to that question for fifteen minutes last night.  I pointed out that when we came into office employment exchanges were being operated in such a way as to give political preferences, and I pointed out that the present regulations were designed to smash that system.  That is the purpose of the present scheme. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister whether the policy of the Local Government Department in spreading their unemployment work over four or five months in the winter is not cutting directly across the principle of unemployment insurance?  It means that these men are suffering very severe losses and that only one out of every ten will get employment.  Will he see that that is rectified? 
     
     
      
       It does not arise on this Vote. 
     
     
      
       (An Clar): In the new form which the Minister says is being prepared for Labour Exchanges is there a space provided to ascertain whether the applicant has any other means so that these cases can be investigated? 
     
     
      
       The form is designed to get that information. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote No. 61.&mdash;Industrial and Commercial Property Registration Office. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £7,175 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi na hOifige Clarath-achta Maoine Tionnscail agus Trachtala.  (Uimh. 16 de 1927 agus Uimh. 13 de 1929). 
     
     That a sum not exceeding £7,175 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Industrial   and Commercial Property Registration Office (No. 16 of 1927 and No. 13 of 1929). 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote No. 64.&mdash;Army. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £439,478 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Costas an Airm (maraon le Cultaca an Airm), agus Costaisi i dtaobh an Achta Bhunreachta (Leasu Uimh. 17), 1931. 
       That a sum not exceeding £439,478 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the cost of the Army (including Army Reserve), and Expenses in connection with the Constitution (Amendment No. 17) Act, 1931. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister a question?  I want to raise a matter that I have raised on at least three or four occasions. 
     
     
      
       A question? The Vote has already been agreed to. 
     
     
      
       The question I want to ask is, is he making any provision even in his new Bill for a system of deferred pay for private soldiers of the National Army in order that they may have some small sum of money to receive on leaving the Army? 
     
     
      
       That is a question of legislation that will come up next week on the new Bill. 
     
     
      
       Is he providing for soldiers in this way?  Surely the Minister must know something about his Bill. 
     
     
      
       I do. 
     
     
      
       Are soldiers provided for by way of pensions or deferred pay so that they may have something when they come out of the Army? 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy will see the new Bill.  In it will be provisions for officers and men of long service, regular soldiers who have served a number of years. 
     
   
   
     Vote 65.&mdash;Army Pensions. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £60,109 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun pinsean creachta agus Mi-abaltachta Pinsean Breise agus Pinsean Fear Posta, Liuntaisi agus Aisci (Uimh. 26 de 1923 agus Uimh. 12 de 1927) agus chun sintiuisi agus costaisi iolardha ina dtaobh san agus chun Pinsean Seirbhise Mileata d'ioc (Uimh. 48 de 1924), etc. 
       That a sum not exceeding £60,109 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for Wound and Disability Pensions, Further Pensions and Married Pensions, Allowances and Gratuities (No. 26 of 1923 and No. 12 of 1927) and for sundry contributions and expenses in respect thereof and to pay Military Service Pensions (No. 48 of 1924), etc. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote No. 3.&mdash;Department of the President of the Executive Council. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £3,645 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Roinn Uachtaran na hArd-Chomhairle. 
       That a sum not exceeding £3,645 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Department of the President of the Executive Council. 
     
     
     
      
       I want to say, so far as this Party is concerned, the matters that we intended to raise on this Vote will really come before the Dail in a motion of censure in the course of a few days.  Consequently, we do not propose to raise them on this Vote to-day. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote No. 66.&mdash;External Affairs. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £24,383 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Gnothai Coigriche agus Seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara na hOifige sin. 
       That a sum not exceeding £24,383 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for External Affairs, and of certain services administered by that Office. 
     
     The total of this Estimate for 1932-33 is £79,383.  The total estimate for 1931-32 was £61,689, made up of an original estimate of £59,879 and a supplementary estimate voted in March, 1932, of £1,810.  The net increase, as compared with last estimate, is therefore £17,694.  This somewhat large increase is not due, in any great extent, to increased services or to increased rates of pay.  It is due in the main to: (1) The inclusion of a sum of £9,644 for compensation to officers, serving outside Saorstat Eireann and Great Britain whose salaries and allowances are fixed in national currency, in order to make good to them the depreciation in their emoluments that followed the abandonment of the gold standard in September, 1931.  (2) The inclusion of a sum of £3,508 as the estimated extra amount of national currency required (a) to meet the salaries fixed in foreign currency of other officers serving outside Saorstat Eireann and Great   Britain, and (b) to meet other payments, that is, travelling expenses, postage, stationery, telegrams and telephones, newspapers, etc., which have to be made in currency other than national currency.  (3) The inclusion of an exceptional item under sub-head A.5 (Official Entertainment) of a sum of £5,500, which was, at the time the estimate was compiled, intended to cover the cost of fitting out premises suitable for the State Reception on the occasion of the Eucharistic Congress in June, 1932.  These three items accounted for £18,652, and if they were excluded the estimate for 1932-33 would be £60,731 as compared with an estimated normal expenditure of £59,879 in 1931-32. 
     Dealing with the special item of £5,500 referred to above provided to meet the cost of the State Reception on the occasion of the Eucharistic Congress, at the time that this item was prepared it was contemplated that premises which were not Government property would be used for the State Reception.  In April, however, the Executive Council decided that the Reception to His Eminence the Papal Legate should be held in Dublin Castle.  Any expenditure on the fitting up of the Castle premises would be expenditure on State property which would be available for future occasions.  Accordingly the Castle premises were re-decorated and restored.  The main expenditure on this work will fall on the Vote for Public Works and Buildings.  Only such portion of the expenditure as is unreproductive will fall on the Vote for the Department of External Affairs.  It is anticipated that when final adjustments have been made the total cost of the State Reception which will fall on the Vote for the Department of External Affairs will be about £1,600, as compared with £5,500 provided for.  The balance will represent a saving for surrender to the Exchequer. 
     The Government has arranged for the setting up of a Consulate at Chicago in order to provide further facilities for our nationals in the U.S.A., both in regard to protective functions and in regard to development   of trade.  The office for the present, at all events, will consist of one Consul with a stenographer, and the estimated annual cost, inclusive of rents, etc., will be about £2,400 at current rates of exchange. 
     In furtherance of the Government's policy to develop Continental countries as markets for Saorstat products, a new post of Commercial Secretary has been created at Paris. 
     The Saorstat Minister for France has also been accredited to Belgium and it will be thus possible for the Legation at Paris to safeguard Saorstat interests in that country also. 
     In order to afford the Dail information as to the total net cost of maintaining foreign representation I would direct attention to the fact that to the figure of £79,383 in this estimate must be added the sum of £1,710 as on page 307 of the printed estimates.  In addition, in order to get a clear view of costs, the sum of £11,660 provided for in the Vote for Public Works and Buildings must be added to cover the cost of rents, maintenance, furnishing, etc. of Saorstat establishments abroad.  The total gross cost is therefore £92,753.  As against this total gross cost it is necessary to set off fees collected by the Department both at home and abroad. These fees for the current year will, it is estimated, amount to £40,000. This is £16,000 in excess of the sum of £24,000 shown on page 307, the excess being due mainly to (1) the increased number of passports and visas granted abroad for visitors on the occasion of the Eucharistic Congress. and (2) increased value in national currency of the fees collected in foreign currency owing to the abandonment of the gold standard. 
     It is not anticipated that the full £79,383 of this estimate will be expended before the end of the year. A saving of approximately £9,500 is anticipated, due mainly to the following circumstances:&mdash;(a) a saving of £1,700 in the item&mdash;salary for the Minister for External Affairs &mdash; the duties of this post being performed by the President.  (b) A saving of approximately £4,600 on the provision under Sub-head A.5 for official entertainment.   (c) A saving of approximately £2,000 in the provision for Germany, due to a vacancy in the Minister's post. 
     Other casual savings will bring the total up to a net of £9,460.  It will thus be seen that the total net expenditure on External Affairs for the current year will be £43,293, or about 4/-for every £100 of the total State expenditure. 
     
      
       Does the President propose to say anything to the House about the report promised on Mr. O'Mara's visit to America? 
     
     
      
       It is not ready for presentation yet. 
     
     
      
       Is it likely to be before we discuss the Appropriation Bill? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
     
      
       It was promised for this debate. 
     
     
      
       It is not ready. 
     
     
      
       Will it be brought forward as a special item? 
     
     
      
       A special Vote will have to be got in connection with it. 
     
     
      
       The President says that a Consular post will be established at Chicago at an annual cost of £2,400. Will he say for what purpose?  Is it purely for the protection of our nationals against gunmen? 
     
     
      
       I propose to answer all questions together, at the end of the debate. 
     
     
      
       My first inclination would be to move that the President's address be printed and circulated at the expense of the Society, it sounded so like the formal address people hear in societies outside.  I also felt that although he commented at great length on the loss we suffered by reason of the rates of exchange there is no Appropriation-in-Aid.  I do not know whether it is one of the items about which we claim damages from the British Government but there is no Appropriation-in-Aid hinted at, or set down here as likely to be secured.  We   are told also that as well as a new post being created at Chicago a new post has been created in Paris.  We are not told why.  Although previously we attempted to get some indication of the qualifications of the gentleman appointed to the post, we are as wise now after the Estimate has been moved as we were previously when we tried to get this information by way of question.  The President also has failed to state anything about the Ottawa Conference.  Although, in answer to a question of mine some days ago he told me that the expenditure was £2,700, which I assume is limited to subsistence and travelling expenses; although he told me that that sum of money was borne partially on this Vote; and although this is a Vote on which we might have expected some statement from the President as to the value to this country of the expenditure even of that sum of £2,700, or the possibility of value accruing to the country, which led him to send out a delegation of the strength which was sent out after the lack of preparation previously, we got no statement about it. 
     
     I propose to discuss Ottawa from one angle only upon this Vote.  I previously suggested that the President might issue some account of the Ottawa Conference, so that the people of the country might get some idea of the chance that was missed at Ottawa, or how far that chance that was presented to us was availed of by our representatives to get some benefit for the country.  I suggested at the time that the edition, if it were published in a particular illustrated form, might be useful as a Christmas present for his Republican friends.  I also suggested that it was possible that we might be able to get some emoluments for the Stationery Office if it were published in an attractive form showing the Ministers of the present Government in a particular garb which they have always disdained and did not allow us to see upon them in this country.  I presume the reason why that suggestion has not been agreed to is because the President will probably feel that it would have to be published in a peculiar   form.  He might then have to reveal to the people what his colleagues of the I.R.A. decided to keep from the people when they stopped the &ldquo;Movie-tone News&rdquo; showing these gentlemen arriving in the garb which is so disdainful to himself and his colleagues. I suppose the only comment that can be made is that it might have been subject to the gibe, that, if published at all, it would have to be in a decently-bound edition&mdash;it would have to be in what I might describe as &ldquo;limp Republican leather.&rdquo; 
     I want to find out what was the change in policy on something that was counted a very fundamental item on 16th July, 1931, and which apparently did not so annoy the conscience of the leader of that delegation when he found himself at Ottawa.  I want to find out what did we get in the way of &ldquo;a mess of pottage&rdquo; by reason of that particular delegate selling his Republican soul at Ottawa.  On 16th July, 1931, in this House, as reported in Volume 39 (6), from Col. 2315 onwards of the Official Reports, the present Vice-President of the Executive Council, then Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly, adverted to certain declarations made at a conference and spoke of them in a most aggrieved strain.  He read the message which had been sent to their Majesties the King and Queen.  He read the portion which stated that the members of the Commonwealth assembled in conference 
     join in thankfulness for your Majesty's restoration to health and earnestly hope that your Majesty and Her Majesty&mdash; 
     he then thought fit to interpolate, 
     &ldquo;they forgot about all the little majesties;&rdquo; 
     we had a couple of little majesties present at Ottawa and I do not think they helped the situation very much 
     may be spared for many years to inspire the feelings of love and affection which unite all the peoples of the British Commonwealth of Nations under the Crown. 
     His very delicate comment on that was: &ldquo;What hogwash!&rdquo; Then, later, he continued:&mdash; 
     
        What allegiance do we owe to the British Monarch or his family?  What have they ever done for us?  It is good enough if we do not keep, as I hope as a Christian people we do not keep, bitter hate in our hearts for those responsible for what they were responsible for even in recent times in this country. 
     This is peculiarly apt at the present time:&mdash; 
     And then we are told the Minister of the Free State acted in the name of decent Irish people, decent Irish Catholic people, and was very much concerned in presenting his respectful duty to the King, joining in thankfulness for His Majesty's return to health and earnestly hoping that His Majesty and Her Majesty may be spared for many years to inspire the feelings of love and affection which unite all the peoples of the British Commonwealth of Nations under the Crown. 
     That was described by Deputy O'Kelly as ludicrous.  He continued: 
     Is there any greater lie the Minister could tell than that we are inspired by feelings of love and affection in this regard?  Love and affection for what?  Is it love and affection for the Black-and-Tans?  Is that what inspired Mr. Minister McGilligan to present his dutiful respects to His Majesty in our name? 
     Deputy Moore came to the rescue and said, &ldquo;He was not serious.&rdquo; Deputy O'Kelly continued:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Perhaps he spoke with his tongue in his cheek.  It would not be the first time, and I am sure it will not be the last.&rdquo; 
     Then he turned to the closing address, where the words used that attracted Deputy O'Kelly's criticism were &ldquo;desire, at the conclusion of the Conference, again to present our respectful duty to Your Majesty.  We pray that under Divine Providence Your Majesty and Her Majesty the Queen may long be given health and strength...&rdquo; Deputy O'Kelly's criticism was: 
     I have no objection to their having all the strength and health that they want and that God may give them   as far as their individual persons are concerned.  It is no concern of mine. What I object to is what follows: &ldquo;to preside over the destinies of all the nations of the Commonwealth, and that the assurance of the devotion and affection of your peoples may support you in this great task.&rdquo; 
     This criticism is very pungent towards the Vice-President at this moment:&mdash; 
     We repudiate any right in the Minister to speak for us, and certainly to speak for us so far as we represent and can speak for the vast majority of the people of Ireland. We are not concerned to preserve the authority of the British King over this country.  We are concerned more to get rid of it, so that our people may be able to live in prosperity in the country, a thing which the British King or Queen or Princes will never help them to do. 
     In conclusion he said:&mdash; 
     I think I have said enough about the lying statements, for lying I believe they are, to which the Minister added his name in the name of this Irish Free State, this partitioned part of Ireland.  Probably the Minister believed that 90 per cent. of the people would never hear of that, that they would never bother their heads about it, and that, even if they did, they would realise that he was not sincere. 
     That is harking back to Deputy Moore's assistance. 
     
      
       Deputy Moore was not in the House that day. 
     
     
      
       He is quoted here as having spoken. 
     
     
      
       I am not responsible. 
     
     
      
       I remember the Deputy speaking on that occasion.  At any rate, he is quoted in the Official Report here as having spoken. 
     
     
      
       That is an every-day mistake. 
     
     
      
       Let us leave Deputy Moore out of it.  It is really immaterial. 
     
     
        Mr. O'Kelly continued: 
     Probably the Minister believes that 90 per cent. of the people would never hear of that, that they would never bother their heads about it and that even if they did they would realise that he was not sincere.  That would be the excuse that would be offered by many of the gentlemen on the benches opposite.  They would say &ldquo;Oh, what harm was it to send to the King a declaration of that kind?  Were not the other's signing? We know very well that the Minister spoke with his tongue in his cheek?&rdquo; 
     And then there was this declaration from the man who is now Vice-President of this country and who went to Ottawa:&mdash; 
     On matters of that kind we on this side do not intend to speak with our tongues in our cheeks.  It is not our habit to do so.  We intend to be honest and straight.  We do not intend that anyone should have any misunderstanding of our position on that matter. 
     And, being honest and straight, and not speaking with his tongue in his cheek, that gentleman went to Ottawa this year, as the leader of the Irish Free State Delegation, and he presented his respectful duty to the King and thanked him for the gracious message which had just been read by His Excellency the Governor-General and he joined in thanksgiving 
     For your Majesty's continued health, and earnestly hope that your Majesty and Her Majesty the Queen may long be spared to strengthen the feelings of love and devotion shared by all the peoples of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
     And that is not with his tongue in his cheek.  That is being straight forward and honest and saying what he intends to say.  There is no lying statement about that, and, when the Conference was concluding: 
     The representatives of the Governments of the British Commonwealth, who have been assembled in conference at Ottawa during the past few weeks, desire at the conclusion of the Conference again to present their respectful duty.  They pray   that Divine Providence may continue to give your Majesty and her Majesty the Queen health and strength to preside over the destinies of all the nations of the Commonwealth, and they renew the assurance of devotion and affection of your peoples. 
     Take that in conjunction with what I have read.  The excuse might be made &ldquo;What harm was it to send the King a declaration of that kind&mdash;were not the others doing it; the Minister spoke with his tongue in his cheek&rdquo;&mdash;those are the excuses that Deputy Moore might offer for the Vice-President, but the Vice-President negatived those in advance. 
     On matters of that kind, we on this side do not intend to speak with our tongues in our cheeks.  It is not our habit to do so.  We intend to be honest and straight.  We do not intend that anyone should have any misunderstanding of our position on that matter. 
     And now where are we?  The excuse was made that probably ninety per cent. of the people would never hear of that.  A little bit better than that was done this year.  An attempt was made to convert some section of the people into the belief that no such thing happened at Ottawa.  The  Irish Press  of July 22nd, 1932, had great headlines:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Two outstanding speeches at Ottawa Conference.&rdquo; 
     &ldquo;Free State and South Africa Face Facts.&rdquo; 
     And then there was this heading:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Departure From Custom in Reply to Address.&rdquo; 
     Then we go on:&mdash; 
     A sensation was caused yesterday at the opening of the Imperial Economic Conference at Ottawa, when the first business, after King George's address, was taken.  The usual procedure is to send a declaration of loyalty in reply.  There was doubt as to the attitude of the Free State delegation on this subject, but when the reply was read it was found to contain no definite expression of loyalty. 
     That is not lying, remember. 
     This according to the United   Press, is believed to be the result of previous agreement with Mr. O'Kelly, the head of the Free State Delegation. 
     Now, let the people who believe that nonsense compare the particulars that were previously sent.  I think they all appear in what was sent this year.  Let them publish in the paper, and mark the difference, and see can they stand over this nonsense that there was a departure from custom in reply to the Address, and that, whatever departure there was had come about as a result of a previous agreement with Mr. O'Kelly, the head of the Free State Delegation.  Mr. O'Kelly did not speak with his tongue in his cheek.  Mr. O'Kelly joined, and properly joined, in addresses which, when others joined in them, he described as lying statements, hogwash and things that they were certainly not going to do.  They were going to be honest about all this. 
     The same individual, the Vice-President of this country, has presented to this country for our £2,700, and the Delegation that was sent to Ottawa, this thing&mdash;a trade agreement between the Irish Free State and the Dominion of Canada.  It is noteworthy for only one thing, that it is signed by &ldquo;Sean T. O Ceallaigh, Vice-President of the Executive Council and Minister for Local Government and Public Health, on behalf of His Majesty's Government in the Irish Free State,&rdquo; but for what is in it, for all the value that is in it, he might have saved himself the mental anguish that must have been upon him when he signed in that capacity.  What else did we get from Ottawa?  We are going to have two other Agreements. At least, it is hinted that we are going to have two other Agreements. We have not seen them yet, but we are told by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, whose main occupation is creating unemployment in this country, that this is a valuable Agreement. Unless he is misreported in the Press, he said that the value of the agreement was to be deduced from this fact that, in return for giving Canada certain preferences in   this country, we got the very preferences that Canada gave Great Britain on goods going from Great Britain to Canada.  That is an interesting statement.  It is a valuable trade agreement that we should get for Irish Free State goods going into Canada the very preferences that British goods get going into Canada.  The only conclusion that one can draw from that is that, granted freedom of competition, and no favour for the British in the Canadian market, we can beat the sellers of British goods in some respects.  The peculiar thing is that we cannot do it in our own country.  We have got to get preferences and tariffs of all types against British goods coming into this country, but, when the scene shifts, and it is a question of sending goods manufactured here to Canada, it is a valuable trade agreement that we can enter the Canadian market on terms of equality, not on terms of preference, with Great Britain. 
     There were many comments made about Ottawa before it took place, and while the Conference was on, and even if a delegation from this country had gone to Ottawa this year, the feelings of the British Government not excited in any hostile way against us, I doubt if we could have made any agreement, because it was clear from questions that were put and answered in this House and from discussions we had, that there was no preparation for the Conference. I asked the President himself one day as to what previous arrangements had been come to with, say, producers in the country, and his statement was that he knew that a committee had been set up with a group of Ministers to discuss trade matters.  I asked how long that was in session, and he said he thought a couple of months ago.  It finally turned out to be a month ago but that was all the President knew about it.  We asked if there had been any previous passage of memoranda as between the Irish Free State and any other countries who were to be represented at Ottawa, because we knew that these memoranda were going as between other delegations, and all we knew was that we had been severely snubbed by the British so far as that   side of things was concerned, that we had got some comments or questions from the Australians and that we had close contact with Southern Rhodesia, with which our trade is about £1,300.  An unfortunate delegation was launched across the ocean to meet a hostile British Delegation and, without any preparation, without any serious attempt having been made here to find out from producers in this country whether they thought benefits might accrue to them from an agreement, and without any touch with other delegations. 
     The delegation was foredoomed to failure.  We had to go to the expense of sending all these people across to Ottawa.  It was not too heavy an expense if there was anything to be gained from Ottawa.  We had to go to the trouble of sending these people over, taking them away from their ordinary work at home, in order to attend a Conference absolutely and clearly destined to be a failure so far as this country was concerned.  As the Conference proceeded various articles were published in order to soothe the minds of people here.  There were indications that there was going to be tremendous bickering at Ottawa; there was going to be trouble as between the British and the Canadians and the British and the Australians, and we were told that likely enough there would be nothing coming from Ottawa. If that had happened, our delegation then was not to be blamed for making such a poor show. 
     I have a cutting here from an American newspaper.  It is headed with the phrase: &ldquo;Irish leader holds Ottawa has failed.&rdquo;  The letterpress states &ldquo;Dan Breen, a member of the Irish Dail, who has been in the United States making a survey of a market here for Irish Free State products, sailed yesterday on the Dresden, of the North German Lloyd Line.  His name was withdrawn from the list of those sailing on the liner, but he was found on the ship and asked to comment on the Ottawa Conference.&rdquo;  I do not know whether the Deputy was sent to make a survey of a market for Irish Free State products, but he took   on himself to reply: &ldquo;It has been a complete failure,&rdquo; he replied, &ldquo;England asked for everything and got nothing.&rdquo;  The newspaper article continues &ldquo;Mr. Breen said the tariff issue&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; 
     
      
       What newspaper is the Deputy quoting from? 
     
     
      
       From &ldquo;The New York Times,&rdquo; August 12th. 
     
     
      
       I never gave them an interview. 
     
     
      
       I do not say that the Deputy did give them an interview. This is what the paper says: &ldquo;Mr. Breen said the tariff issue was a Godsend, and the Free State now had the opportunity of developing trade elsewhere than in England.&rdquo;  There should be no criticism of Deputy Breen for saying that. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Breen has definitely denied that he ever said that. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear him saying that. 
     
     
      
       I did not say it. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy denied that he gave an interview. 
     
     
      
       I am denying that what you are reading is true. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that the Deputy gave an interview.  There is just one last comment I would like to make arising out of this.  This is what the paper says: &ldquo;Many Irish-Americans were on the pier to bid him good-bye.&rdquo;  I suppose that is correct? 
     
     
      
       It may be. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;They crowded around him, hailing him as a hero and kissing him on the cheek.&rdquo;  Will the Deputy deny that?  This is the sort of thing that was said, if not by Deputy Breen, certainly by people at home&mdash;&ldquo;Ottawa was going to be a failure.&rdquo;&ldquo;Britain was asking for everything but would give nothing.&rdquo;  We will discuss Ottawa and the trade repercussions of Ottawa on this country in another debate, but at this moment it is valuable to have revealed to the House what the Vice-President said on 16th July, 1931; what he assented to as Vice-President of this country and   as leader of the Irish delegation to Ottawa; what his Press, the Government Press, tried to gloss over by misrepresenting that those things were happening, and what we got for it all &mdash;this trade agreement with Canada. It is valuable to have these things exposed. 
       I do not want myself to be misunderstood in this connection.  I think that the Vice-President of the Irish Free State behaved properly in sending these addresses to the King.  But it is very hard to know what was the policy of the Government at that time.  Why should the unfortunate Vice-President of this country, who always boasted of his faithfulness to certain traditions, have been asked to agree to these things if there was not something in the way of a policy, something that betokened a change of policy from what was happening here at home? Had the Vice-President freedom of action out there?  Had he any instructions when he went there? 
       We were told there were bridge parties at Ottawa.  I am sure there were.  There is nothing to complain about in that respect.  But it is a desperate thing to have a man sitting even at a card table all night and only allowed to say &ldquo;No bid&rdquo; every time a call was put up to him.  It surely is a desperate thing if that is all he is allowed to say when there are any negotiations of a trade type going. There have been new regulations issued in the last couple of days in relation to card games.  There are now penalties for what we call fingering cards in the dummy.  Where was the dummy on this occasion?  Government Buildings?  We were told there were telephone conversations going on across the ocean, conducted in Irish. There was talk about &ldquo;A chara&rdquo; and &ldquo;le meas mor.&rdquo;  I wonder was &ldquo;Le-meas&rdquo; more than &ldquo;A chara?&rdquo; Surely that is not the way in which any sort of decent trade negotiations should be conducted between this and any other country? 
     
     The Vice-President did some good by not proceeding to make at Ottawa the ludicrous spectacle he would have made if he had persisted in his ideas of 16th July, 1931.  What did we get   for it all?&mdash;this agreement with Canada.  On another occasion we will talk about the absence of any agreement with Great Britain.  The British had announced before we went to Ottawa that they could make no agreement, no new agreement, with a country which to their mind had already broken one.  They asked how could they expect that there would be more sanctity for an agreement at Ottawa than for one made in London or in Dublin.  Against that declaration he went out, and with that declaration ringing in his ears the Vice-President accepted certain logical conclusions from his appearance at the Conference. We dragged away a number of very important Civil Servants who could have been very well occupied at Ottawa, but who, because it was clear they were not going to be well occupied there, might better have been left at home to carry on the very valuable work they ordinarily do in their Departments here. 
     I have asked the President about the emissary that he sent to the United States on some secret mission.  We asked previously about that.  We asked if we would get a report on his activities there, what expenditure was connected with his visit, and what results were got from it.  We did not get any word of that to-day.  We are now promised that we will have a debate on that matter on another occasion. 
     There is one other point I want to deal with.  I want to refer to a particular event that took place in Paris, and to ask if the President has given any general ruling to our representatives abroad about interfering in the foreign Press when matters referring to this country are discussed in the foreign Press.  In a French newspaper &ldquo;Figaro,&rdquo; and also in another newspaper under the same editorship, I find that on a particular date the Irish Minister in Paris addresesd a letter to that newspaper.  I want to know if that was officially done.  Would the President answer that question?  Was that letter addressed officially or was the Minister of the Irish Free State acting on his own responsibility?  I am going to assume&mdash;because I know the   Minister is a very capable man&mdash;that he was requested to write this letter and I want to know if we can get any general policy stated arising out of it. 
     This paper had written an article critical of a certain Deputy and our Minister in Paris intervened, asking, as he was entitled to ask under French law, that his reply should be given the same space and the same importance in its page as the previous communication had been given.  Our Minister took up the cudgels on behalf of the Deputy who had been attacked, describing his life as far as he knew it, negatived certain things stated about that Deputy, and in particular, set out to disprove that that Deputy had any communication with a financial group which this paper had alleged were organised for the spread of Communism in the world.  The Minister's letter decided to pass a comment, and did pass a comment that the Deputy's patriotism was beyond all doubt. 
     Now, two things arise from this. Can we take it that our foreign Ministers have got orders that on every occasion&mdash;and let me confine it to one class&mdash;Deputies are criticised in the foreign Press they are to reply.  Are they going to say on all occasions that their patriotism is beyond question? Are they going to give a resume of the lives of Deputies?  Where are they to get these details?  Was the particular Deputy consulted by the President, or by his officials before the Irish Minister was asked to write the letter? If our foreign Ministers have to take up the cudgels when any Deputy is attacked, or his patriotism called into question, they are going to have a busier time than heretofore.  It has been done on one occasion.  Are we to take it that this is a very exceptional case?  What makes the case exceptional or where is the line to be drawn? 
     A second thing arises from the letter. It is surely undesirable that Ministers of this country abroad should engage in newspaper controversy at all, and it is particularly undesirable that they should engage in such controversy if they cannot carry it on to the end.  What happened in this case?   Criticism was passed and our Minister intervened.  He wrote a letter in which, as I stated, was the striking phrase that a particular Deputy's patriotism was beyond question.  The newspaper replied, but the Minister did not reply again.  Must we take it that the Minister was silenced at the second reply of the newspaper?  I do not think that would follow in the ordinary course.  An inevitable and an immediate conclusion would be drawn. That is the conclusion many people will draw.  Unless our Ministers are going to be asked, once they enter into correspondence of this type, to continue it to the bitter end, until the editor of the paper ends the discussion, then we are putting ourselves in an unfavourable position by engaging in such controversy at all.  May I say that, as a general rule, in any controversy with a newspaper, the newspaper always has the vantage point. 
     At any rate the point in question, and upon which the whole article had been written, was whether or not a particular Deputy had touch with a certain organisation, the alleged purpose of which was to spread Communism in all countries.  The implication, of course, was that that Deputy was being used as an agent for the spread of Communistic activities in this country.  After the first letter, Count O'Kelly replied.  The newspaper which published the reply published at the same time another letter, and to that our Minister has not yet replied.  It stated that, as far as this gentleman's patriotism was concerned&mdash;about which the Minister had certified&mdash;they accepted that he had not touch with Communism, but said that they would go a step further. They stated: &ldquo;Without doubt he would have in his capacity as Minister for the Irish Free State access to the police archives of Dublin.&rdquo;  They continued: &ldquo;We shall be surprised if he does not find there a letter of recent enough date which might change his opinion of the Irish patriotism of this particular Deputy.&rdquo;  He says: &ldquo;This concerns a letter addressed by the latter to Mr. Sean Dowling, who is described as one of the chiefs of the Communist Party in Ireland.&rdquo;  They give the letter:&mdash; 
     
        Dail Eireann, Leinster House, 
     Dublin. 
     26th September, 1931. 
     Mr. Sean Dowling, 
     4, Harbour Row, Cobh, Cork. 
     My dear Sean, 
     I have just returned from a visit to London and amongst the different visits which I paid was one to the Russian Consul on the subject of the individuals in whom you were interested. They had not received the letters previously sent to them but were in possession of my previous correspondence in the matter. The Consul promised faithfully that he would submit this question immediately to Moscow and would ask that it should be examined right away.  This is only to inform you that I have not lost sight of that matter.  Hoping you are well.... 
     That purports to be the letter which the newspaper says can be got in the police archives. 
     
      
       What is the date of the newspaper? 
     
     
      
       May 28th, 1932. 
     
     
      
       And the date of the letter? 
     
     
      
       26th September, 1931.  Our Minister has not replied to the newspaper.  Surely it is realised that once we engage in a controversy of this sort, unless we are prepared to continue it to the end, people may come to wrong conclusions if we give it up at a stage.  The case seems to have gone by the board.  What then was the use of having intervened at all?  Is there going to be any general rule arising out of this?  Are we to take it as a standing rule that it is our Ministers' duty to reply&mdash;I confine it to a limited class&mdash;if any member of the Oireachtas is attacked in the foreign Press?  If he is to reply, where is he to get the details on which he will found his reply?  Is it by touch with the individuals attacked?  Has it been done in this case?  Where does he get the statement as to the individual's patriotism?  That is a very important question.  Is it from that individual himself?  And where does   this correspondence end?  I hope the President will give us some information on these matters.  If the President has not seen that paper I am prepared to give him a copy.  I am assuming that it was on the instructions of the Government that our Minister in Paris acted as he did.  I am assuming that our Minister in Paris was correct, and that he would not have written that unless he had orders to do it.  I want to know who gave him the orders, and if the gist of that letter was sent from here and why a further reply was not sent to the retort which the French newspaper made? 
       These are matters which I decided to raise upon this Vote.  The Ottawa Conference is too serious a matter to be discussed in detail on an Estimate like this.  It will arise later.  All I thought fit to raise was the clear illpreparation and the clear indications given to us that our journey to Ottawa was going to be unsuccessful, and to point out some of the things that happened there in order to contrast them with the absence of gain to this country from anything that happened there; to say how much we have lost and how the opportunity possibly of a nation's lifetime has been forfeited. These are matters that we will come to discuss later. 
     
     But even in what I have raised there do arise one or two questions.  In what position was the Irish delegation that went to Ottawa this year? Leaving aside the results gained or not gained, what was the position of the Irish delegation that went to Ottawa this year?  Had they any responsibility? Were they tied to the telephone the whole time?  Had they any general instructions given to them and if so can these instructions be declared?  Sometimes it is not possible and sometimes it is not desirable to do so, but is it possible to declare what the instructions were on this occasion?  Is it possible to declare them with regard to these declarations that were made by the Vice-President and if he had the freedom to make those declarations?  If so, can that policy of speaking in that way at Ottawa be reconciled at all with some of the things that are happening here at home?  And if there was that   change of policy as denoted by these addresses made at Ottawa can we be told how far is that change likely to go?  There would be a great deal of comfort got by people in this country if we could have an answer to that question at the moment on these things.  These things can be answered leaving aside the discussion of what might or might not have been obtained. 
     On the other questions I have raised a very precise answer could be got from the Minister for External Affairs regarding the instructions given to Ministers abroad with regard to intervention in the Press and whether it is considered a desirable thing generally or ever to enter into a controversy with newspapers because they happen to criticise in a general way a Deputy of this House.  If it is regarded as undesirable to intervene generally can we be told what was the particular item that marked out this criticism as exceptional and that called for this question?  I should like to ask as a last question from the President has this ever happened before?  Is it known to him in the records of our Department that any of our Ministers was ever asked to intervene and did intervene in a foreign newspaper in connection with an attack made on a Deputy here?  What was the exceptional nature of this criticism that drew our foreign Minister into the Press? 
     
      
       I rise for a moment to ask the President to reconsider his decision not to give us any information about Mr. O'Mara's visit to America, and about the prospects for improving the market for Irish products in the United States.  It seems to me that we ought not to be asked to sanction the expenditure of £2,500 for the expenses of a Consul in Chicago without being told something to justify us in that expenditure at a moment when economy is so vital to us.  As we can only afford £1,000 a year as salary for the Minister for Finance, it seems to me that some solid reasons ought to be given for spending £2,500 on a Consul at Chicago. 
     
     
      
       There have not been very many serious questions raised on this Estimate.  Deputy MacDermot   asked what we want a Consul in Chicago for.  If he knew America he would understand why.  Not merely would it be well for us to have a Consul in Chicago, but it would be also a very good thing for us &mdash;and I am considering the matter&mdash; to have one in San Francisco.  If the Deputy listened to my statement he would have learned from it that we got in fees this year £40,000, fees which were gathered by our representatives abroad in connection with passport visas and so on.  The United States, as regards our representatives, is in a very peculiar position.  We have more visitors here from the United States and there are more of our nationals in the United States who are interested either in coming here or in other matters concerned with this country than probably in any other country. To my mind it is going to be not a matter of expense but in the long run a matter of direct profit, even from the monetary point of view, to this State to have that Consular staff at Chicago. I think that is all that it is necessary to say about it. 
     
     
      
       Do we get £40,000 in visa fees at the moment? 
     
     
      
       My estimate was £40,000. 
     
     
      
       Does not a lot of that come from Chicago at the moment? 
     
     
      
       Yes, some of it does and some of it does not.  There are fees that are going elsewhere which could be collected by our representatives in Chicago if they were there. 
     
     
      
       Is not the net point of Deputy MacDermot's question how much extra are we to get from the establishment of an office in Chicago? 
     
     
      
       Nobody knows better than the Deputy that it is not possible to estimate how much extra these would be, but I am quite satisfied, knowing Chicago and San Francisco, that if we had representatives there the money we would get in fees in these two places would more than cover the cost. 
     
     The next point that has been raised is the question of what instructions   are given to our representatives abroad with regard to replying to attacks upon Irish citizens here.  No instructions are given as a general rule. It is their duty as representatives to defend the honour of this State and of our people and, in so far as they can manage it, to prevent any foreign people getting a wrong impression by misrepresentations.  In the case that the Deputy has mentioned, what seemed to me to be an infamous libel, not merely on an individual&mdash;though he was made the centre of it&mdash;but on the whole Republican movement, was involved.  The whole country here as a result of that article was being libelled.  The Deputy knows that there is no real method of getting after a libel in the French Press, that no individual has an effective means of defending himself.  In that particular case, as it was not merely a Deputy of this House that was libelled, but the whole nation and the whole movement, I gave instructions that the facts should be put before the French people in that letter, and I equally gave instructions knowing, as the Deputy has remarked, that the editor of a newspaper has generally the last word, that when the facts were stated authoritatively by a representative of our people that the matter should cease at that point: that there was not to be a continued Press controversy. 
     These are the facts with reference to the case that the Deputy has mentioned. I deem it the duty of our representatives abroad to defend the national reputation and the national honour to the best of their ability and, if they do not ordinarily, and should not ordinarily, communicate to the Press by way of letter, it would be their duty to communicate with us and ask for instructions as to whether statements which they knew and believed to be false, and which were damaging, should not be corrected. That happened in this case, and I take full responsibility for what was done. 
     The next thing is the Ottawa Conference. At the end of his statement the Deputy told us of all the might have beens: that this country may have lost something that it would be worth a generation to work for, or   something of that sort.  Suppose that the delegation had not gone, I am sure we would have heard something of the very same type of speech from the Deputy. 
     
      
       A good deal worse. 
     
     
      
       If that is so&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       It should have gone, but it should have got results. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy very often did not get results. 
     
     
      
       I should like to know when. 
     
     
      
       I think if we looked up the files a little bit we would find some cases where he did not get results. The files, I think, would reveal cases where the Deputy tried to do things and where he did not succeed. 
     
     
      
       I like to have references always. 
     
     
      
       I think it is a bad practice to take files and quote&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Hand them over to a Minister who does not consider that. 
     
     
      
       I think it is a bad practice, in any case, to take files and quote from them, and if it can be avoided I think it ought not to be done.  But I think the Deputy himself will not deny that he tried to get results and did not get them.  It is inevitable. Every time you try to do a thing you cannot guarantee, in advance, that you will succeed.  That is why you say &ldquo;Try, try, try again.&rdquo; Our delegation went to Ottawa because it was not Britain alone that was being represented.  At Ottawa other countries, besides Britain, were represented, and while I am quite willing to admit that trade relations with other countries were of far less importance than the relations with Britain, at the same time if there was nothing else in it but to meet the representatives of these countries and see what trade relations could be built up, it would have been worth the while of our delegation to go.  The expense, as the Deputy himself has admitted, has relatively been inconsiderable. 
     
     
        I am not going to admit either that the Civil Servants who were on that mission were not engaged during the time, nor am I going to admit that there was no preparation in advance, for there was.  The direct preparation that might have been possible if Britain had been prepared from the start to indicate that she was going to contemplate seriously a trade agreement with us&mdash;that sort of preparation perhaps did not take place.  But, as far as our delegation was concerned, and as far as Irish statistics and information from this side were necessary for that preparation, the statistics were there and they were examined. The preparation was done, and is available for the various Departments at any time that it may be necessary.  Therefore, the Government had to decide whether the delegation should go or should not go.  It decided to go, and now we have got the principal critic admitting himself that the Government was wise in sending the deputation. 
     The next point is: To what extent the delegation were free?  The delegation, like most delegations going on business of that sort, got their instructions. I am not going to give the details of these instructions.  It is not necessary.  They had adequate powers to do their work, and with safeguards that were considered to be valuable. Within these instructions the delegation acted, and acted with credit to themselves and with credit to the country, is my opinion. 
     Before they went the fact that addresses of the sort referred to by the Deputy would, in all probability, be presented, was known and the delegation was sent by the Government in full knowledge of that fact.  Play has been made by the Deputy with a statement that appeared in the Irish papers that the Ottawa Conference was likely to be a failure.  If the Deputy reads the English papers, the Canadian papers, the American papers, the South African or Australian papers, he will find that in these papers, no less than in the Irish papers, it was said for a considerable period that the Ottawa Conference was going to be a failure from   the point of view of bringing about valuable trade agreements between Britain and Canada.  Why is it that the Irish newspapers have been singled out for attack?  It is common knowledge, certainly I am sure it is within the knowledge of the Deputy, that there was a constant criticism in British newspapers even, of the Ottawa Conference during the period until almost at the last moment.  The &ldquo;Irish Press,&rdquo; in particular, has been attacked because it published a certain statement, which the Deputy, when reading, had before him&mdash;as coming from the United Press.  The United Press, as the Deputy knows, is a news agency, and the &ldquo;Irish press&rdquo; simply published what it got from a world news agency.  I am perfectly certain that other newspapers, no less than the &ldquo;Irish Press,&rdquo; carried the same news. 
     
      
       I would like to see them. 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly certain that I saw them. 
     
     
      
       No&mdash;not that it had been done at the request of Mr. O'Kelly. 
     
     
      
       I doubt that very much. 
     
     
      
       I am certain of it. 
     
     
      
       My impression is that I saw it in other papers&mdash;the very same story carried from one of the world's agencies.  Of course, the Deputy wants to pretend that there was some deliberate purpose behind that&mdash;the same sort of thing that he wanted to bring out the other day when he asked whether a certain letter of credence was sent to the King or not.  We took office here as the result of the Treaty position, as one of the co-equal States of the British Commonwealth. We went to the people and asked to be returned on that platform. We gave to the people a certain promise. We have kept that promise faithfully, and we mean to keep it faithfully.  Our political objectives are known to the people, but as long as we are here under the mandate which we have got, we propose to act in accordance   with that mandate.  The whole of our actions since we came here are consistent with that mandate and we are not attempting to deny to anybody any consequence of any action of ours that is necessarily to flow from the fact that we came here and took office under these conditions. 
       I do not see, therefore, what the Deputy has been driving at.  He thinks probably that we are not prepared to take full public responsibility for that course.  We did it before the election. We have been doing it since the election, and we will continue to do it until we get another mandate from the Irish people.  So that everything that necessarily flows from our policy we stand over it; but within that mandate we propose to do everything we can in the interest of greater freedom for the people and in the interest of greater prosperity for our people.  When we went to Canada&mdash;to Ottawa&mdash;we went there knowing what the attitude of the British was.  What does the Deputy want us to do?  To surrender, I take it, our right to retain the Land Annuities? 
     
     
      
       No, to be honest. 
     
     
      
       To surrender our right to advance, step by step, with Canada.  When the oath question was here, we made it quite clear that we believed that that oath could be removed within the Treaty and within the present Constitutional position, without asking permission from Britain or from anybody else, and we proceeded to remove it.  In a similar way, we believe we are entitled to retain the Land Annuities, and we mean to do it. What does the Deputy want? 
     
     
      
       To be honest. 
     
     
      
       No, that is not what he wants. 
     
     
      
       To be honest. 
     
     
      
       In what regard? 
     
     
      
       With regard to these declarations. 
     
     
      
       Very well, he wants us to be honest.  We are honest. Deputy O'Kelly was honest, and his honesty was recognised in Ottawa. 
     
     
     
      
       He has two types of honesty. 
     
     
      
       The trouble with the Deputy is that he has neither. 
     
     
      
       You should be a good judge! 
     
     
      
       As I say, what the Deputy wants is that we should surrender our right to do away with tests which we believe are against the internal peace of the country, and against the best interests of our people, that we should surrender moneys that belong to us in the hope of getting from Britain some trade agreement or other.  That is not our position.  We are quite frank and honest about it.  Far from being worthy of blame in any regard for sending the delegation to Ottawa, the Government could do nothing else than send that delegation, unless it was going to be misunderstood and misrepresented still more than the Deputy has tried to misrepresent the position now.  I am surprised that there has been nothing more of substance in the remarks the Deputy made.  For a number of years, he was Minister for External Affairs.  This is his first time in opposition dealing with this Estimate.  He knew the internal working of the Department, and I expected that we would have had something more constructive in the way of criticism than what we have listened to to-day. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of this matter of the article in the &ldquo;Figaro,&rdquo; do I take it that the President issued instructions to the Irish Free State representative in Paris to contradict this infamous libel on the Irish people? When this letter was written on September 26th, 1931, did the President inquire as to whether or not that letter was bona fide, because it is alleged to have been written on the stationery of this House. 
     
     
      
       What letter is the Deputy referring to? 
     
     
      
       The letter dated September 26th, 1931. 
     
     
      
       Had the president   that letter before him when he got the other letter published in the &ldquo;Figaro&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       I think it was in the &ldquo;Figaro&rdquo; after Count O'Kelly had written. 
     
     
      
       The President issued instructions that the criticism of a particular Deputy should be answered? 
     
     
      
       Because in my own knowledge they were libellous and false statements. 
     
     
      
       Did that Deputy reveal his correspondence to the President, and, if not, did not that Deputy mislead his President? 
     
     
      
       I made all the inquiries I thought necessary to arrive at certain conclusions.  I made first hand inquiries from the Deputy in question before I gave the instructions.  I satisfied myself, and the other letter did not arise until the reply had appeared. 
     
     
      
       It had been written on September 26th. 
     
     
      
       The letter did not come to my knowledge.  There is no reference whatever to any such thing in the first article and I am perfectly certain that the second also if examined home can be proved to be absolutely harmless and would be only used by those who wished to misrepresent both the Deputy in question and also Republican activities in this country. 
     
     
      
       The President decided to answer the criticism in a French newspaper.  He consulted that Deputy and he says the Deputy was quite frank with him.  Now there is a letter alleged to be from that Deputy. His answer is that if that is examined it will be found to be harmless.  Did the Deputy in question show it to the President, and if so, did he show it to be harmless?  Did it emerge at all? I say if it did not emerge at all then the Deputy was not frank with his own President. 
     
     
      
       I would not agree for one moment with the conclusions that the Deputy has drawn.  Any matter   that I asked the Deputy any question about he answered me frankly and fully.  I do not know whether, as a matter of fact, the letter is in existence or not, but suppose it is, does the Deputy hold that because some letter which he had not adverted to was not brought to my notice at that time that the Deputy would necessarily be deceiving me?  I do not see what that particular letter had to do with the whole position, and if I were asked whether or not the Deputy had, by not showing me that letter, deceived me, I would have to ask myself how far that was relevant, how far would it naturally occur to the Deputy's mind immediately the other question was raised.  As I say, from what I have heard of the letter, I regard it as of no consequence whatever, and as not in any way relating to the original charges, so that to the Deputy I definitely answer that instead of... 
     
     
      
       On that point, what was the charge?  Relations with Russia&mdash;relations with Moscow&mdash;Communism. 
     
     
      
       Very much more than that, as the Deputy well knows. 
     
     
      
       That was in it. That was in it, and that was part of the denial Count O'Kelly put up, and after that denial is put up we find a paper is able to quote a letter from the Deputy to a man in Cork, about his visit to the Russian Consul in London, referring to previous letters and stating that the Consul had promised to take up the matter immediately with Moscow.  Is that relevant to public criticism of this Deputy&mdash;that he had some relations with Moscow? Surely it is relevant.  However, that matter can remain. 
     
     There are two points raised on the President's rejoinder.  The &ldquo;Irish Press,&rdquo; that is to say the newspaper called the &ldquo;Irish Press,&rdquo; quoted a phrase about Ottawa.  It said that by agreement with Mr. O'Kelly the customary declaration of loyalty to the King was left out.  I repeat, the newspaper called the &ldquo;Irish Press&rdquo; published a comment about Ottawa to the effect that the usual declaration of loyalty at the opening of a conference   like the conference at Ottawa was left out, and that it was left out at the request of Mr. O'Kelly.  Now the President's answer to that is silence on whether it is a fact that the customary declaration of loyalty was left out; silence also on whether it is a fact or not that there was a customary declaration of loyalty previously, and, if there was no one at this time, whether the omission was due to the Irish delegation.  The only point on which he does answer is he said that the quotation, which I myself said had emerged, came from the United Press. 
     
      
       Read the quotation. 
     
     
      
       I have, unfortunately, given it away, but I admit it was from the United Press.  I wanted to ask this&mdash;what is the United Press? Does the President, as a newspaper man, know?  Is it the British United Press, and why was the word &ldquo;British&rdquo; dropped? 
     
     
      
       There is a United Press of America. 
     
     
      
       Was it the United Press of America or was it the British United Press? 
     
     
      
       The two are associated companies.  They are really one. 
     
     
      
       And the hated word &ldquo;British&rdquo; was left out.  But that hated word &ldquo;British&rdquo; was not so hated by the people whose activities had been reported at Ottawa, because we have now a declaration from the President that he accepts responsibility for what his Vice-President did in accepting those resolutions that were proposed at the beginning and at the close of the Ottawa Conference.  I am very glad that he accepts responsibility for them, but he has not explained the thing I asked him to explain.  On the 16th July, 1931, Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly, as he then was, said: &ldquo;We are not going to speak with our tongues in our cheeks at any of those conferences.  It is not our habit to do so.  We intend to be honest and straight.  We do not intend that anyone   should have any misunderstanding of our position in that matter.&rdquo;  Now, he was criticising a resolution which asked that Divine Providence might give their Majesties health and strength &ldquo;to preside over the destinies of all the nations of the Commonwealth, and that the assurance of the devotion and affection of your peoples may support you in this great task.&rdquo; Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly, on the 16th July, 1931, objected to that.  He called it a lying statement, and he said he was not going to speak with his tongue in his cheek, he was going to be honest, as was his habit, and he was not going to have any misunderstanding as to his position.  Then he went to Ottawa, and stood up there and accepted&mdash;and the President says he accepts responsibility for this&mdash;the same statement which was a lie on the 16th July, 1931.  What is the explanation? 
       Previously, when the same declaration, to which the Minister for Industry and Commerce also agreed at Ottawa, was made, he accepted it and a good thing that he did, but he was in this House and joined in the debate in which Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly, on 16th July, 1931, called this declaration &ldquo;hogwash.&rdquo;  Why the difference?  Did the then Deputy Lemass agree with the then Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly in condemning it in this way?  We were told that the Minister of the Irish Free State acted in the name of the decent Irish people in presenting his respectful duty to the King, joining in the thankfulness for His Majesty's restoration to health, and earnestly hoping &ldquo;that your Majesty and Her Majesty may be spared for many years to inspire the feelings of love and affection which unite all the peoples of the British Commonwealth of Nations under the Crown.&rdquo; 
     
     And then the Minister for Industry and Commerce, being present at Ottawa, accepted this: &ldquo;Desire to present their respectful duty to the King.  They join in thankfulness for Your Majesty's restoration to health and earnestly hope that Your Majesty and Her Majesty may be spared for many years to inspire the feelings of love and affection which unite all the peoples of the British Commonwealth   of Nations.&rdquo; That was the opening. The Minister for Industry and Commerce was also present at the end of the Conference and he accepted this: &ldquo;To His Majesty the King, Emperor of India.  We, the Prime Ministers and Representatives of the Governments of the British Commonwealth of Nations, who have been assembled during the past few weeks, desire, at the conclusion of the Conference, again to present our respectful duty to Your Majesty.&rdquo;  Imagine Deputy Lemass, as a Deputy, on the 16th July, 1931, saying that.  He went to Ottawa to be honest about all this.  It continues: &ldquo;We pray that Divine Providence may continue to give to Your Majesty and to Her Majesty, the Queen, health and strength to preside over the destinies of all the Nations of the Commonwealth, and that the assurance of the devotion and affection of your peoples may support you in this great task.&rdquo; 
     
      
       That is why they are getting such good health. 
     
     
      
       What is the difference between the 16th July and now? 
     
     
      
       Will you give us that again, Deputy McGilligan? 
     
     
      
       This matter will arise again on the Appropriation Bill if the Deputy is interested.  Is it not time we did know an honest view about this?  Any time I went to these Conferences I accepted declarations of that kind and I was not speaking with my tongue in my cheek.  I knew the responsibility of the contract this country had taken on when it joined certain associations and it was going to live up to them; but we have people who now represent themselves in this country as a Government, objecting that way on the 16th July and then a little more than a year later without tremor or scruple going back on all that.  The Minister for Industry and Commerce is now accepting something which is not Irish, which a Catholic should not accept&mdash;is he being honest or dishonest?  I do not see there is any word for it but dishonest conduct. So long as Deputies cannot make up their minds where they are going to   stand politically, is there any explanation that can be offered in this House on an occasion when it should be offered that a statement which was a lie and a dishonest thing and something which is not Irish and for which a Catholic should not stand for in July, 1931, could be stood for by people who expressed themselves as going to be honest, it was their habit to be honest, and they were going to have no misunderstandings about their position, and not going to speak with their tongues in their cheeks. 
     
     The President said he gave instructions to the delegation before they left, or did he find it as usual with his instructions that they did not carry out the mind he thought he had when they left and then there had to be amendments and alterations sent across the ocean by long distance telephone. What position did our delegation find themselves in if they had advanced, as rumour certainly has it they did advance, to some point of fraternisation with the British delegation with a view to a trade agreement, what position did they find themselves in if they suddenly found that fraternisation had suddenly to stop because of a message from this side?  The President accepts full responsibility for all that happened out there.  The President has answered as if I had criticised the sending of this delegation.  I never did.  But what I do criticise is the sending of such a delegation in such an unprepared way when it was certain no results could come of it, and even if it was not certain no results could come of it I think it is proper to criticise the delegation now on the results that have been obtained.  I am told frequently I attended Conferences or Delegations, or that the late Government attended them without gaining any results.  I would like the President to point out any Conference which we attended so barren of result as the Ottawa Conference, and so entirely devoid of material results to this country.  We may have gone to Conferences over and over again with a number of aims in view and not succeeded in them but there was never a Conference we came away from so completely empty handed as the unfortunates   did who were sent across the ocean. 
     
      
       You came away minus. 
     
     
      
       That has got to be proved.  We know the gifts the Minister brought back and how dangerous they are to the country. 
     
     
      
       Might I interrupt at this stage? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy does not want to give way I cannot compel him to. 
     
     
      
       If Deputy McGilligan continues in this strain he will absorb all the time of the House. 
     
     
      
       Yes I would like to hear the Deputy explain. 
     
     
      
       The mysterious person referred to in this foreign paper, as most of the Deputies happen to know, is myself.  I want to make a short explanation and I will leave the judgment fall on the shoulders of Deputy McGilligan or myself, not only by this House but by the Editor of that paper who was fed with the most libellous lies of this country and of myself from this City of Dublin.  The Deputy did not read the full article or the series of articles, but he did refer to a letter.  I should like, first of all, to ask if the Deputy knows who it was sent what purported to be a letter written by me to the Editor of that paper, and if he is further aware whether a certain friend of the Deputy's had to sever his connection with a certain paper in Dublin because the proprietors of that paper refused to publish this same letter without having proof of its authenticity.  I want to refer to the letter.  The Deputy is well aware that after the passing of the Safety Bill a great number of raids took place, and in the raiding of the residence of Mr. Sean Dowling, of Cobh, this particular letter addressed by me to Mr. Dowling was found.  I should like to know was it the Minister then or his colleagues then who took a copy, or what purported to be a copy, of that letter, to try and make use of it for electioneering purposes, or how did it become public if it was a letter that was captured in a raid?   Now the letter itself, as the Deputy well knows, is perfectly harmless, and I think the Deputy himself, in his administration of the Department of External Affairs, had correspondence with a person who was legitimately entitled to live in London, namely, the Russian Consul.  My letter arrived in this way: at that particular time a number of mechanics, late employees of Ford's, were unemployed and in great distress in Cork, and this Mr. Dowling asked me to write to the Russian Consul and find out if work could be made available for these men and, if work was made available, whether they could be permitted to send home remittances to their starving families before their visas would be got through the Department of External Affairs to allow them to seek employment elsewhere.  A list of the names was sent to the Russian Consul, and my letter to Mr. Dowling followed a visit I paid to the Russian Consul asking him if he had any reply to make, and he said he had not received the list of names but when received he would send them on to Russia to find out if they would be given employment.  If that is the letter, I can test the accuracy of it, because if it is produced I do not think it reads exactly as was read by the Deputy.  There are one or two words changed here and there, I do not say by the Deputy, but I certainly say if the Deputy has seen the original letter&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I have not. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;then if the Deputy asks to see the original letter he will find that it does not read exactly as he has read what purports to be the letter. I should like to know if the Deputy knows who fed the Editor of the &ldquo;Figaro,&rdquo; and &ldquo;L'Ami du Peuple&rdquo; with all this filth that was supposed to be accurate information about this country and about persons in it.  Is the Deputy aware that a friend of his own is one of the persons, and does he take responsibility for that person having access&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Who are you speaking of? 
     
     
      
       I will not mention the man's name in the House, he is not   here.  He was referred to on previous occasions here.  If I am going to be adjudged as a very undesirable or bad person because I tried to secure some alleviation of distress of my fellowcitizens in this country, then, I accept the judgment not only of persons in this country, but also of the editor of that particular paper. 
     
     
      
       May we take it from Deputy Briscoe that in his discussion with the Russian Consul in London he was acting absolutely on his own? 
     
     
      
       Absolutely, as a Deputy of this House who was trying to secure some alleviation of the distress of other fellow-citizens who were up against a great difficulty. 
     
     
      
       Citizens from Cork. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy should be asked to state if the proposal he was discussing with the Soviet Consul was to send a number of Cork workmen to earn their living in Soviet Russia. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy wants me to make it perfectly clear I shall do so. Ford's in Cork had for a number of years given extensive employment to Cork people in the manufacture of tractors which were sent to Russia.  I do not know whether that could be said to be Communism on the part of the previous Government.  This business ceased almost, at one time.  These men became unemployed, and they were in great distress.  They organised to find out if they could not be given employment in Ford's factory in Russia.  The only arrangement under which they would agree to go was that they would be allowed to send home remittances to keep their starving families in Cork.  On that basis I spoke to the Russian Consul when he came over here to open up a branch of the R.O.P., which he did with the consent of the late Minister for Industry and Commerce, who I think could not be accused of being too favourable to him.  The Deputy referred to the &ldquo;Catholic Mind.&rdquo;  I wonder if his mind is a purely Catholic mind. 
     
     
      
       This is   a personal explanation.  We are not discussing the mind of anybody. 
     
     
      
       All I can do is to give the actual facts. 
     
     
      
       He is talking about a newspaper. 
     
     
      
       I think he is not. 
     
     
      
       These are the absolute and accurate facts.  As regards the reference that the President would have been very anxious to find out or that he might have been deceived by not having been informed, if the Deputy read the first article in the paper he would know that no suggestion of this kind could enter anybody's mind. In the second place, perhaps the Deputy would tell us how this Editor got the letter.  Who got it from the police files? 
     
     
      
       Who gave it to whom? 
     
     
      
       Who gave it to the Editor of the French paper?  Who gave it to the gentleman who tried to have it published here? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy is suggesting that I gave this letter to anybody or that I know anything about who gave it, I do not. 
     
     
      
       It was in the custody of your Government. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the statements of Deputy Briscoe, the President said he was made aware of all relevant facts, and in the light of these facts instructed our Minister in France to take action.  I doubt very much if the President was aware that Deputy Briscoe&mdash;with the best possible intentions, no doubt&mdash;was making arrangements for Cork men to go to earn their living in Soviet Russia.  I doubt very much if the President of the Executive Council would approve of an organisation for exporting Cork workmen to Soviet Russia to earn their living.  I think it would be well if the President would modify what he has already said and let the House know if that course met with his approval, because I can scarcely believe it would. 
     
     
     
      
       Perhaps I would be the one Deputy, apart from Deputy Anthony, who would be most in touch with Ford's workers in Cork.  I never heard that any Cork workers employed in Ford's ever wanted to go to Russia. This is the first time I heard it. 
     
     
      
       This man Sean Dowling is a Cork workman. 
     
     
      
       Did he want to go to Russia? 
     
     
      
       No, no. 
     
     
      
       Is the President going to refer to the matter of which I have just spoken? 
     
     
      
       If further questions are going to be asked, I said that the Deputy himself did not see the first article.  I said at the time the first article of this series&mdash;I do not know whether it could be called a series&mdash; appeared certain charges were made which seemed to indicate that the Republican movement had been financed by money from Russia, not to-day or yesterday, but in the past, and that I knew the sources and I knew the accounts to which the moneys were applied and the sources from which they came.  At that early time Deputy Briscoe was also assisting the Republican movement and had got commissions from the late Michael Collins and others to do certain things.  In order to satisfy myself as to the effect of these particular transactions I asked Deputy Briscoe about them.  These were the relevant facts for the first issue.  It has nothing to do with this letter.  This letter did not appear for a long time afterwards.  I said that any information I asked of Deputy Briscoe he gave it to me fully and frankly in regard to anything that had reference to the first article.  This occurred at a latter stage.  I made up my mind that it would not be right for our Minister to continue correspondence with the Editor of the paper who apparently was going to deal with an official file in the same manner as if some private person had written him a letter.  I did not think the matter was worthy of a further letter, when the first explanations that would have   been convincing and satisfactory to any fair-minded person, were not accepted.  Then he received this letter, but I had already decided when I saw the conduct of the Editor that our Minister would not be asked to deal with it any more.  I am asked what would have been my view on the matter if it came before me.  I know that Deputy Briscoe from my own personal knowledge has interested himself more than any other Deputy I know in trying to secure work for people who are out of work. 
     
     
      
       In Russia. 
     
     
      
       It was an admirable plan so long as the work was at home. 
     
     
      
       I am not saying that if I were asked I would have given my approval.  I do say this, and I think it is only fair to Deputy Briscoe, that there is probably no other Deputy in the House who tries to get work for so many people. 
     
     
      
       Every Deputy does. 
     
     
      
       No other Deputy does.  Other Deputies do not pay anything like the attention that Deputy Briscoe pays to people out of work, and in trying to put them into work. 
     
     
      
       To bring foreigners here to get work. 
     
     
      
       As to what happened in this particular case I know nothing. This is the first time I have heard a full explanation of it.  I felt confident before I heard the explanation that the meaning and the interpretation which those who are opposed to Deputy Briscoe would try to take out of the letter is part of an infamous campaign against him, and I knew what they would want to read into that letter. If I had been asked I would have seen the objection which Deputy Dillon had in his mind to such a course.  I was not asked, but I do say that if Deputy Briscoe made a mistake, the mistake he made was the mistake of heart, of being anxious to get other people who wanted work, work anywhere&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Too soft. 
     
     
      
       Yes, possibly he was   too soft, and I wish that a number of other Deputies in the House were as soft-hearted as he is in regard to getting work for people who are out of work.  I feel it to be my duty to say that here publicly, because I have for a number of years been in close touch with the work that Deputy Briscoe is doing from morning until night.  I say that as far as doing his work in that particular way is concerned he is a model Deputy for the House. 
     
     
      
       There are two or three comments that ought to be made arising out of the intervention of Deputy Briscoe.  There is enough material in them surely for the President to make another reply to &ldquo;Figaro.&rdquo; There is enough material if he merely repeats what he said here, if he would not be accused of doing, what in the foreign press he is accused of doing here, slighting everybody else because he quoted that Deputy's answer and got him into a bit of a mess almost as bad in the process.  The Deputy is held up here to the public as a man who has done more for the unemployed than any other Deputy. Apparently Deputy Norton is to be replaced as leader of the Labour Party. I never did think he would last long. 
     
     
      
       You nearly came to an end at the last election. 
     
     
      
       I do not understand that. 
     
     
      
       Look at your poll at the last election. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to compare that with what the Deputy received. 
     
     
      
       The intelligentsia! 
     
     
      
       I agree that those who elected Deputy Davin were the intelligentsia. 
     
     
      
       I was elected at five or six different elections. 
     
     
      
       Scorn is cast upon everybody else with regard to the unemployed because Deputy Briscoe has been criticised. 
     
     
     
      
       What has this to do with the debate? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy was not here when the debate started. This matter is part of the criticism of the Ministry of External Affairs, in intervening in the foreign press, in connection with Deputy Briscoe, on a question put by me, whether it is to be the general practice to defend a Deputy in the foreign press, or whether it is an exceptional case not to happen again.  I got no answer to that. I have seen very unwholesome things, and scurrilous things in the foreign press, in reference to Deputies in this House.  I have not seen our Minister in America, for instance, drawn in to defend Deputies here.  I have not found that the President went to any of the Deputies criticised and asked them to tell him the whole truth, as he asked Deputy Briscoe and, having got the whole truth, got a letter written explaining what the whole truth was.  It turns out now that it was not the whole truth the President got from Deputy Briscoe.  Are we to have it established now as the practice that if Deputies are assailed, in the foreign press, the President is going to adopt something like the same procedure as he adopted with regard to Deputy Briscoe.  The particular Deputy will be asked what this amounts to, and a letter will be written in which the Minister for External Affairs will state that the Deputy's patriotism is beyond question. That is a statement which I think we ought to conclude it is possible to make of every Deputy in this House.  Therefore it is a retort that can be made about every Deputy without any ado if any Deputy is attacked in the foreign press.  Is the President going to give our Ministers abroad the task, when criticism appears about any Deputy, of saying that whatever else that Deputy is his patriotism is beyond question.  It has been done as regards Deputy Briscoe.  I regard it as rather exceptional that he should be singled out for that style of thing more than anyone else.  Why was the practice adopted in this one case and not in others? 
     
     
        The President said, as far as he was concerned, that the gravamen of the charge in this paper was not the attack on Deputy Briscoe at all, but the movement attacked  a propos  of Deputy Briscoe.  Will the President put cyclostyle copies of the letters in the Library for Deputies to see so that they can make up their minds as to whether that was the serious charge made?  What will the President go on to defend?  What does he mean by the Republican movement?  Is it what was called the old Sinn Fein movement, which was a movement of an united Party up to a certain period, or is it one part of that movement at a certain period, and is it only that Party he is to defend?  If that is what it amounts to we are having a party use made of money paid by the tax-payers; that is a partisan use of certain funds.  Since this matter has been raised it is important that the President should cause&mdash;and it would cost little&mdash;cyclostyle copies of the letters in question to be made, so that Deputies could read for themselves what was the charge made and what was the seriousness of it, and how far it is applicable to Deputy Briscoe or to the movement, and which stands in the foremost place in the criticism. 
     
      
       You do not understand French yourself. 
     
     
      
       I pretend to know a little of it. 
     
     
      
       You cannot know much if you have not read the original. 
     
     
      
       I am ready to go through it word for word with the Deputy, and we can see if we cannot arrive at the thing the President has put as to what the meaning is and let other Deputies understand it. 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly agreeable. I accept that challenge now. 
     
     
      
       Let us have the correspondence. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       There is only one other thing.  The Deputy says the original is out.  It may be.  I was translating it. 
     
     
     
      
       It lost in its translation from the French. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has the original? 
     
     
      
       No, it is in the police courts.  Some of the Deputy's friends saw it.  Has Deputy Desmond Fitzgerald seen it? 
     
     
      
       No, a copy. 
     
     
      
       As to its having gone to some friend of mine I do not know what the Deputy means.  I gather he is talking of a person connected with the monthly periodical. 
     
     
      
       Yes and who left because of this letter. 
     
     
      
       The gentleman is not a friend of mine, I do not know him.  I have nothing to do with getting that letter into his hands from the Editor of &ldquo;Figaro.&rdquo;  I do not know how it got there.  I do not know anything about it except what I saw in the French newspaper. 
     
     
      
       You were well briefed anyway. 
     
     
      
       It is easy to read the letter. 
     
     
      
       The translation is bad. 
     
     
      
       Then I was not well briefed. 
     
     
      
       It is your translation. 
     
     
      
       I would like to have the letter as read and paraded put opposite to what I read and see the difference in the translation. There is surely one big issue arising out of all this and that is the use made of our foreign representative.  We have had no answer from the President on that.  We read the statement about this incident.  There must be some general principle in regard to their duty or general instructions that must be laid upon them that never before existed and we want to know what these are. Is it that our representatives must write to the Press when a Deputy is assailed in his patriotism or in his connection with any movement of a political type in the country, and, if so, is   the intervention going to be after touch with that Deputy, and is it going to be a re-statement of what the Deputy likes to say in his own defence, or is there going to be any other mind operating upon it and any other criticism passed upon it to water down what the Deputy might say in his own defence?  Can we have some general statement made here? 
     
     
      
       Might I ask if the Deputy in his third speech forgot to read the particulars of the address presented to the King and Queen by the Ottawa delegates? 
     
     
      
       We were told that the Minister for Local Government was very honest in Ottawa, and he probably was.  In fact, he was so honest that he signed the one and only document which emanated from the Ottawa Conference, and which was circulated to this House &ldquo;on behalf of His Majesty's Government in the Irish Free State.&rdquo; That is a very honest admission.  I think that on this Estimate it might be made a little more explicit. 
     
     
      
       Read it out again. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Signed on behalf of His Majesty's Government in the Irish Free State.&rdquo;  What I want to know is this&mdash;it can be easily answered, and it will save a lot of trouble with regard to our constitutional position&mdash;can we take it for granted that the Fianna Fail Government, led by President de Valera, constitutes His Majesty's Government in the Irish Free State? 
     
     
      
       Deputy McGilligan asked whether if any Deputy was attacked in a foreign newspaper our Ministers abroad will immediately feel it part of their duty to defend him. I made it quite clear that that is not the position.  I made it quite clear that in this particular case it was the whole Republican movement, the whole movement for independence&mdash;not merely as it has been since the Treaty, but as it was before it&mdash;that was attacked.  The suggestion in the early days was that it was German gold was financing the movement, and at a later period it was going to be   Russian gold.  I wanted to make it quite clear that the Republican movement here, in so far as it was financed at all from outside, was financed in a publicly known way by contributions from America, as well as by the contributions of our own people here, and no others.  That was our interest in the matter.  To do that it was absolutely necessary to make that known as far as Deputy Briscoe himself was concerned. 
     
     
      
       His patriotism? 
     
     
      
       Yes, his patriotism. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 67&mdash;League of Nations. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £4,386 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Deontas i gCabhair de Chostaisi Chumann na Naisiuin, agus chun Costaisi eile mar gheall air sin. 
       That a sum not exceeding £4,386 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for a Grant-in-Aid of the Expenses of the League of Nations, and for other Expenses in connection therewith. 
     
     The total expenditure on this Vote for 1932-33 is £15,886 as against a total expenditure in 1931-32 of £12,480, made up of £11,355 original estimate and supplementary estimate of £1,125. There is, therefore, an increase of £3,406 as against last year.  As regards the Grant-in-Aid of the expenditure of the League of Nations for the current year it will be seen that on a par rate of exchange the contribution would have been £9,771 or an increase of £728 as against the contribution in 1931-32 at a par rate of exchange.  Owing to the abandonment of the gold standard in September, 1931, it has been found necessary to provide for the current year an additional sum of £4,011 for loss on exchange.  The Note   on page 314 of the printed estimates explains the basis on which the Saor-stat's contribution is arrived at.  As regards the sub-head providing for the travelling and incidental expenses of delegations to Geneva&mdash;normally there would have been a decrease of £735 on this sub-head, but as in the case of the contribution to the League, provision had to be made for extra expenditure on account of depreciation in the national currency, following the abandonment of the gold standard. This extra sum is £527. 
     
      
       I just want to ask two questions.  I would like the Minister to tell us whether he has taken action at any meeting of the League to assist the people of India in their struggle to obtain the independence of their country.  That is a quotation from the speech of Deputy Lemass, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce, made on the 29th May, 1930, as reported in the Official Reports, Vol. 35, cols. 193-4.  This is a further quotation from the same speech:&mdash; 
       One of the purposes for which the League is supposed to exist is to rectify the grievances of minorities. There is a minority in this country with a grievance.  As Ministers are aware, a certain section of the population of the six north-eastern counties are of opinion that they suffer political disabilities which are imposed on them because of their religion. 
       This was Deputy Lemass's view then: 
       It should be the duty of the Minister for External Affairs to take up with the League of Nations the question of the disabilities without waiting to be asked to do so. 
       I would like the President to tell us whether he has taken any action at any meeting of the League to assist the people of India in their struggle to obtain the independence of their country, and, if he has, without waiting to be asked, taken up the question of the disabilities of certain people in the north-east of Ireland.  These are two items. 
     
     There are two other questions I should like to ask.  I should like to know is it a fact that the President,   when in Geneva as Minister for External Affairs and President of the Council of the League of Nations, was given a certain responsibility.  As far as I can make out from reports I have seen in the foreign Press, a certain boundary dispute occurred between Iraq and Syria, and the two mandatory Powers for these two areas are Great Britain and France.  What I have been able to get from the foreign Press leads me to the conclusion that a proposal was made that, not a boundary commission, but a de-limitation commission should be appointed to determine the territory which is in dispute between the two mandatory Powers, or the two areas in question; that on the proposal of the French Prime Minister it was agreed that the commission should consist of three members, one to be appointed by the French Government, one by the British Government, and a third to be agreed upon; that that proposal was, in fact, accepted, and, after being accepted, the French Prime Minister said he would appoint his nominee; Sir John Simon, on behalf of the British Government, said he would appoint his nominee, and then, on Sir John Simon's proposal, it was agreed that the President of the Council of the League of Nations, who was President de Valera, should appoint the chairman.  Is that a fact?  Could we have any indication of the feelings of President de Valera on being asked to take on that responsibility at the request of such a person as Sir John Simon?  I should like to know, lastly, if it is a fact that, on the President retiring from Geneva, his place was taken as President of the Council by Senator Connolly, and that Senator Connolly had the invidious task of presiding one day at a meeting of the Council, when certain people who had repudiated debts due by them to the League of Nations, were brought up and criticised.  Will the President state what he imagines were the feelings of Senator Connolly on that occasion? 
     
      
       With regard to India, I can only say that the opportunity did not arise, but I am willing to say that if an opportunity does arise at any time on which we can help the people of India, we will do it. 
     
     
     
      
       Will you not make it, if it does not arise? 
     
     
      
       If we can make it with the hope of success, yes.  With regard to Northern Ireland that matter did not arise either; but if any opportunity for undoing some of the work which was done by the previous administration should arise in that regard also, we would be very glad to avail of it. 
     
     
      
       But, again, only if it arises? 
     
     
      
       And if we can make it arise, we will do it too.  The next point is with regard to chairmen.  As a matter of fact, it is the President of the Council, whoever he may be. When that matter comes up for determination, I may not be Chairman at all.  My period will expire in January and this matter may not come up for decision for a time after January, so that the proposal has no effect whatever on me.  It was quite impersonal and I took it in that particular way.  As regards Senator Connolly, of course, it does fall in with the type of thing we hear from the Deputy who suggests that Ireland is repudiating her debts.  We are not repudiating our debts.  That is, of course, the attitude that those who wish to make them appear to be debts want us to take up or would like to assume is the position.  Our position is that these moneys are not legally or morally due and that was not the position of any of those that were brought up before the Council of the League when Senator Connolly was presiding. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 68&mdash;Electrical Battery Development. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £9,000 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Taighde agus Forbairte maidir le Baiteri Leictreachais. 
     
     
        That a sum not exceeding £9,000 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for Electrical Battery Research and Development. 
     Prior to the current financial year, the Dail provided a sum of £30,300 for the purpose of electrical battery development, made up as follows: there were two sums of £5,000 and £300, respectively, advanced from the Contingency Fund in the financial years 1928-29 and 1929-30, and, in the financial year 1930-31, a special Vote for battery development of £25,000 was taken.  In putting that Vote to the Dail, the Minister for Industry and Commerce made it clear that the sums advanced, and then being voted, did not cover the full amount of liabilities in respect of the Drumm Battery.  He outlined that he had made an agreement with the Great Southern Railways Company for the provision of charging stations, installation of electric motors, etc., in connection with extended tests to be carried out on the Battery to ascertain its value for traction purposes.  It was agreed with the railway company that this expenditure should be incurred by the company out of its own funds, it being agreed that the Battery Company would provide new batteries and the expenditure of the company should not be reimbursed by the Minister, unless the entire experiments on the Battery proved a failure and were abandoned. 
     As regards the construction of coaches, it was agreed that this should be, in the main, a liability of the railway company.  That position still operated and that contingent liability is still there and it is necessary to draw the attention of the Dail to the fact. It is not, however, proposed to ask for a Vote to cover the liabilities at this stage as it is not necessary, nor is any part of the money now being voted required for that purpose.  The late Government decided at the request of the Board of the Drumm Battery Company, to make a further provision of £25,000 in this year.  When the change of Government took place, however, I had certain discussions with   the Company, and it was agreed that, out of that total of £25,000, there would be provided only the amount necessary to maintain the existing organisation of the Company and to complete the programme of construction of the Battery coaches which was then on hands.  The amount mentioned in these discussions was about £8,000.  A further sum of about £4,000 will be required by the Company to continue the same activity until the end of the present financial year. 
     Certain other proposals for experimental work were not being proceeded with.  The attitude I took at the time, and the attitude I still maintain, is that we cannot ask the Dail to vote any substantial sums for the development of this Battery until two positions have been reached (1) that we have got secured patents for the Battery and (2) that we have secured a report from a competent and reputable firm of consulting engineers as to its value for traction purposes.  The position is at present that patents have been granted in a number of countries, but in Great Britain, Germany and the United States of America, they have not yet been granted.  There is however no reason to anticipate that any difficulty will arise&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Could they have, in the time, been granted in these countries? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy would let me make my own speech, I would prefer it.  There is no reason to anticipate, as I was saying, that the applications are not following the usual course or that difficulty will arise in that connection but it is my view that heavy financial liabilities should not be incurred until they have been secured. If the Deputy wants any comment on that matter, I would refer him to his original speech when he came to the Dail in 1928 and talked about the assignment of a patent. There was no such assignment.  The Company has also commissioned a firm of consulting engineers of international repute to make a report on the value of the Battery for traction purposes. That firm has had its representatives here and they have been making certain   investigations and they are continuing those investigations.  It is not, however, anticipated that the report will be available for some months yet, although, in view of the period of time which its preparation will involve, they have been asked for an interim report, which, I understand, is at present being drafted. 
       The two new Battery coaches which were constructed during the year have been tried out and the Company has reported to me that they have proved satisfactory in every way.  An average of 230 miles is being run per day and there is apparently no reason to anticipate that the Battery is not technically satisfactory.  The position at present is that investigations and research work have more or less ceased.  The Battery which is now installed in the two new coaches represents, as I have been informed, the last word on the Drumm Battery&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What? 
     
     
      
       The last word on the Drumm Battery, and it is upon that Battery&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The two coaches that are now on the line represent the last word? 
     
     
      
       The Battery which is installed in the two new coaches which were constructed this year represents, as I have been informed by the Company, the Battery on which they are staking their reputation, and on which they hope to achieve commercial success.  That was the precise phrase used to me. 
     
     
      
       The last word? 
     
     
      
       The last word.  It is, I may say, perhaps undesirable that I should say more about the matter at the present time.  By the end of next February, or thereabouts, we will have much more definite information concerning the commercial value of the invention when the report of the firm of consulting engineers is available, and, also, on the patent position, which should be cleared up by then. 
     
     
      
       May I say that I never in my life heard a success   reported so sourly to this House as this has been done.  Look at the phrase the Minister thought fit to use&mdash;&ldquo;There is no reason to anticipate that it will not be successful&rdquo;&mdash;and then going along with a statement which I conceive to be an entire misstatement about this Battery, and partly corrected in the fumbling explanation which was afterwards given. 
       The Battery is now installed in two coaches actually in operation on the line, and we are told that it represents the last word.  I would like the Minister seriously to query that before he comes to the House again.  I am quite prepared to believe that he has been told that the Battery represents such an advance that the inventor and those associated with him are prepared to stake their reputations upon what has been achieved so far; but to say that we have got to the limit of the development of this invention is an outrageous statement.  Even if the Minister for Finance had been in here when the statement was made, with his limited knowledge of patents he would have known that that was an amazing statement. 
       The Minister cought also to tell the House frankly the answer to the interjection I made.  First of all, we were told that the Government are seeking more money, but the position had been assured because we had got patents. The implication of that statement, until it was corrected later, was that we had not previously got patent protection anywhere.  Then we were informed we had not got patents in America or Germany.  I asked was it possible within a certain period of time to get them and the Minister has not answered that question.  It is certainly a wrong thing to allow it to go from this House to the country that there is a suspicion that in the time that has elapsed protection could have been got in Germany and America, but was not got.  Surely that raises the suspicion in people's minds that an objection of some kind had been discovered. 
     
     It should be made clear that there is a difference between the patent system in this country and in other countries   such as Germany and America.  In some countries when you ask for a patent with various degrees of certainty you are given a statement to the effect that as far as they know you have not been anticipated.  If anybody likes to query whether or not you have been anticipated, the onus is left on the owner of the patent to prove his right.  In the case of America and Germany there is a definite guarantee which the State is prepared to defend.  There is an obvious repercussion there.  A much more intense search is made in America and Germany against anticipations than would be the case in France where all that happens with regard to patents is that you merely get a statement setting out the date on which you make application and nothing else.  There is no guarantee, no certificate with regard to search against anticipation and what has resulted from it. 
     The Minister casually says here that we have not yet got protection in America or Germany.  He might have gone on to say that in the time since application was made in those two countries it was not in the normal way possible to get the patents.  The Minister tells us that he feels he is going to have the patents secured in February.  Surely in the month of November, in respect of a patent which the Minister feels will be given in February, he ought to be able to state that there is no valid objection raised against it.  These are things that it is valuable to have and we ought to have them for discussion later.  I am postponing any serious discussion on this matter because there will be a £4,000 Vote coming later on which a further debate will be possible. 
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I thought £4,000 more would be required&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is adequate provision in this Estimate. 
     
     
      
       Does this cover some provision by way of indemnity to the Railway Company? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       That was intended previously.  It would appear the   Minister is now taking away some of the money previously intended for certain purposes. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       However, there will be another estimate on which the matter can be discussed, and perhaps it is better to leave the discussion over until then and until we have it clear and beyond the doubts of the most doubtful person that this invention is a success, that it can be patented and that it is a commercial property of great value.  I may say I have not heard anything that has promised so well as this so sourly introduced or brought forward in such a defeatist spirit as this was by the Minister to-day. Surely at this time Ministers on that Bench over there should forget what they said previously about this battery.  Personally, I am willing to forget it. 
     
     
      
       I should say so. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister for Finance is going to be facetious about this now it might be well for him to remember his childish statements on a previous occasion.  His reputation will suffer; it has suffered already.  One difficulty about this is that it is because we have a child in such matters dealing with such an important invention, and talking about it in such a childish fashion there is a danger that we might have a really decent property in this country somewhat damaged.  It should be the duty of everybody in the country to see that we get full value out of this important invention. 
     
     
      
       The man who damaged it most is the man who used it for the purpose of a Stock Exchange ramp. 
     
     
      
       It is really impossible to deal with folly. 
     
     
      
       Precisely. 
     
     
      
       The only thing to do is to show it up occasionally in its most spectacular aspect and when it is revealed in a most spectacular way.  The Minister for Finance never revealed his folly in such a spectacular way as when he made that   historic statement of his in the Seanad when the President was afraid to turn him down although he recognised that the Minister had reached such a depth of folly that even the people who knew of his abilities in that direction did not believe him capable of, and that is saying quite an amount.  It is rather regrettable that this thing should be treated in the way in which the Minister for Finance is treating it. The Minister for Industry and Commerce is somewhat cautious and at the same time he approaches this matter in a rather defeatist spirit.  At any rate, that is a decent attitude in comparison with the spirit of levity in which his colleague, the Minister for Finance, treats the matter.  In the Seanad the Minister for Finance was responsible for an idiotic phrase and obviously he is unrepentant still.  He was discreet enough to stay outside while his colleague was moving the Vote.  He came in when he thought it was all over. 
     
     
      
       I came in because I heard the Deputy was up. 
     
     
      
       The Minister might have been more discreet; he might have stayed away a little bit longer. 
     
     
      
       I always like to hear the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       If there is ever a chance possible for the Minister to display himself in a foolish way, he will take it.  What are we to take as the Government attitude on this matter? Are we to accept the statement of the Minister for Industry and Commerce? Even though I do not think it is as sound an attitude as might be displayed, it is better than that taken up by his colleague.  What is the Government's attitude?  Are they still adopting the sneering attitude of the Minister for Finance in regard to this whole matter or are they taking it seriously?  Will the Minister indicate who are the firms of international repute who are inquiring about the invention and how far has a report been prepared?  I understood him to say that an interim report was being drafted.  When is it likely that that report will be published?  The sooner it is published the better.  It will   enable people to get a proper view of this battery and they will be in a position to see whether much reliance can be placed upon the particularly idiotic things stated by the Minister for Finance about its development.  Perhaps the Minister for Industry and Commerce will tell us now whether he has any suspicion about these patents in the United States and Germany not being granted?  Is the matter in a sufficiently advanced state for the Minister to be able to say whether there is or there is not a possibility of getting a patent in these countries? The people should know. 
     
     
      
       The statement I made in regard to this battery was moderate and restrained.  It was deliberately so. The Deputy talked about the damage being done to this invention by childish nonsense.  There was no one who talked more childish nonsense or more absurd bombast than the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       Then this debate is to be held over? 
     
     
      
       He came to the Dail and he told the Dail he had got an assignment of the patent.  He had no such thing. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister get me the quotation in that connection? 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       I want it now. 
     
     
      
       I have not got it now. He came and talked about the electrification of the main line to Cork.  The money made available was for the purpose of investigation.  The investigation was continued up to this year. The patent has not yet been secured. It has been secured in a number of countries but the essential patents in America, Britain and Germany have not yet been established.  I have no reason to believe that the patents will not be secured.  The report which was submitted to me by the board of the company indicates that they have no reason to believe that the patents will not be secured.  Applications are proceeding in the normal course and unless some difficulty, not now apparent, should arise the patents will be established   at some time in the near future. As to the value of the undertaking, that will be determined by the report of the firm, Messrs. Merz and McClellan, a well-known firm of consulting engineers with an international reputation.  I do not say that that report alone should be the sole thing to be considered.  Obviously upon that report the question of the future operations in relation to the undertaking will have to be determined. 
       To get back to the original point, my statement was restrained, and I think the restraint was justified in these circumstances, because the nonsense the Deputy talked produced a prejudice in the public mind which was bound to re-act against the possibility of getting the public to agree to the utilisation of State funds to a considerable extent for the development of this undertaking.  It created a suspicion that electioneering stunts were closer to the heart of the Deputy than the desire to see this idea worked out and fully demonstrated.  The position, as I have stated, is that the battery has been produced.  The inventor and the company are prepared to stand upon it.  The value of the invention will be determined by what report the expert firm pass upon it and we must make up our minds to what extent, and in what manner, State aid ought to be given to the proposition in future. 
     
     
      
       The Minister stated that the company said this was the last word on the battery development. 
     
     
      
       That is a phrase which was in my mind and which happened to be used in a conversation I had with representatives of the Board. 
     
     
      
       That is a lot better than previously. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister state what amount of money has been allocated in this matter so far? 
     
     
      
       Up to the beginning of this year £30,300.  A sum of £25,000 is being asked now.  It is not anticipated that the whole of it will be spent this year.  £8,000 has been spent and another £4,000 will continue operations up to the end of the year.  There may be minor expenditure on experimental   work which is in contemplation by the company.  There is ample provision within the £25,000. 
     
     
      
       Therefore this Battery will have cost £42,000. 
     
     
      
       More. 
     
     
      
       Plus the indemnity. 
     
     
      
       No, the indemnity is a contingent liability. 
     
     
      
       The money we have is only to meet foreseen charges.  If the indemnity is to be met it will be so much extra. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I must give notice that I will raise this question on the Appropriation Bill. 
     
     
      
       There is no doubt that the Deputy will talk again. 
     
   
   
     Vote 6&mdash;Office of the Revenue Commissioners. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £217,898 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na gCoimisineiri Ioncuim maraon le Seirbhisi airithe eile, ata fe riara na hOifige sin. 
       That a sum not exceeding £217,898 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Revenue Commissioners including certain other services administered by that Office. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 7&mdash;Old Age Pensions. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £777,050 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun i Pinseana Sean-Aoise (8 Edw. 7, c.40; 1 agus 2   Geo. 5, c.16; 9 agus 10 Geo. 5, c.102; Uimh.  19 de 1924 agus Uimh.  1 de 1928); chun Pinseana fen Blind Persons Act, 1920 (10 agus 11 Geo. 5, c.49, a.1); agus chun Costaisi riarachain airithe bhaineann leo san. 
     That a sum not exceeding £777,050 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the payment of Old Age Pensions (8 Edw. 7, c.40; 1 and 2 Geo. 5. c.16; 9 and 10 Geo. 5, c.102; No. 19 of 1924 and No. 1 of 1928); for pensions under the Blind Persons Act, 1920 (10 and 11 Geo. 5, c.49, s.1); and for certain administrative Expenses in connection therewith. 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 1&mdash;Governor-General's Establishment. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £1,600 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Teaghlachas an tSeanascail (Uimh. 14 de 1923). 
       That a sum not exceeding £1,600 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Governor-General's Establishment (No. 14 of 1923). 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister yet got a person who will subject himself to insults to take this office? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can raise that question on the Appropriation Bill. 
     
     
      
       I would like to have that simple question answered.  Has the Minister yet got a person who will subject himself to insult by Ministers when he takes office? 
     
     
      
       Could the Deputy put that in another way? 
     
     
     
      
       Can the Minister hold out any hope that the cost under this head will be substantially reduced? 
     
     
      
       We hope so. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 5&mdash;Office of the Minister for Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £19,130 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Airgid, maraon le hOifig an Phaghmhaistir Gheneralta. 
       That a sum not exceeding £19,130 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Finance, including the Paymaster-General's Office. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 54&mdash;Fisheries and Gaeltacht Services. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £89,049 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh agus Seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara na hOifige sin, maraon le Deontaisi i dtaobh Togala Tithe agus Ildeontaisi i gCabhair. 
       That a sum not exceeding £89,049 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Lands and Fisheries, and of certain Services administered by that Office, including Grants in connection with Housing and Sundry Grants in Aid. 
     
     
     
      
       I must object to this Vote unless I get a statement from the Minister. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy may have a discussion on the Appropriation Bill. 
     
     
      
       The Minister will make the ordinary statement, I assume. 
     
     
      
       Or somebody for me. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       The following matters were before the Committee on Finance.  A second Vote on Account had to be provided and this is merely a matter of form. 
     
   
   
     Vote 10&mdash;Office of Public Works. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £32,567 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na nOibreacha Puibli. (1 agus 2 Will. 4, c.33, a. 5 agus 6; 5 agus 6 Vict., c.89, a. 1 agus 2; 9 agus 10 Vict., c.86, a. 2, 7 agus 9; 10 Vict., c. 32, a. 3; 33 agus 34 Vict., c. 46, a. 42; 40 agus 41 Vict., c. 27; 44 agus 45 Vict., c. 49, a. 31, etc.) 
       That a sum not exceeding £32,567 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of Public Works.  (1 and 2 Will. 4, c. 33, ss. 5 and 6 ; 5 and 6 Vict., c. 89, ss. 1 and 2; 9 and 10 Vict., c. 86, ss. 2, 7 and 9; 10 Vict., c. 32, s. 3; 33 and 34 Vict., c. 46, s. 42; 40 and 41 Vict., c. 27; 44 and 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 31, etc.). 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 11&mdash;Public Works and Buildings. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £211,395 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de   Mharta, 1933, chun caiteachais i dtaobh Foirginti Puibli; chun coinneail-suas Pairceanna agus Oibreacha Puibli airithe; chun deanamh agus coinneail-suas Oibreacha Dreineala; agus chun Ildeontaisi i gCabhair. 
     That a sum not exceeding £211,395 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for expenditure in respect of Public Buildings; for the maintenance of certain Parks and Public Works; for the execution and maintenance of Drainage Works; and sundry Grants-in-Aid. 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 32&mdash;Office of the Minister for Justice. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £13,418 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Dli agus Cirt. 
       That a sum not exceeding £13,418 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Justice. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 33&mdash;Garda Siochana. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £530,365 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi and Gharda Siochana (Uimh. 7 de 1925). 
     
     That a sum not exceeding £530,365 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the   31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Garda Siochana (No. 7 of 1925). 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 34&mdash;Prisons. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £27,165 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Costaisi Priosun, na Funduireachta Borstal, agus coinneail-suas na nGealt gCuirpthe a coinnitear in Ospideil Mheabhar-Ghalar Gheanntair (17 agus 18 Vict., c. 76; 34 agus 35 Vict., c. 112, a. 6; 40 agus 41 Vict., c. 49; 47 agus 48 Vict., c. 36; 61 agus 62 Vict., c. 60; 1 Edw. VII., c. 17, a. 3; 8 Edw. VII., c. 59; agus 4 agus 5 Geo. V., c. 58). 
       That a sum not exceeding £27,165 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the expenses of Prisons, the Borstal Institutions, and the maintenance of Criminal Lunatics confined in District Mental Hospitals (17 and 18 Vict., c. 76; 34 and 35 Vict., c 112, s. 6; 40 and 41 Vict., c. 49; 47 and 48 Vict., c. 36; 61 and 62 Vict., c. 60; 1 Edw. VII., c. 17, s. 3; 8 Edw. VII., c. 59; and 4 and 5 Geo. V., c. 58). 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 35&mdash;District Court. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £12,990 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun pe cuid de Thuarastail agus de Chostaisi na Cuirte Duithche nach muirear ar an bPrimh-Chiste (Uimh. 10 de 1924, ailt 70 agus 76; Uimh. 27 de 1926, ailt 49 agus 50 agus Uimh. 15 de 1928, alt 13). 
     
     That a sum not exceeding £12,990 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment   during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for such of the Salaries and Expenses of the District Court as are not charged on the Central Fund (No. 10 of 1924, secs. 70 and 76; No. 27 of 1926, secs. 49 and 50 and No. 15 of 1928, sec. 13). 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 36&mdash;Supreme Court and High Court of Justice. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £18,742 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun pe cuid de Thuarastail agus de Chostaisi Chuirt Uachtarach agus Ard-Chuirt an Bhreithiunais nach muirear ar an bPrimh-Chiste (Uimh. 27 de 1926). 
       That a sum not exceeding £18,742 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for such of the Salaries and Expenses of the Supreme Court and High Court of Justice as are not charged on the Central Fund (No. 27 of 1926). 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 37&mdash;Land Registry and Registry of Deeds. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £16,329 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Chlarathachta na Talmhan agus Oifig Chlarathachta na nDintiuiri. 
       That a sum not exceeding £16,329 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Land Registry and of the Registry of Deeds. 
     
     
        Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 38&mdash;Circuit Court. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £18,409 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Liuntaisi agus Costaisi Oifigeacha Cuirte Cuarda, Leas-Bhreithiun gCuarda agus Udarasanna Clarath-achta Aitiula airithe agus chun costaisi Ath-fheachainte Liostai Votalaithe agus Coisteoiri (Uimh. 27 de 1926, etc.). 
       That a sum not exceeding £18,409 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries, Allowances and Expenses of Circuit Court Officers, Deputy Circuit Judges, and certain Local Registering Authorities, and the expenses of Revision of Voters and Jurors Lists (No. 27 of 1926, etc.) 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 39&mdash;Public Record Office. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £1,728 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na nAnnalacha Puibli agus Cimeadai na Stat-Phaipear, Baile Atha Cliath (30 agus 31 Vict., c. 70; 38 agus 39 Vict., c. 59, agus 39 agus 40 Vict., c. 58). 
       That a sum not exceeding £1,728 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Public Record Office, and of the Keeper of State Papers, Dublin (30 and 31 Vict., c. 70; 38 and 39 Vict., c. 59, and 39 and 40 Vict., c. 58). 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 40&mdash;Charitable Donations and Bequests. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £1,128 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig na dTabhartas agus na dTiomanta Deirciula.  (7 agus 8 Vict., c. 97, a. 7 agus 8; 30 agus 31 Vict., c. 54, a. 24; agus 34 agus 35 Vict., c. 102). 
       That a sum not exceeding £1,128 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Charitable Donations and Bequests Office. (7 and 8 Vict., c. 97, ss. 7 and 8; 30 and 31 Vict., c. 54, s. 24; and 34 and 35 Vict., c. 102). 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 55&mdash;Land Commission. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £196,102 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Choimisiun Talmhan na hEireann (44 agus 45 Vict., c. 49, a. 46, agus c. 71, a. 4; 48 agus 49 Vict., c. 73, a. 17, 18 agus 20; 53 agus 54 Vict., c. 49, a. 2; 54 agus 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38 agus c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; Uimh. 27 agus Uimh.  42 de 1923; Uimh. 25 de 1925; Uimh. 11 de 1926; Uimh. 19 de 1927; Uimh. 31 de 1929, agus Uimh. 11 de 1931.) 
     
     That a sum not exceeding £196,102 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Irish Land Commission (44 and 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, and c. 71, s. 4; 48 and 49 Vict., c 73; ss. 17, 18 and   20; 53 and 54 Vict., c. 49, s. 2; 54 and 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38, and c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; Nos. 27 and 42 of 1923; 25 of 1925; 11 of 1926; 19 of 1927; 31 of 1929, and 11 of 1931.) 
     Vote put and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 62&mdash;Posts and Telegraphs. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £730,645 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Puist agus Telegrafa agus Seirbhisi airithe eile ata fe riara na hOifige sin, maraon le Telefona. 
       That a sum not exceeding £730,645 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, and of certain other Services administered by that Office, including Telephones. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 63&mdash;Wireless Broadcasting. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £20,310 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, chun na dTuarastal agus na gCostaisi eile a bhaineann le Foirleatha Nea-shrangach. 
       That a sum not exceeding £20,310 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for the Salaries and other Expenses in connection with Wireless Broadcasting. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
       Resolutions reported and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Appropriation Bill, 1932&mdash;First Stage. 
     
        Leave given to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to apply certain sums out of the Central Fund to the service of the year ending on the 31st day of March, one thousand nine hundred and thirty-three, and to appropriate the supplies granted in this Session of the Oireachtas (Minister for Finance). 
     Bill read a First Time. 
     Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, November 9. 
   
   
     Issue out of the Central Fund. - In Committee on Finance. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That towards making good the supply granted for the services of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, the sum of £9,181,138 be granted out of the Central Fund. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Resolution reported and agreed to. 
       The Dail adjourned at 2 o'clock until 3 o'clock on Wednesday, November 9. 
     
   
 