 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Maintenance of Cork Courthouses. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if his attention has been called to the neglect and refusal of the County Council of the County of Cork to maintain several courthouses in that county, including Skibbereen, Mallow and other places; if he is aware that the County Council has put forward as an excuse for their neglect and refusal an allegation that same has been due to the impossibility of obtaining a reply from his Department to applications for sanction for heating and light supplied. 
     
     
      
       The position is not as indicated in the question. On the contrary, the Department has replied promptly to all communications. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the Cork County Council has for a period of twelve months steadily refused to pay their bills and carry out their statutory obligations and that they have placed on record as an excuse for their default that the Department of Local Government has refused to reply to their communications and to give them the sanction they ask for? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of the condition of things alleged by the Deputy.  I am aware that replies have been sent and I have here a copy of a reply that was sent.  I will send a copy of that reply to the Deputy.  It is too long to read now. The facts are not as laid down in the question. 
     
     
     
      
       I suppose I may accept the Minister's statement.  If he finds that this body has refused to carry out its statutory duties to the great inconvenience of the public, will the Minister take steps to dissolve it? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Re-establishment of Mayo County Council. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is prepared to re-establish the Mayo County Council; and, if so, could he state how soon. 
     
     
      
       I hope to take this matter into early consideration with a view to the re-establishment of the Mayo County Council, as soon as practicable. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Wages of Mayo Road Workers. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that the wages of the road workers of the Mayo County Council were reduced by the Commissioner for County Mayo, and if he is prepared to have their wages fixed at the same rate of pay as that paid by the Council while in office. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the reply just given. Further, let me say that rates of wages are a matter solely for the County Council or the Commissioner, as the case may be. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Fishery Loans in West Cork. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware that communications from his Department have been sent to a number of fishermen in West Cork informing them that unless they are prepared to pay forthwith large sums of money in respect of their indebtedness on loans borrowed from the British Government they will be deprived of any relief under the Fisheries (Revision of Loans) Act, 1931, and in view of the distress and hindrance to the fishing industry which these communications have caused, will the Minister undertake to have the matter inquired into   at an early date; and will the Minister undertake to consider the advisability of granting a &ldquo;clean cut&rdquo; in respect of these loans. 
     
     
      
       The outstanding fishery loans in West Cork have been reduced from £33,089 to £5,610.  In seven cases the borrowers have the alternative of paying the reduced amounts forthwith or of entering the Sea Fisheries Association of Saorstat Eireann, Limited, and paying the reduced amount out of the value of their catches.  In the ten remaining cases the borrowers have the option of paying the whole reduced amount forthwith or of entering the Sea Fisheries Association of Saorstat Eireann, Limited, and paying a specific part forthwith and the remainder (being the present values of the boats) by deduction from their future catches. The latter are, I understand, those cases in which the borrowers could have paid instalments in the past, but have not paid, and have in many instances invested their earnings in other properties. 
       I am not aware that any hindrance is being occasioned to the fishing industry and the equities of the matter seem to have been adequately met by the reductions given. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Railway Freights on Mussels in Kerry. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether in view of the fact that the development of the mussel industry in Cromane, Co. Kerry, depends to a large extent on low freightage he will take the necessary steps with the Railway Company to secure a reduction in the prevailing freight rates. 
     
     
      
       The freight charges on mussels is engaging my attention and representations will be made in the proper quarter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Equipment of Donegal Fishing Boats. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will take immediate steps to have the fishing   boats lying in Fanny's Bay, Downings, Co. Donegal, equipped and made available for the fishermen in Donegal to take part in the May herring fishing. 
     
     
      
       In accordance with the provisions of the Sea Fisheries Act, 1930, the boats in question are being offered with others to the Sea Fisheries Association of Saorstat Eireann, Limited, which will, no doubt, consider their serviceability for the fishing mentioned. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Relief Expenditure in Fanad. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries to state what amount of money has been expended in the Fanad peninsula, Co. Donegal, under the Relief Vote, 1931, and on what particular works has this money been expended. 
     
     
      
       The sum of £312 has been spent in the Fanad peninsula on the erection of enclosures for seaweed and kilns and on foreshore works in connection with the help industry, and a further £89 has been allotted for the completion of these works.  An estimated sum of £300 is being spent on road and drainage works. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Donegal Official's Services. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state (a) why the services of Seamus O'Donnell, Kincasslagh, Co. Donegal, an officer under the Fishery Department and Congested Districts Board for 20 years, have been dispensed with, and (b) will the Minister also state why this man has not received a pension. 
     
     
      
       The services of Mr. Seamus O'Donnell were no longer required on the setting up of the Sea Fisheries Association of Saorstat Eireann, Limited, by which body I understand he is employed as local agent.  Mr. O'Donnell's post was not a pensionable one, but being a transferred officer, he has received compensation for loss of office. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that Mr. O'Donnell was engaged by the Congested Districts Board and by   the Fishery Department for a period of twenty years?  He gave the best years of his life to that work; he was a competent official in every way and it is unreasonable that a man occupying his position should be thrown on the roadside and awarded very little compensation. Perhaps the Minister will reconsider the circumstances of this man's case with a view to giving him a reasonable pension? 
     
     
      
       The post was not a pensionable one and the only thing that could be done was to award compensation. He was awarded £79 compensation. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Cork Relief Works. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state if all relief works in the County of Cork which have been approved of have been stopped as from 19th March, 1932; and, if so, if he will state the reasons for such stoppage. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy appears to be under a misapprehension in regard to a direction issued by the Land Commission to their Inspectors with a view to having works which had been initiated under the Relief Vote, 1931-2, completed before the end of the current financial year.  This, of course, has no reference to works undertaken under the recent Relief Act, which will proceed normally to their conclusion. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Glenveigh Estate, Donegal. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries to state whether he will consider the question of dividing the Glenveigh Estate, Co. Donegal, amongst the evicted tenants, uneconomic holders and landless men in that district. 
     
     
      
       The offer by the Land Commission in respect of an area of the Glenveigh (Adair) Estate now the property of Mr. Kingsley Porter has been accepted by the owner, and a scheme for the division of the lands will be prepared as soon as possible. The division of the lands will be carried out in accordance with the provisions   of Section 31 of the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Porter Estate, Donegal. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries to state what is the position regarding the acquisition of the Porter Estate, Burt, Co. Donegal. 
     
     
      
       An offer made by the Land Commission for the purchase of the lands of Mulleny containing 243a. Or. 36p., formerly the property of Mrs. Porter and now owned by Mr. Robert Edwards, was refused by the owner. Proceedings were then instituted for compulsory acquisition under the provisions of Section 24 of the Land Act, 1923, and the owner lodged an objection to the acquisition of the lands.  That objection has yet to be heard as the Land Commission have not been able to complete their inquiries in regard to one of the statutory points raised by the objector, namely, that there are other unacquired lands in the same locality suitable for relieving congestion which do not come within the exceptions mentioned in sub-section 2 of Section 24 which the Land Commission could acquire without exercising the special powers given by that sub-section. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Meenreagh Bog Road. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries to state whether representations regarding the construction of Meenreagh bog road, Earl of Leitrim Estate, Co., Donegal, have yet been considered by the Land Commission, and, if so, what decision, if any, has been come to in the matter. 
     
     
      
       The question of the construction of Meenreagh bog road on the estate of the Earl of Leitrim in County Donegal has been noted for consideration when the resale of the holdings on the estate is being dealt with under the Provisions of the Land Acts 1923/31. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Land Commission Work. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state   how soon the completion of unfinished drainage and road work under the Land Commission will be undertaken with a view to finding work for the unemployed. 
     
     
      
       The money entrusted to the Land Commission for expenditure on works for the relief of unemployment and distress has been entirely allocated and the various works are in progress.  As regards the normal expenditure on improvement works in connection with lands acquired by the Land Commission, works proposed to be undertaken are put in hands as soon as possible after they are sanctioned. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tipperary Estates. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state what is the position with regard to the following estates:&mdash;The Greene Estate, Lattin; Ballywire Estate, Kilross; Synone estate, Boherlahan, which are in the hands of the Irish Land Commission, and if he can state when they will be divided. 
     
     
      
       Two holdings in the townlands of Lattin East and Ballynagleragh, in the occupation of Mr. Nicholas Greene, comprising about 543 acres, were retained by the Land Commission, but, after hearing in court on the 3rd December, 1931, the Commissioners allowed the objection of the tenant to the acquisition by them of the lands in Lattin East (about 205 acres).  The question of the acquisition of Mr. Greene's interest in the lands of Ballynagleragh is under consideration by the Land Commission. 
       Schemes for the division of the lands of Synone, on the Fitzgerald estate, and the lands of Ballywire, on the Trinity College estate, are in course of preparation, but until they have been completed and approved the Land Commission are not in a position to state when the lands will be divided. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state the grounds on which the objection to the acquisition of the lands of Lattin East was upheld by the Commissioners? 
     
     
     
      
       I cannot state at the moment the grounds on which the objection was upheld.  The matter came before the court and the objection was upheld by the Commissioners. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the agitation for the acquisition of the land occupied by Mr. Greene has been going on for the last eight years, will the Minister undertake to look into this matter again? 
     
     
      
       I will. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - East Cork Mills. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that three flour mills in East Cork, one in Midleton, one in Clondulane, Fermoy, and one in Mallow, owned by Messrs. Hallinan, have recently been acquired by Messrs. Ranks, Liverpool; that there is a grave danger of these mills being closed down, with resulting distress and unemployment, and if he will have immediate inquiries made and steps taken to prevent the closing down of these mills and to safeguard the industry generally. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the mill at Clondulane has been closed for some time, but have no information tending to show that the other mills mentioned in the question are in danger of immediate closing.  The position of the flour milling industry generally in the Saorstat is a matter which will have early investigation. Pending that investigation I anticipate that no mills will be closed down. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the English Millers' Mutual Association absolutely control the milling industry in the Saorstat?  Is he aware they have power of ordering any mill as to the number of sacks of flour it should produce, and that they issue instructions as to whether a mill should close down or remain working? Is he going to take any steps in connection with that matter?  Those mills are being operated under a quota system.  The quota for Buttevant Mills has been sold to Messrs. Johnston, Mooney and O'Brien, of Dublin.  In view of the danger to the whole milling industry and the possibility of the   milling business being transferred from East Cork, will the Minister take immediate steps to investigate the matter? 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Deputy's information is quite accurate. The position of the flour-milling industry is under investigation. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister indicate when this investigation will be completed and the result reported to the House? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister give us any indication as to when the investigation will be completed? 
     
     
      
       I hope to be able to make a statement concerning the position at an early date. 
     
     
      
       A sanctified phrase? 
     
     
      
       Well worthy of the Minister's predecessor. 
     
     
      
       I suppose we may expect an investigation after Easter? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Effect of British Tariffs. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that the recent British tariff legislation has hampered enormously the trade carried on with Northern Ireland and Great Britain by the residents of this country; and if he will state what steps, if any, he has taken, or proposes to take, to remove the difficulties in the way of such trade. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will send me particulars of the precise difficulties which he has in mind I will consider the matter. 
     
     
      
       The precise difficulties at the moment include the entry of all goods as formerly; that is, prior to the recent legislation.  Take Indian meal, of which there is an enormous quantity ground by Free State millers along the Border.  These mills were given new life by the oatmeal tax imposed recently.  They are exporting maize meal across the Border and there is hopeless confusion existing now on the Border.  It is due perhaps to red tape on the other side of the   Border.  I think it is the duty of the Department to see that all the paths are smoothed for the export of our stuff. 
     
     
      
       I will be glad to have an opportunity of discussing the matter with the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       I suggest the best way to get over the difficulty would be for the Deputy to approach his friends on the other side of the Border and ask them to have the Border removed. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dail Loan (Mayo). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state when the outstanding portion of the Dail Loan (Internal) 1919 and 1921 will be paid in South Mayo. 
     
     
      
       I am taking all possible steps with a view to the expeditious disposal of outstanding claims in respect of subscriptions to the Dail Eireann Internal Loan, 1919-1920.  As regards the position in South Mayo, I should be glad if the Deputy would allow the matter to stand over for the present so that I may have an adequate opportunity of looking into it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Dairy Disposals Board. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether it is intended to set up a Commission to inquire into and report on the work of the Dairy Disposals Board since its inception, and, if not, if he will lay before the Dail a detailed report of the work done by that Board since its inception. 
     
     
      
       I hope to consider in due course the points raised in this question as soon as I have had the opportunity, having regard to the many subjects claiming my attention, of becoming fully acquainted with the matter. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Mayo Afforestation Scheme. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture if he is aware that up to the present there has been no afforestation scheme for South Mayo, and will   the Minister state if anything may be done in the matter this year. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first portion of the question is in the affirmative. As to the concluding portion, no lands suitable for planting by the State have so far been offered in South Mayo for sale to the Department.  If any such lands are offered I shall see that the question of their acquisition is given full consideration. 
     
     
      
       In regard to afforestation, there are other counties besides Mayo that ought to be considered. This is a serious question, and I would like the Minister to make a statement to the House at his convenience with regard to his proposals on this important subject. 
     
     
      
       I do not mean to confine my attention to South Mayo. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Amendment of Courts of Justice Act. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is in a position to state when the proposed Bill to amend the Courts of Justice Act, 1924, following upon the Report of the Joint Committee on that Act, will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       I am not at the moment in a position to say when the Bill in question will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       Is it the intention to introduce such a Bill at all? 
     
     
      
       The Report of the Committee is dated the 5th November, 1930.  I took up office on last Wednesday evening. 
     
     
      
       That is not an answer to my question.  May I ask the Minister whether it is his intention to introduce such a Bill? 
     
     
      
       It is my intention to transact the business of my Department as expeditiously as possible.  Up to the moment, I have lived up to that intention. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not yet answered my question.  I merely asked the Minister for Justice whether it is his intention and the intention   of his Government to introduce such a Bill as has been mentioned by Deputy Wolfe? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must be satisfied with the answer. 
     
     
      
       Except that it is no answer. 
     
   
   
     Private Notice Question. - Reported Attack on Garda Station. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he has any information to give to the Dail in respect of the report in the Press regarding an attack on the Garda Siochana Barracks at Drinagh, Co. Cork. 
     
     
      
       Early this morning I directed that a statement of the facts should be obtained without avoidable delay.  All the relevant facts have not yet been ascertained.  The Civic Guard Authorities are, I think, acting with all the expedition one could reasonably expect, but I have not yet had laid before me a full and complete statement of the facts. 
     
     
      
       I will repeat the question to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       If you please. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state that this attack on the barracks took place as a result of the inflammatory speeches made by the members of his own Party during the General Election? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the attack in question took place as a sequel to the celebrations of victory by the Fianna Fail Party in the town of Skibbereen? 
     
     
      
       As I stated in reply to Deputy Hogan, I have not all the facts before me at the present time, but I have enough facts to warrant me in sounding a note of caution.  I would invite the Deputies who put the two supplementary questions to repeat these to-morrow also. 
     
   
   
     Business of the Dail. 
     
      
       As regards the order of business to-day, it is proposed to take the business as on the Order   Paper.  I move that the Dail sit later than 9 p.m. this evening, and that the order for the adjournment of the Dail be taken not later than 10.30 p.m. 
     
     
      
       Is it proposed to take No. 3 on the Order Paper to-day&mdash;the election of An Leas-Cheann Comhairle? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       And it is proposed to adjourn for a month as soon as the immediate business on the Paper is completed to-day or to-morrow? 
     
     
      
       If we are able to complete the business to-day and to-morrow, I propose that we adjourn to-morrow until the 20th April. 
     
     
      
       And the President still proposes to go on with No. 3? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I object to No. 3 being taken to-day. 
     
     
      
       Is the President in a position to state what will happen the unemployed in the meantime? 
     
     
      
       Is it only now that the Deputy is waking up to that? 
     
     
      
       I do not understand the ground on which Deputy Cosgrave is objecting to the taking of Item No. 3 on the Order Paper.  The Leas-Cheann Comhairle is, as a rule, appointed at the beginning of the Session. 
     
     
      
       It is most indecent haste and extravagance. 
     
     
      
       Satan rebuking sin. 
     
     
      
       It means that £50 is to be paid for two hours' work.  I will have something to say about that when it comes on. 
       Question agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Appointment of Executive Council. 
     
      
       Caithfe me a innsint don Dail gur chuir me in uil don tSeanascal gur aontuigh an Dail le hainmniuchan na dTeachtai agus an tSeanadora seo leanas chun bheith ina   mbaill den Ard-Chomhairle, agus gur ceapadh iad da reir:&mdash; 
       An tUachtaran, i gceannas na Roinne Gnothai Coigriche; 
       Sean T. O Ceallaigh, Leas-Uachtaran, i gceannas na Roinne Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli; 
       Padraig Ruithleis, i gceannas na Roinne Tailte agus Iascaigh; 
       Sean F. Lemass, i gceannas na Roinne Tionnscail agus Trachtala; 
       Sean Mac an tSaoi, i gceannas na Roinne Airgid; 
       Seamus O Riain, i gceannas na Roinne Talmhaiochta; 
       Proinnsias O hAodhagain, i gceannas na Roinne Cosanta; 
       Tomas O Deirg, i gceannas na Roinne Oideachais; 
       Seamus MagEochagain i gceannas na Roinne Dli agus Cirt; 
       Seosamh O Conghaile, Seanadoir, i gceannas na Roinne Puist agus Telegrafa; 
       The President, in charge of the Department of External Affairs; 
       Deputy Sean T. O Ceallaigh, Vice-President, in charge of the Department of Local Government and Public Health; 
       Deputy Patrick J. Ruttledge, in charge of the Department of Lands and Fisheries; 
       Deputy Sean F. Lemass, in charge of the Department of Industry and Commerce; 
       Deputy Sean MacEntee, in charge of the Department of Finance; 
       Deputy James Ryan, in charge of the Department of Agriculture; 
       Deputy Frank Aiken, in charge of the Department of Defence. 
       Deputy Thomas Derrig, in charge of the Department of Education; 
       Deputy James Geoghegan, in charge of the Department of Justice; 
       Senator Joseph Connolly in charge of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs. 
     
   
   
     Appointment of Parliamentary Secretaries. 
     
     
      
       I have to announce that the Executive Council has appointed the following Deputies to be Parliamentary Secretaries:&mdash; 
       To the President and Minister for Defence: Deputy Gerald Boland. 
       To the Minister for Finance: Deputy Hugo Flinn. 
       To the Minister for Local Government and Public Health: Deputy Francis C. Ward. 
     
   
   
     Widows' and Orphans' Pensions. 
     
      
       With your permission, Sir, I desire to make a short statement on the question of Widows' and Orphans' Pensions. 
       It is the intention of the Government to set up a Committee to inquire into and report upon the question of providing pensions for widows and orphans.  The nature and personnel of the Committee to be constituted is under consideration.  When appointed, the Committee will be requested to submit their recommendations at an early date.  The terms of reference are also under consideration, but I may say provisionally that they will include an examination of the principles upon which such pensions are granted and administered elsewhere; of the expenditure to be involved in desirable schemes and of the incidence of costs thereof to the various parties to be concerned; of the relation of such pensions to existing arrangements under the Poor Law and the making of specific recommendations. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister for Local Government if he is aware that an almost similar statement was made in this House over three years ago by Deputy Cosgrave in response to a motion put down by Deputy T. Murphy (West Cork)?  Are we to take it that the Committee now proposed to be set up will be expected to cover the same ground which we are told has been under consideration for the last three years? Are we to expect that it will take at least a further three years before the   Dail will be informed as to whether or not such a claim is reasonable? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Morrissey is well aware of the fate that befell the Government which took three years to consider this question.  We have no intention of following their example. 
     
     
      
       May I ask if the Minister for Local Government has had before him the facts which have been ascertained by the persons appointed by the late Government with regard to this question? 
     
     
      
       I have not had time to have all the facts put before me.  I have had some of them, but I have got to get a little time to examine all the facts even before the Committee is constituted. 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand from that that the Minister for Local Government, without having before him the full facts which have been ascertained by the person or persons appointed by the late Government, has decided to set up a Commission? 
     
     
      
       The Government has not decided to set up a Commission. 
     
     
      
       Or a Committee?  I understood from the Minister that the present Government have decided to set up a Committee.  Are we to understand from the Minister's statement that the decision has been come to without any advertence to the full facts which have already been obtained? 
     
     
      
       The reply is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Will Deputy Morrissey say what are the full facts with regard to the Minister's predecessor? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Davin knows more perhaps about the facts, or ought to be in a position to know more about the facts, than I do, as he is closer to the present Minister than I am. 
     
     
      
       The House is aware that a statement was made that   the actuary dealing with the examination in connection with this matter was waiting for some statistics based on an examination of the census figures for 1926, and that it was stated by the Department of Statistics, to the best of my recollection, that it would not be possible to get some of the figures that may be absolutely necessary in connection with an examination of this question for a further period of time. I think the full figures that were asked for at that time have not yet been obtained as a result of the census.  That is the position with regard to that. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister for Local Government in a position to give the House an assurance that this motion will not be used as an excuse for shelving the claims of the old age pensioners to get their former rights restored to them? 
     
   
   
     Sittings of the Dail. 
     
      
       I move: 
       That, until further ordered, the Dail sit later than 9 p.m. on Wednesdays and Thursdays, and that the order for the adjournment of the Dail on these days be taken not later than 10.30 p.m. 
       That on Fridays and until further ordered&mdash; 
       (1) The Dail meet at 10.30 a.m. and that the order for the adjournment of the House be taken not later than 2 p.m. 
       (2) The Order Paper be confined to Ministerial business until 12 o'clock noon; 
       (3) No Questions to Ministers be set down for oral answer. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Election of Leas-Cheann Comhairle. 
     
      
       I move: 
       That Deputy Patrick Hogan (Clare) be elected Leas-Cheann Comhairle. 
     
     In addition to close on ten years' Parliamentary experience, Deputy Hogan combines tact and diplomacy with a sense of fair play and a fluent knowledge of the national language.  These qualifications should, I submit, make him an excellent Leas-Cheann Comhairle   to guide the destinies of this House with your assistance, sir. 
     
      
       I beg to second the motion.  I should like to remind this House of the attitude of Deputy Hogan in the last Dail, when he was Leas-Cheann Comhairle and resigned that position with its emoluments on a question of principle, which is a shining example to this House and to the country.  I must say that the attitude of Deputy Cosgrave rather took my breath away, because apparently he has no knowledge of the work attached to the Department of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  He said that this motion greatly disappointed him; that it was an extravagance; that for a few hours' work he was going to get £50, the implication being that there would be a saving of money by not appointing the Leas-Cheann Comhairle until we came back after the adjournment. The Deputy shows an entire lack of knowledge of the work of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  There is the whole question of Private Bill procedure to be made up, and it is the Leas-Cheann Comhairle who is in control of that.  He will have to arrange for any Private Bills which may be introduced this Session.  It seems a most ungraceful and ignorant attitude on the part of Deputy Cosgrave that he should have raised such a trivial question as that of objecting to this motion being put forward now. 
     
     
      
       I oppose this motion and I have already given the House an indication of what my principal objection to it is.  It is that, in the first place, it shows indecent haste.  It is evident, having regard to the way the motion is proposed and seconded, that a bargain has been made between two Parties, the Government and the Labour Party.  One Party got one office and the other Party is entering its claim in respect of the other.  The Deputy who has spoken referred to the fact that it is part of the business of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle to deal with Private Bills and other matters of that sort.  But we ought to have some information in respect to all that. We ought to have been told what the Deputy nominated in respect of this   position did in the period when he held this position before.  What work did he do in that connection during that period? 
     
     
      
       Why was he turned down? 
     
     
      
       Ask the Deputy himself. He left it.  I shall be impolite enough to say he quitted it.  In any case he left it.  Whatever the dispute was it was not brought before the House by him, and no motion in respect of his resignation arose subsequently during the session as well as my recollection goes at the moment. The occupant of this office if appointed will have two hours' work to do to-day and possibly an hour's work to-morrow, and the salary in respect of this position is going to be £50 for a month. We are to come back in four weeks, and yet we are told by Deputy Little we did not know the importance of the duties of this office in respect to Private Bills in the next month.  Is there no procedure in operation in respect of Private Bills?  Is there not an office open for the receipt of Private Bills?  Is not every possible facility available already there in respect of Private Bills?  Is it expected that Deputy Hogan, if he is elected, will stand at the door of Leinster House and say &ldquo;I would not let them in until the Dail elected me&rdquo;? 
       I consider that for the two Parties who talk about extravagance here the spending of £50 on this office is the grossest extravagance ever perpetrated. £50 is not much to either of these two Parties.  Indeed it is quite a joke, but we know now in respect of the negotiations which took place between the two Parties about that bargain that one Party was to get one office and the other Party was to get the other. 
     
     
      
       There was no such bargain. 
     
     
      
       That subject was not mentioned? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The fact that the late occupant of the chair was not to be   re-elected was not mentioned at the meeting between the two Parties? 
     
     
      
       What was the bargain between you and him? 
     
     
      
       I had no bargain with anybody.  I took the earliest opportunity of saying that the Labour Party was not going to have the balance of power so far as I was concerned. 
     
     
      
       And you lost your money. 
     
     
      
       They do not like their bedfellows, but the House and the country is entitled to know about the bargain made between the two Parties. 
     
     
      
       I would not intervene in this debate were it not for Deputy Little's speech.  Deputy Little suggested that Deputy Hogan resigned the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle because of a certain principle.  My recollection of the facts of the case is this: that Deputy Hogan resigned that position because he said he could not act as Leas-Cheann Comhairle in this House and attend to the business of his constituents.  That, I think, is in the recollection of every member of the last Dail.  I subscribe to everything that has been said by Deputy Norton in regard to the qualifications of Deputy Hogan for the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle, but I want to play the game straight.  It is a mark of appreciation&mdash;to repeat a phrase used in the last Dail in regard to another appointment&mdash;it is a mark of appreciation, by Fianna Fail, if you will, for services rendered, and to be rendered, by the official Labour Party in the Dail. It appears to me that the motto of Fianna Fail for the present and the future is to be the spoils to the victors or the victors to the spoils.  I do feel that the first two things the Fianna Fail Party did in this Dail, namely, the eviction of the Ceann Comhairle and, again, the eviction of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, are things that will stand to their lasting discredit.  I did not want to take any action at all, and did not even intend to vote in any division if one was challenged, but my mind has now been altered.  I feel that there was very shabby treatment meted out to Deputy Morrissey.  When he was proposed for the position of   Leas-Cheann Comhairle to the last Dail, Deputy Tadhg Murphy, I think it was, backed by every member of that Party, including myself, paid a high tribute to the services of Deputy Morrissey as a public representative and as one who was very conversant with the rules of procedure and debate in this House. Nobody could suggest that Deputy Morrissey was partial to any person or party in this House.  He was strictly impartial, and I shall pay this tribute to him: that I think the House will never be served by a better Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  I feel again that it is very shabby indeed for the Party now in power to evict two members of this House who occupied these positions with dignity and grace and credit to the State and to this institution. 
       I am rather sorry I had to say all these things, because I thought that no vote would be taken on the matter, and I would not have intervened at all but for Deputy Little's speech.  I remember well that on the occasion of the appointment of Deputy Hogan to the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle in this House, many adverse comments were made in Labour circles because a Labour Deputy should accept the position at all.  Further adverse comment was made after the resignation of Deputy Hogan, when Deputy Morrissey accepted the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  I thought that every Labour representative should feel that the Party was honoured by being offered such a position and was rather proud that members of the Labour Party were fit and able to take such a position.  But now I am told that what was a principle in the last Dail when Deputy Hogan resigned the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle is no longer a principle.  I want to know if the electors of Clare have become less importunate or has their business become less important, or in what way has the position altered since Deputy Hogan resigned the Vice-chair.  I would like to be satisfied on these points now.  Perhaps Deputy Hogan himself would explain it. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony seems to be rather rattled because we have   evicted the Ceann-Comhairle of the last Dail and because we now propose to evict the Leas-Cheann Comhairle too.  I have a slight idea that he is rattled not so much because of that but because we evicted greater men than they, including the President and the Executive Council of the last Dail. We evicted them with the help of the country, and I think Deputy Cosgrave's anger is more aroused by that having taken place than by the fact of our having evicted the Ceann Comhairle of the last Dail or by the fact that we are now proposing to evict the Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  If he thought it an honour for the last Dail to elect a member of the official Labour Party as Leas-Cheann Comhairle, what change has come over his mind that he thinks it is now no honour that a member of the official Labour Party should be elected to the same position in this Dail?  Surely there is evidence there of a greater change of mind on the part of Deputy Anthony than there is on the part of the official Labour Party or the Fianna Fail Party.  What was an honour, to his mind, on the part of the last Dail seems to be a dishonour and entirely wrong in the present Dail.  I think we all understand the reason for his attitude, the reason for his grouse, and we need not consider it. 
     
     Deputy Cosgrave's first contribution as a member of the Opposition is to calculate the pay of certain officials by so much per hour.  Is there a change of mind on his part there? The first time he began to calculate the wages of certain officials of this House is when he found himself in Opposition.  It is the first time he began to calculate it by the hour. Surely he had greater opportunity when he was President of the State to calculate the wages of officials at so much per hour, and there was greater cause for him to look into the matter then, because when he had the appointment of Leas-Cheann Comhairle he paid, not £50 per hour or per month as we are proposing, but £100.  That was at a time when the Dail under his administration was on holidays for practically six months of the year.  Mind you, if the country in evicting President Cosgrave   and putting him into Opposition, did something that was wrong, it has done a very good thing in one way, because it has made him calculate how much per hour public men should be paid or how much per hour an officer of the State should be paid.  If the President calculated with the same strictness the wages of his officials and the wages paid to the Government in the last Dail he would probably not find himself in Opposition to-day.  He would probably have remained a little longer as a member of the Government.  I think his little snag is more or less due to a trivial thought, a little frivolous mood on his part, now that he is in Opposition. 
     He is worried about the bargain we have struck with the Labour Party. The late President of course thinks that if anything is done to anybody it must be as a result of a bargain, in his own words of some time ago, &ldquo;a damn good bargain.&rdquo;  He gave to a late member of the Farmers' Party, Mr. Heffernan, a post in his Cabinet as a result of a bargain. Members of the last Opposition who spoke as leaders of Nationalists in Ireland, were recently taken into his Party as a result of a bargain.  Independent members and others were taken to the friendly bosom of the late President as a result of a bargain. He lived so long in that atmosphere that he cannot understand anything being done above board.  He thinks the Government now in office must stoop to bargaining as he stooped and perhaps keep it secret as long as he kept his famous bargain some time ago.  He need not worry.  There is no bargain.  If the Fianna Fail Party wanted to enter into a bargain with the Labour Party, the Labour Party would be wise enough not to agree to the bargain.  They would be wise enough to remain independent. There is no question of a bargain except that we agree that Padraig O hOgain is a man who can fill the office with honour.  Furthermore, he has a knowledge of the Gaelic tongue and he has been an outstanding man nationally for a number of years.  We believe he will be able to fill the office to the best advantage, chum   gloire De agus onora na h-Eireann agus na teangan. 
     
      
       I did not intend to intervene in the debate, but I understand there is a possibility of a division. Fianna Fail have successfully, as they say themselves, evicted Deputy Hayes from the Chair, and they now propose to evict the Leas-Cheann Comhairle. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, there is no Leas-Cheann Comhairle. It is not a question of eviction. 
     
     
      
       I am grateful to the Deputy for his accuracy of expression. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, and in order that we might draw further compliments from the Deputy, may I say that the first man to use the word &ldquo;eviction&rdquo; was Deputy Anthony? 
     
     
      
       We read in the Press shortly before the Dail met that President de Valera, who was then Deputy de Valera, had received a deputation from the Labour Party, that they went to him for the purpose of discussing widows' pensions, unemployment, housing of the poor, and a variety of other very desirable subjects, and that at the end of 31⁄2 hours they withdrew from the discourse.  I venture to say that there are a great many people in the country and in this House who believe that there was very little time given to the discussion of widows' and orphans' pensions and a great deal of time given to the discussion of the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  I can only say that there are many of us who are loth to believe that President de Valera would be a party to such a transaction, and I think it would come as a shock to a great many people in the country, both amongst his supporters and those who are not his supporters, to realise that the first thing that the Fianna Fail Government were responsible for was to throw away an opportunity of making a very admirable gesture of reconciliation&mdash;to reestablish Deputy Hayes in the Chair, where he had been a credit to the Dail for many years&mdash;and that the second gesture they had to make, as the completion of an agreement which I suggest   was made behind closed doors, was that if the candidate of Fianna Fail were put into the Chair the candidate of Labour would follow him into the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle. Deputy Clery said that he is sure there is no bargain.  I am convinced that a great many people will be anxious to hear the President confirm what Deputy Clery has said.  I think it would be a very useful thing for the public life of the country if the President would take the opportunity of saying that there was no bargain involved in the appointment we are asked to make to-day. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Cosgrave's occupancy of the Presidential seat in this House for a period of ten years, in my opinion, and even in the Deputy's opinion, according to a speech which he recently delivered in the country, makes him the most ideal and the most efficient leader of the official Opposition Party.  He has endeavoured to persuade the House that in his opinion this nomination has been rushed with indecent haste.  No Deputy knows more about the rules and procedure of the House than Deputy Cosgrave.  He knows, if he will only admit it, that the motion now on the Order Paper could have been on it last Wednesday for the first meeting of this Dail.  As a matter of fact I may inform Deputy Cosgrave that we were invited by officials of this House to submit our nomination for this position if we had one to make.  We waited to see if Deputy Cosgrave would have the courage to make a nomination.  The necessary four days' notice has been given.  If he wanted to do so last week Deputy Cosgrave could have given the same notice as we have given in accordance with the Rules of the House. I want to assure Deputy Dillon that the position of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle was not discussed at any meeting which representatives of this Party had with the representatives of the Fianna Fail Party or with the representatives of any other Party, and that the decision to make a nomination was only made on the Tuesday night of last week.  There is no bargain involved in this, and the proposal is not being made with the   indecent haste with which Deputy Cosgrave rushed adjournments of the House on many occasions during the ten years that he was President, without consultation with the representatives of any of the other Parties, and without any relation whatever to the cost of such adjournments. 
     
     
      
       Give us the dates. 
     
     
      
       I hope you have not lost your memory during the election campaign. 
     
     
      
       The dates we want. 
     
     
      
       You have lost your position as President but I am sure you have not lost your memory. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should address the Chair. 
     
     
      
       The proofs we want. 
     
     
      
       There is no bargain involved. The Deputy should have put his nomination on the Order Paper. Our nomination is put forward in the belief that the Deputy whom the Leader of this Party has proposed is a fit and proper person to occupy the position. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy undertake to supply me with the dates as he has not got them now? 
     
     
      
       You have more time to look for them than you had before. 
     
     
      
       Then the Deputy has got no such dates. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has no proof of a bargain. 
     
     
      
       It will all come out later. 
     
     
      
       It would seem to me that, for the benefit of those who are new to the House, something should be said regarding the history of the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle in the last Dail.  We have heard about evictions.  There are no evictions involved.  It is quite clear that every new Dail is competent and is entitled to elect a new occupant of the Chair,   and a new Leas-Cheann Comhairle. Deputy Cosgrave endeavoured to suggest that on the last occasion the principle of continuity had been accepted by the House when special legislation was enacted to enable the Ceann Comhairle to retain his seat during the general election and not to have to submit himself to the suffrages of the electors.  After the Deputy's speech, I took the opportunity to read the Debates on that particular measure.  I remember particularly that the late Kevin O'Higgins, who was then Minister for Justice, and in charge of the Bill, made it quite clear that the fact that the Ceann Comhairle would not vacate his seat on the occasion of a dissolution of the Dail did not mean that he would automatically become Ceann Comhairle when the new Dail assembled. If my recollection is correct, he said that the new Dail when it assembled would be free to re-elect the Ceann Comhairle of the preceding Dail as Ceann Comhairle.  What applied to the position of the Ceann Comhairle I submit applies in a much stronger measure to the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle, so we come to this House to-day with absolutely free hands to decide who shall fill the Vice-Chair. Those who were members of the Fianna Fail Party in the last Dail know that the Vice-Chair was made an occasion for conflict upon a matter of vital principle.  The resignation of Deputy Padraig O hOgain from the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle has been referred to, and I should like, for the benefit of Deputy Dillon and others who may not be aware of the circumstances, to recapitulate them briefly to the House.  Deputy O hOgain was the Leas-Ceann Comhairle and a member of his Party, Deputy T. J. Murphy, put down a motion.  I am speaking from memory.  Deputy O hOgain as a member of the Party responsible for putting down the motion was anxious to speak on the motion&mdash;I think it was dealing with the land annuities.  I understand representations were made to him that it would be incompatible with his position as Leas-Cheann   Comhairle for him to engage in a debate of that nature. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, may I say that the Minister's recollection is entirely at fault.  I think Deputy Hogan will be able to enlighten him on that question. 
     
     
      
       At any rate I am quite clear that Deputy Hogan resigned and stated that the reason for his resignation was that he found his tenure of the Chair would not permit him, under the conditions then sought to be imposed upon him, to discharge his duties to his constituents and precluded him from participating in a debate upon a matter which he regarded as being of vital importance and concern to them.  The matter was brought to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges.  In that Committee, as any Deputy may see from the report of the proceedings, the representatives of the Fianna Fail Party endorsed the stand which Deputy Hogan had taken.  I am sorry to say, speaking from recollection, that Deputy Morrissey, who was then the representative of the Labour Party, did not. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, as a member of the Committee, I took the stand that the majority of the members of the Labour Party, of which I was then a member, and their representative on the Committee took. 
     
     
      
       In consequence of the finding of the members of the Committee of Procedure and Privileges, Deputy Hogan's resignation was accepted, the Vice-Chair was declared vacant and Deputy Morrissey, who took a particular stand on the matter, was elected to that Chair by the votes of the Government Party and their associates in this House. 
     
     
      
       And the Labour Party. 
     
     
      
       Some of them. 
     
     
      
       Not the unanimous vote of the Labour Party&mdash;some of them.  Naturally, when the position of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle was discussed,   not between members of the Parties, but by the general public and by the public Press, everybody agreed that Deputy O hOgain was marked out as the new occupant of the office of Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  I can say this, that our support of Deputy Patrick O hOgain in that matter has been a purely automatic one, because he stood in the last Dail for the principle which we mean to give effect to in this Dail, that if he occupies the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle that position will not preclude him from doing his duty to the people who sent him here. 
     
     
      
       I have been asked to confirm the statement made from our side, that there was no bargain.  I have no difficulty whatever in doing that.  For the three hours or so that this conference lasted not once was the name of Deputy Patrick O hOgain or the question of the Leas-Cheann Comhairleship mentioned.  The questions discussed, as was reported in the Press afterwards, were large public questions, and we did not at all advert to the occupancy of the Vice-Chair. 
     
     I might say also that if I were in the seat at present occupied by ex-President Cosgrave, and if Deputy Padraig Hogan's name was put forward for the Vice-Chair, I do not see how I could possibly oppose the proposition in the circumstances, which are known to every member of the old Dail.  On one occasion on which Deputy Cosgrave, as President, proposed a Deputy for the office of Ceann Comhairle, I asked that the largest Opposition Party should be given the Vice-Chair.  That was refused.  The office was given on that occasion to Labour.  I made the request because I considered that the principal Opposition Party should be given the Vice-Chair.  That was denied on that occasion.  I think Deputy Hogan was put forward and elected on that occasion.  I feel that we are bound, considering the circumstances in which Deputy Hogan resigned and his qualifications for the Vice-Chair, to vote for him.  As I say, I would feel bound in the same way if I were occupying the seat at present occupied by Deputy Cosgrave.  Of course, one of   Deputy Hogan's qualifications is a qualification which was not possessed by the ex-Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  He knows Irish.  It was sometimes rather embarrassing to hear the ex-Leas-Cheann Comhairle asked questions of order in Irish and he did not even know that a point of order was being raised.  I think it is only right that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, whoever he may be, should know Irish. 
     Reference has been made to our &ldquo;eviction&rdquo; of the Ceann Comhairle. It is not necessary for me to mention the reasons why we voted against the re-election of the outgoing Ceann Comhairle.  All we can say is that we did not accept the principle, and that, even if we did, we had a reason that we could have put before the Dail, if we had chosen to do so&mdash;a very substantial reason&mdash;why the outgoing Ceann Comhairle should not occupy the Chair. 
     
      
       On the point that President de Valera mentioned, that the largest Opposition Party in the House were denied the Vice-Chair on a former occasion, I wonder could he give us any reference to the Dail Debates that would substantiate that? 
     
     
      
       I proposed on one occasion that Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly should be appointed Leas-Cheann Comhairle, and the proposal was defeated. 
     
     
      
       I have listened to what the President has said as to what occurred on one occasion.  There is one point which he stressed at great length and at great force on the last occasion which is rather absent from to-day's debate.  He made the point on one occasion, when, I think, he was the nominator of a Leas-Cheann Comhairle, that no man should be appointed Leas-Cheann Comhairle who did not undertake that he would not accept a greater salary than £600. Somehow, in the stress for national economy and efficiency, that has been forgotten to-day.  I heard nothing, when it came to the President's time to nominate a Leas-Cheann Comhairle who will have an opportunity of being returned, about £600.  Are we to   understand that what the President told us, that he would only nominate a Leas-Cheann Comhairle who would not accept more than £600 a year, is to stand?  Is he sticking to that still?  I would be very glad to hear that from him while we are looking for efficiency and economy and waiting for these proposals for economy that we will be glad to hear from the Minister for Finance one of these days. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if I would be in order in replying.  When   the Ministers were being appointed, the question of salaries did not arise. Voluntary reductions are going to be made in the Ministers' salaries.  We did not nominate on this occasion Deputy Hogan, but I think I know sufficient of the Deputy to believe that in any campaign of economy he will do his share. 
     
     
      
       I hope the same will apply to all the Deputies. 
       Question put: The Dail divided: Ta, 78; Nil, 55. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank Allen, Denis Bartley, Gerald Beegan, Patrick Blaney, Neal Boland, Gerald Boland, Patrick Bourke, Daniel Brady, Bryan Brady, Sean Breathnach, Cormac Breen, Daniel Briscoe, Robert Browne, William Frazer Carney, Frank Carty, Frank Clery, Micheal. Coburn, James Colbert, James Cooney, Eamonn Corish, Richard Corry, Martin John Crowley, Fred. Hugh Crowley, Tadhg Curran, Patrick Joseph Davin, William Derrig, Thomas De Valera, Eamon Dowdall, Thomas P. Everett, James Flinn, Hugo V. Flynn, John Flynn, Stephen Fogarty, Andrew Geoghegan, James Gibbons, Sean Gormley, Francis Gorry, Patrick Joseph Goulding, John 
             Harris, Thomas Hayes, Sean Humphreys, Francis Jordan, Stephen Kelly, James Patrick Kennedy, Michael Joseph Keyes, Raphael Patrick Kilroy, Michael Kissane, Eamonn Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John Lynch, James B. McEllistrim, Thomas MacEntee, Sean Maguire, Ben Maguire, Conor Alexander Moane, Edward Moore, Seamus Moylan, Sean Murphy, Patrick Stephen Murphy, Timothy Joseph Norton, William O'Grady, Sean O'Kelly, Sean Thomas O'Reilly, Matthew O'Reilly, Thomas J. O'Rourke, Daniel Powell, Thomas P. Rice, Edward Ruttledge, Patrick J. Ryan, James Ryan, Robert Sexton, Martin Sheehy, Timothy Sheridan, Michael Smith, Patrick Traynor, Oscar Walsh, Richard Ward, Francis C. (Dr.) 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry Anthony, Richard Beckett, James Walter Bennett, George Cecil Blythe, Ernest Brasier, Brooke Broderick, William Jos. Brodrick, Sean Burke, Patrick Byrne, Alfred Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt.
 Fitzgerald, Desmond Good, John Gorey, Denis John Hassett, John J. Hayes, Michael Hennigan, John Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Keating, John Keogh, Myles Kiersey, John Lynch, Finian MacEoin, Sean McGilligan, Patrick McMenamin, Daniel Minch, Sydney B. Mongan, Joseph W. Morrissey, Daniel 
             Conlon, Martin Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James Davis, Michael Desmond, William Dockrell, Henry Morgan Doherty, Eugene Doyle, Peadar Sean Duggan, Edmund John Esmonde, Osmond Grattan Finlay, Thomas A.
 Mulcahy, Richard Myles, James Sproule O'Brien, Eugene P. O'Connor, Batt O'Hara, Patrick O'Higgins, Thomas Francis O'Leary, Daniel O'Mahony, The O'Neill, Eamonn O'Sullivan, John Marcus Redmond, William Archer Reidy, James Roddy, Martin Thrift, William Edward Vaughan, Daniel Wolfe, Jasper Travers  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Davin and Allen; Nil: Deputies Duggan and Doyle. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     Supplementary Estimates. 
     
      
       I move that leave be given by the Dail to introduce the following Supplementary Estimates for the Services of the year ending the 31st day of March, 1932, namely:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go dtugaidh an Dail cead chun go dtabharfai isteach na Meastachain Bhreise agus Nua so leanas i gcoir seirbhisi na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, eadhon:&mdash; 
       Votai a 11 (Oibreacha agus Foirginti Puibli), 21 (Costaisi Ilghneitheacha), 22 (Paipearachas agus Clodoireacht), 28 (Priomh-Scoileanna agus Colaisti), 32 (Garda Siochana), 40 (Rialtas Aitiuil agus Slainte Puibli), 40 (a) (Rialtas Aitiuil agus Slainte Puibli), 46 Bun-Oideachas), 54 (Iascach agus Seirbhisi na Gaeltachta), 55 (Coimisiun na Talmhan), 56 (Tionnscal agus Trachtail), 57 (Boithre Iarainn), 59 (Muir-Sheirbhis), 60 (Arachas Diomhaointis), 64 (An tArm), 65 (Arm-Phinsin), 66 (Gnothai Coigriche), 67 (Cumann na Naisiun), 71 (Aisiocanna leis an gCiste Teagmhais). 
       Votes Nos. 11 (Public Works and Buildings), 21 (Miscellaneous Expenses), 22 (Stationery and Printing), 28 (Universities and Colleges), 32 (Garda Siochana), 40 (Local Government and Public Health), 40 (a) (Local Government and Public Health), 46 (Primary Education), 54 (Fisheries and Gaeltacht Services), 55 (Land Commission), 56 (Industry and Commerce), 57 (Railways), 59 (Marine Service), 60 (Unemployment Insurance), 64 (Army), 65 (Army Pensions), 66 (External Affairs), 67 (League of Nations), 71 (Repayments to the Contingency Fund). 
       Leave granted. 
     
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. 
     The Dail, according to Order, went into Committee on Finance to consider Supplementary Estimates. 
   
   
     Vote No. 11&mdash;Public Works and Buildings. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaid thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun caiteachais i dtaobh Foirginti Puibli; chun coinneail-suas Pairceanna agus Oibreacha Puibli airithe; chun deanamh agus coinneail-suas Oibreacha Droineala; agus chun Ildeontaisi i gCabhair. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for expenditure in respect of Public Buildings; for the maintenance of certain Parks and Public Works; for the execution and maintenance of Drainage Works; and sundry Grants-in-Aid. 
     
     
      
       The facts in this case are very simple. We have here a Supplementary   Estimate of £10 which is made up of £500 less £490 saving on other subheads. £500 is part of the sum of £1,000, £500 of which comes in this year and £500 next year.  The Government arranged to let to the Irish Tourist Development Association premises in Upper O'Connell Street this year.  Certain costs were incurred in reorganising those premises for the purposes of offices, and the amount involved was the sum of £2,000.  The Government agreed to pay a sum of £1,000 of that £2,000, and the Tourist Development Association paid the balance.  To that extent this Estimate represents a new subsidy to the Tourist Development Association of a capital sum of £1,000. In addition to that, in letting these premises the Government let them at a rent on a yearly tenancy of £350.  The economic rent of these premises has been estimated to be between £550 and £650 a year, so that though we are passing a Supplementary Estimate here for £10 it is only right that the House should clearly understand that in so doing they are passing an extra capital subsidy which was made by the last Government of £1,000 to the Tourist Development Association, plus the annual subsidy represented by the difference between the economic rent and the rent which the Government is charging the Irish Development Association for these premises. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 21&mdash;Miscellaneous Expenses. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £575 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Costaisi Ilghneitheacha airithe, maraon le Deontaisi airithe i gCabhair. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £575 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for certain Miscellaneous Expenses, including certain Grants-in-Aid. 
     
     This Supplementary Estimate was   introduced and passed by the last Dail on the 10th December.  Normally the supply granted would have been prescribed by means of the Appropriation Act of 1932, but in consequence of the dissolution of the Dail it becomes necessary now to have the grant revoted.  The additional sum of £575 is to meet the increased expenditure on the existing sub-head E of the Vote and two new services for miscellaneous expenses in the current year.  To give the Dail an idea of the nature of the expenditure I would say that sub-head E is to make provision for an excess expenditure of £125 in respect of grants to Gaeltacht students.  E (1) is to meet the cost of the printing of the &ldquo;Hugh Lane and His Pictures&rdquo; volume.  That is to say the volume which has been prepared by the Curator of the Harcourt Street Gallery, and is circulated setting forth the claim of the Saorstat to the Hugh Lane Bequest.  E (2) proposes to make a provision of a grant of £150 to the Veterinary Council under the Act of 1931.  The Council was set up by that Act to discharge special functions assigned to it. 
     Vote agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 22&mdash;Printing and Stationery. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun costais solathair Phaipearachais, Clodoireachta, Paipeir, Greamuiochta agus Leabhra Clobhuailte i gcoir na Seirbhise Puibli; chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an tSolathair d'ioc; agus chun Ilsheirbhisi Ilghneitheacha maraon le Tuairisci Diospoireachtai an Oireachtais. 
     
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the expense of providing Stationery, Printing, Paper, Binding, and Printed Books for the Public Service; to pay the Salaries and Expenses   of the Stationery Office; and for Sundry Miscellaneous Services, including Reports of Oireachtas Debates. 
     The purpose of this part of the Supplementary Estimate is to defray the cost of publishing a volume illustrative of early Christian art in Ireland.  This work is being done by the Ordnance Survey Department, and the expense is being borne on the Stationery Vote. It is proposed to print an edition of 2,000 copies.  The cost, which includes the paper, printing colour-type, and the binding, is tentatively estimated at about £900.  It happens, however, that the full edition will not be printed this year, and the cost of that additional part which will be published within the coming financial year is only £670. Under another sub-head, GG (3), it was proposed to provide £300, being the cost of completing and printing a publication of 2,000 bound copies of the late Canon O'Leary's translation of the New Testament.  This money will be expended by way of an advance to the Rev. Father Fleming, P.P., Rathmines, who is Canon O'Leary's literary executor.  Up to the present Father Fleming has borne £1,200 of the cost.  The additional grant is to enable him to complete the publication.  He found that his own private resources are no longer able to bear the expense. 
     Vote agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 28&mdash;Universities and Colleges. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na rabhaidh thar £750 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Sintiuisi mar Chongnamh agus chun Deontaisi i gCabhair do Chostaisi Funduireachtai Priomh - Scoile, maraon le Deontaisi fen Irish Universities Act, 1908, fen Acht Talmhan 1923, fen Acht um Oideachas Phriomh-Scoile (Talmhaiocht agus Eolaiocht Deiriochta), 1926, agus fe Acht Cholaiste Phriomh-Scoile na Gaillimhe, 1929 (8 Edw. 7, c. 38; Uimh. 42 de 1923; Uimh. 32 de 1926; agus Uimh. 35 de 1929). 
     
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding   £750 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for Contributions towards and Grants in Aid of the Expenses of University Institutions, including Grants under the Irish Universities Act, 1908, the Land Act, 1923, the University Education (Agriculture and Dairy Science) Act, 1926, and the University College, Galway, Act, 1929 (8 Edw. 7, c. 38; No. 42 of 1923; No. 32 of 1926; and No. 35 of 1929). 
     This is a new Supplementary Estimate and the purpose of it is to enable the Minister for Finance, in discharge of the powers granted to him under section 2 (2) of the University College (Galway) Act, 1929, to make an additional grant of £2,000 per annum towards the cost which the College has incurred in increasing the amount of instruction given through the medium of the Irish language.  At the beginning of the academic year 1931-32, the College appointed three wholetime lecturers through Irish, for two ancient classics and one for education, at a salary of £500 each.  The Minister for Education recommended an increase of the statutory grant by £1,200, being the additional cost of the provision made.  My Department is agreeing to that recommendation.  Owing to the overlapping of the academic year with the financial year, only one moiety falls due for payment this year and the Supplementary Estimate is introduced to cover that sum. 
     Vote agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 40&mdash;Local Government and Public Health. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh tar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli, maraon le Deontaisi agus Costaisi eile a bhaineann le Togail Tithe, Deontaisi d'Udarais Aitiula agus Iideontaisi i gCabhair, agus   Costaisi Oifig Chigire na nOspideul Meabhar-ghalar. 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the salaries and expenses of the office of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, including grants and other expenses in connection with housing, grants to local authorities and sundry grants-in-aid, and the expenses of the office of the Inspector of Mental Hospitals. 
     
      
       Under the Housing Acts, 1925-1930, a sum of £1,250,000 was provided for the purpose of making grants to private persons, public utility societies and local authorities engaged in erecting houses.  In the 1925-1928 Acts the grants were as follow:&mdash; Private persons, three-roomed houses £45; four-roomed houses £60; five-roomed houses £75.  Public utility societies, three-roomed houses £60; four-roomed houses £80. five-roomed houses £100. Local authorities, three-roomed houses £60; four-roomed houses £80 and five-roomed houses £100.  Under the Acts from 1929 to 1930 the grants were reduced to £45 in the case of private persons and £60 in the case of public utility societies and local authorities in respect of houses containing not less than three rooms.  The period for the commencement of houses built by private persons and public utility societies, under these Acts, extended from 1st April, 1929, to 31st March, 1931, and to qualify for grants the houses had to be completed by 29th ultimo. 
     
     The Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act of last year provided a further sum of £130,000 to enable grants at the above rates to be paid to private persons and local authorities in respect of houses completed between 1st April, 1931, and 29th ultimo.  The supplementary estimate now asked for is to enable payment to be made during the current financial year in respect of these later houses.  Under the Acts   1925-1931 there have been approximately 14,000 houses approved for grants to be built by private persons and public utility societies.  The number of houses approved in respect of local authorities, under the same Acts, is approximately 6,000.  Since 1922 the total number of houses provided by local bodies, public utility societies and private persons is, approximately, 26,000. 
     Vote agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote 32&mdash;Garda Siochana. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £29,200 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thoicfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Turastail agus Costaisi an Gharda Siochana (Uimh. 7 de 1925). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £29,200 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Garda Siochana (No. 7 of 1925). 
     
     
      
       This Vote is required to meet certain expenditure.  There is expenditure arising out of the decision of the Executive Council in August, 1931, when they decided to increase the special detective division.  In connection with that, I should say that there is a sum of £17,850 for the salaries of the additional Guards, and for the increments of those recruited to the special detective division.  There were special increments given under Section 4 (d) of the Pay Order of 1927.  As regards Sub-head E, we have £300 for clothing and equipment of the additional members.  Expenditure was incurred in connection with the General Election, the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Northern Ireland, and the giving of special protection to members of the Oireachtas, and in that connection there is an additional sum of £3,500 required for subsistence allowances, and an additional sum of £2,100 for locomotion expenses.  Additional motor transport had to be provided.   There were two motor cars, two motor cycle combinations, and a certain number of Ford touring cars, the whole coming to an additional sum of £1,930.  Additional arms and ammunition had to be purchased, and there was expenditure on the repair of arms and ammunition.  I do not know if it is necessary to go into details of the purchases.  There is a deficiency of £1,020 in respect of receipts by way of repayment of sums advanced to officers under sub-head H and proceeds of the sale of forfeited property and cast uniforms. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 46&mdash;Primary Education. 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Costaisi Bun-Oideachais, maraon le Deontaisi i gCabhair do Chiste Phinsin na Muinteoiri. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the expenses of Primary Education, including Grants-in-Aid of the Teachers' Pension Fund. 
     
     
      
       Baineann an meastachan so leis an sceim chun scolaireachtai do thabhairt do leanbhai bochta on nGaeltacht sna colaisti ullmhuchain. Bhi an sceim seo i bhfeidhm roimh an atharu rialtais agus taimid ag leanuint di. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 54&mdash;Fisheries and Gaeltacht Services. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Tailte agus Iascaigh agus   Seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara na hOifige sin, maraon le Deontaisi i dtaobh Togala Tithe agus Ildeontaisi i gCabhair. 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Lands and Fisheries, and of certain services administered by that Office including Grants in connection with Housing and Sundry Grants in Aid. 
     
      
       This Supplementary Estimate is introduced for the purpose of getting authority for a small net expenditure of £21 incurred last year in the provision of a lady experienced in the care of children, to look after the welfare of young children from 9 to 12 years of age for whom facilities to spend their holidays in an Irish-speaking area were provided by a local committee at Carna in Co. Galway. The scheme was an experimental one which is this year to be developed on a somewhat larger scale, and it is hoped there will be no recurring expenditure with regard to it. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 55&mdash;Land Commission. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £118,708 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun 
       Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig Choimisiun Talmhan na hEireann (44 agus 45 Vict., c. 49, a. 46, agus c. 71, a. 4; 48 agus 49 Vict., c. 73, a. 17, 18 agus 20; 53 agus 54 Vict., c. 49, a. 2; 54 agus 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38 agus c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; Uimh. 27 agus Uimh. 42 de 1923, Uimh. 25 de 1925, Uimh. 11 de 1926, Uimh. 19 de 1927, Uimh. 31 de 1929, agus Uimh. 11 de 1931). 
     
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £118,708 be granted to   defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Irish Land Commission (44 and 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, and c. 71, s. 4; 48 and 49 Vict., c. 73, ss. 17, 18 and 20; 53 and 54 Vict., c. 49, s. 2; 54 and 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38, and c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; Nos. 27 and 42 of 1923, 25 of 1925, 11 of 1926, 19 of 1927, 31 of 1929 and 11 of 1931.) 
     
      
       This Estimate was ready for introduction in December last.  The necessity for this Supplementary Estimate arises entirely out of the operation of the Land Act, 1931.  In introducing the annual Estimate for the services of the Land Commission in May last it was anticipated that a considerable increase under sub-head H (Payments under Section 11 (7) of the Land Act, 1923) would be required following on the greatly increased issue of Land Bonds provided for in that measure, but the Land Commission could not budget in advance for this. Accordingly the amount then estimated for under sub-head H was only £34,000, which would have been normal under the former procedure. 
     
     The powers given to the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1931, have resulted in the advance of Land Bonds amounting to £12,016,538 as of the 1st May, 1931, and £649,448 as of the 1st November, 1931, making a total of £12,665,986 Land Bonds issued pursuant to the Land Act, 1931, in respect of the standard price of tenanted land coming under the Land Act, 1923, vested in the Land Commission. (This includes Land Bonds issued in respect of compounded arrears of rent added to the purchase money.)  The additional Land Bonds issued in respect of the State contribution of ten per cent. under Section 25 (1) of the Act of 1923 on the Bonds issued on the 1st May amounted to £1,161,570 and on those issued on the 1st November amounted to £62,950, making a total State contribution of £1,224,520.  It is   necessary in this Supplementary Estimate to make provision only for the interest and sinking fund on the Bonds issued as of the 1st May last in respect of State contribution and the amount required is £36,705.  Some provision will also need to be made for the interest and sinking fund on the State contribution in respect of lands held under fee farm grants and leases coming under the provisions of Section 44 of the Land Act, 1931, but as this will involve only a comparatively inconsiderable sum in all, and little, if anything, for the financial year 1931-32, it is not considered necessary to include it in this Supplementary Estimate. 
     Merely as a formal matter, I must also ask for a token Vote of £10 under sub-head I (Improvement of Estates, etc.).  Under the Land Act, 1931, additional powers are given to the Land Commission to expend money on improvements, by Section 39&mdash; turbary and rights of way&mdash;and by Section 48&mdash;expenses of transferring migrants.  It is not necessary to make any additional provision in respect of these, but in order to cover the reference to these sections, a nominal sum is included in the Estimate. 
     The largest item in the Supplementary Estimate is that in respect of the advance in respect of additional sums payable by purchasers under Section 28 (3) of the Land Act, 1923, and Sections 9 (3), 50 (i) and 51 of the Land Act, 1931, involving a sum of £79,493. Under Section 9 (3) of the Land Act, 1931, the terms of Section 28 (3) of the Land Act, 1923, are applied to holdings included in &ldquo;Lists of Vested Holdings,&rdquo; and there becomes payable by the tenant with his first payment on account of annuity (or annuity equivalent) an &ldquo;additional sum,&rdquo; representing the proportion of the annuity for two months intervening between the first Gale Day and the first Dividend Day next after the &ldquo;Appointed Day.&rdquo; The rules made by the Land Commission pursuant to Section 51 of the Land Act, 1931, give the tenant purchasers the advantage of paying this &ldquo;additional sum&rdquo; in six equal instalments,   the first on the first Gale Day on which an instalment of the purchase annuity (or annuity equivalent) is payable, and the remainder on the ensuing Gale Days. 
     It has been stated already that the amount of Land Bonds issued under the Act of 1931 as of the 1st May last in respect of the standard price of tenanted land, with compounded arrears of rent added, amounts to £12,016,538, apart from issues for State contribution.  Accordingly it is necessary to provide £95,392 for payment of the two months' interest in advance for the period 1st May to 1st July in respect of this sum, this amount being recoupable in six instalments payable by the tenant purchasers, the first being payable on 1st November last. But from this sum of £95,392 has to be deducted one-sixth thereof (that is, £15,899) which was refunded to the Land Bond Fund on 1st November, 1931, and consequently the net amount to be provided under this head is £79,493.  It has to be understood that this will not be a permanently recurring feature of the Vote for the Land Commission. 
     Some provision must also be made in this Supplementary Estimate to cover possible redemptions of Land Bonds issued in respect of holdings in which the purchase proceedings are subsequently dismissed (referred to in Section 13 of the 1931 Act), or in respect of holdings in which the annuity is reduced (referred to in Sections 15, 18 and 19 of the 1931 Act).  It was not possible to estimate with any degree of accuracy the sums that would be thus necessary during the financial year 1931-32, and a round sum of £2,000 is put down as probably sufficient to cover the necessities.  It is not anticipated that there will be appreciable loss to the State, as any sums paid by the Land Commission under Sections 13, 15 and 19 of the 1931 Act in redemption of Bonds will, under Section 20, be recoverable from the owner, and in the case of an increase in the purchase money under Section 18, the amount payable to the landlord will be recoverable from the tenant. 
     One other small item is included in the Supplementary Estimate, in the   form of a nominal sum of £500, to make provision for the maintenance of embankments or other works out of capital sums for the improvement sub-head of the Vote for the Land Commission, pursuant to the provisions of Section 44 (5) of the Land Act, 1923, as amended by Section 45 of the Land Act, 1931.  This sum should be sufficient to cover any expenditure in this respect during the financial year 1931-32. 
     
      
       There is a considerable sum of money involved here, and I cannot say what the money is for or what it is about.  I could hear the Minister making reference to the Land Act of 1931.  I should like to know more before the Vote is passed, because it is a considerable sum, and it seems ridiculous not knowing what we are doing.  Does this money involved in this Vote include costs that were not foreseen under the Land Act of 1931?  Does it arise from the fact that the entire tenanted land of Ireland became vested under that Act, that these sums of money became necessary and could not be foreseen? I want to know from the Minister is that the position, or is that what we are voting the money for, because we do not know what it is for.  We could not understand it.  We could not hear a word that the Minister said. 
     
     
      
       The powers given to the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1931, have resulted in the advance of Land Bonds amounting to £12,016,538 as of the 1st May, 1931, and £649,448 as of the 1st November, 1931, making a total of £12,665,986 Land Bonds issued pursuant to the Land Act, 1931.  The main portion of the Vote results from the Land Act of 1931 which speeded up the vesting and fixed an Appointed Day. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 56&mdash;Industry and Commerce. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala,   maraon le Coiste Comhairlitheach na Ratai. 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, including the Rates Advisory Committee. 
     
      
       The purposes for which this sum is required have been adequately explained on the Estimates. The amount under sub-head H (1) is due to depreciation in the currency, the contribution to the League of Nations having to be paid in gold. The expenditure under sub-head K arises out of certain transactions that took place in 1926 during the coal strike in that year.  These small items represent freight charges and law costs in connection with a cargo of coal shipped on behalf of the Government in that year.  Sub-head L represents a payment of £1,500 out of the total grant of £2,000 which will be made out of the Vote for the Department of Industry and Commerce in respect of a grant to the Cork Industrial Fair for the erection of a hall of industry.  Grants are being given by the Government for various purposes in connection with the Fair, but this is the sole part of it that concerns the Department of Industry and Commerce&mdash;a sum of £2,000 to build a hall of industry, out of which it is proposed to pay £1,500 in the present financial year. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 57&mdash;Railways. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £162 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun iocaiochtanna fe Acht na mBothar Iarainn, 1924, fen Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc.; agus chun cricheanna eile a bhaineann le hIompar in Eirinn. 
     
     
        That a supplementary sum not exceeding £162 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for payments under the Railways Act, 1924, the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc.; and for other purposes connected with Irish Transport. 
     
      
       The amount required now represents a loss in excess of that estimated for in the beginning of the year in respect of a steamer which runs from Sligo to Belmullet and Killybegs. The service from Sligo to Belmullet is of long standing and has continuously produced a loss which was made good out of public funds.  The service to Killybegs was initiated at the beginning of last year.  It was anticipated that the loss would be slight, and, in fact, local assurances from the originators of the project in Sligo were received that there would be no loss at all.  In fact the loss has been considerably heavier than was thought when the service was started.  This service was started for six months as an experiment.  It was continued for another six months up to the end of last year, and was continued again for a further period of three months to the 31st of this month.  I find that a decision had been taken in the Department of Industry and Commerce to terminate both these services as from 31st of this month.  That decision was arrived at some time in December, but was not communicated to any of the parties concerned.  I have not had an adequate opportunity of going into all the facts relating to either service, but it seems to me there is a good case to support the decision to terminate them both.  However, it is proposed to continue the services for the longer period until a more complete examination of the facts is possible under the new conditions and a decision will be announced later, but it is necessary that this amount should be provided. It is due to the company that runs the steamer and is payable before the conclusion of the present financial year. 
       Vote agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 59&mdash;Marine Service. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,975 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun tuarastail agus Costaisi na Muir-Sheirbhiise (Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894-1921, Crown Lands Acts, 1829-1866). 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £1,975 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Marine Service (Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894-1921, Crown Lands Acts, 1829-1866). 
     
     
      
       I do not think this Estimate need take very long.  The reduction of the Appropriations-in-Aid arises out of the decrease in the number of ships calling at the port of Cobh during the year.  The receipts for surveys, inspections of ships, medical inspection of crews and passengers or stores, etc., were consequently much less than anticipated.  There were savings under other sub-heads of £505, reducing the total estimate to £1,975. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 60&mdash;Unemployment Insurance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,300 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi i dtaobh Arachais Diomhaointis agus Malartan Postuiochta, maraon le sintiuisi do Chiste an Diomhaontis. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £1,300 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses in connection with Unemployment Insurance and Employment Exchanges, including contributions to the Unemployment Fund. 
     
     
      
       This Estimate becomes necessary in consequence of the fact   that the amount paid in contributions to the Unemployment Fund during the year was somewhat larger than anticipated. The State contribution to the fund is based on the revenue of the fund from contributions paid by employers and working people.  The increased revenue from these contributions necessitates an increase in the State contribution of £9,000.  On the other hand the amount which the State is entitled to take from the fund to meet the cost of administration is a fixed percentage of the total revenue. And as the total revenue has been increased the amount to meet the expenses is also increased by £6,000. There is consequently a difference of £3,000 to be met.  Against that there were savings under the sub-heads of £1,700, and the total now asked is £1,300. 
     
     
      
       Does that represent an increase or a decrease in employment in the country? 
     
     
      
       From such investigation as I have been able to make the increase in the revenue of the fund was due to a combination of circumstances, one of which is greater efficiency in enforcing the payment of contribution by people concerned and to some slight extent an increase in insurable employment. 
     
     
      
       It does represent an increase in insurable employment? The Minister said there were two things which came into that calculation. Can he give an estimate as to the percentage addition that either or both of those would represent. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Can he give any indication, say in weeks, of what the addition to the insurable occupations in the country would be represented by this sum. 
     
     
      
       I could not, I did not get that. 
     
     
      
       It is possible, I think, if one takes ordinary lines which contribute to unemployment insurance, dividing them according to adults and juveniles, and further, according to male and female, to get a calculation as to how much extra occupation is   indicated by the increase given here. Has the Minister made any calculation or can he get it made? 
     
     
      
       Calculations of that kind are being made at the moment. The Deputy will understand that I have not had very much time to go into the matter in detail.  A full report on the situation in that respect is being prepared, and I hope to have it in the course of a few days.  The information supplied in the Department is that the increased revenue to the fund was in the greater part due to better compliance. 
     
     
      
       That would represent a greater percentage of compliance for last year over the preceding year. 
     
     
      
       Possibly.  The Deputy will understand that the Supplementary Estimate arises out of the original Estimate.  It appears that the Estimate as to receipts into the fund made some eighteen months ago was too low. The actual revenue was greater than the Estimate. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 40 (a)&mdash;Local Government and Public Health. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £20,000 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli, maraon le Deontaisi agus Costaisi eile a bhaineann le Togail Tithe, Deontaisi d'Udarais Aitiula agus Ildeontaisi i gCabhair, agus Costaisi Oifig Chigire na hOspideul Meadhar-Chalar. 
     
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £20,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, including Grants and other Expenses in connection with Housing, Grants to Local Authorities and sundry   Grants-in-Aid, and the Expenses of the Office of the Inspector of Mental Hospitals. 
     
      
       This Supplementary Estimate was passed in the last Dail, but it was not included in the Appropriation Bill, and it is necessary to put it through again. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 64&mdash;Army. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £5,000 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun costas an Airm, maraon le Cultaca an Airm. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £5,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the cost of the Army, including Army Reserve. 
     
     
      
       This Estimate passed through some of its stages in the last Dail, but was not completed.  It arises out of the expenses incurred under the Constitution Amendment Act&mdash;money spent on the Military Tribunal and prisoners.  Some of the moneys have been already spent, and it is necessary to pass this Estimate now. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 65&mdash;Army Pensions. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Pinsean Creachta agus Mi-abaltachta, Pinsean Eile agus Pinsean Fear Posta, Liuntaisi agus Aisci (Uimh. 26 de 1923 agus Uimh. 12 de 1927) agus chun sintiuisi agus costaisi iolardha ina dtaobh san agus chun Pinsean Seirbhise Mileata d'ioc (Uimh. 48 de 1924), etc. 
     
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course   of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for Wound and Disability Pensions, Further Pensions and Married Pensions Allowances and Gratuities (No. 26 of 1923 and No. 12 of 1927) and for sundry contributions and expenses in respect thereof and to pay Military Service Pensions (No. 48 of 1924), etc. 
     
      
       This Estimate is introduced as a Token Vote in order to legalise the payment of a gratuity of £150 to the widow and orphans of a soldier who was killed while on duty. He was thrown off a horse. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 66&mdash;External Affairs. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,810 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi Oifig an Aire Gnothai Coigriche agus Seirbhisi airithe ata fe riara na hOifige sin. 
       That a supplementary sum not ex-exceeding £1,810 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Office of the Minister for External Affairs and of certain services administered by that Office. 
     
     
      
       The necessity for this Supplementary Estimate is attributable entirely to the depreciation in currency following the abandonment of the gold standard in September last. The extra net sum required is £1,810. The gross extra expenditure which falls on this Vote consequent on the depreciation in currency is estimated at £6,360.  The savings which have been effected on the Vote are estimated at £4,550, and these savings have been set off against the gross figure, leaving a net sum of £1,810.  It will be seen that the greater part of the extra sum asked for arises under sub-head B (1), the sub-head to which the salaries, wages and allowances of all Saorstat   officers abroad are charged.  Some of these salaries and allowances are fixed in Saorstat currency and some in foreign currency.  With the concurrence of the then Minister for Finance, it was decided in October last to place those officers whose salaries are fixed in Saorstat currency in the same position as they were in relation to the particular foreign currency prior to depreciation.  When these officers were appointed abnormal fluctuations in the rate of exchange were not envisaged. The depreciation which occurred in September last was abnormal, and hence it was necessary to consider the position anew in the light of the new circumstances.  The gross estimated extra expenditure under this category is £4,700. 
       As regards officers serving abroad whose salaries are fixed in foreign currency, the provisions in the original Estimate were at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the preparation of the Estimate.  These rates are no longer operative and the extra sum required to make up the difference is £1,430.  As regards the services provided for under sub-heads B (3) and B (4) the expenditure is always in foreign currency and the provisions in the original Estimate were at the rates of exchange ruling at the time of its preparation.  With the serious variation in these rates, greater provision in Saorstat currency is required to the extent of £110 in sub-head B (3) and £120 in sub-head B (4).  Expenditure in Great Britain as provided for in the original Estimate is not affected by the depreciation in Saorstat currency. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask whether it has been decided to maintain all our present legations abroad or whether it has been decided to maintain them on the same scale in future as in the past? 
     
     
      
       Nothing has been decided in that matter so far.  I intend examining the matter carefully and seeing whether it is advisable to make any economies.  In fact we have got to examine the whole question from the beginning. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 67&mdash;League of Nations. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,125 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Deontas i gCabhair do Chostaisi Chumann na Naisiun agus chun Costaisi eile mar gheall air sin. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £1,125 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, for a Grant-in-Aid of the Expenses of the League of Nations and for other expenses in connection therewith. 
     
     
      
       The necessity for a Supplementary Estimate on this Vote is also due to the depreciation in Saorstat currency, following the abandonment of the gold standard. The contribution to the League of Nations is payable in American dollars.  The original estimate of £9,043 was based on the rate of exchange ruling for dollars at the time the estimate was prepared, January, 1931.  With the depreciation of Saorstat currency, following the abandonment of the gold standard, that rate of exchange was no longer applicable in the purchase of American dollars.  The gross additional sum required, is £1,425 on sub-head A.  There will be an estimated saving of £300 on sub-head D. and accordingly the net sum required is £1,125. 
     
     
      
       In view of the dollar basis payment to the League of Nations would the Minister for Finance consider a dollar basis payment for the different legations so as to give some guarantee of a proper rate of exchange for our representatives? 
     
     
      
       That does not exactly arise on the estimate. 
       Vote put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote 71&mdash;Repayments to the Contingency Fund. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £1,583 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1932, chun Roimhiocanna Ilghneitheacha airithe d'aisioc leis an gCiste Teagmhais. 
       That a sum not exceeding £1,583 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, to repay to the Contingency Fund certain Miscellaneous Advances. 
     
     There is one item which, personally, I am not satisfied should have been paid from the Contingency Fund. When we were in Opposition we felt that payments from this Fund were of such a nature that they ought to be carefully examined by the Dail.  I shall take the opportunity of putting before the House a brief statement showing the nature of this Fund.  A Contingency Fund was established in 1923-24 by the Vote of a Grant-in-Aid of £20,000.  No final payment is charged against the Fund, and the Fund is restored to its original figure each year either by means of the repayments to Contingency Fund Vote or by repayment from the ordinary service Votes of advances made to them.  The purpose of the Fund is to defray urgent or unforeseen expenditure which is not covered by ordinary Votes, and for which it may be impracticable to seek the immediate approval of the Dail. The Minister for Finance may make advances from the Fund to meet deficiencies on the ordinary Votes, and for new services.  Advances from the Fund are repaid from the appropriate ordinary Votes where a Vote for the service financed by the advance exists. In other cases they are repaid from the Vote for Repayments to the Contingency Vote.  An account of the Contingency Fund, showing the advances made, repayments effected, and advances outstanding is prepared annually and is examined by the Comptroller and Auditor-General.  This   account is annexed to the Appropriation Account of the Vote for Repayments to the Contingency Fund in the annual Appropriation Accounts. 
     Part 3 of the Estimate gives particulars of the advances from the Fund in the current financial year which cannot be included in the ordinary Estimates.  These are the provision of State bounties in respect of the birth of triplets.  As the Department of Finance has no control over that important service, I hope the Minister for Finance will not be asked to account for the expenditure under that head in this House.  Stamp duties remitted on deeds and other instruments in the Supplementary Estimate amount to £1,455 18s. 6d. These are Government deeds which are supposed to be stamped free of duty, but as no machinery exists for remitting that duty they are stamped, and the Revenue Commissioners Appropriation-in-Aid is met out of the Contingency Fund.  The amount falls now to be reimbursed to the Fund in the Supplementary Estimate.  The Department of Lands and Agriculture and the Department of Education present the majority of the instruments for stamping, free of cost, the former in connection with lettings and the acquisition of lands for forestry purposes, and the latter in connection with agreements between managers of national schools and their teachers. 
     The third item is in respect of renewal fees for 1931-32 and 1932-33 for patents in respect of the De Vecchis process for the desiccation of sugar beet.  The position of that particular patent is a rather complicated one, and I have not had time to inquire into it, or to have it inquired into by the Department of Industry and Commerce, which, I think, is the Department originally responsible for the expenditure.  I do not propose to say anything about it except that the item is a particularly small one and that I will have the matter inquired into. 
     The fourth item is an ex-gratia grant of £75 compensation to Mr. William McInerney for injuries received.  Mr. William McInerney, of Kilrush, County   Clare, is the gentleman who figured in Deputy Cosgrave's statement when, as President of the Executive Council, he was introducing the Constitution (Amendment No. 17) Bill.  Mr. McInerney was wounded on 12th September last as the result of an attempt made on his life, alleged to be due to his open denunciation of certain illegal organisations, allegations for which, after careful inquiry, I am satisfied there was no substantiation.  His injuries were such as to necessitate his detention in hospital for about six weeks, and I understand that he still carries a bullet in the muscles of his back.  Mr. McInerney, through the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana, made an appeal for monetary assistance from the State, and while it could not be admitted that he had any claim of a legal or equitable nature on the State, the late Government&mdash;and I should like to emphasise the late Government&mdash;felt in view of his injuries and as he had no apparent redress in law that the circumstances of the case were such as to warrant making an ex-gratia grant.  On consideration the amount was fixed at £75, and was advanced from the Contingency Fund by direction of my predecessor, the late Minister for Finance.  In opening my statement, I drew attention to the fact that the purpose of the Fund was to defray unforeseen expenditure which was not covered by the ordinary Votes, and for which it might not be practicable to seek the immediate approval of the Dail.  I am convinced that this certainly was a case in which the approval of the Dail could have been sought before the ex-gratia payment was made.  However, the payment was made, and it becomes my unwilling duty to submit it in the House, in order that the matter may be legalised, and that the Contingency Fund, for which I am responsible, may be reimbursed to that amount. 
     
      
       The Minister says that he is satisfied that this payment was not justified.  I would like to ask if the Minister is in a position to judge that.  The legal advisers to the late Government advised them to make an ex-gratia grant to this man in County   Clare.  If a citizen in the exercise of his civic rights receives an injury&mdash;and the Minister admits that this man has a bullet in the muscles of his back&mdash;he should be compensated.  Perhaps this man may be married and may have a family that might otherwise be left helpless.  Does the Minister suggest that the Contingency Fund should not be called upon in such an emergency to make some reparation to a citizen injured in this way? 
     
     
      
       I understood the Minister to say that he is now satisfied that the reason given by the late Government for making this grant to Mr. McInerney was unfounded. 
     
     
      
       The allegation was that the attempt on his life was due to his open denunciation of certain illegal organisations.  I have searched the files, and I cannot see any substantial evidence to show that that allegation is true. 
     
     
      
       I should like to know from the Minister how he has satisfied himself that there is no truth whatsoever in that allegation.  Has he got a police report?  Are there any reports on the files from the police?  If he came to the conclusion that there was some doubt about the matter, it was open to him to apply to the police for a report. 
     
     
      
       May I remind the Deputy that the money has already been paid? 
     
     
      
       I know the money has been paid, but this statement is being made now.  Apparently the Minister came to the conclusion that this allegation is unfounded.  He has interjected that he searched the files and could find no evidence in support of this allegation.  Has he applied to the police for information?  Has he got the police report, or has he come to this conclusion on his own examination of the files, without any reference to the police intelligence service? 
     
     
      
       With regard to the statement made by the Minister for Finance, I should like to know if there   is a report by the police on the matter? If there is a report, it should be read in the House, because it is not fair to the police or to the officer responsible for the report that it should be treated in this way by the House.  I, for one, shall not be a party to it. 
     
     
      
       I happen to be familiar with the circumstances pertaining to this particular case, and I should like to inform the House of them.  The individual concerned happens to be a particularly vulgar, foul-mouthed and truculent individual, who has been throwing his weight about the western portion of the county&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should not make such statements in the House when the individual concerned is not here to defend himself. 
     
     
      
       Very well.  May I say that he has been unduly aggressive? 
     
     
      
       No.  The man is not here to defend himself. 
     
     
      
       There can be no attack on an individual who is not here to defend himself. 
     
     
      
       They are paying him £75. 
     
     
      
       This individual has made attacks on people who have been politically opposed to him, and people who look for trouble usually get it. That, in my opinion, is what happened in the case of this individual, and, as there is no lawful authority for the payment of this money, I do not see why the payment should be approved of by this House. 
     
     
      
       It is quite clear that Deputy O'Grady does not agree with the Minister for Finance.  Deputy O'Grady's statement is that those who look for trouble get it and deserve to get it.  I do not know the circumstances of this case beyond what I read in the newspapers.  None of us can blame Deputy O'Grady for the statement he made with regard to this man, because Deputy O'Grady is new to this House and I am sure that if he were aware of the usual procedure he would not have made the statement. I do say, however, that if the   Minister for Finance comes to the House and states that he is not satisfied that there are grounds for the making of this ex gratia payment, he ought to give to the House the reasons why he is not satisfied.  If the Minister were to-day in the position he was in two months ago&mdash; on the front Opposition Bench&mdash;and if a statement were made such as this without substantiation he would be the first to demand substantiation. That he always did.  We, in this House, are privileged to say what we like about a citizen if we are prepared to abuse our position.  We should not, however, abuse our position by making accusations unless we are prepared to substantiate them. 
     
     
      
       In view of Deputy O'Grady's intervention, I want to make a further observation.  I do not think the Deputy could be expected to know the procedure of the House, but I think that, apart from procedure in this House, the instincts of common decency would dictate that the Deputy ought not attack a person who is not here to reply.  That is the fundamental point.  Deputy O'Grady is here to reply and I want to put some considerations to him.  The Minister for Finance has, apparently, based his present attitude on information supplied by Deputy O'Grady.  If he has not, I should like to hear it. Deputy O'Grady says he knows all about this matter.  I want to draw the attention of the House to this fact; at the same time, there was another outrage in Clare.  The State Solicitor's house was fired into. Certain questions were raised here about that.  President de Valera stated, at the time, that it was common knowledge about there that this outrage had got absolutely nothing to do with any of these illegal organisations.  Furthermore, Deputy O'Grady stated publicly, as reported in all the papers at the time, that it was well known that this outrage, which took place practically at the same time, was carried out by sympathisers of the Government and friends of the Government Party.  He stated that publicly and it was reported in all the papers.  The   Deputy who made that statement is the Deputy who now comes forward and makes this charge in connection with Mr. McInerney.  There is one further point to which I wish to draw the attention of Deputies.  Later on, when the Military Tribunal commenced to operate, a certain very prominent member of that illegal organisation in County Galway came before that Tribunal and admitted that he and his colleagues had carried out this outrage.  I want to put that to Deputy O'Grady's credit, in view of the unfounded attack he made on Mr. McInerney. 
     
     
      
       I may possibly shorten this discussion by quoting the facts, as I know them.  Both Deputy Hogan and Deputy McMenamin have asked me if I have had a report from the Garda Siochana.  I have not had a report but my predecessor had.  It is as a result of the study of that report and of the correspondence which passed between the Department of the late Minister for Justice and the Department of the late Minister for Finance that I made the statement, that, in my opinion, the allegation that this man had been shot because of certain statements he had made was not substantiated. There may be some grounds for it but, certainly, the statement was not proven. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister put the Report before the House? 
     
     
      
       Will Deputy Morrissey please keep order?  He ought to know the rules of order.  I have been challenged to produce the report of the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana and I shall. 
       &ldquo;Chief Superintendent's Office, Ennis, 8th December, 1931. 
       &ldquo;Commissioner Garda Siochana. 
       &ldquo;Attempted Murder of James McInerney, Kilrush&mdash;Application for Compensation.&rdquo; 
       &ldquo;I would like to emphasise that this report is read in the House at the instance of the former Minister for Agriculture and of Deputy McMenamin, a member of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party. 
     
     &ldquo;With reference to yours of the   3rd instant, I beg to set out hereunder a brief account of Mr. McInerney's social and political status, together with a short outline of the circumstances which led up to the attempted murder.  William McInerney is aged fifty-four years and resides at Vandeleur Street, Kilrush with his wife and her niece, Elisha Corry, a girl of about twenty six years.  There was no issue from the marriage.  McInerney, who is a building contractor, is renting the house he occupies and appears to be living in comfortable circumstances, but it is thought that he has not much wealth in reserve. 
     &ldquo;Socially his position is only fair, because he is prone to using vulgar language, and for being offensive in this respect he was twice expelled from membership of the Hibernian Club, Kilrush, for periods of six months.  There is no evidence to show that McInerney is of immoral habits, although following the attack on his life allegations to that effect were made locally.  Searching enquiries however, failed to secure evidence, circumstantial or otherwise, to support such an allegation, and I am inclined to believe that the immoral theory was deliberately put into circulation by the Irregular Section in order to cloud the position and thereby divert police enquiries from their direction. 
     &ldquo;McInerney was prominently associated with the National Movement prior to the signing of the Treaty, and since the ratification thereof has been consistent in his support of the Administration.  At all stages he seems to have taken special delight in openly denouncing any party which strived to subvert the State.  In fact his enthusiasm in this direction might be classed unreasonable, and sometimes his criticism was meaningless.&rdquo; 
     He was qualified for Front Bench membership of the late Administration. 
     
      
       Read the report. 
     
     
      
       
       
     
     &ldquo;In August, 1929, a meeting   under the Sinn Fein auspices was held at Cooraclare and he was a member of the party that went there to interrupt the speakers.  On that occasion the meeting broke up in disorder and since then he was regarded in an unfavourable light by the extremist party.  Since the inception of the local Cumann na nGaedheal branch at Kilrush McInerney has been identified with it as an ordinary member.  He has held no appointment in that organisation nor do I think that the branch would deem it in the interests of that body to select him for officership.  McInerney has been on friendly terms with one Dan Ryan, Merchant, Kilrush, and the latter some time ago gave employment in his garage to his (Ryan's) nephew, named Crowley.  On the formation of a Section of Fianna Eireann at Kilrush, Crowley became Scout-Master and when the Scouts Organisation fell into decay Crowley was appointed a Second-Lieut. in the I.R.A. (locally).  McInerney when he became aware of Crowley's activities urged Ryan to dismiss him (Crowley) from his employment, and this became known to the Irregulars who became more hostile to applicant.&rdquo; 
     Not less hostile, I am sure, than people whom this man's rough tongue offended, possibly people who belong to the Cumann na nGaedheal Organisation. 
     
      
       Read the report. 
     
     
      
       I am making the speech.  I am entitled to make these interpolations and I am going to make them. 
     
     &ldquo;There was also some sort of a belief in the minds of the public that McInerney was acting in the capacity of Intelligence Officer for the Government, although it is difficult to conceive how this belief could be accepted by an intelligent person.  He was the very type of person that could not be used as an agent, because he had a weakness for broadcasting any information he possessed.  As far as I am aware he never had any helpful information   and never imparted useful knowledge to the Garda.  It can be fairly well accepted that his attempted murder was staged by the irregular element...&rdquo; 
     There is not a scintilla of proof of that statement, and any man in this House who has legal training must agree with me. 
     &ldquo;and although no evidence there is information that &mdash;&mdash; was one of the attackers.&rdquo; 
     Opinion is not evidence and that is the reason why I said that the allegation that an attempt had been made on the life of this man because of his political activities was not substantiated. The report of the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana bears me out in that. 
     &ldquo;It is not clear whether I am expected to give my opinion as to whether claimant should be paid any compensation.  I venture, however, to express the view that McInerney's attitude although not altogether tactful, was helpful to the administration in the past. There were a number of people in Kilrush who were anxious to see the administration succeed, but these had not the moral courage to assert on their own volition allegiance to the State, consequently a person like McInerney was useful in so far as he gave a lead.&rdquo; 
     This rough-tongued gentleman who broke up meetings at Coolaclare&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Perhaps&rdquo;&mdash;the Superintendent goes on to say&mdash;When I read it, the House will understand why I have an instinctive objection to putting this Vote before the House and assuming even nominal responsibility for it, why I want to make it clear that the responsibility for this payment does not rest on this administration&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Perhaps some little monetary assistance may entice him to continue his opposition to the extreme section.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I asked whether a report was received from the Superintendent, and the Minister stated there was nothing in the evidence before him   to justify the payment of this Vote. He has read the report of the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana of the district wherein it is stated that in his opinion this attack was staged by the Irregulars.  Yet we are told by the Minister for Finance that there was no justification for the payment.  I would like to know if it is the policy that in future the Garda Siochana will be turned down in this way and put into contempt in this House? 
     
     
      
       Apart from the merits of the case, I want to know if the Minister is satisfied to use the Contingency Vote for payment of moneys in this way, even if he were satisfied that a man had a genuine claim.  Is this the proper place to take the money from, and is this going to be a precedent, that the Administration could, if they liked, postpone making an announcement to the Dail of payments of this kind.  Is this the way they are going to do it?  I would like the Minister for Finance to say definitely whether or not he approves of this, or whether any instructions will be given that the Contingency Vote will not be used for payments of any moneys except those the Vote is intended for. When this Party was in Opposition we questioned on several occasions moneys that were taken from the Contingency Fund Vote and spent months before the Dail came to discuss them.  There is no use discussing things of that nature when the Ministry can find an easy way out.  In this particular case the money has been spent, and even if the House objected they could not recover it.  All that can be done now is to replace it in the Contingency Fund. I would like if the Minister would state emphatically that this case shall not be taken as a precedent for future payments of this kind, and that he will see that those in charge of this fund will not be able at any future time to use it in this way.  It is all very well to say that there may have been urgency. The Dail was sitting at the time that this particular thing was on, and there were other ways of providing this money.  I would like to know from the Minister if on the even of an election a Party can come along and take money from the Contingency Fund to make   payments of this nature.  The Minister should state definitely that he will see that no such further occurrence can arise. 
     
     
      
       After listening to Deputy O'Grady and the Minister for Finance, I would like to be clear on one point.  Does the Minister for Finance and does Deputy O'Grady hold that because a citizen may be rough-tongued at the expense of certain organisations, the members of those organisations are justified in attempting to murder that particular citizen?  That is what I want to know. 
     
     
      
       I hope that we will never again hear any of these reports read out here, for I consider that if there was any court in the country some of those gentlemen should be tried under the Corrupt Practices Legislation, if such is in force for Ministers.  The final statement in that report gives the actual reasons for the payment made to that man as given by the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana mainly to induce him to continue his support. This gentleman was paid £75 out of the public funds to induce him to continue the support alluded to in that report&mdash; to break up meetings held by other parties.  To induce him to continue that support he was paid £75 out of the public purse.  That is the whole case in a nutshell.  I would like to know from the Minister for Finance whether this money has been already paid and whether there is any means of making this gentleman disgorge that money.  I hope we will not hear the like of that report read out here again, for it reflects on the Ministry.  Especially so does the statement made in the report of the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana reflect on the Ministry, when the reason put forward why that money should be paid was to induce McInerney to continue his rough-tongued support of the late Government during the election period.  It may be that the sum of £75 which was paid in this particular case is only one of other similar sums of which we have yet to hear. 
     
     
      
       They do not come into this Estimate. 
     
     
     
      
       This one does.  I am very glad that those sums did not affect the return of the Government to office.  In my opinion the late Government should be in gaol for corrupt practices.  For that reason I am glad that Arbour Hill Barracks are still there. 
     
     
      
       Two points arise on this debate&mdash;one, the method of investigation, when an allegation has been made; and secondly, the principle of law and order.  The Minister for Finance gratuitously threw this matter into the House to-day. 
     
     
      
       He did not. 
     
     
      
       He gratuitously talked about the report that had been got and how he had not been convinced by that report.  He was asked by two Deputies as to whether or not he had taken any information from the police, and the answer was &ldquo;Nothing except what was in the Report.&rdquo;  Then the Report was read.  Granted that the man is an immoral man, that he has a foul tongue&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I did not say so. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;and that he is all the things about which allegations have been made, still he is a citizen and entitled to his rights and entitled to be protected.  The Minister for Finance is not satisfied that the money should be paid, and he is not satisfied that the Report justifies it.  What does the Report wind up with?  That the police authority in that area is convinced that the attack was staged by what he calls Irregulars, and he says further that there is no evidence, but that he has information.  I did not quite get the end, for the Minister tailed off in the reading.  But there is something with regard to the information if there is not with regard to what is called evidence.  The Minister for Finance is content not to approach the Civic Guard authority to find out the grounds upon which he states there is certain information, and why he states it is his opinion the attack was staged by people he indicates in a particular way.  That is the point as to method of investigation.  The other point is   much more serious, the point raised by Deputy O'Higgins.  Deputy O'Grady comes into this House and tells us, when he is defending the attitude adopted by the Minister for Finance, that what happened was that this man was asking for trouble and got it.  That is a principle enunciated by the Deputy and it has not been repudiated by the Front Bench&mdash;that the man asked for trouble and the way he asked for it was by way of being rough-tongued in regard to certain organisations, and what he got was a bullet.  That is why I want to underline in this House when we are starting off here on the first day of the session.  There is a statement by a back-bencher which has not yet been repudiated by the Front Bench.  That statement is that if a man starts off looking for trouble, if a man has a rough tongue, then that he is to get a bullet&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       In the back. 
     
     
      
       That is the point that is before the House in the main. It is a small matter whether the Minister took the ordinary action that a responsible person would take in order to make up his mind before passing judgement.  That is a small matter in comparison with the other points.  We have it accepted by one Deputy sitting behind the Government that if a man is foul-tongued or rough-tongued as the phrase is, then he is asking for it and he should get it&mdash; that he should get a bullet. 
     
     
      
       That was never said. 
     
     
      
       That is the case Deputy O'Grady thought fit to intervene.  That is the conclusion I draw from the Deputy's argument until that argument is repudiated. 
     
     
      
       I would like to say a word about this.  I take it that the real question that is involved here is whether it was right that this payment should be made out of the Contingency Fund. 
     
     
      
       (Galway): No. 
     
     
      
       I take it that that is the fundamental question.  I am not going to judge the whole question of   the details and the whole grounds on which the payment was made.  We have got a report here.  I am sorry that the Minister for Finance did give way to the pressure to read that report because I do not want to see precedents of that kind established.  But that was because one of the Deputies on the opposite side, one of the Deputies who was a Minister, pressed for it.  I take it that was why the report was read to the House.  Now the whole question is whether the Contingency Fund could be properly called upon for that payment.  The point made by the Minister for Finance was just that the Dail was in session and the question of making this payment could be brought before the Dail, and that the sanction of the Dail could be got instead of the Government, by what might be regarded as back-door methods, getting this payment made. If that were so it would be well if it were put before the House.  Now, if there was a reason why that matter could not have been brought before the Dail and sanction got for it I would be glad to hear it. 
     
     
      
       That was not the reason.  It was quite the contrary. 
     
     
      
       As regards the merits of the case, I admit I am not in a position to judge them.  The Minister for Finance had the report, and I think he was justified in the statement he made. His statement simply was that from the report which he had before him there was no evidence to prove that the attack had been made upon this man by the body that was accused of making the attack.  Deputy O'Grady referred to local opinion about this case, of which he had local knowledge. He started by describing the man. 
     
     
      
       (Galway): The Deputy also had local knowledge of the Lynch case, and the President ought to know that. 
     
     
      
       He may have had, and he may be wrong in both cases, but the Deputy put it forward for what it was worth, that it was locally believed that there was no connection whatever between that shooting and the I.R.A. at the time.  I know that   Deputy Hogan refers to the Tribunal case in order to prove that the local opinion which I speak of was not correct. I will let the Deputy have that point. 
     
     
      
       The local information in the Lynch case was given by Deputy O'Grady, and the same man gives this information now.  The President ought to know that. 
     
     
      
       Whatever source of information I have I may or may not have stated it.  I said, however, that the information was local information. Deputy O'Grady made a statement in the House, and I think it was his first speech in the House.  He was giving local information for the information of Deputies here.  I do not think such part of the information as he was proceeding to give is at all at variance with the confidential information which the Minister for Finance has mentioned. In fact, I think it is borne out by it.  Deputy McGilligan is trying to suggest that Deputy O'Grady's attitude is that if a person does something which is of a character sufficient to arouse antagonism, he may be shot. As Deputy McGilligan well knows, Deputy O'Grady did not suggest anything of the kind. 
     
     
      
       He said exactly that. 
     
     
      
       He did not say anything of the kind.  He used words that everyone of us know are used in private conversation.  He simply used the phrase here that this fellow was looking for trouble. 
     
     
      
       And he got it. 
     
     
      
       In other words, he was making enemies.  I am not talking of the outrage at all.  I am simply talking of the statement made by Deputy O'Grady.  I was listening to that statement, and I think I am just as capable of appreciating what was the intention behind the statement as Deputies on the other side.  He simply made the statement that this man was of a character likely to excite antagonism in all directions; and, therefore, it did not necessarily point   at all to the direction which was made the basis of the grant by the Minister for Finance of the last Government.  I think that is a perfectly straightforward understanding of the statement made.  Deputies on the other side want to suggest that our attitude is that if a person does excite antagonism his antagonists are entitled to shoot him. 
     
     
      
       That is precisely the position. 
     
     
      
       We do not hold anything of the kind.  Even the Deputies on the other side do not believe it. 
     
     
      
       That is what it comes to. There is no question about it. 
     
     
      
       The Deputies there know perfectly well that that is not our attitude.  Deputy Cosgrave this afternoon knew perfectly well that there was no bargain, but he wanted to suggest to the public mind that there was. 
       Following applause in the public gallery, 
     
     
      
       I would like to remind Deputies that visitors to the public gallery are there by courtesy and as a privilege, not as a matter of right, and, in fact, that Deputies are personally responsible for the conduct of their visitors, and that any demonstrations of approval or disapproval that may interfere with the proper conduct of the business of this House may lead to the gallery being closed. 
     
     
      
       For the benefit of Deputy McGilligan I would like to suggest that he might read some of the proceedings of the Public Accounts Committee.  He will find that on one occasion, dealing with the period early in the civil war, a military policeman was killed coming off duty in Mountjoy. An application was made for a pension, and the Attorney-General of the then Administration pointed out that as this man was actually in a public-house brawl he was not entitled to compensation from public funds.  Deputy O'Grady pointed out that this particular man was looking for a brawl, and he was not entitled to compensation as a result of what happened in that brawl. 
     
     
     
      
       That is not the President's explanation. 
     
     
      
       The Superintendent of the Garda Siochana, whose statement was read by the Minister for Finance, conveyed the suggestion that this man, on the merits of the case, was not entitled to compensation from the State, but in order to encourage him to create further rowdyism at certain meetings, and to continue his activities in a certain sphere, the Superintendent suggested that it might be wise for the Government of the time to pay the man some little compensation.  That is the case the Superintendent made, and it was on those lines the money was granted by the last Government.  I would like Deputies McGilligan, Hogan and McMenamin to examine that statement and then back it up, if they can, with argument. 
     
     
      
       This discussion has really been extraordinary.  The President of this Assembly has made a straightforward and honourable statement. There are some who are quite satisfied that the Minister of the last Administration acted fairly and justly. The statement of the Minister for Finance is an extraordinary one.  He read a report which does not appear to be an exact replica of what occurred. One of the back-benchers of the Party opposite made certain charges against the man who was shot.  Deputy Corry, with his peculiar knowledge of finance, adopted one attitude, and Deputy Briscoe adopted another.  He said that this payment might be justifiable, but it should be under another Vote.  There are few Deputies in the House who will not give Deputy Briscoe this much credit, that in anything concerning finance there is little he is not master of.  The points put forward by others have all been rejected by the President. I was very glad to hear his speech.  I think the whole matter is a storm in a teacup.  I observe that Labour has not yet intervened, and I do not know why. 
     
     
      
       Wait and see. 
     
     
      
       All this appears to be a political move to besmirch the character of the previous Administration.  I think the President's statement was a   manly one, and it destroys that impression. 
     
     
      
       I feel sure that we may safely accept the statement from the President that Deputy O'Grady did not mean what he was thought by some to mean. 
     
     
      
       He meant what he said. 
     
     
      
       I think we should not let this debate come to an end without recognising that such language as Deputy O'Grady used is extraordinarily dangerous.  But it has been used over and over again in this country to justify murder, and it may so be used in future.  I hope I will never hear anything like it in the House again. 
     
     
      
       I should like to make my position in this debate quite clear. It happens that this payment has been made.  It will appear in the Appropriation Accounts.  These Appropriation Accounts will be sent by me to the Comptroller and Auditor-General who will report upon them and they will subsequently be referred by the Dail with that report to the Committee of Public Accounts.  It has been my duty as Chairman of that Committee on a number of occasions to criticise the manner in which the Contingency Fund has been used.  When I was called upon to put this Vote before the House I felt that it was not a payment which should properly be made out of the Contingency Fund. First of all, it was not a payment of extreme urgency, and, secondly, it was a payment for which it was practicable to secure the approval of the Dail.  I then found myself in this position: that the members of the late Government who would sit on that Public Accounts Committee would pillory me for having asked the Dail to approve of a payment which I believed was improperly made from the Contingency Fund.  No people can be so zealous in their duty as poachers turned gamekeepers.  I felt it was necessary that I should safeguard myself against the public opprobrium which would be heaped upon me by members of the Opposition when they came to criticise   this particular payment, and when I addressed myself to the House I addressed myself to this point and to this point only, that this was not a payment which I think could properly be made out of the Contingency Fund. When I put my case on this ground, following the brief which had been supplied to me, and which I presume had been prepared for my predecessor, I found that there was in it a statement that the attempt on this man's life was alleged to be due to his open denunciation of certain illegal organisations. I was not going to make that statement in the House without expressing my personal reaction to it. I took care to have this matter investigated in the ordinary way, had exactly before me the same information as was laid before my predecessor, and I said, and I repeat, that I could not find any substantial grounds for that allegation, and certainly not one tittle of evidence in the report of the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana, or in another report which I have not put before the House, a report made by the Minister for Justice himself to the Minister for Finance.  Does anybody want to hear that report? 
     
     
      
       (Galway): Give it a rest. 
     
     
      
       I submit that it was necessary for me to say that.  Otherwise what would the gentlemen opposite have said?  They would have gone out and quoted my statement.  They would have said that here was the Minister for Finance himself admitting that the attempt on the life of this man had been made because of his open denunciation of certain illegal organisations.  Deputy McGilligan has given to the House to-day an example of his expertness in misrepresentation of that sort.  We have seen the yes's twisted in this House until they have been made to appear noes.  I know exactly what would have been the consequence if I had made a statement of that sort without expressing my own personal opinion in regard to it.  Accordingly, in order to safeguard myself against that I said I could not find any evidence to justify that allegation.   At once Deputy McMenamin, who is comparatively new to the House, and Deputy Hogan, who has been here for ten years, got up and pilloried me. Deputy Hogan in his best petty sessions manner asked me if I had made any investigation, or received any report from the Superintendent of the Garda Siochana, or if I had done anything to sift this case for myself, and challenged me to produce the report.  I did produce it.  I read it at length, because if I had merely confined myself to one or two paragraphs which would have borne out Deputy O'Grady's description of this man, I would have been told that I suppressed something else.  So I read it at length in order that there might be no possible ground for any allegation that in putting the documents before the House I kept any part of the truth from the House.  That is why I produced the document.  If any person feels aggrieved let him place the responsibility where it properly belongs.  We on this side have suffered too long under the misrepresentation of the gentlemen opposite to be patient under it any longer, and wherever we can, and whatever we personally can do to safeguard ourselves against the distortion of the truth, amounting almost to falsehood, which we have endured during the past ten years, I warn them that certainly we will take every possible step in that regard. 
     
     
      
       (Galway): A dreadful threat. 
     
     
      
       It would be, because there were too many skeletons in your cupboard to have the cupboard opened.  I do not want to indulge in cross-talk with my friend.  I want to say that the money has already been paid.  We can do nothing in this House except regularise the payment and reimburse the Contingency Fund, which we are bound to keep at the limit of £20,000.  I should like to contradict a statement of Deputy McGilligan.  I did not, when I was introducing the matter, refer to the police report at all.  I did not refer to it good, bad or indifferent.  The matter of the report was not opened until it was opened by   Deputy McGilligan's colleague, Deputy Hogan. 
     
     
      
       I never said it. 
     
     
      
       You said I talked about the report. 
     
     
      
       I said you dragged the whole matter gratuitously in. 
     
     
      
       I did not.  With regard to the question as to whether I am going to abuse the Contingency Fund in the way it has been abused by the late Administration, I give the House this pledge: that so far as I am concerned, so long as I am entrusted with the administration of this Department, I will certainly not use the Contingency Fund in this way; that any matter of fresh expenditure which it is practicable to refer to the House, will be referred to it by me before it is made.  I give Deputy Briscoe the assurance that never again will the Contingency Fund be used for an improper purpose. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Resolutions reported and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Issue out of Central Fund&mdash;Committee. 
     Resolved:&mdash;&ldquo;That towards making good the supply granted for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1932, the sum of £182,258 be granted out of the Central Fund.&rdquo;  (Minister for Finance). 
     Resolution reported and agreed to. 
   
   
     Vote on Account&mdash;In Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go ndeontar i gcuntas suim nach mo na £7,864,470 chun no le haghaidh ioctha na muirearacha a thiocfaidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1933, i gcoir seirbhisi airithe puibli, eadhon:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             1 Teaghlachas an tSeanascail 
             1,700 
           
           
             2 An tOireachtas 
             38,200 
           
           
             3 Roinn Uachtaran na hArdChomhairle 
             4,100 
           
           
             4 An tArd-Scrudoir 
             5,700 
           
           
             
               5 Oifig an Aire Airgid 
             21,000 
           
           
             6 Oifig na gCoimisineiri Ioncuim 
             220,000 
           
           
             7 Pinsin tSean-Aoise 
             925,000 
           
           
             8 Iasachtai Aitiula 
             484,000 
           
           
             9 Coimisiuin agus Fiosru chain Speisialta 
             2,800 
           
           
             10 Oifig na nOibreacha Puibli 
             33,000 
           
           
             11 Oibreacha agus Foirginti Puibli 
             211,300 
           
           
             12 Saotharlann Stait 
             2,400 
           
           
             13 Coimisiun na Stat-Sheirbhise 
             4,500 
           
           
             14 Cuiteamh i gCailliuna Maoine 
             29,100 
           
           
             15 Cuiteamh i nDiobhala Pearsanta 
             800 
           
           
             16 Aois-Liuntaisi agus Liuntaisi Fagala 
             560,000 
           
           
             17 Ratai ar Mhaoin an Rialtais 
             29,900 
           
           
             18 An tSeirbhis Shicreideach 
             3,500 
           
           
             19 Coimisiun na nDleacht 
             1,740 
           
           
             20 Costaisi fen Acht Timpeal Toghachan agus fe Acht na nGiuirithe 
             Nil 
           
           
             21 Costaisi Ilghneitheacha 
             3,250 
           
           
             22 Paipearachas agus Clodoireacht 
             43,000 
           
           
             23 Measadoireacht agus Suirbheireacht Teorann 
             11,250 
           
           
             24 Suirbheireacht an Ordonais 
             13,130 
           
           
             25 Deontas Breise Talmhaiochta 
             675,000 
           
           
             26 Dli-Mhuirearacha 
             19,590 
           
           
             27 Longlann Inis Sionnach 
             1,570 
           
           
             28 Priomh-scoileanna agus Colaisti 
             78,000 
           
           
             29 Congnamh Airgid do Shiuicre Bhiatais 
             Nil 
           
           
             30 Oifig an tSaor-Chiosa 
             1,410 
           
           
             31 Luach Saothair chun costais bhainisti Stoc Rialtais 
             13,500 
           
           
             32 Oifig an Aire Dli agus Cirt 
             13,400 
           
           
             33 Garda Siochana 
             583,000 
           
           
             34 Priosuin 
             27,070 
           
           
             35 Cuirt Duithche 
             13,000 
           
           
             36 Cuirt Uachtarach agus Ard-Chuirt an Bhreithiunais 
             17,870 
           
           
             37 Oifig Chlarathachta na Talmhan agus Oifig Chlarathachta na nDintiuri 
             16,310 
           
           
             38 An Chuirt Chuarda 
             18,400 
           
           
             
               39 Oifig na nAnnalacha Puibli 
             1,700 
           
           
             40 Tabhartaisi agus Tiomanta Deirciula 
             1,100 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             41 Rialtas Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli 
             108,000 
           
           
             42 Oifig an Ard-Chlarathora 
             4,720 
           
           
             43 Gealtlann Dundroma 
             6,000 
           
           
             44 Arachas Slainte Naisiunta 
             103,320 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             45 Oifig an Aire Oideachais 
             56,740 
           
           
             46 Bun-Oideachas 
             1,390,000 
           
           
             47 Meadhon-Oideachas 
             112,880 
           
           
             48 Ceard-Oideachas 
             60,000 
           
           
             49 Eolaiocht agus Ealadhantacht 
             14,020 
           
           
             50 Scoileanna Ceartuchain agus Saothair 
             61,200 
           
           
             51 An Gaileri Naisiunta 
             2,010 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             52 Talmhaiocht 
             135,800 
           
           
             53 Foraoiseacht 
             20,600 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             54 Iascach agus Seirbhisi na Gaeltachta 
             75,000 
           
           
             55 Coimisiun na Talmhan 
             196,000 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             56 Tionnscal agus Trachtail 
             32,800 
           
           
             57 Boithre Iarainn 
             10,800 
           
           
             58 An Binse Bothair Iarainn 
             1,260 
           
           
             59 Muir-Sheirbhis 
             3,950 
           
           
             60 Arachas Diomhaointis 
             55,600 
           
           
             61 Oifig Chlarathachta Mhaoine Tionnscail agus Trachtala 
             6,900 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             62 Puist agus Telegrafa 
             700,000 
           
           
             63 Foirleatha Nea-shrangach 
             20,000 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             64 An tArm 
             439,480 
           
           
             65 Arm-Phinsin 
             71,600 
           
           
             66 Gnothai Coigriche 
             30,000 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             67 Cumann na Naisiun 
             7,500 
           
           
             68 Forbairt Bhaiteri Leictreachais 
             8,000 
           
           
             An tIomlan 
             £7,864,470 
           
         
       
     
     That a sum not exceeding £7,864,470 be granted on account for or towards defraying the Charges that will come in course of payment during the year   ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, for certain public services, namely:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             1 Governor-General's Establishment 
             1,700 
           
           
             2 Oireachtas 
             38,200 
           
           
             3 Department of the President of the Executive Council 
             4,100 
           
           
             4 Comptroller and AuditorGeneral 
             5,700 
           
           
             5 Office of the Minister for Finance 
             21,000 
           
           
             6 Office of the Revenue Commissioners 
             220,000 
           
           
             7 Old Age Pensions 
             925,000 
           
           
             8 Local Loans 
             480,000 
           
           
             9 Commissions and Special Inquiries 
             2,800 
           
           
             10 Office of Public Works 
             33,000 
           
           
             11 Public Works and Buildings 
             211,300 
           
           
             12 State Laboratory 
             2,400 
           
           
             13 Civil Service Commission 
             4,500 
           
           
             14 Property Losses Compensation 
             29,100 
           
           
             15 Personal Injuries Compensation 
             800 
           
           
             16 Superannuation and Retired Allowances 
             560,000 
           
           
             17 Rates on Government Property 
             29,900 
           
           
             18 Secret Service 
             3,500 
           
           
             19 Tariff Commission 
             1,740 
           
           
             20 Expenses under the Electoral Act, and the Juries Act 
             Nil 
           
           
             21 Miscellaneous Expenses 
             3,250 
           
           
             22 Stationery and Printing 
             43,000 
           
           
             23 Valuation and Boundary Survey 
             11,250 
           
           
             24 Ordnance Survey 
             13,130 
           
           
             25 Supplementary Agricultural Grant 
             675,000 
           
           
             26 Law Charges 
             19,590 
           
           
             27 Haulbowline Dockyard 
             1,570 
           
           
             28 Universities and Colleges 
             78,000 
           
           
             29 Beet Sugar Subsidy 
             Nil 
           
           
             30 Quit Rent Office 
             1,410 
           
           
             31 Remuneration for cost of management of Government Stocks 
             13,500 
           
           
             32 Office of the Minister for Justice 
             13,400 
           
           
             33 Garda Siochana 
             583,000 
           
           
             34 Prisons 
             27,070 
           
           
             35 District Court 
             13,000 
           
           
             
               36 Supreme Court and High Court of Justice 
             17,870 
           
           
             37 Land Registry and Registry of Deeds 
             16,310 
           
           
             38 Circuit Court 
             18,400 
           
           
             39 Public Record Office 
             1,700 
           
           
             40 Charitable Donations and Bequests 
             1,100 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             41 Local Government and Public Health 
             108,000 
           
           
             42 General Register Office 
             4,720 
           
           
             43 Dundrum Asylum 
             6,000 
           
           
             44 National Health Insurance 
             103,320 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             45 Office of the Minister for Education 
             56,740 
           
           
             46 Primary Education 
             1,390,000 
           
           
             47 Secondary Education 
             112,880 
           
           
             48 Technical Instruction 
             60,000 
           
           
             49 Science and Art 
             14,020 
           
           
             50 Reformatory and Industrial Schools 
             61,200 
           
           
             51 National Gallery 
             2,010 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             52 Agriculture 
             135,800 
           
           
             53 Forestry 
             20,600 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             54 Fisheries and Gaeltacht Services 
             75,000 
           
           
             55 Land Commission 
             196,000 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             56 Industry and Commerce 
             32,800 
           
           
             57 Railways 
             10,800 
           
           
             58 Railway Tribunal 
             1,260 
           
           
             59 Marine Service 
             3,950 
           
           
             60 Unemployment Insurance 
             55,600 
           
           
             61 Industrial and Commercial Property Registration Office 
             6,900 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             62 Posts and Telegraphs 
             700,000 
           
           
             63 Wireless Broadcasting 
             20,000 
           
           
             64 Army 
             439,480 
           
           
             65 Army Pensions 
             71,600 
           
           
             &mdash;&mdash; 
             
             
           
           
             66 External Affairs 
             30,000 
           
           
             67 League of Nations 
             7,500 
           
           
             68 Electrical Battery Development 
             8,000 
           
           
             Total 
             £7,864,470 
           
         
       
     
     &mdash;Aire Airgid 
     
        For the benefit of the House I should like to explain that this Vote on Account is based on the Estimates which were prepared by the late Administration: that we have not had time to check the Estimates, but that authority is required to expend the money after 31st March next.  We are adjourning over St. Patrick's Day and the House, I think, will not meet during Holy Week, consequently the financial year will have expired, and it will be necessary for us to have the Vote in order to enable us to carry on the public services until the Dail reassembles and until we have time to examine the Estimates in detail and to pass the necessary financial legislation. 
     Out of a net total of £21,969,623, which was the amount estimated would be required for the supply services during the coming year by the former Administration, a sum of £7,864,470 is asked for on account. The corresponding Vote on Account for the year 1931-32 was £7,843,498.  The provision made in the Vote on Account represents the sums required approximately to defray the expenditure on supply services during the four months beginning 1st April, 1932, and ending 31st July, 1932. Accordingly, in most cases approximately one-third of the net Vote is asked for.  In some cases, however, there are reasons for demanding sums greater or less than one-third of the net Vote.  I do not know whether the House would like to be wearied with an explanation of these.  There are quite a lot of these cases where we ask a little more or a little less than one-third of the Vote as set out in the Estimate. 
     
      
       Is that your apology, or merely a statement? 
     
     
      
       I readily recognise and admit that the sum which is now being asked for is one that has been prepared, but not presented by the late Minister for Finance; and that it is not, and certainly would not, be fair to discuss it in the way in which a Vote of this kind has been previously discussed in this House, or to ask the new Minister for Finance to answer certain   questions, especially in view of the short period in which he has occupied his new position.  I think, however, Deputies are entitled to reasonable assurances as to the way in which the money now asked for will be spent. Money is asked for under several Votes such as the Vote for the Local Government Department, for the Land Commission, for the Board of Works, in large sums.  These moneys will be spent under the supervision in some cases of the local authorities, and in other cases under the supervision of the Departments of State. 
       It is two or three years since, speaking for this Party in this House, I raised objection to the political preference&mdash;and I say that quite definitely&mdash; given for years past by the late Government, in the spending of money, especially by the Board of Works and the Land Commission and the Local Government Department.  In this matter I refer particularly to the preference given for the past eight or nine years to men who served in the National Army during the period of the civil war. 
     
     
      
       (Galway): Are you afraid they will get it now? 
     
     
      
       It is two years since the late Minister for Finance assured me that the time had come when that preference should cease.  The moneys we are now asked to vote will be collected from every section of the taxpayers regardless of creed or political persuasion. And I say it is quite wrong to give preference to any section of the community in the spending of that money.  If any preference could be justified in the spending of public money it could only be justified in giving preference to married men with dependents as against single men.  I do not stand for any preference, and I hope the new Minister will give an assurance that that preference has ceased with the advent of the new Government, and that in future, in the spending of public money, the only thing that will count will be the qualification of the individual citizen to receive work where such grants are provided.  I believe every citizen in   the State is entitled to an equal chance and opportunity for any position available in the service of the State.  The same should apply in giving work for which grants are provided at the expense of the taxpayer.  I hope it is not an unreasonable assurance to ask for, and I hope the President and Minister for Finance will give that assurance before this Vote is passed. 
       Another matter that I would wish to draw attention to is this.  I believe that a good deal of the schemes which now lie in the different Government Departments have been wound round too tightly by too much red tape.  I hope on the coming in of the new Government a good deal of the red tape will be removed, and that schemes like drainage schemes lying there will be put into operation without any unnecessary delay.  I believe the Minister for Finance and his Parliamentary Secretary will find that that exists to a great extent in the Board of Works, and I hope it will be the first duty of the Parliamentary Secretary to look up these schemes lying there for two or three years, take off the red tape that covers them without further delay, and let people who are waiting for work get it as soon as possible. 
       I notice&mdash;the present Minister for Finance of course cannot be held responsible for it&mdash;that the Improvement Vote for the Land Commission is reduced by £20,200.  The spending of money in carrying out improvement work on estates acquired under the Land Acts provided very valuable and productive work for a large number of able-bodied men.  I hope the Minister for Finance will call for the reasons which induced his predecessor to reduce that Vote by such a large sum, and that possibly before the end of the coming financial year additional money will be provided for that very deserving purpose. 
     
     I notice also, and I hope the Minister for Finance will give some reason for it, that no money is provided under the Local Government Vote for housing grants.  Last year the sum of £212,000 was provided and voted for the purpose of enabling the local authorities and individuals to build houses under the existing Housing Acts, and I would like to know why no provision has been   made in the Estimates for the coming financial year.  I would like to know whether the Minister could give the House any assurance at this stage as to whether the proposal of his predecessor to reduce the pay of the ordinary Civic Guards is to be proceeded with.  I have read the statements of representatives of the Fianna Fail Party during the General Election that the Fianna Fail Party did not favour that proposal.  I would like to have an assurance now that it is not the intention of the Fianna Fail Administration to proceed with the proposal for a reduction of pay of the ordinary Civic Guards.  The late Minister for Finance in this House in November, 1929, gave members of this Party a very definite assurance, in language that could not be misunderstood, that there would be no further reduction in the pay or emoluments of the ordinary members of the Civic Guards.  Speaking on that occasion, he said: &ldquo;I think all that is required to be done, therefore, is to assure them&rdquo;&mdash;that is, the Civic Guards&mdash;&ldquo;in the most formal and explicit manner that their position is stabilised, that they need fear nothing for the future.&rdquo; 
     We are all aware that previous to the recent general election certain proposals were made public as a result of which the Ministry hoped to secure a considerable saving in the Estimates for the Civic Guard by reducing the pay of the ordinary Guards.  As an ex-member of the Public Accounts Committee I can truthfully say that it is possible to reduce the Estimates for the Civic Guard, but if savings are going to be effected on that particular Estimate, I think it is the bounden duty of the present administration to start effecting these reductions at the top and certainly not at the bottom.  Every time you reduce that pay of a lowly-paid State servant or other wage-earner you reduce the purchasing power of the population where that money is normally spent.  I, speaking for the present Labour Party, would strongly protest against any further proposal on the part of the present Administration to effect any further reductions in the Civic Guard Estimates in the case of those who   are in receipt of £3 or £3 5s. per week. 
     There is one other matter which I would like to bring under the notice of the Minister and his colleagues. On 22nd October last year, acting on behalf of this Party, I put down a motion demanding the setting up of a Food Prices Tribunal.  In the ordinary way, that motion would have been discussed in Private Members' time had a general election not been called in the meantime.  Deputy Lemass as representing the Fianna Fail Party and in Opposition at the time, put down an amendment to my motion detailing the form of Tribunal which it was desirable should be set up to protect the ordinary consumer.  I want to say here that the Labour Party are quite prepared to accept the amendment which appeared on the Order Paper of the last Dail, indicating the type of Tribunal which should be set up for the purpose of protecting the consumer against any attempt on the part of the butter merchants or other merchants to fleece them or to charge unduly high prices.  I hope that during the adjournment period it will be possible for the Minister for Industry and Commerce to think out in detail and to produce to the House after the adjournment the form of Tribunal that should be set up.  The President and the Minister for Finance cannot forget the huge increase in the price of bacon following the recent imposition of a tariff on imported bacon.  That is only one of many glaring instances of what is likely to happen following the imposition of tariffs on imported foodstuffs. In view of the fact that further tariffs may be imposed on foodstuffs, I think it is very desirable and very necessary that a Food Prices Tribunal such as that outlined by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, Deputy Lemass on the old Order Paper, should be set up and set up without further delay.  I recognise that the Minister has not had a fair opportunity or reasonable time to go into everything for which an ordinary Minister for Finance should be prepared to answer to the House.  I will content myself by asking, and I   hope he will admit that there is nothing unreasonable in the request, that he should give us an assurance on the question of the Food Prices Tribunal and also an assurance that he does not, as Minister, stand for a reduction in the pay of the ordinary Guards. 
     
      
       There is a matter which I would think is of urgent importance, and I would like to draw attention to it before we adjourn, that is the provision, either by means of loans or otherwise, of seeds and manures for people in the country who are now about to put in their crops.  I have a number of resolutions&mdash;I am not going to weary the House by reading them&mdash;from various districts in my county asking me to urge the necessity for providing money either by loan or otherwise through the county councils for the purchase of seeds and manures for farmers in various parts of the county who are not in a position to buy them themselves.  I know of several instances where, taking advantage of the present very fine weather, the farmers have prepared the ground for crops and where they have no money themselves to buy the seeds or manures.  I know there are some counties in which the Department of Agriculture have given grants for the purchase of seeds and manures at reduced prices.  A sum has been distributed in the County Cavan in this way, but there are many farmers who are not able to pay any price at present but yet who do not want the seeds free. 
     
     If provision could be made between now and the reassembly of the Dail for loans or, to do as was done before, to authorise the county councils to assist out of the rates, it might meet the difficulty.  It is a matter of very great urgency, and while we may be tackling other problems such as unemployment, the best means you can get of providing employment is to get people working on the land.  I know that in my county the acreage under tillage will be considerably decreased this year unless some capital is advanced to the farmers to provide seeds and manures.  Of course I may be told that such facilities   are given through the Credit Corporation, but the machinery by which loans are granted through the Credit Corporation is altogether too slow to meet the present emergency.  I am sorry the Minister for Agriculture is not here, but I would ask the President, and perhaps the Minister for Finance in consultation with the Minister for Agriculture, to go into this matter, to regard it as a matter of urgency and see if anything can be done.  If we have to wait until the 20th April it may be too late to get the crops in. 
     
      
       I think a debate on the Vote on Account is scarcely the appropriate time to review all the questions that arise on the Budget.  I imagine, however, it is the occasion to draw the attention of the Executive to matters of urgent importance so that the House and the country may be assured that during the adjournment the Executive will concern itself with the question of providing ways and means of escaping from the serious possibilities that arise in certain connections.  The first of these to which I would draw the attention of the Minister for Lands and Fisheries is the incursion of trawlers into the fishing grounds of Irish fishermen. Several attempts have been made to ascertain why it was that the Government which has just gone out of office has never been able to deal with that problem.  As far as I have been able to find out, there is some constitutional difficulty about Irish patrol boats arresting British trawlers.  They can apparently arrest foreign trawlers, but any trawler domiciled within the British Commonwealth of Nations is apparently immune as far as the Free State patrol boats are concerned. Whether I am correct in that assumption I am not in a position to say, but to the best of my information that is one of the difficulties.  I think the fishermen of the Gaeltacht should be assured to-day that the Government will concern itself immediately with the solution of that problem, and that at the earliest possible moment the Irish Free State patrol boats will be vested with full powers to arrest and hold any trawler that is caught poaching on our fishing beds and destroying   not only the fish but the very means of livelihood of countless people who are keeping the Gaeltacht alive and without whom the Gaeltacht will cease to exist and our national language die. 
       There is another important matter which I think I should mention.  There are over 76,000 people in this city living in what can only be described as filthy tenements.  When I last had occasion to examine the facts closely, there was at least one case of fifteen people living, sleeping and eating in one room.  They consisted of a father, mother and ten children, as well as a married daughter and child.  There were numbers of rooms in which twelve people lived.  One room came under my notice in which as the doctor came in to help a mother bring her child into the world, the grandmother lay dead beside her in the same room, and they were waiting for the funeral to start. That such conditions could continue to exist in a Christian country is loathsome. I feel certain that this Administration will give an assurance to the people who are living under such conditions that they will not rest until they are ended.  There is only one way of putting an end to them, by wiping out the tenement house system in the city of Dublin.  Until that is done it is idle to call this a Christian country because we are forgetting the poor that we were elected to look after. 
     
     Lastly, I would suggest that this Administration would give some assurance to labourers that their long cherished ambition of being provided with facilities for becoming owners of their own homes should be realised.  The Government should carefully consider the problem and devise a scheme whereby agricultural labourers who wish to acquire their cottages on the same terms as small farmers acquired their land under the Land Acts will be able to do so. Doubtless there are other matters calling for attention, but I do not propose to refer to them now, because I assume they will arise on the Budget. I submit with great respect that these three matters are urgent, particularly that arising out of fisheries and out of the Dublin slums.  I have considerable hope that this Administration will lose   no time in giving those people an assurance that they will not be forgotten, and that their grievances will soon be remedied. 
     
      
       With regard to the question of political preference, I can tell Deputy Davin that we have already given proof that as far as we are concerned that is at an end.  One of the first things I did in my administrative capacity off my own bat, so to speak, was to issue a minute stating that henceforth all positions in Government control were to be thrown open to all citizens, without regard to class, creed or political affiliations.  We have done that, not because we have a prejudice against ex-National Army men but because we regard all the people as our people, and think they are fully entitled to have all the emoluments and all the positions of public employment thrown open to them that their talents and their abilities merit. 
     
     
      
       Does that apply to works carried out by local authorities with grants provided by the State? 
     
     
      
       I assume that does not come directly under my Department. I think the Minister for Local Government and Public Health has already issued a minute in the same terms.  With regard to the improvement work in the Board of Works, I think anyone who has noted the dynamic energy of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Finance in this House may rest assured that that Department has now really become a Board of Works, and that we shall see a great improvement in the efficiency and businesslike administration of that Board. 
     
     With regard to the improvement Vote of the Land Commission, I shall ask the Minister for Lands and Fisheries to look into the matter, to see that the reduction under that particular sub-head has not been occasioned by any intention to limit the amount of employment which will be available under the Vote.  With regard to the reduction in the grants for housing, I have been informed that these have been occasioned by the nature of the provisions of the Housing Act passed in the last Dail.  I have   not had time to look into the matter, but that is the information that has been placed at my disposal, and I give it in view of the fact that I have not made a personal investigation, and I give it with a certain amount of reserve. 
     With regard to the reduction in the pay of the Guards, unfortunately I am not in a position to pledge myself that there will not be all-round economies, but I can assure our friends in the Labour Party that we will avoid so far as we possibly can trenching upon the already&mdash;and I say it in all sincerity&mdash; almost insufficient pay of those responsible for the preservation of the public peace in the State.  In that connection I should like to utter a word of warning. I find from enquiries that have been made that the Budget position next year is likely to be very much worse than the late Minister for Finance ever led this House to believe. We are going, as far as we can, to see that economies will be secured in the purchase of materials and in matters of that sort.  As far as the lower grades of the Civil Service and the lower ranks of the Garda are concerned we hope to leave them immune from any economies that may be made.  But I must make my position quite clear. At the moment, after a preliminary inspection of the situation, I should say that that is merely a hope. 
     With regard to the question of the Food Prices Tribunal, I understand that the Minister for Industry and Commerce, from a conversation I had with him, is about to have a Food Prices Tribunal set up at the earliest possible moment. 
     As to the question raised by Deputy O'Hanlon, I find that an allocation of over £60,000 was made from the £250,000 Unemployment Grant to the Department of Agriculture, which was spent, amongst other things, on schemes for the provision of seeds and manures.  My Department informs me that up to the present they have not received any representation as to the insufficiency of these schemes.  I will have the remarks of Deputy O'Hanlon conveyed to the Department of Agriculture to see if it is availing to the   fullest extent of that portion of the grant apportioned to it for that purpose. At any rate, £60,000 was allocated to the Department for the provision of seeds and manures. 
     
      
       Were free seeds given out of the relief grant? 
     
     
      
       So I understand. 
     
     
      
       There is an arrangement by which certain county committees of agriculture got seed, but there still remains something to be done for other persons.  I am sorry the Minister for Agriculture is not here.  I am sure he is conversant with conditions in the country, as all Deputies should be conversant with them after the General Election.  We should see that the promises made then by the Ministry in office and by the Ministry that went out of office and by most Deputies who spoke on public platforms, be carried out.  There was tremendous sympathy with the farmers a month ago.  I want that sympathy to become a reality now. There is no question but the farmers are in a most deplorable condition, many of them being without capital and unable to put in the crops this year.  I think the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Agriculture, as well as the President, should see that the promises are carried out.  We cannot wait twelve months in order to get agriculture on a proper footing.  We are after going through a year of depression. As far as County Cavan is concerned, there are areas there where the crops were ruined last June.  I could give hundreds of instances where farmers did not get enough out of the oat crop to provide seed this year.  It was the same with regard to potatoes. If we are sincere about doing anything for the farmers now is the time to do it. 
     
     The Chairman of the Agricultural League in County Cavan, at a meeting the other day, mentioned that while there were a few of us here representing agriculture he did not forget the fact that there were many others amongst the various Parties here who are farmers or farmers' representatives, and that it did seem to be necessary   that somebody should make sure that the Ministers and others would not suffer a lapse of memory in regard to the farmers.  I would appeal to the Government not to shelve this question until the 20th of April, and find at the end of the year that agriculture is in a much worse condition than we found it in last year, and that the unemployment schemes you have designed for the future will come to nought because of the condition of the farmers. 
     
      
       I quite appreciate the importance of this matter, and I will convey to the Minister for Agriculture what Deputy O'Hanlon has said. I quite realise and appreciate the fair way in which Deputy O'Hanlon has commented on this matter.  We are not asking that people should be content to have these schemes deferred for twelve months, but we will ask Deputy O'Hanlon and others to remember that we have not been twelve months in office.  We have been only five days. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree. 
     
     
      
       I hope that we shall establish this precedent in the House at any rate, that we shall never make a statement that we do not mean to stand over.  I have given to the Deputy the information that has been furnished to me as to the provision already made in this connection.  I understand that the Deputy's point is that provision should be made for granting loans for this particular purpose.  I shall ask the Minister for Agriculture to see what the Agricultural Credit Corporation can do and whether anything else cannot be done through local co-operative societies or other organisations. 
     
     
      
       The Minister recognises the urgency. 
     
     
      
       I do.  With regard to the question raised by Deputy Dillon, as to safeguarding our fishing grounds, that is a matter which has long agitated us.  We believe that the present machinery&mdash;the old steamer that is being used&mdash;is not only inefficient but obsolete and expensive. We are having the question of a new patrol service looked into.  Whether   we will be able to give any practical effect to the conclusions in regard to that before the end of this year, I am not in a position to say.  It will probably mean the provision of a different type of steamer and possibly of more steamers. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister see that whatever patrol vessel is used it will have full power to deal with a trawler, no matter whence it comes? 
     
     
      
       That will associate the question of the keeping of these grounds with the Department of External Affairs.  I have no doubt, from the known attitude of the President with regard to these things, he will see that Irish interests are safeguarded. Of course it ultimately comes down to the question of the armament of the patrol boat.  On occasions, I suppose we will have to bear that in mind, even when we feel that we have right on our side, because the question of might must also be considered. 
       With regard to the question of tenement houses, one of the matters which we as an Opposition Party had under consideration for a long time was the establishment of a Housing Board.  I know from conversations I have had with the Minister for Local Government that that matter is not being lost sight of, that he is making preliminary enquiries with a view to clearing the ground and getting that Board established and that the work of rehousing the people not only in Dublin but throughout the country will be taken in hands, together with the question of providing employment. Naturally, that is one of the ways in which we can most usefully provide employment. 
     
     With regard to the question of the purchase by agricultural labourers of their cottages, even before we came into power we had set a committee of our Party working and we came to certain conclusions.  I presume that the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, who was responsible for the original Party report, will now be having the matter reexamined in the light of the fresh information which will no doubt be   available to him in his Ministerial capacity.  I think we have already given a pledge that we will devise some scheme which will enable the tenants or occupiers of these cottages, with proper safeguards for maintenance and repair, to become owners of their houses. 
     
      
       I am sorry that I did not catch what the Minister said about cuts in the salaries of junior Civil Servants.  Are we to understand that there are to be no cuts? 
     
     
      
       Unfortunately, I am not able to give a definite pledge.  I do say that every effort will be made by the Government and by me to ensure that if economies have to be made&mdash;we are hoping, if we are able to carry through our policy in relation to land annuities and matters of that sort, that we will be able to avoid economies which will trench upon the wages and salaries of the lower-grade Civil Servants and of the Garda Siochana&mdash;everything else will be cut before the standard of living of the lower-grade Civil Servants and Garda is reduced.  I cannot go further than that. 
     
     
      
       I want to raise a matter&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is this by way of a question?  I called on the Minister for Finance to conclude. 
     
     
      
       There were other matters raised. 
     
     
      
       You may raise it by way of question, but not by way of speech. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to embarrass the present Ministry in any way, but it is usual before long adjournments take place to raise certain issues.  Issues have been raised by other Deputies and I claim the same right as any other Deputy in this House. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony has claimed certain rights. Every Deputy in this House has   certain rights.  I looked round the House two or three times and no Deputy stood up to make any contribution to the debate.  I distinctly called upon the Minister for Finance to conclude. 
     
     
      
       I want to ask the Minister a question. 
     
     
      
       I want Deputy Anthony to understand that I am allowing him to ask a question, but not to make a speech. 
     
     
      
       I want to ask, through you, either the Minister for Finance or the President to indicate to the House what is his policy on unemployment. We heard from a number of platforms during the recent General Election a great deal of solicitude expressed for the unemployed.  We have in the City of Cork relatively more unemployed than in any other part of the Free State.  I am very much concerned with this question, and I think there should be no adjournment of this House until we have an indication of policy from the Government.  The last President was on these occasions asked in the same way to state his proposals, and I do not see why we should depart from that precedent.  I ask the Minister the question, but if the President is prepared to answer it I think it would be his privilege. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether or not Deputy Anthony is really serious in putting the question which he does.  If I were to give an outline of our whole programme to deal with the unemployment problem, we would have hours of debate, and possibly would not have agreement at the end of it.  Our programme to solve the unemployment problem can be put shortly in this way: that, so long as Irish hands are idle, nothing that can be made in this country or grown in this country should be imported unless very good reason can be shown for its importation.  That is our policy. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Resolution reported to the Dail and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Vote on Account&mdash;Issue out of the Central Fund. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That towards making good the supply granted for the service for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1933, the sum of £7,864,470 be granted out of the Central Fund. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Resolution reported and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     Central Fund Bill, 1932. 
     
      
       I ask leave to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to apply certain sums out of the Central Fund to the service of the years ending on the 31st day of March, one thousand nine hundred and thirty-two and one thousand nine hundred and thirty-three.  This is the ordinary Central Fund Bill which is necessary to place the moneys which the House has just approved of in the Vote on Account at our disposal. 
       Leave granted.  Bill read a First Time. 
       Agreed&mdash;to take all stages now. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That the Bill be read a Second Time.&rdquo;&mdash;(Minister for Finance). 
     
     
      
       I want to ask one question, and I am not pressing for an answer now.  I expect to get an answer the next day on which the Dail meets. I want to know whether or not the various Ministers holding office in the State will regard these offices as whole-time employment. 
     
     
      
       I think I can answer that question now.  There may be some technical point involved, but, taking the ordinary acceptation of the term, &ldquo;whole-time employment,&rdquo; I would answer &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to the question without hesitation.  I am, of course, safeguarding myself as regards any technical point. 
     
     
      
       There is only one alternative question to be asked: Will directorships, or other posts, be held by persons who occupy Ministerial offices? 
     
     
     
      
       Certainly not, where there will be any remuneration involved. 
     
     
      
       That is another point. I am not pressing for an answer now, but I will require an answer on the next occasion on which the Dail meets. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Bill put through Committee and reported without amendment. 
       Fourth and Fifth Stages agreed to. 
       Bill certified as a Money Bill by the Ceann Comhairle, in accordance with Article 35 of the Constitution, and ordered to be sent to the Seanad. 
     
   
   
     The Adjournment&mdash;Unemployment Question. 
     
      
       I move that the Dail adjourns until April 20th. 
     
     
      
       Is it proposed to introduce the Budget on that day? 
     
     
      
       We hope to introduce the Budget on the following Wednesday&mdash;the 27th. 
     
     
      
       Can we have an outline of the business for the 20th? 
     
     
      
       For obvious reasons, I could not outline the business at this stage. 
     
     
      
       Before the motion for the adjournment is carried, I should like to maintain an old custom.  I am sure that on this matter I shall have the wholehearted and vocal assistance of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, if not of the President, and that I shall also have the assistance of the Minister for Finance and of the leader of the Labour Party.  I do not expect to get any assistance from the front Opposition bench.  I should like to know from the President or some of the Ministers what the Government propose to do to relieve the plight of the 80,000 or 90,000 who are unemployed at present.  As is well known to the President and the Minister for Finance, the number of unemployed to-day is far greater than it was on this day twelve months.  It is well known to every   member of the last Dail that on every occasion upon which it was proposed to adjourn the House for any lengthy period, the leader and other members of the Labour Party brought before the Government of the day their responsibility to the unemployed.  On every occasion on which this matter was brought up in the Dail since 1927, we had the wholehearted support of the members of the Fianna Fail Party. No member was more vocal, no member more telling, no member more striking in his advocacy that everything possible should be done for the unemployed than the present Minister for Industry and Commerce, the man who is responsible to-day for seeing that those unemployed receive either work or maintenance.  On many occasions, as a result of this question being brought before the House and threshed out here, we were able to get from the then Government, at least some sop&mdash;something which would relieve, even for a short time, those who were unemployed and in need of sustenance.  I hope that the new Government is not going to depart from that principle. 
     
     I know I shall be told that the policy of the new Government is to find permanent employment for the unemployed.  Personally, I am wholeheartedly in agreement with that aim. But I want to be quite clear that&mdash; to use the words of the present Minister for Industry and Commerce on one occasion&mdash;while we are elaborating schemes which will lead to permanent employment the unemployed will be enabled to live.  What I should like to know from the Government, before we adjourn for five weeks, is what immediate steps they propose to take to deal with the unemployment question pending the introduction of schemes which they hope, and which I hope, will lead to the provision of permanent employment for those who are able and willing to work.  I am sure that every member of the Government Party is as anxious as the members of the other parties in the House that relief should be given. They have stated that on many occasions both inside and outside the House.  They are now in a position   to do what they very often challenged their predecessors to do.  I hope for the sake of the unemployed that the President and some of his Ministers will be able to indicate to the House before we adjourn to-night for a period of roughly five weeks, what is going to be done in the immediate future and what proposals are to be put before the House. 
     
      
       The Labour Party will not oppose the motion for the adjournment because we realise at the outset that Ministers who are only five days in office cannot be expected to give to this House a complete outline of their policy either in the matter of unemployment or in any of the other big social and economic questions that confront the country to-day.  It would be quite impossible to ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce to indicate to this House his schemes for the relief of unemployment.  As I said last week, the Labour Party will support the new Government so long as the new Government gives definite evidence of its desire to end the unemployment problem and to deal with these other social evils that press with such rigour on our people to-day. But we must not forget that the best ten years of the nation's life, during which there could be a growth of virility and progress, were frittered away by the outgoing Government which allowed the cobwebs of conservatism to grow all over our industrial life.  For ten years we have had to put up with their Micawberlike policy, waiting for something to turn up.  We see no evidence that the late Government appreciated its responsibility towards the problem of unemployment or towards the other problems confronting the country.  I do say to the President that the Labour Party and the people of the country will expect that during the next four or five weeks the new Government will not only settle down to the work of their own Departments and familiarise themselves with that work but that during the Dail's adjournment every possible effort will be made to put on foot schemes for providing work for our people&mdash;schemes   for curing the social problems which confront the country to-day.  Having regard to the declarations of the Fianna Fail Party during the recent elections, declarations which they indicated they were prepared to honour if returned to office, I hope the President will take a personal interest in ensuring that every one of his Departments will, from to-morrow, be set full steam ahead to deal with the major task which confronts these Departments, and when the Dail resumes I hope that the President will be able to give us evidence that the Government has not been idle in the meantime.  Unlike Deputy Morrissey I do not believe that unemployment can be cured by talking about it.  The continuance of the Dail in session for four or five weeks is no guarantee that unemployment will in the meantime be dealt with. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is turning down his colleagues who have been saying just the opposite to that for the last ten years. 
     
     
      
       Unemployment can be cured and solved only by the Ministers of the new Government concentrating all their attention on the problem.  I hope, therefore, that every possible effort will be made to clear away from the different Departments the cobwebs of conservatism and reaction which have been carefully woven through these Departments by the outgoing Government during the past ten years. 
     
     
      
       I feel that there is one other important matter upon which the new Government ought to make their position clear before we adjourn to-day.  I refer to their attitude towards law and order.  It appears to me that the events of the last few days have put that attitude in a rather ambiguous position.  During the election I heard the release of the prisoners who have recently been discharged from the jails defended on every occasion on the ground that it would turn them into peaceful and contented citizens.  I regret to say that it appears to me that the language which these released prisoners have   already been using in the first transports of their joy tends to throw doubt upon that contention.  They have been expressing their determination to continue actively with militant and illegal organisations.  I think it is due to the country and to this House that the Government should give some indication as to what their attitude is going to be in regard to these activities.  I observe in the Press reports that in a speech last Sunday the Minister for Justice described himself as the Republican Minister for Justice, and another Deputy belonging to the Fianna Fail Party said in the presence of the Minister for Justice that it was the policy of his Party to break the connection between the Irish Free State and England.  Now nothing can be worse, I am certain, from the point of view of preserving law and order, than ambiguity in the position of the Government in this matter.  There may be something to be said for breaking the connection between this country and England, but let us be clear as to whether that is the policy of the present Government.  If it is let us now know what is the reason for the delay in the execution of that policy.  So far as I am aware there is no reason why we should not proceed to secede from the British Commonwealth of Nations any moment we want to. 
     
     
      
       Come over. 
     
     
      
       The question is do we want to?  At any rate do not let us give the excuse of an ambiguity to these amiable citizens just released from jail&mdash;do not give them that excuse for continuing with illegal activities and possibly continuing with criminal activities.  I do not think it is asking too much to suggest to the President that he should give us some information as to his attitude on this question before we adjourn. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       I am delighted beyond measure at the advent to this House of a young man of the calibre of Deputy MacDermot.  He has asked a question which I was about to ask.  It is time,   as he suggests, that there should be no ambiguity about the position of the Government in relation to public statements and the activities of an illegal organisation.  Of course, it is very easy to take the line of least resistance in this country.  Unfortunately, we have not a healthy or a sound public opinion.  There is a new morality abroad in the country.  That new morality suggests that thou shalt not obey constitutional Government.  Two cardinal errors were made in the Dail right at the commencement of the Fianna Fail regime.  We had shabby treatment meted out to a respected and honoured member of the Dail.  I referred to that earlier to-day.  Then, although it was the prerogative of the new Executive to exercise clemency, they might, at least, have had the decency to repeal the Constitution (Amendment No. 17) Act before exercising that clemency. 
       No examination was made of the records of some of those men who were liberated.  The ordinary preliminaries, which are usual in such cases, were disregarded. I suggest we should have some pronouncement from the President as to his attitude in relation to the future Government of the country. Is he prepared to have the law administered as it should be administered?  Is he prepared to insist that there shall be only one Army in this country? These are very important questions, and it would ease the public mind, where an amount of disturbance is present already, if we had an indication from the President that he will deal firmly with any illegal organisation that is set up in this country to subvert law and order by the use of the gun, by armed force, or by resistance to constituted authority, constituted authority in this case being the elected Government of the people. 
     
     
      
       Deputy MacDermot has raised an important question in relation to the release of the prisoners. There is one aspect in regard to which I think the House should have an explanation.  During the late election a very prominent Senator, a K.C., said   that one of the first acts of the new Government would be to open the prison gates.  He deliberately said that in doing so a careful review would be made of the classes of prisoners.  He said there was one class of prisoner that he certainly would not be prepared to release, and that was any man convicted by a jury of his fellow-countrymen. Two of the prisoners who have been released were so convicted.  They were found guilty of serious criminal offences, one of them of attempted murder.  It might be possible to account for the release of men committed to jail by the Military Tribunal, and it might be possible to account for the abolition of the Military Tribunal. This House, and society generally throughout the country, should know why men who were convicted of serious criminal offences by juries of their fellow-countrymen were allowed out under the guise of political prisoners. 
       [ An Ceann Comhairle resumed the Chair. ] 
     
     
      
       Various suggestions have been put forward with regard to relieving the farming community. Our President has set a good example and the members of the Cabinet have set a good example, and I think that example should be followed right through.  There should be a drastic reduction in every Department.  There should be a fearless attitude on the part of our Executive in the direction of a really drastic reshuffle.  That will mean a direct relief to the country and it will result in efficient administration. By doing that we will be able to fulfil our promises to the people, and in a very short period our Government will have done more for the people of the country than the last Government did during its ten years of office. 
     
     As regards the prisoners, we are proud to be associated with the President and the Executive Council who did not waste one hour in releasing the prisoners.  We believe that the day is not far distant when we will act like men, evacuate and leave the country and its administrative offices to the real   people who should be in control of this Dail and of this country. 
     
      
       Hear, hear&mdash;reshuffle and evacuate. 
     
     
      
       I trust that the new Executive will not lose sight of the many necessary works that should be proceeded with in the constituency I represent.  So far as the Minister for Industry and Commerce is concerned, there are certain matters that I would like to draw to his attention, but I do not think this is the proper occasion, and I will bring them in due course under his notice.  I sincerely trust that the new Government will direct its attention to much-needed improvements in Donegal. 
     
     
      
       With regard to providing work for the unemployed I may say that Ministers have been directed to have schemes immediately examined in their own Departments with a view to selecting those of a reproductive character and making them available so that work will be given as quickly as possible, and thereby relieve unemployment.  That is all we have been able to get done so far. During the interval between this and the next sitting of the Dail, Ministers will be able to familiarise themselves with the routine work of their Departments, and they will start working out schemes so that the existing unemployment, which we regard as our principal problem, may be properly tackled. 
       A question has been asked by Deputy Dillon with regard to trawlers.  My information at the moment is that the only thing that stands in the way is adequate means of pursuit and capture.  We have a right to deal with any trawlers within our territorial waters.  We have a right to treat them as pirates and it is our intention to deal with them as such the moment we have the adequate means for capturing them. The provision of that adequate means is a difficult matter.  We have to see what can be done in that way. 
     
     The next question is in regard to law and order.  I do not think there should be any misapprehension in the mind of   any Deputy here as to what our attitude is.  During the General Election we made it quite clear that we stood for one Government and one Army. Not merely during the last election, but back in 1927, we made that definitely clear.  The fundamental point in our policy has been this&mdash;to try to get willing obedience to the law instead of trying to secure it by coercive measures.  Because certain statements were made by someone recently, there are Deputies who try to infer that that policy is already a failure.  It is nothing of the kind.  We have only taken the first step in getting that policy accepted throughout the country.  I am confident it will be accepted.  We want to make it possible for every section of the people to have representation in this Assembly without having to coerce their consciences by submitting to political tests of any kind.  In order to do that we propose to remove the Oath.  We have got a mandate from the people to remove it. The moment we have got that done, then I am convinced there will be no reasonable excuse for anybody refusing to give willing obedience to the law. 
     I am satisfied there is no danger whatever.  Simply because there has been a reversal of policy from that of coercion to that of an appeal to the good sense and patriotism of the people of the country, those who have been accustomed to the other method think that the whole world is going to collapse.  We heard of frightful things that would happen the moment the Fianna Fail Government came into power.  We have seen no evidence of these things.  The credit of the country has not gone down, as we were told it would, with a change of Government. We have had a peaceful change of Government.  I would say that if nothing was accomplished but the mere change over, this peaceful change over, a wonderful thing was done for the country.  If we fail, and if we are to be put out of office in another month's time, I say, nevertheless, that this change over has done a tremendous amount to bring about proper conditions in the country and a proper attitude towards government here.  I do not think it is necessary for me to   stress any further than I have done that we are conscious of our responsibilities. We have accepted office from the people on the understanding that we recognise what our responsibilities are.  I suggest that Deputies who would like to make it appear that we are running away from our responsibilities should show good cause. 
     One thing has been referred to&mdash;the release of the prisoners.  It has been suggested that there was no examination, that this was done hastily without any examination whatever.  It was not.  Those who have been released were released because we were satisfied that they were in fact political   prisoners&mdash;political prisoners in the ordinary acceptation of the term. There were some prisoners convicted by juries, but they had already served long terms, and one of these prisoners at least should have been released long ago on the ground of ill-health, if nothing else.  So that no case whatever can be made by any Deputy to suggest that we are acting in this matter otherwise than with the full knowledge of our responsibilities and in full accord with the pledges we gave to the people when we asked to be elected. 
     The Dail adjourned at 7.23 p.m. until Wednesday, 20th April. 
   
 