 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Housing Board. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the names of the persons appointed as the new Housing Board, the salaries and any other emoluments or allowances attached to positions on the Board, the duties of the Board, the qualifications of the persons appointed for the discharge of these duties and the number of officials likely to be attached to the Board and the estimated annual cost of their salaries and expenses; and if he will also state the reasons for the setting up of the Board. 
     
     
      
       A board of the kind indicated in the question is being instituted.  The matter has not been concluded.  I hope to make an early announcement which will include the information desired by the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Relief Works in Buttevant. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if in view of the acute poverty and distress prevailing in the town of Buttevant, Co. Cork, he will make an immediate and substantial allocation from the Relief Schemes Vote or from the Road Fund for the improvement of roads in that district and thereby relieve the present serious position in the town. 
     
     
      
       Grants amounting to £53,000 out of the £1,000,000 set aside for road work have been notified to the Cork County Council since the 8th June last.  It is not possible to increase   the allocation.  So far as can be seen from the schemes received from the county surveyor and duly approved, a sum of over £1,600 was allocated to the Buttevant area.  Of this amount, £850 was appropriated to Buttevant; £335 to Doneraile and £425 to Churchtown and Liscarroll.  There is no money at present available in the Road Fund for allocation to the Cork County Council.  Any readjustment of the allocated relief funds in the county would be a matter on which the County Council and the county surveyor should be consulted in the first instance. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a deputation of unemployed attended before the Board of Public Assistance at Mallow on Monday, that a statement was made by the county surveyor that only £325 has been allocated to Buttevant and £200 to Doneraile, that he has been instructed by the Local Government Department to spread that over the winter period until March, 1933, and that that will only mean £60 a month to Buttevant and £40 to Doneraile to deal with 100 unemployed in Buttevant and a similar number in Doneraile?  That means that only one in ten will be relieved. Can the Minister do anything to rectify that position? 
     
     
      
       I told the Deputy the amount allocated to Buttevant and Doneraile and the figures given are accurate.  I have no information as to the deputation of unemployed who, the Deputy says, waited on the Board of Public Assistance at Mallow but I am aware that deputations of unemployed have waited on a number of local authorities. 
     
     
      
       Only one in ten can be relieved.  Does the Minister consider that adequate? 
     
     
      
       I am not sure that the Deputy's figures are correct. 
     
     
      
       They come from the county surveyor. 
     
     
      
       That does not make them infallible. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Airgead a deonadh fe Achtanna na dTithe. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli an ndearfa se cade meid iomlan an airgid a deonadh fe Achtanna na dTithe, 1925-1931, (a) d'udarasanna aitiula, (b) do dhaoine priobhaideacha, agus (c) do chumainn mhaitheasa puibli go dti 30adh Mean Fhomhair, 1932, agus cade meid iomlan na dtithe a ceaduiodh do gach dream aca san do thogail fe sna hAchtanna san go dti an data san. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli an ndearfa se cade meid iomlan an airgid a deonadh (a) fe Achtanna na dTithe, 1925-28, (b) fe Achtanna na dTithe, 1929-30, agus (c) fe Acht na dTithe (Foralacha Ilghneitheacha), 1931, sna se mi dar chrioch 30adh Mean Fhomhair, 1932, (i) d'udarasanna aitiula, (ii) do dhaoine priobhaideacha, agus (iii) do chumainn mhaitheasa puibli agus cade meid iomlan na dtithe a ceaduiodh do gach dream aca san do thogail fe sna hAchtanna san i rith na treimhse sin. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli an ndearfa se cade an meid de sna tithe a ceaduiodh (a) d'udarasanna aitiula, (b) do dhaoine priobhaideacha, agus (c) do chumainn mhaitheasa puibli do thogail fe Achtanna na dTithe, 1925-1931, a bhi criochnuithe an 30adh Mean Fhomhair, 1932. 
     
     
      
       Taim ag tabhairt freagra ar na tri ceisteanna so le cheile.  O's rud e gur ga taibhli fada figuiri chun na gceisteanna so d'fhreagairt, ba chaothula dom' Roinn-se coip des na taibhli sin do chur chun an Teachta trid an bpost. Ma bhionn an Teachta sasta leis sin, bheidh athas orm na figuiri do chur chuige cho luath agus is feidir e. 
     
     
      
       Taim sasta.  Cathain a bheidh na figuiri agam? 
     
     
      
       Ni doich liom go mbeidh cuid acu reidh go ceann tamaill ach beidh an chuid is mo acu reidh i gcionn seachtaine. 
     
     
     
      
       An gcuirfidh an tAire na figuiri ata aige ag triall orm an tseachtain seo? 
     
     
      
       Cuirfidh me chuig an Teachta iad cho luath agus is feidir e. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Tairisginti chun bothar a dheanamh. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli ar dhein se on ladh Abran, 1932, aontu le haon Udaras Aitiuil do ghlacadh le haon tairisgint chun bothar a dheanamh narbh i an tairisgint ba shaoire i agus ma dhein an ndearfa se cad ba fath leis an aontu san, cade an obair a bhi le deanamh, cadiad na mion-innste bhi sa tairisgint le n-ar glacadh agus cadiad na mion-innste bhi sna tairisginti ni ba shaoire na i agus nar glacadh leo. 
     
     
      
       Bhi dha chas ann na dearnas aon chur i gcoinnibh glacadh le tairisginti narbh iad na cinn ba shaoire iad, mar ata, 
       (1)  Do ghlac udaras aitiuil le tairisgint, chun asphalt mastic do chur sios, o thigh gnotha do gheall an obair do dheanamh nios tapula na an tigh gnotha do chuir isteach an tairisgint ba shaoire.  Ba bheag an deifriocht a bhi idir an da thairisgint i gcompraid le costas na hoibre. 
       (2)  Do fuair udaras aitiuil eile tairisgint ina ranna chun concreit do chur ar bhoithre.  Is o thithe gnotha Eireannacha a fuarthas an tairisgint ba shaoire i gcoir ranna airithe den obair agus do glacadh leis an tairisgint sin da rein sin.  Do gabhadh thar an tairisgint ba shaoire i gcoir ranna eile den obair agus do ghlac an t-udaras aitiuil leis an &ldquo;tairisgint ba shaoire de chuid na hEireann.&rdquo;  Nior chuireas isteach ar shocru an udaras aitiula. 
     
     
      
       An feidir leis an Airm an Udarais Aitiula do thabhairt duinn agus costas na hoibre? 
     
     
      
       Is feidir.  Sa chead chas, Cathair Corcaighe, b'e an South of Ireland Asphalt Company a   bhi i gceist (£7,342 19s. 7d. an meid) agus an Western Trinidad Company (£7,186 6s. 8d.).  Sa dara cas, Bothar Dealgan b'e an Pioneer Road Construction Company (£2,130 0s. 6d.), agus an Western Trinidad Company (£2,111 17s. 2d.) a bhi i gceist. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli ar dhein se, on ladh Abran, 1932, a chur d'fhiachaibh ar aon Udaras Aitiuil glacadh le haon tairisgint chun bothar a dheanamh narbh i an tairisgint ba shaoire i agus ma dhein an ndearfa se cad ba fath leis sin a dheanamh, cade an obair a bhi le deanamh, cadiad na mion-innste bhi sa tairisgint le n-ar glacadh agus cadiad na mion-innste bhi sna tairisginti, ni ba shaoire na i agus nar glacadh leo. 
     
     
      
       Do shocruios, i gcas connartha i gCathair Bhaile Atha Cliath chun bothar asphalt do chur sios, gur cheart glacadh leis an dara tairisgint ba shaoire.  B'e fath go ndearna amhlaidh na go bhfuaireas comhairle eolgaisigh gur dheallruigh an tairisgint ba shaoire gur mo a theastuigh o lucht a deanta tithe gnotha eile do dhunadh amach na mar a theastuigh uatha gnath-shochar do dheanamh as an obair. 
     
     
      
       An feidir leis an Aire na figuiri a thabhairt duinn? 
     
     
      
       An South of Ireland Asphalt Company £15,495 16s. 8d. agus an Western Trinidad Company £12,833 6s. 8d. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Control of Ground Rents. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that profits ranging from 20 to 40 per cent. per annum out of the ground rents are being realised by ground landlords of newly built houses in Dublin, and if it is intended to introduce proposals for legislation to control ground rents and prevent such profiteering. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative.  As regards the second part, the question of rent   control generally&mdash;including ground rents&mdash;is at present engaging the attention of the Government and it is hoped to be able to make an announcement upon the subject at an early date. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Goring Estate, Broadford. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that the uneconomic landholders adjoining the Goring estate, Broadford, Co. Clare, have repeatedly asked for the division amongst them of that estate, which, it is stated, the landlord is willing to sell; if he will state whether in the past any inquiries were made by the Land Commission with a view to acquiring the estate, and if steps will now be taken to have the estate acquired for division amongst the adjoining holders of uneconomic parcels of land. 
     
     
      
       Representations have been made to the Land Commission in regard to the acquisition of the untenanted lands on the Goring estate at Broadford.  Inquiries have been made regarding these lands and the question of their acquisition is at present under consideration. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Going Estate, Killenaule. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he is aware that a portion of the Going estate at Ballynonty, Killenaule, Co. Tipperary, held by W.P. Hanly, Lainspark, is about to be disposed of and whether the Land Commission will intervene with a view to its acquisition for subdivision amongst the uneconomic holders and landless men of the district. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are not aware that Mr. W.P. Hanly is about to dispose of any land at Ballynonty, but will have enquiries made in the matter.  Mr. Hanly had a holding of 152 acres there which Land Commission records show he assigned in 1925 to Mr. W.F. Sankey, who is the present occupier. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Division of Kildare Lands. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries if he will state if any steps have been taken to acquire for division among the considerable number of uneconomic holders in the area the following lands, being portion of the Aylmer estate, Co. Kildare: (1) the lands of Clonagh Farm at Danielstown and Rathcoffey South containing 200 acres now in possession of Charles Reilly, Piercetown House, Kells, Co. Meath; and (2) the lands of Rathcoffey South and Danielstown containing 160 acres now in possession of Maurice McNally, Hainton, Rathmore, Naas, Co. Kildare. 
     
     
      
       The holding of Charles Reilly containing 325a. 1r. 36p. in the townlands of Rathcoffey South, Danielstown and Clonagh and the holding of Maurice McNally containing 202a. 2r. 2p. in the townlands of Rathcoffey South and Danielstown on the estate of John W. Aylmer, Record No. S 3020, Co. Kildare, were retained by the Land Commission on the Appointed Day under Section 28 (6) of the Land Act, 1923, and the question of their resumption for the relief of congestion is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Loan for Rebuilding Buttevant Mills. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if a decision has been arrived at in regard to the application for a guarantee under the Trade Loans Acts towards a loan for the rebuilding of the mill at Buttevant which was burned down last year; and, if not, if a decision will be expedited as the rebuilding of the mill would give much needed local employment. 
     
     
      
       The application referred to is still under consideration.  For the reason indicated in the concluding part of the question I am anxious for an early decision, and am having the matter expedited as far as practicable. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of his reply, will the Minister state if there is any truth in the statement that he was prepared to give a free grant towards the rebuilding of that mill? 
     
     
     
      
       That is the first I have heard of it. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Molybdenite Deposits at Roundstone. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if an Inspector of his Department visited and inspected the molybdenite deposits at Murvey, Roundstone, Connemara, and, if so, if he will state the nature of the Inspector's report thereon, and, also, if he has any information as to the possibilities of working these deposits. 
     
     
      
       Officers of my Department have visited and inspected the Molybdenite deposits at Murvey, County Galway, and the information secured is available for any person interested in the exploitation of the deposits.  As regards the final part of the question, it appears to be the accepted opinion at the moment that in the present condition of the market for mineral products, the carrying out of mining operations for the material in question would be a speculative undertaking. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Transport Problem and Railway Employment. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is in a position to state when he proposes to introduce proposals for legislation dealing with the transport problem with particular reference to the need for preserving employment on the railways. 
     
     
      
       It is not possible to fix the date for the introduction of the proposed transport legislation.  Its preparation is being proceeded with as quickly as possible with the object of its introduction in the present session. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Effect of British Duties on Live Stock Carriage. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he can state what has been the average weekly loss suffered by the Great Southern Railways company on the decrease in the carriage of live stock since the imposition of the British duties on Saorstat agricultural produce to date. 
     
     
     
      
       I am not in possession of the information asked for, nor do the weekly figures published by the Company enable it to be obtained. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Drainage of River Lerr. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state when the findings of the public inquiry, held in February last concerning the drainage of the River Lerr (Co. Kildare) will be published. 
     
     
      
       It is not intended to publish the report referred to.  It is hoped shortly to make certain proposals to the Kildare County Council with the object of enabling the annual charge upon the occupiers of land in the district to be reduced. 
     
     
      
       Has the report been squashed? 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy kindly tell me what he means by &ldquo;squashed&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary say if the report has been thrown aside? 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Duty on Leaded Lights. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether customs duty is being charged on leaded lights of clear glass intended to be inserted in sash frames, and, if so, if he will state under what authority such duty is leviable. 
     
     
      
       From the Deputy's description of the articles in question, it would appear that they would not be liable to duty under Reference No. 5 of the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 1932, but I would ask the Deputy to give me full particulars of the cases he has in mind.  I shall then have inquiries made and shall communicate the result to him. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Duty on Wood Preservative. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether customs duty is being charged on wood preservative sold and invoiced by the Solignum Co. and,   if so, if he will state under what authority such duty is leviable. 
     
     
      
       Wood preservative would not be liable to duty provided it did not come within the scope of Reference No. 8 of the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 1932, except in so far as duty might be chargeable in respect of any spirits contained in it or used in its manufacture. 
       If the Deputy will give me full particulars of any cases which he has in mind, I shall have inquiries made and shall communicate the result to him in due course. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Curragh Camp Ledger Clerk. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether in connection with the recent appointment of a ledger clerk in the Stores Department, Curragh Camp, he will state&mdash;(1) if any member of the Forces was qualified to fill the position or under what circumstances it was necessary to have the person appointed attested, and (2) if the person appointed has any special qualifications for the post. 
     
     
      
       No such appointment has been made recently in the Curragh Camp. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Na Paipeir Nuachta sa Ghaeltacht. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachtais conas ta ag eirighe leis an iarracht chun nuachta do chur i gclo ins na paipearaibh nuachta a leightear sa Ghaeltacht, agus mara bhfuil ag eirighe leis an iarracht san, an bhfeachfaidh se isteach sa sgeal feachaint an bhfeadfai na paipeir nuachta san do Ghaolu. 
     
     
      
       Nior baireadh an oiread feidhme as na deontaisi go bhfuil airgead ann ina gcoir sa Vota i gcoir Paipearachais agus Clodoireachta agus a bhi suil, gidh gur chuir paipear nuaiochta no do ceisteanna breise chughainn ina dtaobh le deanaighe.  Ar an adhbhar san, deanfar aith-bhreithniu ar na coiniollacha fe n-a dtugtar deontaisi. 
     
   
   
     Ceisteanna&mdash;Questions.   Oral Answers. - Leabhair Gaedhilge. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais an bhfeadfadh se   innsint an mo leabhar Gaedhilge ata idir lamhaibh ag Coiste na Leabhar agus gur dioladh deontais asta (a) roim deire na bliana 1930 agus (b) roim deire na bliana 1931, agus cathain a bheidh na leabhair sin le fail ag an bpobal. 
     
     
      
       Ta 68 leabhra Gaedhilge idir lamhaibh ag an Roinn Oideachais fe lathair gur dioladh deontaisi asta roimh deire na bliana 1930, agus 87 gur dioladh deontaisi asta roimh deire 1931. 
       Tathar ag suil go mbeidh 50 de na leabhraibh seo ar an margadh roimh deire Mean-Fhomhair, 1933, agus go bhfoillseofar an fuighleach roimh deire 1934. 
     
   
   
     Order of Business. 
     
      
       It is proposed to take the matters on the agenda in the following order:&mdash;1, 3, 4, 2, 6, 7, and Private Deputies' time as usual at 9 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       When is it proposed to take the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Bill? 
     
     
      
       Probably this day week. 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Pier and Harbour Provisional Order Confirmation (No. 2) Bill, 1932&mdash;Committee Stage. 
     Sections 1, 2, 3, the Schedule and the Title agreed to. 
     Bill reported without amendment. 
     Report Stage ordered to be taken to-morrow. 
   
   
     Private Business. - Financial Resolutions&mdash;Report. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That the Dail agree with the Committee in Resolution No. 1. 
     
     
        I do not know what form it is intended the discussion should take&mdash; whether the Resolutions are to be discussed as a whole or separately. 
     
      
       Separately. There are amendments to some. 
     
     
      
       On reference No. 16, I should like to ask the Minister if picture mouldings are included. 
     
     
      
       Picture mouldings of wood, and entirely of wood, are definitely included.  There is some question as to plaster mouldings, and I will have an amendment introduced to make it clear that they are not dutiable. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the Minister means compo moulding? 
     
     
      
       Yes, quite. 
     
     
      
       That, of course, is one section of the picture moulding trade, but it seems a little peculiar to bring picture mouldings under this section. It is, however, for the Minister to say. Does he mean that mouldings that are intended for the making of picture frames will come under this duty? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       And that compo mouldings will be exempt? 
     
     
      
       Quite. 
     
     
      
       Of course, the Minister, I take it, realises that I am not talking about what is described as builders' woodwork.  There are a lot of these picture mouldings not made in this country, and there appears to be no prospect of their being made in this country.  Perhaps the Minister will consider what is the object served in this instance.  I am not, of course, referring to anything in the builders' woodwork section. 
     
     
      
       It is possible that some mouldings&mdash;I cannot say precisely what kind of mouldings&mdash;will be subject to this duty after the amendment I have indicated has been made, but,   in so far as that is the case, it will operate either to induce the use of the other type of moulding, or the position will be that the picture frame manufacturers will still have a protective margin, in so far as the duty on moulding is substantially less than the duty on the completed frame. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister inform me under what provision of this measure is printers' material held up? 
     
     
      
       Does it arise under this? 
     
     
      
       I refer to wooden type.  I am aware that the Minister did not intend to hold up the material I refer to, but the fact is&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       To what material is the Deputy referring? 
     
     
      
       Wooden types.  An employing printer in the City of Cork approached me during the week, and informed me that wooden types consigned to his premises by Messrs. Little of Yorkshire, have been held up in the Custom House.  There is no authority from this House or from the Minister to hold it up.  Notwithstanding all the Minister's protestations, these things are held up by the Customs officials, and we were told, to my own knowledge, that no printers' materials were to be held up.  I am speaking of printing materials such as brasses, leads, and what are known in the trade as clumps.  This wooden type has been held up for the last week or two in the Cork Custom House and this employing printer is waiting to execute an order, and he cannot do it, and at least one man is being kept out of employment. Would the Minister, now that I have drawn attention to it, give a specific instruction to the Custom officials, with whom I have, in the existing circumstances, a great deal of sympathy, because the list of things that are tariffed is like 16 or 17 litanies, that, in view of the fact that it is not the intention of the Act, or of the Minister, to make these articles subject to duty, this type should be released? 
     
     
     
      
       This is the first occasion on which any question about wooden type arose.  Wooden type would definitely be dutiable under the section as it stands, but if there is any importation we will have it exempted.  It is not intended to have it subject to duty. 
     
     
      
       I am glad the Minister has stated that.  Can I take it that, if I write to this gentleman to-night the goods will be released to-morrow? Would the Minister give an instruction that the goods will be released? 
     
     
      
       Quite clearly, they cannot be released until the necessary amendment is made. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister himself gave an undertaking in the House that printers' material would be exempt. 
     
     
      
       If it is intended to tax plaster mouldings&mdash;wood mouldings covered with plaster for use in picture framing&mdash;might I point out that Imperial preference is of no use?  These articles come from foreign countries, Italy or Germany, and the giving of Imperial preference is of no use to those in the trade who will be affected. I would appeal to the Minister to see his way to exempt them. 
     
     
      
       I have just announced that it is the intention to exempt them. 
     
     
      
       I should like to draw the attention of the Minister to a slight discussion we had on an earlier stage of the Bill.  In column 44 of the Official Reports, I asked the Minister &ldquo;Is this tariff to apply to the component parts of egg boxes,&rdquo; and the Minister replied &ldquo;Yes.  Number 17 imposes a duty upon the component parts (excluding road springs) of all wheeled vehicles.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       There is no relation between the &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; and the rest of the sentence. 
     
     
      
       At a later stage in the debate, I thought that the Minister had probably made a mistake, and I   re-opened the question, and asked &ldquo;Did I understand the Minister to say that the duty applied to the component parts of cubicle egg boxes,&rdquo; to which the Minister replied &ldquo;Quite.&rdquo; Then we went on for sometime and Deputy Dockrell said: &ldquo;The Minister mentioned, in reference to No. 16, planed flooring boards and mouldings. I take it sawn timber is free.&rdquo; The Minister replied: &ldquo;Sawn timber is free.  Timber that is merely sawn is free.&rdquo;  I want to draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that the component parts of egg-boxes are not planed, except on the edges, the same as any plank is finished, but they are sawed, and I would like to remind the Minister of something I reminded him of before, when I raised the question on another matter in the schedule of tariffs on the Budget debate.  I asked the Minister if cotton blankets were liable to tariff under the financial provisions of the Budget and the Minister answered: &ldquo;The tariffs we are imposing are not new tariffs but an increase in the existing tariffs.  The Revenue Commissioners have interpreted the old tariffs so as to exempt cotton blankets from duty, and those blankets will remain exempt.&rdquo;  These are the Minister's words.  Of course the blankets did not remain exempt.  I am only pressing the matter now, because the moment he said that on the previous occasion I dropped the question.  I am pressing the Minister now for a specific declaration, because I do not wish that there should be any misunderstanding subsequently. 
     
     
      
       As far as egg boxes are concerned the component parts of them are dutiable, as manufactures of wood, and it is intended that they should be.  In connection with the statement made in relation to cotton blankets, at the time the Deputy asked the question we were discussing the proposal of increased duty upon blankets. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, might I remind the Minister that we were discussing nothing of the kind?  We were discussing the Budget generally. 
     
     
     
      
       I stick to what I said. We were discussing the proposal of increased duty as one of the references to the Financial Resolution.  I stated that the duty on blankets was not applied to cotton blankets, that the increased duty would not apply to cotton blankets, and it does not apply. Subsequently, however, the Revenue Commissioners decided that cotton blankets were liable to duty as sheets. That was not my intention.  I propose to introduce a provision to exempt cotton blankets. 
     
     
      
       Provided the Minister gives that undertaking I do not propose to press the matter further. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister is he prepared to exempt picture mouldings. 
       Amendment 1 &mdash; In the Schedule, Ref. No. 16, Fifth Col., to add the words &ldquo;(gg) extension ladders&rdquo; (Deputy Dockrell), put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister in reference to No. 14 (b) (11) in which brass weights for weighing scales are mentioned,&mdash;I do not think the Minister intended that to apply to small weights used in laboratories. 
     
     
      
       I am endeavouring to get amendment phrases which will exempt small weights used for scientific purposes. 
     
     
      
       I suggest the exemption of small weights up to 500 milligrams. 
     
     
      
       I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this fact, that if he insists on bringing the component parts of egg-boxes within the sphere of the tariff it will be impossible to implement his undertaking to Deputy Dockrell to exempt sawn timber.  You cannot differentiate between two articles except they are of different dimensions. 
       Amendment No. 2&mdash;In the Schedule, Ref. No. 16, Fifth Col., to add the words &ldquo;wood lock handles&rdquo; (Deputy Dockrell), put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       On No. 19 I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the last paragraph.  He is excluding stone   which has been subjected to no process of working except sawing on not more than two surfaces or crushing. Some stone that is imported in the rough state is sawn on one surface or two surfaces, but on the other two surfaces it is what is known as scalpelled, that is, roughly squared.  Would that be &ldquo;labour&rdquo; within the meaning of this clause? 
     
     
      
       I would not like to answer that question without notice. It is definitely intended that the stone should come in as it is sawn out of the quarry. 
     
     
      
       May I remind the Minister that there is a considerable quantity of Portland stone comes into this market, as he is aware.  It is roughly squared.  It comes in in blocks, is worked here, and it is roughly squared; in other words, it is scalpelled on the different surfaces. It may be sawn in some cases, but in most cases it is only scalpelled.  Would that be labour within the meaning of this clause? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister make that clear, because the decisions that are arrived at in the House are not always carried out by the Revenue Commissioners, and we would like to have that point made clear, so that we will not subsequently find that scalpelling is &ldquo;labour&rdquo; within the meaning of this particular clause. 
     
     
      
       The duty applies to stone which has been dressed, polished or otherwise worked.  The stone to which the Deputy is referring is exempt from the duty. 
     
     
      
       I agree with the Minister. I think the intention is to exempt it, but it is badly expressed, if I may put it so, because it is a form of labour&mdash;even if a very rough form of labour&mdash;which might be brought in under the clause as it is worded at the moment. 
     
     
      
       If there is any doubt on that score I will have the wording amended. 
     
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister, in connection with a question asked the last day as regards the imports of rope and twine for salmon fishing, is he prepared to exempt them in view of the fact that that particular style of cordage is not manufactured in this country? 
     
     
      
       It was not our intention that that cord should be made subject to duty, but it was impossible to get a definition of it by which it could be specifically excluded from duty by the terms of the Resolution passed in the Dail.  Consequently we have been operating the licence provision in order to allow that cord in free of duty. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say what he is prepared to do in regard to twine, in view of the fact that quite a few of the manufacturers import it? 
     
     
      
       The only difference that is arising in connection with that cord is that the licence provision merely authorises us to allow in the cord, when required by the manufacturer in the process of manufacture. That has caused administrative difficulty, because those fishermen usually import their cord through a merchant and consequently it has necessitated the signing of a requisition by a large number of fishermen to allow the cord through to a particular merchant.  It is suggested to modify slightly the licence provisions so that we will be able to operate them without difficulty and allow them in where it is defined that they are intended to be used for this purpose.  If we could get a definition which would apply to that cord, and no other cord, we would exclude it from the scope of the duty.  We are operating the licenced provision to get over the difficulty. 
     
     
      
       If I can get a definition with regard to the particular class of twine, are you prepared to exempt it? 
     
     
      
       I would be glad to hear the definition the Deputy produces. 
     
     
      
       Might I refer to No. 21, if the Minister would allow me?  It is   roof felting and felting substitutes and other like substances intended for use as roofing material.  I take it the composition of asbestos would not come in under that wording. 
     
     
      
       It is not a new duty. It is precisely the same wording as was inserted in the Finance Act&mdash; merely a duty has been increased by this Resolution. 
     
     
      
       It does not include, as far as one knows at the moment, the composition of asbestos. 
     
     
      
       A Chinn Comhairle, I ask your indulgence to mention a matter I was unable to mention earlier, because I had not got a copy of the Resolution before me when this discussion began.  I want to refer briefly to Ref. No. 1, a matter the Minister may have overlooked.  On the western seaboard of Donegal and all through the Gaeltacht, one of the most fruitful sources of employment in the cottages is the spinning of knitting yarns. From merchants in England, through an  entrepreneur  in Donegal, they give out that yarn to the girls. The girls knit it into jumpers or hose and it is returned to England.  The yarn never becomes the property of the  entrepreneur  or of the girls.  It remains the property of the merchants in England, and the girls simply get paid for knitting.  If the Minister could take steps to admit that free it would save these people a really serious hardship. 
     
     
      
       I referred to that matter when the Resolution first appeared. It is intended that such yarn be allowed in free of duty.  There was, in fact, a difficulty created in that particular trade.  That meant postponement of a decision upon this application from May last until to-day; but when we went into the matter in detail we found it was possible to get over the difficulty by a licensing provision, because the type of yarn imported has peculiar qualities which enable it to be distinguished and, in fact, the necessary steps have already been taken to ensure there will be no delay and the full quantities of yarn   normally imported in that trade will be allowed in free of duty. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say whether he will permit any merchant in England who wants to send in yarn to get it knitted here to get a licence? 
     
     
      
       The licence will be issued to somebody here, not in England. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not taken the licensing powers in this Act? 
     
     
      
       We have the general provisions. 
     
     
      
       On Reference No. 1, I did not vote for this individual tariff because I felt it did not go far enough; and I think I indicated to the Minister clearly that it did not go far enough.  I have on more than one occasion drawn attention to the fact that it was recommended, even by the Commission who sat on the application for a tariff on woollens, that the spinning end of the industry gave more, and would give more, employment than all the other processes put together.  Now, sir, we have the imposition of a tariff on &ldquo;yarns (other than white yarns) wholly of wool or worsted or of a combination of wool and worsted which are imported otherwise than on bobbins, cheeses, cones or cops.&rdquo;  Knowing some little thing about that industry from investigations made on the spot, I know that there are mills in this country which can, if they wish to do so, manufacture all their own yarns.  I am aware that a certain type of yarn&mdash; worsted yarn&mdash;cannot be made in all the mills but at least it can be made in two or three of the mills in this country, and so long as these manufacturers can import the yarns from foreign countries&mdash;France and Belgium to wit&mdash;at a cheaper rate than you could produce at home so long will they be allowed in, and in spite of the patriotism of our people that exploitation does not begin or end in mere flag waving.  But they are emptying the pockets of our people by the imposition of these tariffs and at the same time emptying the pockets of the ordinary working-class people   of the country in permitting these people to import yarns.  Now I suggest that the Minister, and I give him credit for every good intention, should at least see that these tariffs are imposed so that the persons who have to earn their living in that industry should at least share in the profits or in any help that may accrue to the industry by way of extra profits &mdash;the workers in that industry should at least partake in those profits.  I will have something to say later on in another stage of this Finance Bill with regard to the conditions that operate in some of these factories, and they are anything but creditable because overtime has been worked by half the staff while the other is on short time, and so on&mdash;all to save some few pounds in national health and unemployment insurance.  I asked the Minister would he not consider it advisable, in the interests of the people of the country, and particularly in the interests of those who have to make a living in that industry, to include foreign yarn and not to have it confined merely to white yarn. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony says he will have something to say later on. I don't doubt that he will, but he cannot talk down the fact that he voted against this duty. 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       And he may remember when going upstairs into the Division Lobby with me&mdash;I think he will have a lot to explain to the workers of Blarney as to why he voted against this duty.  It is quite evident, of course, that the people of Blarney have been expressing their opinions to him&mdash;that is the reason of his speech here to-day. 
     
     
      
       Oh no. 
     
     
      
       He says now that it did not go far enough&mdash;in so far as it did the Deputy did not try to stop it.  He tries to prevent additional work going to his constituents engaged in yarn spinning.  That is what the Blarney workers want an explanation of. 
     
     
      
       They do not spin their own yarns.  It is the one mill in Ireland   that can spin, if they have the will to do so. 
     
     
      
       You cannot explain it away by talking.  Before the Resolution is passed there are a few general remarks I would like to make.  During the discussion on the Resolution on the last day, Deputy McGilligan made a statement that two-thirds of the estimated yield of the new protective duties and the increase on the existing duties, had already been secured within six months.  The estimated yield mentioned during the Budget discussion was £910,000.  The statement made by Deputy McGilligan was very inaccurate, and if allowed to go uncorrected might be repeated and false arguments based upon it, so I think it is necessary to make the position clear here now.  As some Deputies opposite are aware, after the passing of the Finance Bill in each year the Accountant-General of Revenue revised the Estimates of Revenue yield in the light of changes effected during the progress of the measure through the Oireachtas, and also in the light of any other yield of the duties during the interval.  That revision was made in August of this year, and the revised estimate for the group of duties to which the original estimate of £910,000 related is in the neighbourhood of £300,000.  That very drastic reduction in the Estimate was not entirely due to the fact that indications had been received that the protective effect of the duties was going to be extensive.  It also took into account the various concessions of one kind or another which had been made during the passage of the measure, and the possible effect of the operations of the licensing provisions contained therein.  The loss of duty arising out of the operation of the licensing provisions up to date was only £16,000. 
     
     After, however, all possible allowance has been made for the calculations based on the concessions inserted in the Bill and the licensing provisions, it is quite clear that the protective effect of the duties was estimated as being very extensive indeed.  As I have said, the estimated yield was reduced from £910,000 to £300,000 but despite that reduction in the estimated   yield, it is now quite possible that even the revised estimate will not be secured.  The yield of the duties, to which the original estimate of £910,000 related up to the 15th of the month, was only £50,000.  To that there must be added a sum of £50,000 in respect of deposits on goods in regard to which the exact amount of duty has not yet been determined.  That will give a yield of £100,000 for a period of five months.  The greater number of duties did not come into operation until the 12th May.  The unexpired portion of the current financial year is five and a half months so that the full yield of the duties is not likely to exceed £200,000.  I think that the source of Deputy McGilligan's error is obvious.  He estimated that the payments into the Exchequer in respect of Customs duty was £680,000 in excess of the corresponding period last year and he made the unjustifiable assumption that this increase arose from one particular block of duties.  It is clear that is not the case.  The major increases of revenue were secured from beer, tobacco, tea, the package duty and to some extent,   of course, the emergency duties.  I make that statement in order to prevent any misunderstanding being created concerning what the effect of the protective duties was and to prevent Deputies being misled by any wrong reading of the receipts into the Exchequer. 
     I shall reiterate that statement in order to make the matter clear.  We estimated when we came to the Dail originally that the total yield would be £910,000.  In August, after the passage of the Finance Bill, when it was possible to get a clearer picture of what the probable effect of the duties would be, that estimate had to be revised and in fact, had to be substantially reduced from £910,000 to £300,000.  Since then it has become clear that even that £300,000 is an over estimate so that in fact the tariffs which we imposed last May are not yielding in revenue much of consequence to the Exchequer.  The protective effect has come into operation already.  That effect is indicated also by other signs throughout the country that increased production of the articles concerned is taking place now. 
     Question put. 
     The Dail divided: Ta, 70; Nil, 45. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Bartley, Gerald. Beegan, Fatrick. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Bryan. Brady, Sean. Breathnach, Cormac. Breen, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Browne, William Frazer. Carty, Frank. Cleary, Micheal. Cooney, Eamonn. Corish, Richard. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Curran, Patrick Joseph. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Dowdall, Thomas P. Everett, James. Flinn, Hugo V. Flynn, John. Flynn, Stephen.
 O'Reilly, Thomas J. O'Rourke, Daniel. Rice, Edward. Ryan, James. Ryan, Robert. Sexton, Martin. 
             Fogarty, Andrew. Geoghegan, James. Gibbons, Sean. Gormley, Francis. Goulding, John. Harris, Thomas. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). Humphreys, Francis. Jordan, Stephen. Kelly, James Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Keyes, Raphael Patrick. Kilroy, Michael. Kissane, Eamonn. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Lynch, James B. MacEntee, Sean. Maguire, Ben. Maguire, Conor Alexander. Moane, Edward. Moylan, Sean. Murphy, Patrick Stephen. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Norton, William. O'Grady, Sean. O'Kelly, Sean Thomas. O'Reilly, Matthew.
 Sheehy, Timothy. Sheridan, Michael. Smith, Patrick. Traynor, Oscar. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. (Dr.). 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brasier, Brooke. Burke, Patrick. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Davis, Michael. Desmond, William. Dockrell, Henry Morgan. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Esmonde, Osmond Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Good, John. Gorey, Denis John. Hayes, Michael. Hennessy, Thomas. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). 
             Keating, John. Kiersey, John. Lynch, Finian. McDonogh, Fred. MacEoin, Sean. McMenamin, Daniel. Minch, Sydney B. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Nally, Martin. O'Brien, Eugene P. O'Connor, Batt. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hara, Patrick. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Neill, Eamonn. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reidy, James. Reynolds, Mrs. Mary. Roddy, Martin. Thrift, William Edward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies G. Boland and Allen; Nil: Deputies Duggan and Doyle. 
     Resolution declared carried. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee on Finance in Resolution No. 2&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Resolutions 3 to 6 agreed to. 
     
      
       On Resolution 7, I suppose to ask the Dail to reject any of these proposals now, when the House has accepted the Budget, would be like asking them to refuse to swallow the gnat when the camel had been swallowed.  This set of taxes has not the same importance as those contained in the main Finance Bill, but there are a number of increases, including increases for which no justification whatever has been offered. The policy of the Government as shown here, in regard to tariffs, seems to be to listen to any deputation representing any industry or activity&mdash; even though it is so small that it can scarcely be called an industry&mdash;and if a case is made that a tariff, no matter how high, would put one, two or a dozen people into employment, then to come to the Dail and impose that tariff.  It is impossible for proper investigation to take place.  Even in the case of a relatively small industry, there are very often great complexities involved.  It is often extremely difficult to see all the reactions of a tariff, and it is impossible to find out, in fact, what height of tariff would be justified.  The Government put forward this tariff policy, this policy of taxing everything where the imposition of the taxation can possibly give any employment, as a means of solving the unemployment problem.  I think they are going nowhere towards solving the unemployment problem by this means and that they will get nowhere. I think it would be much preferable, from the point of view of employment merely, if a certain, selected series of industries were tariffed, even at a very high rate, and even if there were certain increases in the cost of living because of these tariffs. 
     
     We would have some idea of what   they were costing if the tariffs were limited to a number of important industries.  We would then be able to feel more easily the main reactions of the tariffs.  But now what is happening is that with all these multitudinous increases, the cost of living and the cost of production are going up.  I am aware that possibly the cost-of-living index figure will go down.  When I say that the cost of living is going up what I mean is that it is going up relatively.  The full fall that ought to have taken place in view of the decrease in the prices realisable for our primary products is not being allowed to take place.  Consequently having regard to the national income and the resources of the country and having regard to the sums available in wages or in profits the cost of living is going up.  We have in these numerous small tariffs the position you would have with regard to an industry where there was rust on the wheels and where every movement in the nature of progress was being impeded. 
     The Minister talked a few moments ago about the yield of certain tariffs. I think that the Minister's statement was a very remarkable one.  It is a statement which deals with a matter that requires a good deal more explanation than the Minister has offered.  The various officers who are engaged in that work in the Revenue Department are fairly expert and are very experienced in the matter of making estimates of the yield from tariffs or from new taxation of any sort.  It seems to me that it is a little more than extraordinary that an estimate of £910,000 should be made in May, and that that estimate should have since to be revised downward to £300,000 and that it looks as if now it must be reduced down to £200,000 or perhaps a little less than £200,000. 
     There were very many tariffs involved in the list which was expected to bring in £910,000.  It was certain that there would be errors in respect of many of them if they were all new estimates, but it has happened many times that the errors which would occur in such cases would cancel one   another out.  What has occurred raises one or two questions:&mdash;First, the Minister for Finance in view of the policy of increased expenditure by the Government found that he had to impose a considerable number of new taxes, and even when he had made these great increases in taxation he found he was not going to have enough to balance his Budget.  So he turned as it were to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and he said to himself that, fortunately and quite apart from the necessity for balancing the Budget, the Minister for Industry and Commerce has taken steps which are going to give us the exact sum that is required to fill this gap. 
     I would be curious to know whether this estimate of £910,000 was made in the ordinary way by the Revenue Commissioners or whether the estimate was made by the Minister for Finance himself.  Was it an estimate framed on generous lines by the Minister in order that he might balance his Budget?  If there was no swelling of that or no increase in the estimate supplied by the Revenue Commissioners at the time the Budget was before the House, then we can only conclude that some effects of the tariffs policy and the general fiscal and constitutional policy of the Government are more serious even than would have been expected. 
     I have no belief at all that there was any fair weight given to all the factors that should be taken into account in estimating how much revenue these tariffs would yield.  The great error of estimating three or four or perhaps almost five times as much as was likely to have been yielded might have been made in 1922 or 1923.  But since 1923 a great number of tariffs of all sorts have been imposed, some of them on a fairly stiff scale.  The Revenue Officers have had an opportunity of seeing just how quickly there was increased production here as a result of the tariffs. They have an opportunity of seeing what decrease in consumption was likely to be caused by a stiff increase in tariffs.  They had the experience necessary to enable them to take these factors into account and to see how it was going to affect approximately the   importation which was going to take place in the various tariffed goods.  If their estimate, as distinct from the estimate which the Minister put before the House officially, was so far wrong that he has got it reduced from £910,000 to £150,000, then we must conclude that in respect of a great many articles tariffed there has been&mdash;not because of the tariffs merely, but because of the general policy of the Government&mdash;an enormous decrease in consumption.  Some of the tariffs are undoubtedly, and to the knowledge of nearly everybody, the cause of reduction in the importation.  The consumption of some of these home manufactured articles has declined very rapidly.  I think this is due not merely to the tariffs, but to the general policy of the Government in producing that position where the purchasing power of the community is being reduced in a way that it ought not to be reduced, and in a way in which it need not be reduced. 
     Certain people who have had the advantage of these tariffs say that the tariffs have been practically of no good to them; because the consumption of these goods has fallen so much that in spite of the fact that they are protected to a very much higher rate than before, less of the goods is sold because the purchasing power of the people is lower.  In respect of other tariffs we have been informed that while the manufacturers can get perhaps plenty of orders, still they do not see the prospect of getting cash for their goods.  The result is that they are not able actually to obtain the theoretical benefits that these tariffs could give them.  The policy of the Government is to make everything dearer to the consumer, and make it dearer to that main body of consumers, whom, they would confess, I think, themselves, they have not been able to help in any way yet, and whom, I think, their plans are not at all likely to help substantially.  The very industries which were originally tariffed, and which enjoy the prospects of continuous extension from the more moderate tariff policy that was in force, are being injured by these new tariffs.  Every new impost that makes their raw material dearer, makes building dearer, makes any of the   charges connected with the industries heavier, is going to rob them of some part of the tariff which they already had. 
     It is always extremely easy when you have a tariff policy to yield to some noisy group.  It is always possible to get half a dozen people who will make a great deal of row and to yield to them, and to give them protection to enable them to carry on, perhaps, in full employment; to carry on without very much effort; to carry on without the adoption of modern processes, or the installation of modern machinery, and to point to the people who have been put into employment or who have been kept in employment by the tariffs.  It is much more difficult&mdash;it is impossible, in fact&mdash;to say, in respect of many individual tariffs, where the damage done by those tariffs lies. It is impossible often in respect of a tariff which deals with a relatively small article, a relatively unimportant commodity, and which raises the cost of that commodity, to say whether people were put out of employment by that, but it is quite possible to say how a combination or a number of those tariffs are affecting the community. It is quite possible to see that people in the distributive trade are having to dispense with employees, are having to create unemployment amongst one particular class of workers.  It is possible to see how profits are being brought down, how extensions are being prevented, how domestic expenditure is restricted, and how, in that way, again, more unemployment is caused. 
     It is, of course, entirely useless to suggest that the Government should modify, in any way, their general tariff policy.  They are prepared occasionally to exempt some individual article, or type of article, from the scope of the tariff, but they are not prepared to consider the suitability of industries for the country.  They are not prepared to consider the possibility of particular industries becoming so efficient here that they will supply their goods as cheaply as those goods can be supplied from outside.  Instead of trying to get an economic type of industrial development, they are looking for chaotic development.  They are   looking for the preservation of industries which, in many cases, we ought not try to preserve.  The effects of their policy as a whole are being seen. In spite of denials of various sorts, unemployment is going up.  A supporter of the Government&mdash;one of the Deputies by whose vote the Government is kept in office&mdash;said here last week that, in his constituency, unemployment is getting worse.  The experience of that Deputy is the experience of many other Deputies, some of whom, perhaps, are so zealous in support of the Government that they would not admit it.  The increase in home help is also telling its own tale. The country is mainly, as a result of Government policy, facing a winter of greater hardship than it has ever faced. 
     If the Government would cast aside their doctrinaire policy, if they would set out, not on some theory that brass work and coffin plates and boot heels ought, as a matter of national principle, be made here, but on a policy that would give most employment here without imposing an absolutely unbearable burden on the agricultural community, they could do something that would be of benefit, and, at least, they could easily prevent, even in the present world slump, which the Government has recently discovered, unemployment increasing. Every one of these tariffs in the present state of affairs, whatever they might be if agriculture was more prosperous, if the primary industries of the country were more prosperous, and if there was greater purchasing power, is going to make the situation worse instead of helping it, and, if the Government got on, and if the Government are enabled to go on for a period, what they are going to achieve at most is a very substantially reduced standard of living in this country.  They are going to throw the country back a whole generation, from the point of view of the standard of living, and I think that, in the interests of some theory of national self-sufficiency, it is not right, and it is certainly not worth while, from any point of view, to punish the people as the present Government,   apparently, intend to punish them. 
     
      
       I thought so.  They fold up their tents like the Arab and silently slink away. No doubt, for the last quarter of an hour, Deputy Blythe has appeared to himself as a Daniel come to judgment. In fact, he has appeared to those of us who have had experience of his own financial probity merely as Satanus rebuking sin.  He reminds me of a churchwarden transported suddenly to the questionable publicity of the Divorce Court.  He is repudiating all the things in other people that he himself has made a practice of here in this House&mdash;special devices to balance the Budget.  He suggests that, in his extremity, the Minister for Finance came to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and asked for a tariff.  Has Deputy Blythe forgotten the deficit of £250,000 he had on a Budget, and the fact that he dropped in a woollen tariff exactly at that moment of exactly the amount required to balance his Budget? 
     
     When he is speaking of devices and attributing dishonesty in the use of devices in the balancing of his Budget to the Minister for Finance, has he forgotten that to balance his own Budget, he imagined a payment he never got, on an award of the British which the British have never paid, and put it into his Budget and said: &ldquo;That balances it&rdquo;?  Has he forgotten that, when it suited him, he anticipated the brewers' credit first by one month, and then another, just to balance his Budget?  Has he forgotten that he anticipated income tax for a year almost&mdash;in the total, a full year, and which he put in in order to balance his Budget?  Has he forgotten that, after coming down to this House and saying that the one thing that could not be used to balance the Budget was what he was going to get from the British for token currency, as soon as he found that he was in the glue-pot, the very thing with which he attempted to balance his Budget was token currency money from the British&mdash;Satan rebuking sin, a Daniel come to judgment, a   churchwarden in the Divorce Court?&mdash; the morality, the financial morality, that Cumann na nGaedheal has practised all those years when it has fooled people in the matter of balancing its Budget.  Has it not had sufficient consideration given?  Three years he gave the one tariff, while the industry which he was supposed to tariff was being wiped out in the process right under his eyes.  There is a poem about it: &ldquo;Let us sit down and think which way to tarry and how to pass love's long day.&rdquo; 
     We are to sit down and wait and let the whole thing simply die away so that Deputy Ernest Blythe will feel perfectly satisfied that the fullest possible consideration has been given to a protected industry, which in the process has disappeared.  Now what is his complaint?  His complaint is that these tariffs have been too successful. I remember we had the opposite complaint. The late Minister for Industry and Commerce was here the other day to say they had not been successful, that we got too much revenue out of them&mdash;that we got more revenue than we estimated.  That was a matter for complaint, and when it is shown that they have been successful for the purpose of protecting industry&mdash;for the purpose of getting people to make the things here instead of importing them &mdash;we get the other complaint.  Which of them are we going to stand?  Those people spend their time attributing to their opponents all the faults which are their own.  They remind me of a story which this House had better get into its mind.  It was of a man who came up from a rather backward part of the country where they had no wireless, no looking glasses or no things of that kind.  He went into Woolworth's and took up a mirror&mdash;a small picture as he thought&mdash;and when he looked at it he said, &ldquo;Me ould father; me ould father.&rdquo;  He bought it for 6d and brought it back to the part of the country where he was.  At odd intervals he used to inspect it, until his wife became suspicious as to what he had been doing in the great City of Dublin. When he was not looking she went to his coat, took out the picture, looked   at it, and said, &ldquo;Well if this is the ould divil he is after he is welcome to her.&rdquo; Now, Deputy Ernest Blythe had better take that lesson to him.  The &ldquo;ould divil&rdquo; in the mirror is himself.  He is attributing to other people the defects which are in his own record.  He is trying to show in the conduct of the Minister for Finance and of this Executive exactly the same qualities which have been in his actual and customary practice, but he will not get away with it. 
     
      
       Does the Dail agree with Resolution No. 7? 
     
     
      
       Before the motion is passed I would like to say just one word on the subject.  We have heard something about tariffs from the last speaker, but in the last Dail I could never make up my mind as to whether the Deputy who has just spoken was a supporter or otherwise of the tariff policy.  As far as I am concerned, a Chinn Comhairle, I think there is no doubt at all in the minds of the Dail about the policy I advocated right through from the time when tariffs were introduced into this House in 1924.  There was then put forward a selective provision of tariffs&mdash;put forward for a certain purpose&mdash;and when enquiry was made into these tariffs some years subsequently we found that instead of achieving the object with which they had been introduced, that was to provide employment, they have failed hopelessly to provide additional employment.  Take the boot tariff, if one likes to have an example, which has been several times discussed in this House.  When attention was drawn to the advisability of dropping these tariffs we found that they had produced a very considerable volume of revenue, amounting to roughly about one million pounds.  The Minister then said to us: &ldquo;If I take off this tariff, where am I to get the revenue?&rdquo; But the point I want to make is this&mdash; that the selective tariffs were introduced not to produce revenue but to produce additional employment, and they failed hopelessly.  Well, now I have opposed the different tariffs that   have been brought in by the present Government, and I think the position to-day is that instead of providing additional employment, we find unemployment more rampant than ever.  I can speak of one industry at all events of which that is true, that is the building industry, and I am sorry to find in this Resolution that is now before us, a Chinn Comhairle, that the building industry has been selected as one to which additional tariffs are to be applied.  Now I have pointed out several times that this industry is depressed at the moment because of the particularly high cost of building in the City of Dublin and other towns in Ireland.  I need not at the moment go into the reasons for this high cost. The cost of building is higher in Dublin than it is anywhere else that I know of in these islands, and I have heard it alleged that the cost of building is higher in Dublin than it is anywhere else in Europe.  One reason why trade is depressed in the building industry is because the cost of building is so high.  This then is the moment, and this the particular industry, that is selected by the Minister and by his Government to impose additional burdens.  It is quite obvious to anybody who has any knowledge of industry that these burdens in such circumstances are bound to cause further unemployment. 
     
     Now let me take one or two examples in connection with these proposed additional tariffs of the Minister's. There is one particular item there that is going to add a very serious burden to the building industry. At present, as most people know, floorings are imported here dressed. Large quantities of sheetings, extensively used in building, are imported worked.  Now those are becoming the subject of heavy tariffs, with the hope that this labour in machining and in sawing will be done in Dublin.  Of course it could be done in Dublin, but not at all as reasonably as it could be done elsewhere.  May I point out to the Minister that the particular timber from which these floorings and sheetings are manufactured is not imported into this market at all?  He   may answer and tell me they can be manufactured in deals.  They can, but the quality will be quite different, the lengths will be very much shorter, and the expense of using will be very much greater.  Where these sheetings and floorings are manufactured they are made from small timber, in long lengths, which is not imported into this market at all, so that that particular item in itself, which appears under sub-section (16) of this Resolution, is going to add considerably to the cost of building.  Now what does this mean?  It is a reaction.  It means that owing to the uneconomic state of the building industry at the moment the State, and the local authorities by reason of assistance from the State, are compelled to embark on housing to an extent that would be unnecessary if housing were economic, and the citizens and the ratepayers are taxed in order to subsidise this industry. Now instead of the Minister adding, in such circumstances, to the burdens of the industry his policy ought to be to lighten those burdens, and I would really invite the Minister, even at this stage, before this matter goes any further, to consider&mdash;and to seriously consider&mdash;as to whether this industry can at this stage carry these additional burdens.  I would like him to go further, and consider the whole circumstances of the industry and to say whether it is wise to put these burdens on the industry at the moment. 
     
      
       I have always supported any tariff that has been introduced into this House, when I felt that the imposition of a tariff would mean increased employment in the industry covered by that tariff.  But an examination of the facts, as recently revealed, goes to show that in many cases the tariffs have operated in a way which I feel the Minister himself did not contemplate.  Now, sir, in the City of Cork, in common with other cities and towns in the Saorstat, there is a good deal of depression.  I am not going to suggest that all that trade depression, economic depression, call it what you will, is due to the present Government, or to the activities of the Government in relation   to tariffs or other phases of their policy.  I think it would be unfair and unjust to any Deputy in this House to attribute all of the blame to the present Government, but there is no question at all about it they are in a measure to blame for much of the economic disturbance and loss of trade which this country has suffered as a result of their policy No. 1 and No. 2. I include in that policy their system of tariff or tariff policy.  Now I find as a result of many of these tariffs that two very important sections of the community have been hit, and hit very badly.  The distributor has been hit, and such persons as drapers, drapers' assistants and various people engaged in other work, and last but not least the dockers, who, as will be admitted, are a very deserving section of the community. I have not heard anything in this House, even from persons who are supposed to officially, at any rate, help this section of the community&mdash;a very humble section, no doubt&mdash;but notwithstanding a very useful section of the community, namely the dockers. In Dublin, Cork, Limerick and Waterford possibly with the addition of Wexford they have a very large docking community&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       And Galway. 
     
     
      
       Yes, and Galway and other waterside labourers, the amount of employment at the moment obtaining in this particular section of the community is abnormal, and that is attributable in a very large measure to the operation of these tariffs, and also to the present Government policy in relation to Britain.  Now the Minister took exception to a short statement made by me within the last hour or so, when I suggested that in one section, or at least in one portion, of this Bill&mdash; the portion dealing with the tariff on imported yarns&mdash;that I must have had a rub over the knuckles from some of my constituents.  I can assure the Minister I have not, and even if I had I am always prepared to take a knock and give another one in return. 
     
     
      
       You can not explain that away. 
     
     
     
      
       I was not going to relate to the House any conversation I had with the Minister going up the stairs, but if you want the conversation to be further amplified I would suggest the Minister challenged me going into the Lobby about my vote.  He said he hoped he would see me in Cork about it, and suggested I should vote with him.  In that respect I said &ldquo;No damn fear.&rdquo;  That is the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and I have stated my views to-day in this House.  I am rather curious to know what benefits, and I would like that the word benefit or benefits be very liberally translated, this country has derived from these tariffs.  Undoubtedly some of the tariffs have operated to the advantage of the community, but let us take the woollen industry to which I referred a short while ago.  I find there that we have an abnormal amount of overtime worked and not a very great number of extra persons employed as a result of that tariff. 
     
     About 12 months or so ago I asked a question in this House with regard to the number of persons employed before the operation of the tariff and after the operation of the tariff, and I find there were a lesser number of persons engaged in that industry at the time I asked the question than there were before the operation of the tariff.  Well, in my view, seeing that I had suggested that the acid test I applied to all of these tariffs is, what extra employment will be given to the workers of any given industry, the woollen tariff has failed to justify itself.  Now the importation of &ldquo;yarns other than white yarns wholly of wool or worsted or of a combination of wool and worsted which are imported otherwise than on bobbins, cheeses, cones or cops,&rdquo; will be permitted.  Does not that negative the very thing the Minister seeks to achieve, because the natural answer to that kind of legislation or that kind of tariff would be that if I were an importer of yarns into this country I would see to it that they would come in on bobbins, cheeses, cones or cops.  Now, again, I must advert to the report of the   Tariff Commission on woollens, where in a report it was shared by every member of the Commission, and it was suggested that any tariff on woollens, unless accompanied by a development at the spinning end of the industry, would be of little use and of little value as an asset in this country and what do we find?&mdash;that in nearly all cases these yarns are now imported, whereas it was better, according to the signatories to that report, that the spinning end of the industry would give more work than all the others put together. 
     We find that whilst there is increased production in the manufacture of woollens, the conditions governing the industry have not at all improved.  Rather have they disimproved, and we find that in certain cases one portion of the staff is kept working overtime and the other half of the normal staff is unemployed.  I understand from information I have received from some of those operatives that that is done for the purpose of saving money by way of National Health Insurance and Unemployment Insurance contributions.  It was never intended, I am sure, by this or any other Government which would pass legislation imposing tariffs on imports of this character that it should react in that way on the workers in the industry. 
     There is another matter which I would ask the Minister seriously to consider and about which I would ask his Department to get busy.  I want to know what factory inspection, if any, has been made in connection with these recently established factories. Have any reports been received from factory inspectors in relation to the conditions that operate in those factories&mdash;arrangements concerning hygiene, ordinary cleanliness for workers engaged in these tariffed industries, sanitation and other things? Even during the British tenure in this country ordinary workers in any industry which came under the Factory Act were entitled to at least some measure of cleanliness, a certain amount of   ventilation and other hygienic conditions which workers were supposed to enjoy under the operation of these Acts.  I am rather concerned to find out from the Minister's Department what factory inspection, if any, has taken place since the establishment of some of those new factories&mdash;factories so-called in my estimation&mdash;which have been established in some parts of Dublin anyway. 
     I should like to find out from the Minister the hours worked by the operatives in those tariffed industries, the conditions under which they work and the wages which they are paid.  It would be illuminating and enlightening and I am sure the members of the Labour Party would be as interested as I am in getting these returns.  The reason I ask for that information is that given in my opening remarks, that I have supported certain tariffs and shall continue to support tariffs in certain directions where I find that the operation of the tariff will mean more employment and not alone the giving of more employment, but what to me is just as important, the establishment of workshops and factories in which workers and operatives will share at least in the good fortune of that particular industry, and will get what is known as a living under reasonable and proper conditions. 
     From the point of view of employment we find that in some industries undoubtedly there has been a fillip.  A number of extra persons may be taken on, but the fault I have to find with most of the tariffs is that they give employment to a number of very young boys and girls, particularly girls.  It is rather regrettable that in our economy we cannot evolve some scheme of tariffs which will mean employment, not for little girls and boys, but for grown-ups, adult males preferably employment for men over 21, married men who have to support families.  I do feel that there is something wrong in the economy of any country which suggests that a number of boys and girls will be employed in these little industries, such as the manufacture of sweets, caps, coffin plates, and other things of that character,   whilst the fathers of these children are walking the streets of Dublin and Cork, and the other large centres of industry and commerce in this country.  There is something radically wrong, I suggest, in any system which permits that state of affairs.  I do not want to suggest that we should get immediate and happy results from all tariffs, but certainly when I examine the question&mdash;and I have examined it at close quarters in my own city of Cork&mdash;I find there are more people unemployed in Cork City now after the imposition of tariffs than before the imposition of these tariffs, so that all the flowery promises made and the great anticipations which we cherished&mdash;I cherished them myself&mdash;with regard to the extra employment that would follow tariffs, have been very much dissipated. 
     I would ask the Minister to take note of the objection I raised in regard to Item No. 2 in relation to imported yarn.  I would go so far as to say that where any manufacturer has not the plant for making his own yarns that time would be given, any number of years the Minister himself would name, to these manufacturers to instal plant for the making of their own yarn.  Some of these mills, to their credit be it said, are manufacturing their own yarn.  I personally take very great pride in being able to say that everything I wear is of Irish manufacture, and has been ever since I was able to purchase anything, but it is a very little source of satisfaction to me to know that the Irish tweed I use in my suitings is made of yarn imported from Belgium, France and such places.  I suggest that the Minister should see that we manufacture the yarn we require for the making of tweed in our own country.  As I have said, some of the mills in the Free State are doing so, but others, and the most important, are not doing so. 
     
      
       Like Deputy Anthony, I have been an advocate, in the past, of certain selected tariffs.  It is a matter of regret that the Government has launched its tariff policy at a period   when the conditions of the world are absolutely unfavourable to success. Tariffs enable reciprocal treatment to be given as between countries.  But they also serve as a means of retaliation such as we are experiencing at present. It is quite possible that these retaliatory measures, which are doing so much harm to agriculture at present, would not have arisen if it were not for the overwhelming tariff policy launched by the Government against imports.  After all, it is impossible for one country to buy the products of another unless there is a certain exchange of production.  Unfortunately, the tariff policy of the Government has been launched not alone against ordinary imports but against the means of production here, such as manure, agricultural implements, meal, and various articles in the hardware line, the price of which to the farmer has been increased.  I shall not speak of the cost of materials used in connection with housing.  These have been enumerated by Deputy Good. There is nothing which will do more to injure the constructive proposals of the Government in regard to housing than the raising of the costs, which is being done by the imposition of duties upon various articles which go to the construction of a house.  Unless there is a modification of these tariffs, I feel that there will be a tendency by manufacturers to raise the price to the full amount of the tariff.  For that reason I supported the Control of Prices Bill, and I shall support any measure which will keep down not alone the cost of living but the cost of the raw materials of production in this country.  Unemployment is rife at present, and in no place is it more rife than in the country districts.  That shows that the high tariffs have not been productive of good results. 
     
     I advocated a tariff on barely and malt.  The prices have not been increased. It may be that if it were not for the tariff the prices would have fallen.  At the same time we must admit that it is very difficult for trade to respond to tariffs at the present time.  Tariffs tend more to make for unemployment by forcing manufacturers to reduce their staffs.  Agriculture   is the only source of wealth which we have and the Minister should avoid any increase in the cost of production to the farmer, particularly as the costs of his products are being so materially reduced.  I appeal to the Minister to modify the excessive tariffs imposed which, so far as I can see, will result only in ultimate misery to the people. 
     
      
       I think those people interested in commerce are fully aware of the colossal task in front of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Where tariffs will create new industries and provide additional employment, the Minister will get the support of the commercially-minded people of the Saorstat.  The great difficulty in connection with the big tariff policy of the Government is to know whether a tariff will bring employment or whether it will only make the lot of the community harder.  I am not going to endeavour to analyse the position from this bench, but there is in this country capital ready to go into industry if industry is given a chance of succeeding. I do not refer to the City of Dublin. I do not like to see factories going up in Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Galway or any of these large towns while the small towns are really the sufferers. It is the small, country towns which require attention.  Where protection will give industry a reasonable chance, we are prepared to help the Minister, while doing our jobs.  Yesterday, a large deputation of unemployed waited on Kildare County Council.  A question was raised there about foreign investments. Where can one invest money in this country at present?  Protection might make industrial investment in the small towns attractive. The opportunity is all that is required. If the Minister will consider the country towns as well as the cities and give us encouragement, we will not be accused of not doing our job. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that any useful purpose would be served by a discussion upon the general merits of a protection policy as against that of the late Government, in so far as it was a   free trade policy.  This Government came into office pledged to a protection policy and it has been operating that policy.  It is unfortunate that the policy for which it stood and the policy on which it was elected should be given trial here during a period in which the whole commercial structure of the world is rocking to its foundations and many people believe that civilisation, as we have known it, cannot survive.  It is unfortunate, because the immediate results that can be produced here by development of industry have not become as apparent as they might otherwise have been.  But we have got to consider the effects of that policy in relation to what might have been if that policy had not been adopted or which would follow if that policy were now abandoned.  We have had speeches from Deputies opposite about unemployment.  We are told that unemployment here is worse than it was at this time last year.  That may be true or it may not.  It is not possible for anybody definitely to make that assertion, one way or another, because there is no possible means of getting information of what the measure of unemployment was last year or what it is at the moment. 
     
     
      
       You can get it on the streets. 
     
     
      
       We have got in this country more people than we had last year.  During the period the late Government was in office the unemployment problem was eased for it by the fact that some 25,000 people left the country every year to find in the United States the employment they could not find at home. 
     
     
      
       How many years is it since 25,000 people emigrated? 
     
     
      
       The average emigration for the past ten years was 25,000. 
     
     
      
       What was the last year 25,000 persons emigrated? 
     
     
      
       I am giving you the average figure for ten years.  Three   hundred thousand went during those ten years, in any case.  That has stopped now and, undoubtedly, the stoppage of emigration has aggravated the unemployment position, because the majority of those who emigrated were young people who were at that period of their career when they were endeavouring to obtain a trade or livelihood for themselves.  They are here now intensifying the competition for the work available. 
       There are other causes which have possibly aggravated the position also, but I do not think that it is correct to say that unemployment is worse than it was this time last year.  In any case, whether it is or not, we have got to face up, not to the causes of that unemployment, but to the remedies for it.  The question we have to ask ourselves, the question the Dail decides upon these Resolutions is, how is that unemployment position to be dealt with? 
       Are we going to lessen unemployment by ceasing the attempts we are making to revive particular industries in this country?  Does any Deputy opposite believe that there is any possible solution for the problem of unemployment other than the revival of industry?  Are there any means of getting these unemployed men into work except by the revival of industries which will provide them with work? Is there any way of getting that result except by making for ourselves the manufactured products that we formerly imported?  Is there any way of getting these manufactured products except by taking whatever action is necessary in order to break from the old habits that existed in this country of turning our attention to importation and distribution?  Is there any way except by turning ourselves from being distributing agents to endeavouring to do what we can to make this country itself the source of supply of these articles? 
     
     The late Government operated what they called a policy of selective protection. The whole tenor of the speeches made by Deputy Blythe and by the two Deputies in external   association with Deputy Blythe's Party, Deputies Anthony and Brasier, means that if tariffs must be imposed they must be placed at a minimum. Deputy Blythe, of course, pleaded for long consideration.  Deputy Blythe, undoubtedly, during the period he was Minister for Finance gave every application for a tariff very long consideration. We have Deputy Anthony talking about the tariff on woollens. We can take that tariff as an example of having a tariff very long under consideration. It was under consideration during the regime of the late Government for five years; from the day on which the application was lodged until the Financial Resolution was considered by the Dail three years elapsed.  Did that three years consideration obviate the possibility of mistakes?  Quite the reverse.  The Minister for Finance, Deputy Blythe, came five times to the Dail with amending legislation in respect of the original legislation on this subject of woollens. 
     The net result of all this delay was that by the time the tariff began to operate on the industry the industry was nearly wiped out.  We had Deputy Anthony saying that the number of persons employed in the industry after the tariff had been in operation was less than before the tariff had been imposed.  That particular matter had been considered during five years; it was amended five times, and it nearly destroyed the industry.  We had to change that system.  We increased the tariff and we ruled out the defects. Last week I met the woollen manufacturers of this country, and they assured me that they were getting more orders than ever, and that their industry was dispatching to the export market in which they had a former trade more of their goods than they had been able to sell for years.  They are contemplating not merely the establishment of themselves here, but the regaining of their lost export trade in Canada and elsewhere. 
     Reference was also made to the boot tariff.  That is another case in which it is possible to demonstrate that the policy of minimum tariffs must be   sparingly applied if much more detrimental effects are not to ensure than from the tariffs proposed in the manner in which we are proposing to have tariffs applied.  Since May of this year, when the new tariff came into operation, the output in the boot industry showed that the total number of persons employed increased by 500.  Three new boot factories have been established and there is another about to be established. We have got more development in three months in the boot industry than was achieved in the previous five years on the inadequate protection which was designed merely to irritate the consumer and to produce no effect on the industry concerned. 
     We have not imposed a general tariff.  That fact is perhaps not realised by some of the Deputies who spoke upon this matter of tariffs. Tariffs, wherever imposed, have been imposed in relation to a particular commodity and designed to protect a particular industry.  There is not a single one of those tariffs that cannot be justified if it was the only star in the tariff firmament, if it was the only one in operation.  There is not a single one of these tariffs that can be removed without causing greater unemployment here.  We are told that these tariffs might indirectly create unemployment in one quarter while creating employment in another.  That is, to some extent, true.  If we make for ourselves the goods formerly imported there are numbers of persons formerly engaged in loading the goods at the docks and in distributing them about the country who would be disemployed. But for every one man thus disemployed 100 people will be placed in employment. 
     Figures which will indicate the increased employment in tariffed industries during the past six months are being collected.  It will be some time before they are ready, but I am satisfied from the reports we have received that they are going to show that a remarkable increase in employment has taken place.  We have only barely begun.  It is only last June that these tariffs were discussed in this   House.  They brought into operation immediately industries which can be rapidly and easily established, and these industries were ones in which it was not a case of giving employment to juveniles, to young boys and girls. That is not the type of employment that we want to foster here.  We aim at fostering industries that will employ adults.  These are the industries that would make the biggest gap in the ranks of the unemployed.  There is not a day or week in which we do not make some progress towards the establishment or development of new industries in this country.  We have been treated by Deputy Good to a lecture upon the building trade.  Deputy Good, I take it, is not asserting that the fact that building costs are higher here than elsewhere is due to anything which happened since this Government came into office.  That situation existed already. 
     
      
       Why make that situation worse? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Good asks why make it worse.  How do we make it worse by compelling the trade to manufacture their boards in this country? 
     
     
      
       By making it more expensive to build a house. 
     
     
      
       They manufacture boards in Belfast.  Has the manufacture of boards in Belfast made building costs more expensive there? They manufacture them in Cork, in Limerick and in other towns in this country.  It is only in Dublin that the persons engaged in the industry have not equipped themselves to engage in the manufacture of these boards. Every big town in Great Britain makes its own boards, while at the same time these towns maintain a lower cost in building.  Why should it not be possible to get the same results in this country?  At the same time in no case has the imposition of duty upon plainly dressed boards tended in any way to raise building costs. 
     
     I listened with considerable interest to Deputy Blythe.  I am becoming quite amused with the efforts which   prominent members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party resort to in order to maintain their reputation as prophets. We had Deputy Anthony here explaining why it was he voted against the tariff on knitting yarns.  No doubt he will make many more speeches to us on that subject, and, no doubt, he will have to make quite a large number of speeches in his own constituency on that subject, but he will not be able to get away from the hard fact that he voted against the tariff.  We had Deputies opposite trying to explain why their particular prognostications in relation to the tariff policy have not been fulfilled.  May I remind Deputies opposite exactly what they said was going to happen when this tariff policy came into operation, not what they said two years, or five years ago, but what they said last June, and what some of them said last week? They said it was going to increase the cost of living.  I am quite certain that there is not a Deputy on the opposite benches who, at some cross roads in the country, did not tell the people listening to him that a tariff policy was clearly going to increase the cost of living.  To-day we had Deputy Blythe telling us that &ldquo;it is quite true that the cost of living has gone down, but it has not gone down enough.&rdquo; Once they come up against the concrete fact that the cost-of-living index figure shows quite a substantial reduction in the cost of living, during the past six months, the boot is immediately on the other foot.  They abandon the old argument that the cost of living is going to go up, and resort to the new one, that it is not going down fast enough.  All I can say is that it is going down faster this year than it went down in any similar period during their regime. 
     We were told that the cost of production was going up, and again we come up against the concrete fact that, in respect of quite a large number of commodities to which tariffs were applied, the costs have gone down since the tariff went into operation. That applies even in respect of boots and shoes.  It is possible to buy boots and shoes here now more cheaply than they could have been bought before the   new tariff came in.  It is possible to buy quite a number of these tariffed articles at a price cheaper than that at which they were available before the new policy was operated.  The main point, however, on which Deputies opposite relied was that the tariff policy was not going to succeed, and only last week, as I have already pointed out, we had Deputy McGilligan rushing into the House and producing a cutting from a newspaper relating to the Revenue position, and saying: &ldquo;At last, it is proved that the policy has been a failure and that these tariffs you imposed, instead of producing more employment in the country, and industrial development are, in fact, only producing revenue for the Exchequer.&rdquo;  Deputy McGilligan misread the figures, and to-day, because of his blunder, it was necessary for me to state the true position.  The correct position is that the tariffs which were imposed did not yield even the revenue we anticipated they would yield.  They have produced in five months £100,000, whereas, when the Budget was under discussion, we had a figure of £900,000 under consideration. It is quite true, as Deputy McGilligan noted, that the yield from Customs Duties has been in excess of last year, but he made the mistake of assuming that the entire increase arose out of the particular block of tariffs we discussed under the Finance Act. They did not.  The tariffs imposed by the Finance Act did not yield the anticipated revenue, because their protective effect was greater than we even dared to assume at that period.  I will admit that, to some extent, the decline in imports may be due to a reduction in consumption in the country, but, in a great part, it is due to the fact that our people are now drawing from Irish sources the goods they formerly drew from abroad. 
     I do not think it is necessary for me to deal with any of the other arguments that were advanced.  We have been told that we are facing a harder winter than anything we have known so far.  Whether that is likely to prove as true as other Cumann na nGaedheal prophecies or not I cannot say, but I hope Deputies realise that, if that   situation exists here, it exists in countries other than this, and it may be due to causes which are not within our control, but in so far as these causes are within our control, we are going to ease that hardship by calling on all the resources of the State that we can command, if necessary, to ensure that work will be available for those who are urgently in need of it. We are going to provide that work, in so far as it is possible to do it, in protected industry&mdash;permanent employment which will have a long run, as well as an immediate effect.  We are going to provide it, in so far as the resources of the country will permit, in useful schemes, designed, not merely to get useful work done, but, particularly, to tide us over the present emergency, and I hope that we are going to get the co-operation of Deputies who are foretelling this hard winter, in any measures we have to resort to in order to prevent that hardship weighing too heavily on our people.  If Deputies will concentrate their minds on that problem, they will be doing much more useful work than in making false deductions from the present position in relation to the policy the Executive is administering. 
     We cannot possibly lessen that hardship by destroying our industries.  If there is any logic in the speech we heard from Deputy Blythe, that is what he was advocating.  In so far as these tariffs have produced industrial effort here, and given employment to anybody in the country, even though they may be juveniles, they are an asset in the present situation.  If we remove the tariffs and let the industries go, if we take these people out of employment and put them into the ranks of the unemployed, we will not lessen hardship.  That is not the way to tackle the problem.  The way in which we have to tackle the problem is by standing back on our own resources, and the resources of this country are quite adequate to provide a decent living for everybody in it, but they have to be developed, and we have got to get the necessary machinery that will enable us to develop them and the necessary organization to ensure that,   when developed, it is the people of this country, and the people of this country who need it, who are going to get the benefit of it. 
     I, for one, am more than satisfied that the policy we have been operating is the only justifiable policy in this country in present circumstances.  We can easily imagine conditions under which a modification of that policy might be wise.  We can easily imagine circumstances arising in the future when even those who are advocating that policy now might be coming to the Dail and urging that it should be amended in particular respects, but, as things stand at present, and in the light of the possibilities which world conditions lead us to expect in this country, there is no other policy for us except the policy that we are operating, and, consequently, I have every confidence in recommending the Dail to give whole-hearted support to the proposals contained in these Resolutions. 
     Resolution agreed to and reported. 
   
   
     Private Business. - Therapeutic Substances Bill&mdash;Second Stage. 
     
      
       I move that the Bill be read a Second Time.  This is a measure with close and important bearing on public helth, and I think it will be generally agreed to be a very necessary measure, and, in fact, may be looked upon as a matter of urgency.  Its object is to secure proper supervision over substances whose technical purity and potency have to be determined by experiment rather than by chemical examination. The Pharmacopoeia provides an authoritative source of information for all chemists in connection with chemical prescriptions, but the examination of the therapeutic substances dealt with in this Bill involves complicated processes which can only be undertaken by a bacteriologist, physiologist or experienced pharmacologist. 
       The public and the medical practitioners are alike dependent on the State to ensure the trustworthiness of these articles when offered for sale. 
     
     
        The constant progress made by science and medical research in recent years has led to the introduction of many important substances derived from animal sources for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease. These preparations have displaced many of the older drugs of vegetable origin, which were officially controlled by the Pharmacopoeia as to the method of preparation, standard and dosage.  The control of biological products&mdash;sera, vaccines and analogous products&mdash;is of far greater importance than that of the Galenic preparations. This is recognised in Great Britain, France, Germany and other European countries, as well as in the United States of America, where the manufacture and importation of such therapeutic substances are under State control. The statutory provisions in these countries apply to certain therapeutic substances, the purity and potency of which cannot be adequately tested by chemical means, viz., vaccines, sera, toxins, anti-toxins, antigens, insulin, salvarsan and pituitrin.  In that connection the Acts may be applied to other substances by regulation subsequently. For example, in Britain &ldquo;catgut&rdquo; has already been added to these substances.  Licences are issued to manufacturers of these products and authority is given for the suspension and revocation of such licences, and the importation of the substances is prohibited unless they comply with prescribed standards. 
     With the exception of vaccine lymph and stock vaccines, the manufacture of these substances in this country is not extensive.  The production of vaccine lymph is adequately supervised by the Department of Local Government and Public Health.  Stock vaccines are prepared in Dublin on a small scale only, and there have been no complaints as to their quality. 
     The bulk of therapeutic substances is, however, manufactured outside this country.  In connection with substances manufactured abroad and imported here, the chief safeguard we possess at the moment is the very natural and understandable desire of the manufacturer to see that his products maintain a good reputation and   that accidents do not occur following their administration.  Examination of the facts will show that this safeguard is insufficient.  The main countries of origin of these imports are Great Britain, the United States, France and Denmark.  In the British Rules (Statutory Rules and Orders, Part V., 21) it is implied that the restrictions in force in England would not be relaxed on products for export to this country as long as there are no adequate regulations in force here.  But as the tests may be carried out by the manufacturing firm (Statutory Rules and Orders 6 (1) (b)), it is obvious that we are largely dependent on the honour of the licensee, as the Licensing Authority is under no obligation to test samples of batches for export, and might not do so unless complaints arose.  As regards the other countries mentioned, so far as has been ascertained, similar arrangements are in force.  The products mentioned, and with which we are concerned in this Bill, might be objectionable or dangerous on a number of grounds: in the first place if the products were relatively unstable and there were danger from dissociation, as with organic derivatives of arsenic, &ldquo;606&rdquo; and similar preparations, and diphtheria-prophylactic. 
     Deaths after the administration of salvarsan have been remarkably few in this country, and apparently the manufacturers are very particular in its manufacture to avoid undue toxicity, but accidents have occurred elsewhere from the administration of this drug and from diphtheria antitoxin. 
     Now another reason why the products mentioned might be objectionable or dangerous, is if there were risks to patients owing to the presence of living micro-organisms in the preparations. 
     Complaints of sepsis following injections are very infrequently made, and the presence of small amounts of antiseptics apparently suffices to kill off, or inhibit the growth of any stray micro-organism escaping sterilisation during the process of manufacture, or gaining entrance at the time of filling the containers. 
     And again, the medical profession   might feel that the products coming into the Saorstat were of very variable, or uniformly low, potency. 
     Here, obviously, the manufacturer has a great opportunity of making profit by reducing the strength of his preparations so that more will be required, or a firm may not have the requisite plant or the technical advice requisite to enable them to produce preparations of high potency.  It is in this type of case one hears most complaints.  Thus medical practitioners say that one firm's diphtheria-antitoxin is no use, that another person's salvarsan is the best, that so-and-so's vaccines are worthless.  Statements of this nature are often unreliable, because they are founded on an insufficient number of observations, or perhaps they have been prompted by the suggestions of the salesman, or the literature with which we are inundated. At the same time statements of this kind are made so frequently that there would appear to be some real foundation for the suspicion that the products under discussion vary as regards their potency.  A Dublin physician of experience has stated that the scarlet fever antiserum of one firm was good, of another fair, and that of a third firm worthless.  This physician would have a sufficient number of cases under his observation regularly to enable him to form a reliable opinion on this subject. 
     Imported substances from Great Britain are manufactured by firms of repute and are under the same supervision as those for sale in Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and, so far as has been ascertained, the same applies to the other importing countries. There is, however, a definite risk from agencies established by unscrupulous manufacturers for the sale of inferior biological products, which would not alone be worthless as remedial agents, but might prove a positive danger owing to the presence of living micro-organisms.  A grave responsibility rests on the State to ensure the purity and potency of these substances and the risks arising from lack of control are very serious. 
     At present the Department is in the   position of trying to discountenance unreliable agencies, although, in fact, there is no statutory power to support their attempt.  The issue of licences to duly authorised persons for the manufacture or importation of therapeutic substances and the issue of research licences to persons using the substances for research purposes will involve inspection of the establishments concerned and laboratory examination of samples of the products to ensure the observance of safe methods of manufacture, to ascertain freedom from contamination, and to determine the potency of products for which standards or tests have been established. 
     The cost of administering the Act will not be heavy. 
     It is intended to refer applications for import licences to a consulting bacteriologist who will be in a position without further formality to advise in the great bulk of the applications, especially those of the English firms who have been already granted a manufacturer's licence.  Applications for manufacturer's licence in this country will be comparatively few and easily dealt with.  The consulting bacteriologist will also act as inspecting officer in co-operation with the medical inspectors of the Department. 
     The licences granted to establishments do not imply an endorsement of the claims made by the manufacturers for their respective preparations.  The granting of a licence means that inspection of the establishment concerned and laboratory examinations of samples of its products are made to ensure the observance of State methods of manufacture, to ascertain freedom from contamination, and to determine the potency, or safety, or both, of the various products for which potency standards or tests have been established. 
     The Bill contains twenty-one sections and a schedule of the substances to which the Act will apply.  For the purpose of advising and assisting the Minister in the making of orders and regulations there will be established an Advisory Committee representative of the Department of Local Government and Public Health, the Department   of Agriculture, the Universities and Medical Schools, Medical Registration Councils, the Irish Medical Association, the Veterinary Council, the Pharmaceutical Society and the Institute of Chemists.  The Bill will apply to therapeutic, including prophylactic and diagnostic, substances for the use and the treatment of human or animal diseases.  The Minister is empowered to make regulations as to standards and in relation to any matter or thing that may be prescribed under the Act. He is empowered by Order to add other therapeutic substances to those set out in the Schedule as coming under the provisions of the Act.  The power to issue licences for the manufacture or importation of therapeutic substances is supplemented by prohibition of the manufacture or import of such substances without such licences and the restriction on the import of therapeutic substances through the Customs and by post is provided for accordingly.  Fees to be fixed by the Minister with the consent of the Minister for Finance will be payable in respect of licences, and offences under the Act (to be ascertained by inspection and other examination) will involve the revocation or possibly the suspension of licences.  The sale of proprietary medicines consisting of or containing therapeutic substances may be prohibited in the absence of proper descriptions appearing on the labels, including any necessary information as to the date of manufacture, etc., of the substance. 
     It is anticipated that the passage of this Bill will prove of great national value in the protection and assistance both of the public and the medical profession. 
     
      
       I am not going to take up the time of the House in criticising this measure.  I am rising to say I am going to support the Second Reading, although at the same time, I have a few questions to ask.  With regard to the appointment of the Advisory Committee, I am satisfied as to the personnel.  When we come to look at the Schedule one finds that this Bill deals with vaccines, sera toxins, antitoxins and antigens.  It   deals also with substances used for the specific treatement of infective disease, and with preparations of the specific antidiabetic principle of the pancreas known as insulin and with pituitrin. Now there is nothing done in this country at the present time, at least in the Free State, so far as I know, except the preparation of toxin, and this is done cheaply in the laboratories of the Universities, and there is nothing to prohibit the future action of the laboratory worker in this respect.  They are still to be allowed, without any licence, to make the toxin for their patients, or for doctors who require them for specific cases.  On the other hand, if any of the laboratories in the Free State propose to go in for an extension of the extensive making of these they have to apply for a licence. Now, sir, there are two or three things that have puzzled me in regard to the matter.  As I say, the Minister or Parliamentary Secretary cannot hope for a long time that any firms here will be going in for the extensive manufacture of any of these substances. Toxins may be undertaken to a greater extent than at present, but certainly as regards the making of the other bodies, there is not the least likelihood of their being undertaken here. 
     
     The main object of the Bill, however, is this: it is to prevent very poor toxin or a very low series of foreign products, which are not up to a certain standard, from being dumped into this country.  I take it the Parliamentary Secretary will agree with me that that is the meaning of this Bill&mdash;to prevent the dumping of inferior articles from other countries here.  Now what is puzzling me in connection with this is&mdash;he prohibits the manufacture of these therapeutic substances, not complying with the standard of strength and purity, from firms who have applied for licences, he then goes on to say that they will give a licence for the importation of these articles.  I do not know to whom these licences will be given, whether the licence will be given to the ordinary chemists to import them, or whether it will be only given to some specific firm.  But as I say, what is puzzling me then is, when I go on, it says there   is to be a restriction on the import of therapeutic substances.  Now, who is going to be the judge?  On reading over the Bill I could see no provision made for a person who was going to test these substances and say they were up to the standard or not up to the standard.  I think he has said in the statement that there is to be an inspector appointed.  This inspector, I think, from what he said, is to be a consulting bacteriologist.  I take it, therefore, this consulting bacteriologist is to be the authority who will decide as to whether these sera and therapeutic substances are of the proper standard or not.  I would like to have him explain that a little more fully.  I think he might also clear up another point I am doubtful about: vaccine lymphs have been made in the Free State for many years, and it is under a specific control at the present time.  I want to know is there going to be any change made in the control or examination of the vaccine lymph that is provided throughout the country to the dispensary doctors who use it for vaccine purposes. 
     As I say, I think there are only two things done in this country, the making of vaccines on a very small scale and the production of the vaccine calf lymph that is sent through the country for vaccination purposes.  I am supporting the measure because it endeavours to deal with the dumping in this country of therapeutic substances that are not of a proper standard. The Parliamentary Secretary in his statement mentioned the fact that a distinguished physician had stated that the products of one firm were good, the products of another were middling and the products of a third were useless. Any of us who are in practice knows that there are products sent out with certain names, that these are really inefficient and are not up to the standard that would be necessary.  I am supporting the measure for the reason I have stated.  As far as I can see there are very few changes that can be made in it.  I should only like to know whether I am right in saying that a competent bacteriologist will be appointed who will decide whether the standard is of a proper type or not. 
     
     
      
       Like Deputy Sir James Craig, I think the Bill has the approval of the profession and it should have.  Nevertheless, I think some serious difficulties may arise when it comes to the matter of administration.  The import licence to be obtained under Section 9 to my mind will impose restrictions that will affect the well-being of patients, which after all, should be our first and ultimate consideration in a Bill of this kind.  It seems that Section 9 restricts the importation of medicines to the manufacturers of these medicines, and that they will have to pay for a licence to import these medicines.  I can quite understand that there will be Continental and other manufacturers doing such little trade in this country in medicines of a specific character that they will not think it worth while to take out a licence, in fact that they will refuse to take out a licence.  Moreover, this is a small country, and our laws are not so well known outside the country. Continental manufacturers have very little knowledge of Ireland, and do not or would not think it worth while to take out a licence to import particular products.  Some of the products are of very great importance, and I was going to suggest to the Minister that he would allow manufacturers of high repute to import into this country certain preparations of a well known therapeutical character, and also that he would allow a medical practitioner to get these medicines from an unlicensed manufacturer, say by wire.  If you go through the whole procedure and the delays incidental to it, while the medicine is coming or while you get a proper permit to import the medicine, your patient may be dead. 
     
     I am glad to see that the Bill provides for some important restrictions in connection with proprietary medicines. The use of proprietary medicines in this country has been grossly abused.  We know sometimes that they contain very simple medicines under very high-sounding names, and there was no indication given, up to the introduction of this Bill, of what they contain.  It is the layman who has such implicit faith in these proprietary medicines.  Even commonplace medicines like Epsom Salts when put   under a Latin name sound very impressive. They are undoubtedly useful for certain purposes, but they are not a cure-all.  We know that it is a common practice to compound two or three of these medicines, call them some beautiful name and advertise them extensively. It is the unfortunate consumer who has to pay for the advertising. It is the unfortunate consumer who is called upon to pay half-a-crown or more for medicines which he could get in a chemist's shop for a couple of pence.  Of course it may be said that the consumer is foolish to pay such a price, but when he sees an account of an old man of 70 or 80 years of age who, after taking a course of this medicine, will not go to the trouble of opening a gate, but who will take an eight-barred gate at full run, he will cheerfully pay his half-a-crown and perhaps his second half-a-crown.  He is undoubtedly impressed by the advertisement. I see the difficulty of dealing with that, but perhaps under the Profiteering Bill something might be done to deal with the case of persons who are charged 2/6 for medicines which can be bought for a couple of pence.  Some people of course, will insist on doctoring themselves. Goldsmith is supposed to have had a medical degree, but I think it was Doctor Johnson who advised him to prescribe only for his enemies.  I think the Bill has many excellent features, but I should be glad if the Parliamentary Secretary would give further consideration to the points raised by Deputy Sir James Craig and to those I have just mentioned. 
     
      
       On the point with regard to import licences, I am not quite clear as to how a medical practitioner who wants to get a vaccine made for an individual patient of his, can, as many practitioners do at present, send out of the country to get that vaccine made.  Has that person to apply for an import licence to import the vaccine that he is getting made in particular instances?  It seems to me that if an import licence is required in such cases the difficulties in the matter about which Deputy Doctor Hennessy spoke are going to be enormous. The matter Deputy Sir James   Craig raised with regard to the carrying out of tests prompts me to ask a question which may not be perhaps entirely in order, but which in my personal opinion is very relevant in this Bill.  Deputies may recollect that on certain occasions I stated it was the intention of the late Ministry to establish a State Pathological Laboratory, and in respect of the building and equipment of it, a considerable amount of money was available from an outside source.  I should like to ask the Minister, in connection with the work which he anticipates will be carried out under this Bill, whether any consideration has been given to the establishment of a State Pathological Laboratory. The position was that we were supposed to go ahead with that.  A Director was advertised for when further discussions with the University were opened.  You practically have the position that in a large sphere of public health work, very necessary public health work and very necessary public health development, the Universities claimed to bottleneck that development.  I think the question arises on this particular Bill as to what exactly is going to be done on the matter of setting up a State laboratory or some laboratory under public control, or whether all this work which has developed in this piece-meal way, so vitally affecting public health, is going to continue to filter in that piece-meal way into the Universities, with the cramping effect on the development of necessary public works and the volume of public works that that undoubtedly has when the administration of that work is in the hands of persons not subject to public authority. 
     
     
      
       I think that most of the points raised in connection with this matter could be discussed, perhaps more appropriately, at a later stage.  If any improvement can be made or if any valuable suggestions come from any of the Deputies interested in this Bill, I shall be very happy to give them careful examination, and if they appear to be calculated to improve the Bill, they will   certainly be incorporated in it.  Deputy Sir James Craig appears to have some uneasiness about the relationship already existing between the medical practitioner and the bacteriologist who manufactures his vaccines in particular cases.  It is not intended that this Bill should operate to interfere with the practice already established in this country where, for a particular case, the medical attendant wants to have a special vaccine made and he sends along the stuff to the bacteriologist here in the city for the purpose of having his specific vaccine made for a specific case.  It is not intended to interfere with that practice, and it does not appear to me to be necessary that there should be any interference in that matter. 
     
     
      
       The suggestion was made that in some cases orders were sent out of the country to make these vaccines.  One vaccine was made, say, in Britain.  I did not raise that point, however.  It was raised, I think, by Deputy Mulcahy. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I quite recognise that there will be no interference with the making of vaccines here now as in the past; but Deputy Mulcahy has raised another case&mdash;that of vaccines which have to be made in another country.  Is that going to be interfered with? 
     
     
      
       As I understand the Bill, that practice of having vaccines manufactured outside the country can only be continued under an import licence. It appears to me, on that particular heading, that there ought not to be much need to have vaccines manufactured outside this country.  The various other matters, the sera, the antitoxins, and the other matters which form the main subject matter of this Bill, are not manufactured in this country, and, under existing circumstances, cannot be manufactured in this country.  There is no reason apparent to me, however, why vaccines should not be manufactured here or why, in the circumstances that Deputy Mulcahy has in mind, any hardship should be imposed on anybody by having these vaccines, in cases of urgency   anyhow, manufactured in this country. If a medical practitioner has not sufficient confidence in the manufacturers of vaccines in this country and wishes to have them made outside the country, it can be done within the machinery of this Bill, but will entail some little delay. 
       The question has been raised, by Deputy Sir James Craig, I think, as to on whose advice licences will come to be issued.  As I indicated in the course of my introductory remarks, the licences will be issued on the advice of a bacteriologist of standing, appointed by the Minister for the purpose.  There will be no interference, of course, with the existing arrangements so far as the preparation of vaccine lymph is concerned, and it is possible that the duties imposed by this Bill will be allocated to the bacteriologist already employed in the production of calf lymph. Anyhow, that is a matter of detail, and whoever is the person who will advise the Minister on the matter of the issue of licences obviously will have to be a bacteriologist of considerable standing in his profession. 
       I do not know whether or not I have touched on all the points that were raised.  I think I have covered most of the ground.  However, if there is any point on which Deputies require further information, we can deal with any matter I may have overlooked. 
       The possibility of a State laboratory is rather outside the purview of this Bill.  However, I may say that I am personally interested in the matter and intend examining the position at the earliest possible opportunity.  Beyond that, however, I cannot go.  The work, however, under this Bill will be comparatively small.  The well-known manufacturers of the sera and vaccines, and the other matters mentioned here, already come under a licence of the Ministers of Health of their own country, and the inquiries to be made before we will allow them to export to this country will be largely a matter of form.  I do not anticipate that the bacteriological work will be very heavy under this Bill. 
     
     
      
       You will not shut the door against British imports? 
     
     
     
      
       I do not think we will develop the war atmosphere in connection with this Bill, but I think that if any of the subnstances coming under this Bill are manufactured in England and are likely to prolong the life of our citizens we are not likely to bar them out. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, I wish to say that I do not at all accept Deputy Mulcahy's representations of the University attitude on the question of a State laboratory. I think it will be found that all that they claimed was that due regard should be paid to the work they have done and to the work which they are still doing. 
     
     
      
       I should gladly wish not to misrepresent the Universities and I hope I have not misrepresented them.  I would ask the Minister, in regard to getting vaccines outside the country, whether he would look into that matter.  I have no very technical information about it, but I do know that there has been a considerable volume of that type of import in operation. I do not know whether it is necessary or not.  If it is not necessary, it would be most desirable that the work should be done here; but if any part of it is necessary, I feel that greater facilities than are provided under Section 9 would have to be provided if very great inconvenience was not going to be caused. 
     
     
      
       I will look into the point raised by Deputy Mulcahy.  If he has any specific information I would be glad to have it for the purpose of guidance. 
       Question put and agreed to.  Bill read a Second Time.  Committee Stage fixed for Wednesday, 2nd November. 
     
   
   
     Private Business. - Control of Manufactures Bill, 1932. 
     Message from Seanad Eireann:&mdash; 
     Seanad Eireann has agreed to the Amendments made by Dail Eireann to Amendments Nos. 15 and 16 made by Seanad Eireann to the Control of Manufactures Bill, 1932. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Army Pensions Bill&mdash;Money Resolution. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of any expenses incurred under any Act of the present Session to amend and extend the Army Pensions Acts, 1923 and 1927. 
     
     
      
       I want to oppose this motion.  At the end of the Second Stage of the Army Pensions Bill, 1932, Deputy MacDermot asked the following question:&mdash; 
       May I ask the Minister one question? I am exceedingly moved by the appeal for appeasement that he has made in order to justify this Bill.  I should like to feel that it does not commit one to any shaking of the fundamental principles&mdash;in other words, that we can rely on the Fianna Fail Party to accept it as their definite policy that they will always defend against armed interference the institutions accepted by the majority in this country. 
       The Minister replied:&mdash; 
       Deputy MacDermot can always rely on Fianna Fail and the members of their Party doing what they think best for Ireland and the Irish people. 
       Arising out of that question and answer, Deputy Hayes said:&mdash; 
       The Minister appealed for a unanimous vote.  I submit it is the practice, where a unanimous vote is asked for, that those asking the vote should, by question and answer, give an opportunity of seeing whether Deputies can accede to the Minister's request.  For my part, the answer the Minister made to Deputy MacDermot convinces me that I cannot vote for this Bill. 
     
     That is taken from the Official Report of 20th October, cols. 254-5-6.  Following the type of discussion that then took place that was an important question, and the answer is important. In so far as the President can control and censor public happenings in the  &ldquo;Irish Press,&rdquo; that question and that answer were completely censored.  In these circumstances I oppose the Money Resolution. 
     
      
       On the last day Deputy Mulcahy started out deliberately to resuscitate old antagonisms and, in an effort to avoid creating bitterness, I refused to reply to a lot of the old lies which he brought up.  He can, on the Committee Stage of the Army Pensions Bill, start a wrangle about what happened in 1922 or what did not happen.  Thanks be to goodness, Deputy Mulcahy will not have the writing of the history of 1922. 
     
     
      
       God knows I do not want it. 
     
     
      
       I know you do not.  I will appeal to the Deputy not to continue with the amendments that he has put down for the Committee Stage of the Army Pensions Bill.  If he does it   will only lead to a long wrangle, which I do not want and which the country does not want.  The Deputy must realise that he, above all people, should be generous to some of the victims for whom we are providing under this Bill.  I will appeal to him, if he has any sense of generosity left, to withdraw his amendments.  If he does not, and if he wants a row about it, then he can have it.  I think if we were to go into the matter fully he would not come very well out of it. However, if he wants it he will have to get it; I cannot help it.  I did my best on the last occasion and I am appealing to him now not to continue with the amendments he has down, and I ask him to withdraw his opposition to this Financial Motion.  I do not think he has any ground to stand on in his opposition to it.  If he continues it, we will have to see what can be said. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 67; Nil, 46. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Bartley, Gerald. Beegan, Patrick. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Bryan. Brady, Sean. Breathnach, Cormac. Breen, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Browne, William Frazer. Carty, Frank. Cleary, Micheal. Cooney, Eamonn. Corish, Richard. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Curran, Patrick Joseph. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Flinn, Hugo V. Flynn, John. Flynn, Stephen. Fogarty, Andrew. Gibbons, Sean. Gormley, Francis. Gorry, Fatrick Joseph. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Hogan, Patrick (Clare). 
             Humphreys, Francis. Jordan, Stephen. Kelly, James Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Keyes, Raphael Patrick. Kilroy, Michael. Kissane, Eamonn. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Lynch, James B. MacEntee, Sean. Maguire, Ben. Maguire, Conor Alexander. Moane, Edward. Moore, Seamus. Moylan, Sean. Murphy, Patrick Stephen. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. O'Grady, Sean. O'Kelly, Sean Thomas. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas J. O'Rourke, Daniel. Rice, Edward. Ryan, James. Ryan, Robert. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy. Sheridan, Michael. Smith, Patrick. Traynor, Oscar. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. (Dr.).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Burke, Patrick. Coburn, James. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cosgrave, William T. Davis, Michael. Desmond, William. Dockrell, Henry Morgan. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Esmonde, Osmond Grattan. Finlay, Thomas A. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis John. Hayes, Michael. Hennessy, Thomas. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). 
             Keating, John. Keogh, Myles. Kiersey, John. Lynch, Finian. McDonogh, Fred. MacEoin, Sean. McGilligan, Patrick. McMenamin, Daniel. Minch, Sydney B. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Nally, Martin. O'Connor, Batt. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hara, Patrick. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Neill, Eamonn. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reidy, James. Reynolds, Mrs. Mary. Roddy, Martin. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Boland and Allen; Nil, Deputies Duggan and Doyle. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Resolution reported and agreed to. 
   
   
     In Committee on Finance. - Army Pensions Bill, 1932&mdash;Committee. 
     Sections 1, 2 and 3 agreed to. 
     SECTION 4. 
     
      
       I should like to ask the Minister if he will consider amending Section 4 in order to bring in those men of the Connaught Rangers, who took part in the mutiny in India, and whose cases, in the opinion of many on these benches, have not yet been adequately considered.  It is up to the present Government, in my opinion, to see that these men, whose cases have not been properly dealt with, will not be overlooked. 
     
     
      
       (Clare): I raised this matter with the previous Government in conjunction with another Deputy, and I should like if the Minister would give some consideration to it.  The case of these men is very well known, and there is no need repeating what Deputies said on that occasion.  I think this is an appropriate time to raise the matter and I hope the Minister will be able to give an assurance that the case of these men will be properly and adequately considered. 
     
     
      
       I will undertake to look into the matter.  Deputies, of course, are aware that this is a wounds and disabilities Pensions Bill, and that we can only bring such cases into it.  If it is agreed to extend it to Indian mutineers they can only be compensated in respect of disability arising out of service, and to look after the dependants of those who were killed. I promise to look into the matter, and if we accept it, to deal with it on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       The amendment on the Order Paper in the name of Deputy MacEoin is out of order for two reasons: that it widens the scope of the Bill and would involve an additional charge. 
       Section 4 agreed to. 
       SECTION 5. 
     
     
      
       There are on the Order Paper several amendments to Section 5 in the name of Deputy Mulcahy.  It might be contended, and contended on good ground, that amendment 2 is out of order as being a direct negative.  I am not quite convinced on that point.  Therefore, I am allowing the Deputy to move it. The Deputy will have the option of moving amendment 2.  The decision on that, in my view, will embrace the variations covered by amendments 3 to 10 inclusive. 
     
     
      
       The ruling of the Ceann Comhairle on this is very important.  The Ceann Comhairle is   prepared to rule that amendment No. 2 is in order.  That amendment is a very wide-reaching one.  The other amendments, 4 to 10, inclusive, are much narrower in their scope.  Surely it is conceivable that there may be members of the House who would like to vote against amendment 2, and yet would feel inclined to vote for amendments 4, 5, or 6.  I put the matter in this way: I can well understand a person having accepted the principle of the Bill refusing to vote against amendment 2.  Yet I can imagine various Deputies, for instance, the Minister for Justice or the Attorney-General, voting for amendment 5.  I can imagine a person voting against amendment 2 on the grounds that he does not want to destroy the principle that pensions will be given to those who entered into revolt against the State.  Yet, I can imagine a person connected with the Press or having the interests of the Press at heart &mdash;the President for instance&mdash;voting for amendment 7.  My difficulty with your ruling is that it seems to me that you have laid it down as a principle that when an amendment, wide in scope, is defeated, that rules out narrower amendments afterwards. That has a very serious effect as a precedent so far as all other Bills are concerned.  I can well imagine that while a person might not be willing to give £100 he might be willing to give £20.  It is conceivable that there are members of the House who would vote against amendment No. 5, and would feel bound to vote for amendments 4, 6, and the others up to 10.  On these grounds, I would ask you, sir, to consider your ruling.  The mere fact that you accept amendment 2 rules out other amendments, which themselves are in order. 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy who has just sat down has said, amendment 2 is a very wide amendment. It is so wide as to be almost a negative.  The principle approved by this House is to give pensions or gratuties to members of certain named organisations and amendment 2 seeks to deprive of such pensions persons who were in the   terms of amendment No. 2 &ldquo;in revolt&rdquo; during a certain period.  I think that amendment 2 covers all the other classes.  Having allowed the wider amendment to be debated there is no necessity to debate the others, which segregate into certain classes those who were &ldquo;in revolt.&rdquo; That is to say you are aiming to eliminate certain people who were in revolt&mdash;endeavouring to fix responsibility which it would be impossible to fix in these particular cases, that is to fix responsibility on individuals. Taking it that the House has approved the principle of giving pensions to people who were in revolt and relating that, for instance, to Section 5 of the Bill which requires such persons or classes to have been &ldquo;on duty,&rdquo; and to the fact that Section 6 proposes to establish a Board to judge applicants' cases, I am of opinion that the decision on amendment No. 2 will cover amendments 3 to 10 inclusive. 
     
     
      
       May I point out in reference to your ruling that I can well understand that if amendment 2 were accepted then, of course, amendments 4, 5, 6, and 7 could be ruled out because there the greater would include the less.  But if the House refuses to accept the amendment, surely it should be given the opportunity of giving an instruction to the Committee as to how it should carry out its work, even in details. As I understand your ruling it means that because the House has accepted the principle of the Bill it cannot make any modification as to the conduct of these people because as you have clearly pointed out yourself amendment 2 is very wide, such as to affect the whole principle of the Bill and to be almost a direct negative. Surely the fact that you may not accept a direct negative is no reason why an instruction should not be given to the Committee referred to in Section 6 as to how it will deal with persons guilty, or alleged to be guilty, of certain conduct.  Therefore, it seems to me that your ruling would deprive the House of the opportunity of giving the necessary instruction to the Committee. 
     
     
      
       I would like to add this, founding my remarks on the   phrase that you, sir, have used.  The amendment referring to people in revolt covers the other sections that are referred to in amendments 3 to 10. Does the phrase &ldquo;in revolt&rdquo; necessarily include all the things that are referred to in amendments 3 to 10? Take the case of a man who was in revolt, say illegally robbing a bank&mdash; it is referred to in amendment 10 in this way &ldquo;while illegally taking moneys from any bank.&rdquo;  I think it must be ruled that the phrase &ldquo;in revolt&rdquo; necessarily covers people who took money from a bank before it can be ruled that a discussion on people &ldquo;in revolt&rdquo; rules out a discussion on people who illegally took money from a bank.  You have yourself referred to the section which sets up the Board.  Surely it is within the competence of the House, indeed it is the duty of the House, to lay down the terms of reference, if the House is so pleased, for that Board, and that the House, while generally accepting the principle of not ruling out people because they have been in revolt, may still say that although people were in revolt if they illegally took money from a bank, they should not, therefore, be given pensions. 
       It seems to me that a general ruling from the Chair that an amendment which is wide enough should necessarily include certain other amendments will if decided, positively or negatively, rule out discussion upon other amendments.  But unless the larger amendment necessarily includes the lesser I suggest it is not right to have discussion on amendment 2 operating as a closure on discussion that the House would like to have on those categories of people covered by the words &ldquo;in revolt.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Two points have been raised: First, as to the conduct of people, and second, as to the interpretation of the term &ldquo;in revolt.&rdquo; It is not the duty of the Ceann Comhairle to interpret.  My statement was that I considered the position, on No. 2, covered the operations that amendments 2 to 10 aimed at covering. The whole debate can take place on amendment 2, which would cover all operations.  Otherwise we would be   sitting here to do the work which the Board has to do.  The Board is appointed for purposes under the Bill. The term &ldquo;on duty&rdquo; would cover the term suggested by Deputy McGilligan as to the irregular robbing of banks.  I have come to the definite conclusion that it is on 2 we are to cover all the points from 2 to 10, and that there should be one division. 
     
     
      
       As this has a wider application than to this Bill, I think it might be further considered.  The Board has to determine what is covered by the phrase &ldquo;on duty.&rdquo;  Surely it is for the House to determine for the Board what the meaning of acts done on duty is.  I suggest the House has a right to lay down special terms of reference by which the Board will be able to determine every case of whether acts were done on duty.  The right of the House is engaged.  It has no power to decide on amendment 2 what is set out in amendments 2 to 10. To get back to the original proposition. Must the House decide only on one point; that is, whether men considered for pensions have been in revolt?  The Board may be willing to rule for people to get pensions because they were in revolt, but nevertheless they may rule out people for certain kinds of actions mentioned in amendments 3 to 10. 
     
     
      
       I consider that the term &ldquo;in revolt&rdquo; covers all these classes and can be debated on amendment 2.  It would be very difficult for the House to have a decision leading to a definite matter and then to segregate all these matters and go into every particular case. 
     
     
      
       The House is establishing a board.  Has it no right, under the Bill, without a breach of the principle approved on Second Reading, to lay down for the Board certain regulations that will rule in carrying out its duties? 
     
     
      
       May I suggest that the House has the right of deciding upon what you say, namely, laying down an instruction.  If they have the right I suggest your ruling is depriving them of that right that they have.  That is my difficulty.  If the   right is there, as you clearly point out, then this decision in your ruling deprives the House of that particular right.  It is for the House to exercise it.  The ruling here may affect amendments to any Bill brought in of a complicated nature. 
     
     
      
       The House has approved of the principle that certain persons should be allowed pensions or gratuties.  I take it that these different categories mentioned in amendments 3 to 10 are covered by the term &ldquo;in revolt,&rdquo; and that a debate on amendment No. 2 should decide those other amendments.  That is my decision. 
     
     
      
       I think the terms &ldquo;in revolt&rdquo; and &ldquo;on duty&rdquo; are quite distinct things.  &ldquo;In revolt&rdquo; is a thing easy to understand, but &ldquo;on duty&rdquo; is not so easy.  It is for the House to decide what &ldquo;on duty&rdquo; means.  If this House does not define it no board or court can define it.  The Commission will merely be a rambling commission, and it will not be able to decide what is the correct meaning of the words &ldquo;on duty.&rdquo;  In regard to the general term &ldquo;in revolt,&rdquo; people understand that it means persons engaged in revolt, men who bore arms against the State. 
     
     
      
       A person may be in revolt.  He may have been a member of various bodies at the beginning of the Free State, or at its inception, and, being in revolt, he may have done certain things.  The House may approve of giving a pension to a person in revolt, but may not approve of giving pensions to persons who, in addition to being in revolt, committed certain crimes.  That is the essence of the matter. 
     
     
      
       I rule that a decision on No. 2 covers all the other amendments, 2 to 10 inclusive.  Does the Deputy move his amendment? 
     
     
      
       Amendment No. 2 is not moved, and amendment No. 3 is not moved, but amendments 4, 5 and 6 will be moved. 
     
     
      
       In that case then I shall give to the Deputy a new   option.  The debate to be taken on amendment 4, and the decision on No. 4 will cover amendments 4 to 10 inclusive. 
     
     
      
       I submit very seriously that the House, in granting pensions to an organisation against the State, is entitled to draw distinction as to those going to be tolerated as coming within a reasonable sphere, or a reasonable kind of revolt, and that it is entitled to decide, if it wishes to do so, and to show distinction between an act which results in the killing of a member of the Oireachtas, or taking money from a bank, or setting a railway engine running along a railway line, destroying railway property, or putting a bomb into a cinema and blowing it up.  I submit the House should be fully entitled to consider the granting of pensions to persons &ldquo;in revolt,&rdquo; and to discuss and to discriminate between them and persons who took part in these particular kinds of actions that I have described. 
     
     
      
       Can we have your ruling, a Chinn Comhairle, put in a general fashion as to how the discussion of an amendment ruling out people who attempted to kill a member of the Oireachtas Government, can be related to a discussion of an illegal attempt to take moneys from a bank? 
     
     
      
       No. 4 amendment appears to differentiate between those in revolt, and men who have done, while in revolt, certain things which did not necessarily follow from such revolt. The House will either agree to that amendment or not.  If the House does agree I take it as deciding that these actions be not taken cognisance of, and that pensions for those in revolt are agreed to in accordance with this Bill, without going into all the different categories set out in amendments 5&mdash;10.  I am of opinion that the whole question may be debated on No. 4 amendment, and that it may be taken as covering all other deeds those guilty of which the Deputy wishes to exclude from the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I wish to point out that amendments 4 to 10 are inclusive, and   that the usual practice, when there are amendments to one section, say to Section 5, is that the question is put to the House as to whether that section stands. 
     
     
      
       Is that the practice? 
     
     
      
       It has been the practice. 
     
     
      
       There is no such practice. 
     
     
      
       Would the Ceann Comhairle rule on that? 
     
     
      
       It is not a matter of ruling.  It has not been the practice, as a matter of fact. 
     
     
      
       I am against applying a guillotine motion to these resolutions.  I think you will agree, sir, that a man having very strong views on the taking of human life in a time of trouble and revolt might, by no means, have such strong views on the question of taking money, or as it was put, expropriating money from banks.  I can quite understand how a person might wish to exclude one from that category and wish to include another.  None of these amendments is any more general than another.  I suggest that all these amendments stand on the same level, so far as their universality is concerned.  They are all equally embracing in that sense, and deal with different matters.  It is practically ruling out the possibility of distinct and separate amendments on one section of the Bill.  That is practically the precedent that is now being laid down, I submit, with all due respect to your ruling, sir. 
     
     
      
       It has been ruled, I think, in the case of the previous amendment, that when a Deputy moves a wide amendment, and when the House rejects that amendment, a Deputy will not be allowed to move any other amendment less wide.  I do not know that there is any precedent for that.  The ruling now is that if the Deputy moves an amendment endeavouring to make a distinction from the general rule, and if that particular distinction does not commend   itself to the House, a Deputy is not to be at liberty to move that the House should make another distinction. That would have an extraordinary effect on Committee proceedings. I want to suggest that when a Deputy moves one amendment, making an exception to the general rule accepted by the House, if it is ruled that when the House refuses to make that one exception, it cannot be asked to make another, Committee proceedings will be radically different to what they have been hitherto. 
     
     
      
       It is not the intention in this particular case to lay down rules for all Bills.  The Chair is entitled to say that.  The Deputy was given the option of moving amendment No. 2 and did not avail himself of it.  There is now the option of moving amendment No. 4.  The House has approved of the principle of giving pensions or gratuities to men who were in revolt.  I hold that the decision on amendment No. 4 will decide whether the House desires to narrow that decision or not, and that such decision can be taken as covering six subsequent amendments. 
     
     
      
       As you say, sir, the Ceann Comhairle has a right to make the statement that the ruling does not cover other Bills, but a ruling given must be based on this principle, that it must be capable of application to all Bills unless there is something in this Bill to differentiate it from others. The amendments must be ruled upon according to the principle applied to all Bills.  I did not want to interfere on the point of order, but the second ruling seems to involve that if a Deputy on the Committee Stage moves to make an exception to the general rule, and if that is defeated, he can move to make no other exception.  May I submit that, undoubtedly, in this particular Bill, if the House was foolish enough a certain trend of discussion might arise which would be undesirable.  The possibility of undesirable discussion should not, I submit, influence the Chair to give a ruling which would have the effect of restricting the rights of Deputies on a   Bill, and make a precedent for other Bills.  It can be left to the commonsense of Deputies to debate this matter in a proper way.  To say that an exception made in amendment 4, if defeated, will govern all other exceptions is to make a completely new principle. 
     
     
      
       It is quite interesting to hear Deputy Hayes talking to the Chair. 
     
     
      
       Is this a point of order? 
     
     
      
       It is a point of order.  I want a ruling so that the House shall be entitled to come to a decision and to have that decision effective.  A definition of the duties of the Chair has been properly given by you, sir.  The House is entitled to come to a decision. If some silly Deputy wants to make 101 amendments in a section surely the House could not come to a decision.  The House has a right to come to a decision and I suggest that, a ruling having been given, we can get on with the debate. 
     
     
      
       One thing rather puzzles me so far as the ruling is concerned&mdash;it may be a stretch of the imagination&mdash;covering amendments 4, 5, 6, 7, and possibly 8.  I draw a distinction between amendments 4, 5, 6 and 7 and amendment 8 because there is a question of human life.  There is a segregation in respect of the various amendments, first attacking a member of the House; secondly, attacking judges, and then going to the editors of newspapers.  The House was invited to express its view on what &ldquo;war&rdquo; covered in respect to these items.  We have various types of war. Take property.  The House would be asked to give a decision, say, on the wanton destruction of public property, the property of public companies, or the property of private persons. Was that a matter which the House thought would entitle a person injured in such an experiment to get a pension?  Again, if you take another departure from the strict rules of law, involving bank managers and the taking of something from banks not   your own, under stress of law or by force, that is a separate item.  These are certainly different subjects for consideration. One might have one which would take in public officials, which in ecclesiastical matters have a standing superior to that of the ordinary individual. You have, then, from the point of view of the democrat interference with the Press.  Some protagonists of democracy hold that that is a thing which should not be countenanced by anyone.  There is a question of human life, a question of public property, a question of property belonging to public companies, and to private parties, and then there is the question of going to banks.  To my mind all these are different principles and would fall for different judgment by the House.  In his lucid explanation the Minister rather stressed the view that the House was entitled to come to a decision. That is what we are pressing for. 
     
     
      
       It came to a decision. 
     
     
      
       It came to a decision on a special point. 
     
     
      
       If it were necessary to have this passed by 8 o'clock to-night I could well understand why the guillotine motion should be introduced. What we are anxious for is that the House on the different sections should be allowed to give free opinion on each of these categories. The idea, because there are a number of amendments, that seven-eighths of them are to be ruled out, as the Minister for Defence suggests, reduces the whole Committee proceedings&mdash;if the point raised by the Minister is followed &mdash;to a farce. 
     
     
      
       It is not on my suggestion that these amendments are being ruled out of order.  If we were forced to take these amendments one after the other, I should be better pleased&mdash; that is, if we were forced to do it in that way.  I should much prefer that Deputy Mulcahy had agreed to my suggestion to do what would be the generous thing, if he has any generosity left; that is, to put the past behind and try and rectify some of the mistakes.   But if we cannot have the discussion stopped, I am prepared to go through every item and discuss the amendments up to 8 o'clock in the morning. 
     
     
      
       I am not denying that the Minister is quite willing to discuss the amendments.  But there is a bigger question raised.  That is the ruling given by the Chair, which we are asking to have reconsidered. The question of the Minister's willingness to discuss the amendments is quite irrelevant.  The question is whether, on Committee Stage, the Chair can rule out heterogeneous amendments&mdash;that when a decision is taken on one amendment, it should be made applicable to all.  That is the general question of order and not the wishes of a Minister. 
     
     
      
       This is not a question of generosity; it is a question of duty.  In pressing this point of order, we are only performing our duty to the House.  If you, a Chinn Comhairle, rule that a decision on amendment No. 4 will govern the other amendments, this House, composed of persons who try to do their duty, is put into the position of saying that because they decide to allow pensions to fellows who threatened the lives of members of Parliament, they must tolerate the shooting of Mr. Denis McGrath, Manager of the &ldquo;Cork Examiner,&rdquo; on the 21st January, 1923, he being severely wounded.  Not only that, but they must tolerate and give pensions to those responsible for the smashing up of the waterworks system of Portlaoighise and other towns and countenance the taking of a railway engine driver at Tralee, and the shooting of that engine driver because he would not carry out orders to destroy his engine.  Bearing in mind my responsibilities to this House, it would be very wrong if I did not raise my voice and point out to you, a Chinn Comhairle, that your ruling places the House in a position in which it ought not to be placed. 
     
     
      
       Might I put this question in another guise, a Chinn Comhairle, before you give your ruling?  There is a regulation which   prevents a Bill, brought forward and defeated, being brought forward again within a certain time.  By way of analogy, if I brought in a Bill to give some sort of preferential treatment to a person who attempted to kill a member of the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann, and if that Bill were defeated, would I be estopped from bringing in a Bill to provide pensions for persons who had attempted to destroy private property? 
     
     
      
       That is a hypothetical question. 
     
     
      
       That is the conclusion that follows from your ruling. 
     
     
      
       It is not my function to draw conclusions. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the Chair would react very strongly against the suggestion that my defeat on a Bill to provide pensions for persons who had attempted to assassinate members of the Saorstat Government would prevent me from bringing in a Bill to provide pensions for folk who had attempted to destroy railway property? 
     
     
      
       The anxiety of the Opposition seems to be not to set up a precedent.  At the same time, the Opposition asks the Chair to reconsider its decision, which would be setting up a rather dangerous precedent. Discussion is not to be curtailed in any way on this matter except that a decision on all the questions will be taken on amendments Nos. 4 and 5. 
     
     
      
       Why? 
     
     
      
       I think that is giving the Opposition a good deal more latitude than they ever afforded on any matter while they were in office.  In addition, I suggest that it is rather late in the day for Deputy Mulcahy or Deputy Cosgrave to decide that there are certain things which should not be done during war time. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy knows a good deal about that. 
     
     
      
       You will know a good deal more before this debate is over. 
     
     
     
      
       On a general point of order, Deputy Clery has stated that members of the Opposition should not be given less favourable treatment than they gave to their opponents. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that. 
     
     
      
       I think, a Chinn Comhairle, that that statement involves you, as a member of the Government Party, and that a Deputy should not be allowed to make it.  You are ruling from the Chair and Deputy Clery should not make the statement that the Chair is ruling on behalf of the Government. 
     
     
      
       I said no such thing.  I said they were getting much more latitude than they ever afforded. 
     
     
      
       This is a very important question.  If Deputy Clery says that the Opposition is getting more latitude from the Chair than they ever afforded, what does he mean? 
     
     
      
       Not from the Chair. 
     
     
      
       What did he mean? 
     
     
      
       I mean what I said. 
     
     
      
       Taking into consideration all the points raised, I shall allow two votes.  Amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 are all modifications of amendment No. 4.  They are merely variations, and the debate on No. 4 and the decision on it must be taken to cover 5, 6, 7 and 8.  I am prepared to allow a separate vote on the two amendments dealing with offences against property&mdash;namely, amendments 9 and 10. 
     
     
      
       To be quite clear, am I to understand that not merely is there not to be a separate debate allowed on amendments 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, but that there will not be a separate decision allowed on these amendments?  This House will not be allowed to have a separate debate because they are cognate, and they will not be allowed to decide on the amendments separately? 
     
     
      
       Not only are they cognate but they are actually slight variations of the same thing,   and a decision on No. 4 should certainly govern 5, 6, 7 and 8. 
     
     
      
       There can be only one decision. 
     
     
      
       Yes, on amendments 4 to 8, inclusive. 
     
     
      
       It is, therefore, the same to kill a member of the Oireachtas as to kill an engine driver? 
     
     
      
       Or to kill a prisoner. 
     
     
      
       We have got away from the point of order. 
     
     
      
       You were asking for it. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is annoyed.  That is the whole trouble. 
       SECTION 5. 
       Sub-section (2) In this Part of this Act&mdash; 
       the expression &ldquo;pre-truce military service&rdquo; means military service during any part of the period beginning on the 1st day of April, 1916, and ending on the 11th day of July, 1921; the expression &ldquo;post-truce military service&rdquo; means military service during any part of the period beginning on the 12th day of July, 1921, and ending on the 30th day of September, 1923; 
       the word &ldquo;killed&rdquo; includes (in addition to the matters included therein by the Acts of 1923 and 1927) death as an immediate result of refusing to take nourishment while detained in prison and death by violence while a prisoner. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 4: 
       Before sub-section (2) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous foregoing sub-section, no person shall be deemed to have been engaged in military service while shooting or otherwise killing or while attempting to shoot or otherwise to kill any member of the Provisional Parliament or of the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann; nor while destroying or attempting to destroy any property, the property of a member of the Provisional Parliament or of the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann. 
     
     
        This is an amendment which could very easily have been taken separately, discussed briefly and decided.  Like the letters addressed to the Chairman of this House and the Chairman of the Labour Party a few days before Sean Hales, a member of this House, was assassinated and the Vice-Chairman wounded in an attempt to kill him, this amendment speaks for itself.  The members of this House since they came into it in 1922 have borne very serious and crushing responsibilities.  The same type of opposition given to the setting up of this Parliament in 1922 is still threatened outside by an organisation bearing the same name, by an organisation having arms and by an organisation from whom no attempt is made to take these arms.  To my mind, it is essential that in any armed revolt, when the representatives of the people in Parliament have to take decisions for the protection, safety and development of the country, they should enjoy free exercise of judgment; that this House as a whole shall not have its mind bludgeoned nor constrained by threats of assassination to take action that it does not consider is proper action from the point of view of safe-guarding the people and in the interests of the whole people.  And I submit that in countenancing pensions for persons unfortunately wounded and unfortunately killed in the rebellion against the Provisional Parliament and subsequently against the Government of the Saorstat that this House should not countenance in any way as military action the taking of the lives of individual members of the Oireachtas, or failing to be able to get at these persons, to go as was done and destroy their homes which were at that time the only shelter of their womenfolk or children. 
     [ An Leas-Cheann Comhairle took the Chair.]  
     This House does know that one of its members was assassinated and that an attempt was made to kill the Vice-Chairman.  The House does know that not being able to get at Deputy McGarry at the time they burned his house and they took the house of Deputy Cole and they burned   it.  They burned Senator Moore's house and the house of Senator Sir Thomas Grattan Esmonde and the house of Michael Doyle, one of the Deputies of the Farmers' Party in Wexford. 
     
      
       And many others besides. 
     
     
      
       I mention some of those that come most readily to our minds.  I submit to this House and Parliament that in the circumstances in which it finds itself to-day, and particularly in view of the absence of any kind of reasonable reply on the part of the Minister on the occasion of the Second Reading, that the House should pass this amendment; and that the House should declare that while it thinks fit to pension persons in respect of injuries received in the revolt, that it does not include in that category persons who went out and assassinated unarmed members of this Assembly; or failing being able to attack the members of the Oireachtas individually who went and burned and destroyed their homes. 
     
     I would like the Minister or any Deputy, particularly I would like that the present Minister for Justice or the present Attorney-General who may be more sensitive in these matters than the Minister, to say why this House in looking back over the past years should tolerate the granting of pensions to persons injured in an attack on any judges of our courts.  These judges quite as much and perhaps in some ways more than individual members of the Oireachtas take a very critical and very laborious responsibility. They have to hold the scales of justice against the criminal.  They have to hold the scales of equity against other persons.  In the early part of 1922, as was drawn to the attention of this House on 20th October, the District Courts, Circuit Courts and other Courts that were being set up under the Provisional Government and under the Government of Saorstat Eireann, were described by Padraig Ruitleis having assumed the Ministry for Home Affairs and by Eamon de Valera having resumed the Presidency, as &ldquo;re-establishing   in this country the old British Courts owing allegiance to the King of Great Britain.&rdquo;  I am aware that some persons threw a cloak of authority around these statements.  I think there must be a viciousness present to even cloak that viciousness to some extent by assuming authority. But that gave no excuse for men to turn around and set out as was set out to assassinate and kill men who were in the position of judges, great or small, in this country, holding, in the interests detachably of the people as a whole, the scales as between criminals and the people of the country and holding the scales of equity between the persons that sought equity. The Garda Siochana were set up here in very difficult times as an unarmed force and I think the House would stain its honour and would prejudice its people for the future in tolerating any piece of legislation that would include pensions for persons who had attacked the unarmed members of the Garda Siochana. 
     I turn now to the Press.  I have already spoken of the threat of death to Martin Fitzgerald.  I have already mentioned the shooting of Denis McGrath of the &ldquo;Cork Examiner&rdquo; in January, 1922.  If this House has any sense of its responsibility it will not expose the Press of this country to what is implied in the refusal to accept amendment No. 7.  As far as the general injuries to civilians is concerned, I have already referred to some of the ways in which civilians were dealt with, from the case of old Doctor O'Higgins to the case of the engine-driver in Tralee, and I will just give a sample of the way in which on 6th March, 1923, within three miles of the centre of the City of Dublin a deliberate attempt was made to wreck a train filled with workers from Howth and Sutton.  Similar things happened in many parts of the country.  I do submit that it is doing what Deputies on the far side have done so very often and attempted in so many cases that meant something to the people of this country.  They are degrading the idea of military service when they ask to have included in a Pensions Bill men who are engaged in some of these acts. 
     
     
      
       When I spoke on the Second Reading of this Bill I turned one cheek and on the day of the Financial Resolution I turned the other.  But Deputy Mulcahy wants to come along.  I think he is so foolish that he thinks we are going to run away from this debate; that, because we did our utmost to avoid bringing up the past and creating more bitterness, we were in some way afraid to deal with these things that have happened in the past.  I know that Deputy Mulcahy is nine-tenths of a fool and one part martyr.  He is like the boy who stood on the burning deck, sitting over there now.  The Cumann na nGaedheal people always got him to do the dirty work and when it was finished they kicked him out.  I am sorry for him. 
       I did not want to enlarge this debate or to go back over some of the things that happened in 1922.  The Deputy was foolish enough to believe that all the documents were burned.  That was a very foolish mistake on his part. He got quite a considerable amount of the stuff burned, but the best laid plans of mice and men gang aft agley, and Deputy Mulcahy's attempt to destroy all traces of what he did, and of what he instigated others to do, in 1922 failed miserably.  I have here some very interesting documents.  I did not want to quote them.  I had some idea when we were coming into office that if we searched for certain documents we would find out the truth of what happened in the past, but I did not search for them.  I wish to forget all about them, and it was only when it became evident that Deputy Mulcahy was going to try to blacken men who fought with us by raking up documents and statements of things that occurred back in 1922 that I decided to see what might have escaped to show what sort of man Deputy Mulcahy was, and what reliance the people of this or any other country were to place on any of his statements. 
     
     Deputy Mulcahy talks here about the destruction of civilian property.  Did Deputy Mulcahy, in any of the Pensions Bills introduced by the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, put into them   any clause which would prohibit from getting a pension a man who destroyed civilian property in 1922 or a man who attempted to kill members of this Oireachtas in 1922?  No, he did not. Did he insert a clause which would prohibit a man who attempted to kill a representative of any other Parliament from getting a pension?  Not likely.  Did he insert a clause which would prevent a man who committed rape drawing a pension?  Not likely. Did he insert a clause which would prohibit men who blew up unarmed prisoners from getting a pension?  Not likely.  Did he insert a clause that men who contemplated poisoning wells were to be prohibited from getting a pension?  Not likely.  Did he insert a clause that men who beat defenceless women and tarred their hair were to be prohibited from getting a pension? Not likely. 
     Under the Military Service Pensions Act, men were to be granted pensions when a Military Service Board said that they committed acts &ldquo;while performing their duty as members of the Irish Volunteers or the Irish Citizen Army.&rdquo;  The 1927 Act was something the same as the present Act, and we have here in this Bill provision for the setting up of a Military Registration Board which will adjudicate on the question of service and, while I have no duty to defend everything that ever happened in this or in any other country, I certainly will stand up for this, that any man who was killed or who was wounded or who got disease while carrying out his duty, according to the instructions of his superior officers in the I.R.A., is entitled to a pension, no matter what he was instructed to do. 
     Deputy Mulcahy knows that many things were done in 1922 and 1920 which people in cold blood would not do.  That is true and, surely to goodness, he should understand the background of the men of 1922.  They did not go half as far as he wanted people to go in other days.  They were carrying on the same fight.  Because Deputy Mulcahy deserted to the British side is no reason why they should hold back from the methods which he had taught   them.  I know that Deputy Mulcahy was not the originator of many of the things.  He had not the brains to devise a whole lot of plans, but he always took responsibility for them. He was put up as the dummy.  I do not believe, for instance, that he was the deviser of the plan for all the executions in 1922.  That was done by other men.  The plan was devised, but he did the dirty work and took responsibility for it, and, just as they kicked him out after 1922, and deserted him, they got him to introduce these amendments to-night and have deserted him.  They have always left him to do the dirty work. As I said, he is nine-tenths a fool&mdash; 
     
      
       Is that a case for shooting members of the Oireachtas? 
     
     
      
       Did Deputy Mulcahy insert, in any of his Bills, a provision that any man who attempted to shoot a member of the Oireachtas, or a representative of the people, was to be debarred from getting a pension? He did not. 
     
     
      
       There was no necessity. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Mulcahy knows that if such a section were included some of the pensioners, unless they were as big tellers of untruths as he is, would be debarred, and, of course&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest that people were shot because they were members of the Oireachtas? 
     
     
      
       Because they were members of the Oireachtas? 
     
     
      
       Yes? 
     
     
      
       Because they were members of the Oireachtas did not save them, and, talking about people being shot, I went down through this document&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order.  We are dealing here&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       This is not a point of order.  I will give way when I am finished. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy raising a point of order? 
     
     
     
      
       I am raising a point of order, yes, and it is, that the Minister is very far from the amendments that are before the House. 
     
     
      
       Oh, I see.  I am not a bit surprised that the Deputy is anxious that I should get away from the line I was going on. 
     
     
      
       I am trying to make the Minister useful. 
     
     
      
       I was interested in reading down these proposed amendments to Section 5 to see that while men who were members of the Dail were protected, while judges were protected and everybody else protected, the ordinary, plain soldier was not protected. You could shoot any soldier you liked in the Free State Army and, still, Deputy Mulcahy and his people would entitle you to a pension.  I fought against members of the Free State Army, and I think as much of the life of the meanest and lowest of them as I did of Deputy Mulcahy's. Why should I get a pension, supposing I was wounded during the Black-and-Tan or Civil War, and if it could be proved that I shot Private Tom Murphy from Cork or some place else?  But although Deputy Mulcahy was also a soldier, he claims immunity.  I would not get a pension if I fired at him although he wore a uniform. 
     
     
      
       I claim that the soldier's attitude should not be &ldquo;Oh, instead of shooting a soldier, let us shoot a judge or a civilian or some other person, because, hang it, a soldier is as good as any one of them.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The soldier's attitude is not the attitude taken by Deputy Mulcahy, anyway.  The soldier's attitude is that if a man is the victor he behaves like a victor, and, if he is vanquished, he behaves like a man who has been vanquished.  A soldier's attitude would not describe Deputy Mulcahy's attitude during the past nine or ten years.  When he happened to be the victor, he displayed all the traits of the bully&mdash;nothing magnanimous, nothing generous.  When a man was down, he kicked him, and I think that Deputy Mulcahy, and others in   the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, should remember that we are here discussing the provision of pensions for the dependents of those who were executed, and in some of the cases executed under most diabolical conditions. Deputy Mulcahy, for instance, in any of his Bills did not insert a clause that any man who gave drink to a firing squad&mdash;so much drink as to make them unable to carry out their duties in an ordinary humane way&mdash;may be debarred from getting a pension.  In other parts of the Bill we will probably examine Deputy Mulcahy's bona fides&mdash;what reliance exactly can be placed on any word of his.  There is one particular case where the late Deputy O'Higgins was concerned, in which he found that he could not trust Deputy Mulcahy one inch. 
     
     
      
       Is that an excuse for shooting members of the Oireachtas? 
     
     
      
       You might be excused for putting some of them across your knee, anyway.  There is no one going to waste any bullets on Deputy Mulcahy. We all hope that he will live long so that he will reap the full contempt of the Irish people.  I would shoot anybody whom I found shooting Deputy Mulcahy, or shortening his life by one day. 
     
     
      
       Dundalk! 
     
     
      
       I think, a Leas-Chinn Comhairle, that the House should reject these amendments, that the Registration Board will carry out its work and will see that only people who are doing their duty and carrying out the orders of their superior officers will be entitled to pensions. They will proceed under the same rules and regulations practically that the Committees of Reference which investigated service proceeded under in the Acts of 1923 and 1927.  The Act of 1923, as I said before, says that any man who was wounded while performing his duty as a member of the Irish Volunteers or Irish Citizen Army is entitled to a pension if he is wounded or contracts a disease on service, and his dependents were entitled   to an allowance if he had been killed. But as regards anybody getting a pension who breaks the laws of the country there is a section in the 1923 Act which provides for the forfeiture of pensions and allowances under certain circumstances.  The section reads: 
       If any officer or soldier to whom a wound pension has been granted under this Act is, during the continuance of such pension, convicted of any crime or offence by a court of competent jurisdiction in Saorstat Eireann and is sentenced by that court for that crime or offence to imprisonment with or without hard labour for any term exceeding three months or to penal servitude for any term, the wound pension granted to such officer or soldier, and also any further pension granted to him on account of his being a married man, shall be forfeited as from the date of such conviction. 
       That clause is incorporated in the present Bill&mdash;that clause from the Pensions Act of 1923.  Then there are penalties for false declarations and other matters like that.  I think it is a pretty water-tight Bill as it stands, and that only people who are entitled to pensions will get them.  I claim that, for the sake of the peace of this country in future, men who were wounded in the civil war on either side and men who were wounded in the Black-and-Tan war should be looked after, and that the dependants of those who were killed&mdash;people who were innocent of any connection (some of them, of course, urged their sons to go out and fight), but even so, if they are now destitute and if they were dependent upon those who were killed, I think that the State should come forward and grant an allowance to keep mothers and fathers in their old age, or to keep the wives and families of the deceased. 
     
     
      
       A Leas-Chinn Comhairle: Might I, as a man of peace, be permitted to intervene in an atmosphere of war, just to say what I think about the whole position?  Now sir, I have abstained from voting on the two divisions&mdash;the only two, I think, which took place&mdash;on this Bill, because, as I   indicated on the introduction of the measure, I felt that there were many persons in this country who took part in the war activities of 1916 and who suffered material losses, who are not being provided for, but that on the other hand, provision was about to be made for many persons who took up arms against the properly constituted State of this country.  Now, sir, it boils down to this in my view.  The people were asked&mdash;the ordinary common people of this country were asked &mdash;in 1922 to choose freely for themselves a Government.  The country decided to return to this House a certain number of representatives.  A number of the Deputies elected refused to take their seats. 
     
     
      
       They were not permitted. 
     
     
      
       They did not take their places. 
     
     
      
       War was declared on them. 
     
     
      
       They did not take their places.  It does not alter the position.  At any rate the majority of the people of this country decided on returning to this House a certain number of public representatives, which formed the majority of this House&mdash;the majority of the elected representatives of the people of Saorstat Eireann.  That cannot be denied. Now let us get down to the brass tacks of the whole position.  The Minister for Defence began, rather unhappily, I think, by alluding to Deputy Mulcahy and likening him unto &ldquo;the boy stood on the burning deck,&rdquo; failing, perhaps, to look over his own shoulder and at either side of him to discover that there were two Casabiancas in the House, because the Minister was alone on the Front Bench when he made that reference to Deputy Mulcahy.  Now we have it established that we have two Casabiancas in Dail Eireann.  Now, sir, I had hoped to continue this attitude of splendid isolation in relation to this measure, but having listened to the harangue, the outburst of the Minister for Defence has certainly helped me to change my attitude in relation   to this measure.  That a responsible Minister in any Government should in any country stand up and defend the action of men who took up arms against the properly established and constituted State of the country, is to me a surprise.  I should say it would come as a surprise to every seriously minded citizen in Saorstat Eireann to think that a responsible Minister should have&mdash;let me say, and I say it advisedly, and I am weighing my words in saying it&mdash;the audacity to stand up in this House and defend the action of those men who went out with malice aforethought and, according to the Minister, shot down members of this Oireachtas and who forsooth, because they had the authority of some officer or some other superior person to do these foul deeds, we must because of that bring them under the ægis of this measure and grant them pensions.  For what?  For what, in my view, was nothing short of assassination, and I would like to have every honest-minded person say what he thinks of this measure, and I do not propose, on this occasion, to leave this amendment to pass without voting on it.  As I say, I wanted to preserve my attitude of splendid isolation, but owing to the speech of the Minister for Defence I feel constrained to vote for this amendment put down in the name of Deputy Mulcahy.  Now, sir, I do not want to import any bitterness into this discussion. I feel that the two big Parties in this House might conduct such debates as we have listened to on this occasion, and on other occasions, in some other Chamber, or in some other place, other than by dragging them into the debates of this House. Now, sir, I have personal knowledge of some of the events which it is sought to translate into heroics by reason of the introduction of this Bill. I have knowledge, as one engaged in newspaper production for many years, of a group of people, possibly acting under authority&mdash;authority in quotation marks&mdash;some person who had a personal animus or spite against the proprietors of a newspaper.  I have personal experience of seeing two   newspaper offices wrecked, 1, the &ldquo;Examiner&rdquo; office in Cork, and 2, the &ldquo;Cork Constitution&rdquo; office, also located in the City of Cork.  The &ldquo;Cork Constitution&rdquo; office never survived that attack; the &ldquo;Examiner&rdquo; happily did, and it was due to the loyalty of the staff, and due to the co-operation of other staffs in the City of Cork that that paper was enabled to continue publication.  Now, sir, can I be told, can some of the persons put out of employment owing to the activity of these scoundrels be told, that a State such as this&mdash;a Government such as this&mdash;properly constituted and set up by the people, is to reward that class of activity?  Perhaps at some future date some other Government, possibly more advanced, possibly with a greater tendency towards the left than the present Government, will bring in another Bill asking us, and asking the Irish people, asking the Irish taxpayer, to compensate the persons who murdered Superintendent Curtin, who murdered young O'Brien in the Tipperary hills. 
     
     
      
       We have not that here yet. 
     
     
      
       We have not yet.  I am not at all satisfied, and I feel that the people of this country are not satisfied, and will not be satisfied with all that is contained in this measure. Now, surely, when Deputy Mulcahy asks that certain persons should be excluded from the operation of this Bill, those persons being indicated in his amendment, when he asks that no person shall be deemed to have been engaged in military service while shooting or otherwise killing, or while attempting to shoot or otherwise kill any member of the Provisional Parliament, or of the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann, or while destroying, or attempting to destroy any property, the property of a member of the Provisional Parliament, or Oireachtas, of Saorstat Eireann, he is not certainly asking too much of any Government with any sense of responsibility, or any sense of reasonableness.  Now, sir, in the final analysis who is it foots the bill and who is it footed the bill for most of this destruction of property?   The ordinary common people of the country.  Who suffered as a result of the activities of those irregular soldiers who broke up the railway lines and railway services of this country?  The railway workers.  The railway workers suffered, and I have very grave doubts that the railways would be in such a bad economic position to-day were it not for the activities, and the very dangerous activities that were indulged in about that period.  We have got to recognise one fact, at any rate, and we have only one choice to make.  Do we, or do we not, even at this stage, recognise that Fianna Fail is the Government?  I do.  I recognise President de Valera as head of this State; he has been placed there by the votes of the people; but if I were to suggest that because I did not feel myself in agreement with President de Valera's policy, or with the policy of his Government, if I were to suggest to disgruntled people in the country that because I am opposed to President de Valera's policy I should go out on the hustings and advocate that he and his Ministers should be shot, because when it has all boiled down that is what this Bill means.  It means you are about to compensate people who took up arms against the properly established State &mdash;a State established through the medium of the ballot box, and not through the medium of the bullet or of the gun.  I feel, sir, it would be cowardice on my part if I allowed this occasion to pass, seeing I intended to vote in this matter, not that I give a fig for the measure as a whole, because I find it has not included the persons who should be included&mdash;the persons who suffered serious damage and serious loss as a result of the activities of these people, and as good Irishmen as any of the men on the Front Benches opposite.  Therefore, I intend to support this motion of Deputy Mulcahy, though I abstained from the previous division on this Bill. 
     
     
      
       In his speech Deputy Mulcahy said that we wanted to give pensions to men who degraded the ideal of military service and degraded the ideals for which so many people stood in the past.  Now, I pointed out that   Deputy Mulcahy has not, in the past, moved to insert clauses in the Bill prohibiting certain people from getting a pension if they had done certain deeds, and that was no oversight on his part, it was done for very good reasons.  For instance, he did not have any clause, and remember that this Bill is an Act to extend and amend the Acts of 1927 and 1923, and if the Deputy had wished he could have made these amendments which he is moving to this Act to apply to certain people in 1922.  He could have made it cover cases in which his Party when a Government already gave pensions. For instance, he could have made it cover this case, a case reported by the late Mr. Kevin O'Higgins to the Chairman of the Army Inquiry.  Mr. O'Higgins said: 
       Passing to the consideration of a specific case, I invite the attention of your Committee to an outrage which occurred at Kenmare (I think) about the 2nd June, 1923.  At about 1 o'clock at night, three men called to the residence of Dr. So-and-So. After some parley the door was opened to them.  They dragged his two daughters, clad only in their night attire, out into the grounds surrounding the house.  After flogging one of the girls with a Sam Brown belt, on hearing a whistle blown loudly within the house, they decamped hurriedly, rubbing wagon grease in the hair of both the girls before departing. 
     
     
      
       Has this anything to do with military service? 
     
     
      
       It has just as much as the documents read by the Deputy on the last day.  We are just examining the Deputy's bona fides. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, I suggest that this has nothing to do with the granting of pensions under the previous Act for wounds or disability.  It has nothing to do with the passing of an Act which deals with the granting of pensions for wounds or disability. 
     
     
      
       I was allowing the Minister to develop his argument and endeavouring to see the relevancy of it. 
     
     
     
      
       It is quite relevant. Deputy Mulcahy criticised the Bill on the grounds that it did not prohibit certain classes of people from getting pensions. 
     
     
      
       Is it the Minister's point soldiers who did these things are in receipt of pensions? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Wounds pensions or disability pensions? 
     
     
      
       For goodness sake, if the Deputy could not behave and carry himself like a victor, let him show a little bit of Irish spirit and show that he can take a defeat anyway.  That is not asking too much. 
     
     
      
       I understand the Minister is quoting from some document put before a Committee which sat in 1924.  Is it in order to introduce documents that have nothing to do with military wounds or disability pensions? 
     
     
      
       I understand the Minister is making the case that a Bill had been introduced and passed through the House which gave pensions to certain people who, it is alleged, carried out certain operations which were not commendable in any sense.  I understand he is making the point, with certain relevance, that if Deputy Mulcahy objected to pensions being given to certain people under this Bill, surely he should have the same opinion in regard to these other people. 
     
     
      
       I am just asking whether it is in order. 
     
     
      
       Deputies will be interested in seeing why Deputy Mulcahy wants to prevent this being read. 
     
     
      
       I spoke in the interests of order in the House. 
     
     
      
       I was reading an extract from the letter of Kevin O'Higgins to the court of inquiry at which Deputy Mulcahy was one of the principal people involved.  It described the beating of two young girls down in   Kerry and the rubbing of grease into their hair. 
       After flogging the girls with a Sam Browne belt, on hearing a whistle blown loudly within the house, they decamped hurriedly after rubbing wagon grease into the hair of both girls before departing.  Within a week of this outrage, I was visited by Mr. X, Mr. Y and Superintendent Z of the Civic Guard.  Mr. X and the Superintendent expressed themselves completely satisfied that this brutal outrage had been committed by Major-General A, Captain James B and Captain Edward C, all of the Kerry Command. 
       Mr. O'Higgins immediately spoke to the Minister for Defence and the President about this matter.  The President was ex-President Cosgrave. He was fully cognisant of this.  He is very wroth to-day that any person who ever laid a finger on civilian property should be entitled to get a pension.  In part of the letter Mr. O'Higgins said that Mr. X was now convinced that it was the work of the officer of the Kerry Command and the two officers named above.  The Judge Advocate-General forwarded the proceedings of the Inquiry on to the Minister for Defence in the first week of July, recommending an immediate court-martial of the persons concerned. &ldquo;There was no court-martial,&rdquo; said Mr. O'Higgins.  He did not drop the matter there.  He took the matter up with the President and with Dr. McNeill, and he actually went as far as to write to the President, the then President Cosgrave, and declared that he would not be a member of the Executive Council unless the thing went through.  I shall read the letter afterwards. 
     
     Mr. O'Higgins then raised the question of his letter of the 17th August to the President, and &ldquo;asked what action had been taken or would be taken with regard to the Kenmare case.  The Minister for Defence stated that when he came to consider the file in this case he found that it was inextricably bound up with a previous breach of discipline, and while he was examining fully into this, the military situation gradually improved,   until it became a moot point whether it could be claimed that a state of war or armed revolt existed.&rdquo; 
     
      
       On a point of order have you, A Leas-Chinn Comhairle, been able to make up your mind that this is relevant to the matter under discussion? 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy suggest that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle has not been able to make up his mind? 
     
     
      
       I have given a ruling to this extent.  I think the Minister might curtail the reading of some of the letters.  I have given the ruling that Deputy Mulcahy's amendment aimed at excluding certain people, who, because of their actions, he thinks are not entitled to pensions. That is the aim of Deputy Mulcahy's amendment. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is pointing out that under previous legislation certain people did get pensions and he is indicating some of the actions in which these people who did get pensions indulged.  There is a certain relevancy in that. 
     
     
      
       He is quoting certain statements.  Would it be in order to take other documents that are relevant to that particular case and read them to the House, and deal with all the circumstances of the case that was put up against these statements? 
     
     
      
       I have already asked the Minister if the people mentioned in the documents are in receipt of pensions.  I have accepted the Minister's word that that is so.  It is on that I am basing the relevancy of the reading of the documents, but I would suggest to the Minister that he might curtail it. 
     
     
      
       On your ruling, that would mean bringing in all the rebutting statements in respect of the case the Minister has made.  Can we now ask that all the documents   rebutting these statements should be brought here? 
     
     
      
       Not necessarily. 
     
     
      
       You have only one side of the case.  Can I have a ruling? 
     
     
      
       We listened on the last day to what was described in the papers as the reading of documents for an hour and a half.  I have only read one document yet.  If Deputy Mulcahy has not very much brains he has certainly a very good memory.  He butted in just before I came to a very interesting quotation. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Mulcahy has asked whether it would be in order to produce rebutting statements. If Deputy Mulcahy has any such statements he will be in order in submitting them to the House. 
     
     
      
       Is it not absurd &mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       It is absurd. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;that a long drawn out case which has been the subject of inquiry should be discussed here in the elaborate detail in which the Minister is now proposing to discuss it, not having any relevance to wounds pensions or disability pensions? 
     
     
      
       I submit that Deputy Mulcahy should not ask me for any decision as to the absurdity of some of the documents read in this House. 
     
     
      
       As I say, Deputy Mulcahy shows that he has a good memory.  He interrupted me at the point where the late Mr. Kevin O'Higgins was describing how he had, without avail, tried to persuade Deputy Mulcahy to deal with these officers against whom there was all the evidence of the brutal outrage of which I read.  He went on to say this: &ldquo;Informations were not sworn and no prosecutions took place.  Six months later the Minister for Defence submitted the names of Captain B. and Captain C. for renewal of commissions and positions under the reorganisation   scheme.&ldquo; Not alone were they not prosecuted or prohibited from drawing pensions, but actually, with the full knowledge of their deeds in the possession of the Minister, were offered to the Executive Council for new Commissions, and it was interesting to see that the reason he stated was that he &ldquo;found that that case was inextricably bound up with a previous breach of discipline.&rdquo;  What was that previous breach of discipline?  What pal of the Minister was implicated in that other breach?  Why was it that he could not proceed against these gentlemen because of that other breach?  That would be interesting to find out. 
     
     
      
       In view of the importance of these statements, might I ask the Minister if any other reason was given for the failure to prosecute these men?  The House has been given so much information that seems to reflect such fearful discredit on the late Government that it seems to me to require some reasonable explanation. 
     
     
      
       The only reasonable explanation I can give&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Let us have the whole file. 
     
     
      
       The Chair has no power to order their production. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Mulcahy read file after file here the other day and there was not a single interruption. 
     
     
      
       They were relevant. 
     
     
      
       I turned one cheek to Deputy Mulcahy on that occasion and I turned the other cheek to him to-day. I did not want to resurrect these matters, but I said I would have to go into the defence of the men who fought and fell by my side, and show up the men who were maligning them.  If it were only myself that was concerned I would not give a snap of my fingers for anything that Deputy Mulcahy or anybody on the other side might say. The less they think of me, the more I think of myself; but when they start to malign the men who fought and fell by my side it is my duty to show how   much or how little reliance can be placed on the words of Deputy Mulcahy and the others on his side.  I have shown from the lips of men who sat side by side with him for years and knew him intimately that Deputy Mulcahy, with this knowledge in his possession, stood up for giving pensions to men who had behaved in this brutal way.  Knowing that men dragged out two young girls, beat them with belts and rubbed grease in their hair&mdash;one of the lowest crimes, I think, ever committed in this country by any set of people&mdash;knowing of these crimes, he refused to have the perpetrators of them court-martialled, allowed them to get pensions, and actually offered them for re-Commission in the Army.  And the only reason&mdash;to answer Deputy MacDermot's question&mdash;that I can see is that given by Deputy Mulcahy to the late Kevin O'Higgins, that that case was &ldquo;inextricably bound up with another case of a breach of discipline.&rdquo; I suppose that&mdash;to put it on the best footing&mdash;it would not be in the public interest or for the public good that that other case should come out.  If they were tried for the one case, they might spill the beans on another perhaps even more terrible and horrible outrage with which some of the Minister's pals were mixed up, or perhaps even the Minister himself.  That is the only reason I can see for it. 
       The late Deputy O'Higgins, in bringing forward these cases to the Executive Council, felt very keenly about the matter&mdash;so keenly that on 17th August, 1923, he wrote as follows to President Cosgrave.  Remember that Deputy Cosgrave here to-day protested that anybody who laid a finger on civilian property should not get a pension.  He was fully aware of all the facts of this case, and the following letter from the late Kevin O'Higgins, written on 17th August, 1923, to President Cosgrave will prove it:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;I am reluctant to add to your present worries and anxieties, but simply as a matter of self-respect I feel bound to define my position with regard to the Kenmare scandal.  If this case is not dealt with in a perfectly clean, straight way I could not agree to join a future Government   and I think it fairer and decenter to say that now than wait until such time as the matter might arise in a practical way. 
     I cannot accept the position that any political exigencies could excuse us in condoning an outrage of that kind, if it be shown that officers of our Army were implicated.  I happen to have seen and gone carefully into the evidence and I regret that steps were not taken to verify one very important statement, that is that Lieut.  C (who left for Dublin on leave the morning after the outrage) had scrape marks on his face. 
     I do not want you to misunderstand the object of this note.  I do not wish to seem to be shaking a stick over any one's head.  On the contrary, I am writing to you now to avoid the appearance or suggestion of springing any surprise packet. I realise that there are many things wrong in the Army, as elsewhere, which it will take time and patience to set right, but this thing is in a class of itself, and I, for one, could not stand for any omission to sift it thoroughly and apply ample disciplinary measures to whomsoever is found guilty.  The decent disciplined officers in the Army, and those who are neither decent nor disciplined, are watching this case closely, realising that it is going to ring the death-knell of discipline or banditry. 
     
      
       Will the Minister pass that letter over for the official record? 
     
     
      
       We did not see many of your files. 
     
     
      
       I want to say this, in fairness to Deputy MacEoin and others like him, that the late Kevin O'Higgins was simply pointing out that if the undesirable elements in the Army were not brought to book it would bring discredit on the decent element.  It certainly shows that the decent officers in the Army were as much opposed to these disgraceful acts being allowed to happen as others were ready to commit them, and did commit them with the personal knowledge of Deputy Mulcahy. 
     
     
      
       That is questionable. 
     
     
     
      
       To repeat the words of the late Mr. O'Higgins: &ldquo;The decent disciplined officers in the Army, and those who are neither decent nor disciplined, are watching this case closely, realising that it is going to ring the death-knell of discipline or banditry.&rdquo; 
       He went on to say:&mdash;&ldquo;You may feel that on the question of acceptance of refusal of a post in the next Government it would be more proper for me to wait until I was asked, and that I am taking something for granted in assuming that I would be asked.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not said whether he is passing over that letter to be recorded in the official records of the House. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy may be assured that it will be recorded.  The letter continues: 
       I appreciate that aspect, but after considering the whole matter very carefully I decided that it would be more frank to state my position now, than to wait and allow you to address an invitation to me later in ignorance of my intentions. 
       I realise also that I ought not to assume too readily that the case would be burked or shelved.  I am aware, however, of what occurred after the preliminary inquiry at which Major General X presided. Those who had given evidence pointing to Major General A were placed under arrest on a six months old charge and the Minister for Defence has informed us that their court-martial is pending.  Now these officers may or may not have been implicated in the burning of an Irregular's house last March. Whether they were or not has nothing whatever to do with the outrage on the McCarthy girls.  Why is the matter raised now after many months?  The deduction that it is intended to discount their evidence in the other case is irresistible. 
     
     That letter was signed by Kevin O'Higgins, and it was sent to President Cosgrave.  It is dated 17th August, 1923.  That letter goes further. It shows the attitude of the gentlemen   on the opposite side, who now object to any man getting a pension should he have laid a little finger on civilian property on the instructions of his superior officers, believing that he was doing what was right.  The Deputy over there knew very well that three officers had dragged those two girls out at night, had beaten them with a Sam Browne belt and rubbed grease into their hair; and not alone did he allow them to get pensions without any protest, and not alone did he not court-martial them for this outrage, but he actually court-martialled others who might give evidence against them in order to put them out of the way. Then he came to the Executive Council and offered them new commissions in the Army.  This is the sort of gentleman who, here to-night and for two nights past, I allowed to slander men who fought with me, to slander men who fought without pay in the way they considered best for the country, and who carried on after Deputy Mulcahy deserted.  They stuck to the flag which he asked them to fight for and encouraged them to fight for for so many years. 
     As I have stated, I did not want to go into this matter at all.  I appealed twice to the Deputy and I gave him the greatest possible opportunity.  I did not say to him &ldquo;I am appealing to you because I have something here which will show you up.&rdquo;  I gave him every opportunity of withdrawing his opposition to this Bill.  I appealed to him on the grounds of generosity and out of consideration for the fact that he had his hands in the woundings and in the deaths and in the bereavements. I appealed to him in his generosity to allow these people who are now destitute to be dealt with.  I gave him the opportunity of putting it on that plane, but he did not do it.  I was forced into doing this.  It was not in my own defence, because I do not care a rap what the people opposite think of me.  I certainly think that twice was enough to allow Deputy Mulcahy to slander the dead.  That is the reason that I have given these facts to-night. They were dragged out of me and I   gave the Deputy every opportunity of avoiding this. 
     
      
       One fact emerges from the documents that have been read by the Minister for Defence, and that is that the loss this country has sustained by the death of Kevin O'Higgins can hardly be exaggerated.  I rose, however, not to say that, but just to say two things.  One is that if a case like this has to be dug up&mdash; I do not say that the Minister for Defence was not justified, owing to the exigencies of the debate, in digging it up&mdash;I suggest that it should be the established practice that every possible paper connected with the case should be circulated among the members of this House afterwards so that full facts and not half facts would be known. 
     
     
      
       Do you want any more? 
     
     
      
       The second thing I rose to say was that at an earlier stage of this Bill I sought to justify myself in voting in favour of it by putting a question to the Minister for Defence. In point of fact I did not vote at all.  I would have liked to have voted in favour of it on general principles of appeasement.  The question I put to the Minister was whether we could now take it as the policy of the Fianna Fail Party that this State, the institutions of this State, should henceforth proceed undisturbed by armed interference, and that the will of the majority of the people of this country should be allowed to prevail. I failed to elicit any acceptance of that principle from the Minister for Defence, but as I see the President of the Executive Council here now I take the opportunity of making the same appeal once more. 
     
     
      
       I thought that if the Deputy was not satisfied with my answer on another occasion he would have asked me a further question in order to elucidate the position and make it quite clear.  I was under the impression that I had answered him to his satisfaction.  The Deputy does not know the history of this country or he would not have thought it necessary to ask that question. 
     
     
     
      
       I should be glad at any time to sit for an examination with the Minister for Defence so far as Irish history is concerned. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy would not have the files. 
     
     
      
       It is not what a man does not know that makes him a fool; it is what he does not know but thinks he knows&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I must ask the Minister&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       A short lesson in Irish history might not be out of place in the case of Deputy MacDermot. 
     
     
      
       It would not be out of order, anyway. 
     
     
      
       If Deputy MacDermot knew the history of the last twelve years&mdash;the true history&mdash;he would not have thought it necessary to ask the question he did ask because the members of the Party on these benches have all along stood exactly for what the Deputy now asks us.  They stood for it in the past, in 1922, and all along the line. 
     
     
      
       For the will of the majority? 
     
     
      
       Yes, for the will of the majority. 
     
     
      
       I allowed Deputy MacDermot to ask a question and I allowed the Minister for Defence to proceed a certain distance. It must be remembered that obviously we cannot reopen all this question on these amendments.  I am sure Deputy MacDermot is aware that such a big question cannot be reopened on the amendments. 
     
     
      
       But the question was never answered. 
     
     
      
       In 1918 a Government was set up and we did our utmost to prevent that Government from being destroyed by some of the people who are now sitting opposite and they acted without the people of the country being consulted. 
     
     
     
      
       If the question cannot be asked obviously it cannot be answered. 
     
     
      
       I ask the indulgence of the Chair to say that I am not trying to cast any reproaches on the past actions of the Fianna Fail Party.  That is not my object at all. I am not trying to imply anything. My anxiety is only for the present and for the future. 
     
     
      
       I realise that, but a better opportunity must be got to discuss that, not on these amendments.  They are sufficiently wide. 
     
     
      
       The Minister appears to have worked off a spleen against some one or two officers whom he has called X, Y, B.  I submit that he has attempted in doing that to do something which is not relevant at all to this matter and that it is only to obscure what is before the House.  The Minister speaks about my slandering men with whom he fought.  I ask Deputies to throw their minds back on what exactly I did do on the Second Reading of the Bill.  I simply traced that there were certain persons who assumed a certain authority and who issued certain instructions as a result of which general action was taken. I asked the House to bear in mind that in dealing with this Bill they were dealing with a situation that arose in that particular way, and that outside this House to-day a similar situation to some extent exists. Nothing but that, documented in round terms and outlining the self-assumed authority that was behind that.  I am asking the House now, in looking back, and in the very unsatisfactory position in which the House finds itself in the light of the attitude to Deputy MacDermot's question which I have already referred to on the Money Resolution, in this particular Bill to safeguard the future, if you like, by saying in respect of what was done in the past that &ldquo;no person shall be deemed to have been engaged in military service while shooting or otherwise killing or while attempting to shoot or otherwise   to kill any member of the Provisional Parliament or of the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann; nor while destroying or attempting to destroy any property, the property of a member of the Provisional Parliament or of the Oireachtas of Saorstat Eireann&rdquo;; that it shall not be regarded as military service to have been engaged in &ldquo;shooting or otherwise killing or while attempting to shoot or otherwise to kill any judge of any court or any official engaged in the administration of the public service, nor while destroying or attempting to destroy any property, the property of any judge of any court or of any official engaged in the administration of the public service&rdquo;; that it shall not be regarded as military service for the purpose of this Bill to have been engaged in &ldquo;shooting or otherwise killing or while attempting to shoot or otherwise to kill any member of the Garda Siochana nor while destroying or attempting to destroy any property the property of any member of the Garda Siochana&rdquo;; that it shall not be regarded for the purposes of the Bill as having been military service to have been engaged in &ldquo;shooting or otherwise killing or while attempting to shoot or otherwise to kill any proprietor, director, editor, sub-editor or leader writer of any newspaper or periodical nor while destroying or attempting to destroy any property, the property of any proprietor, director, editor, sub-editor or leader writer of any newspaper or periodical&rdquo;; that it shall not be regarded as military service for the purpose of the Bill to have been engaged in &ldquo;killing or wounding or attempting to kill or to wound any civilian or while destroying or attempting to destroy property, the property of any civilian.&rdquo; I have simply indicated work of that particular kind that was ordered and which was actually carried out, and that this House ought to exclude, in my opinion, these actions from what would be regarded as military service for the purpose of pensions in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy did not say that he was going to exclude people under this or former Acts if they beat   girls or did any of the other diverse acts.  He should remember that a lot of the actions which he is attempting to prohibit here were taken in desperation to meet a desperate case which he presented.  He shot soldiers who surrendered and who were entitled to a soldier's treatment.  The Deputy shot prisoners who had surrendered to him, to the disgust of every decent man in the army and in the country&mdash;shot them months after for crimes of which they knew nothing.  He shot four boys. 
     
     
      
       I cannot see the relevancy of this to the amendments. 
     
     
      
       They were shot under the authority of the House. 
     
     
      
       Under the authority of the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       Of this House. 
     
     
      
       Not the unanimous authority of the House. 
     
     
      
       There were some people in this House who assumed responsibility. 
     
     
      
       Speak for yourself. 
     
     
      
       Under the authority of 30 out of 120 members. 
     
     
      
       I cannot allow this.  It is not relevant to the amendment.  I cannot allow a discussion of that kind to be carried on. 
     
     
      
       I had no intention to go back into the past.  I tried to prevent it, but if Deputy Mulcahy was allowed for several hours, while we sat silently listening to him, to slander people, we should get an opportunity to reply.  I do not want to do any more than that. I do not want to go into the past any more than is necessary to refute certain slanders. 
     
     
      
       I think the word slander is hardly fair. 
     
     
      
       That is his vocabulary. 
     
     
      
       I think, sir, you should not allow that to take place. 
     
     
     
      
       I cannot prevent the Minister from saying that he considers a slander certain statements made by Deputy Mulcahy and I do not think it is out of order. 
     
     
      
       I understood him not to say that he considered them a slander, but that they were a slander. 
     
     
      
       So they were.  The Deputy when Minister for Defence murdered certain people. 
     
     
      
       I am not going to have that discussed. 
     
     
      
       I shall go ahead and deal with the question that Deputy Mulcahy raised. 
     
     
      
       Not only not to have it discussed, but the question arises as to the use of the word.  I understood the Minister described the executions which took place in a formal way, as the result of decisions taken by this House, as murder. 
     
     
      
       They were decisions taken when half the Deputies were on the run or in jail. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order.  Is it in order to call any member a murderer? 
     
     
      
       It has been done. 
     
     
      
       I have not heard any member being described as a murderer. 
     
     
      
       Might I say, as a member of the House at the time, that the executions were carried out before the House was made aware of them? 
     
     
      
       We will leave that.  As I say, some of the actions taken by men throughout the country were taken in desperation to prevent, if they could, further executions of unarmed prisoners who surrendered and, particularly, the shooting of boys of fifteen or sixteen years of age as a cover for certain other shootings. 
     
     
      
       Did I understand Deputy Corish to say that he did not stand for the maintenance of the authority of this House at the time? 
     
     
     
      
       I stated distinctly, and I repeat it, that the executions were carried out before the House knew anything about them.  I defy contradiction of that. 
     
     
      
       Therefore you imply&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Do not mind what is implied.  I am talking about the facts. 
     
     
      
       You imply then that you were not prepared to maintain the authority of this House? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Corish does not suggest that executions were carried out before the Government came to the House, put certain resolutions before it, and got authority for the setting up of military courts to deal with the matter? 
     
     
      
       If Deputy Corish suggested that the Deputy opposite and the people with him had acted altogether without any authority from the Irish people in starting the civil war, he would have been correct because that was exactly the position.  Not alone did the people of this country not sanction the civil war, but they elected representatives 99 per cent. of whom were pledged to maintain peace. The people returned 99 per cent. of their representatives pledged to a policy of internal peace and before they could stop it, before anybody could stop it, they were presented with war. 
     
     
      
       Question. 
     
     
      
       That is exactly what happened.  Of course a lot of men, the Army and other people, knew nothing about it.  Deputy Mulcahy wants the people to turn this down because he thinks that we do not stand for ordered Government in this country. We always stood for ordered Government in this country.  I repeat we always stood for ordered Government in this country.  That dignified silence suits you better than school-girlish giggling.  We always stood for ordered Government.  We fought for it and are prepared to fight for it in the future: that any Government freely elected by the Irish people should rule here no matter what a   minority in the country, or any majority in any other country, says. That is our principle.  Until the civil war started I was taking my orders as a member of the Irish Republican Army from the then Dail Minister for Defence for the Republic, Deputy Mulcahy, but I refused to obey the order he gave me to attack my fellowmen, which order he was simply passing on from the British. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order.  Is it in order to say that any person in this House acted on the instructions of the British? 
     
     
      
       Would it be in order now for an officer of the State to refuse to obey an order of the Minister for Defence? 
     
     
      
       I do not think it is in order for any one to say that an order was taken from any State outside this State by an officer of this State.  I do not think that statement should be made. 
     
     
      
       As I was saying, an election was held following out the terms of the Pact signed by Eamon de Valera and Michael Collins on 20th May, 1922, and unanimously ratified by Dail Eireann, and ratified two days later by the Ard Fheis of Sinn Fein: &ldquo;That a National Coalition Panel for   this third Dail, representing both parties in the Dail, and in the Sinn Fein organisation, be sent forward on the ground that the national position&rdquo;&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What has this got to do with the amendment? 
     
     
      
       Deputy MacDermot says that he will vote for the Bill if we can prove that we stood for ordered Government. 
     
     
      
       What the Minister is introducing is totally irrelevant to my question.  I do not want to hear anything about the Pact, but I want to know what the Government's attitude is to be in the future as regards securing free elections for the people of this country and securing the predominance of the will of the majority? 
     
     
      
       I do not want to hear anything about the Pact election. 
     
     
      
       Shall we say that I think the Government's policy in the future shall be&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I have not allowed Deputy MacDermot's question to be answered. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 48; Nil, 68. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Anthony, Richard. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Brodrick, Sean. Burke, Patrick. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cosgrave, William T. Davis, Michael. Desmond, William. Dockrell, Henry Morgan. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Esmonde, Osmond Grattan. Finlay, Thomas A. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis John. Hayes, Michael. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Keating, John. 
             Keogh, Myles. Kiersey, John. Lynch, Finian. McDonogh, Fred. MacEoin, Sean. McGilligan, Patrick. McMenamin, Daniel. Minch, Sydney B. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James Edward. Nally, Martin. O'Connor, Batt. O'Donovan, Timothy Joseph. O'Hara, Patrick. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Mahony, The. O'Neill, Eamonn. O'Shaughnessy, John Joseph. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reidy, James. Reynolds, Mrs. Mary Vaughan, Daniel. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Bartley, Gerald. Beegan, Patrick. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Brady, Bryan. Brady, Sean. Breathnach, Cormac. Breen, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Browne, William Frazer Carty, Frank. Cleary, Micheal. Cooney, Eamonn. Corish, Richard. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Curran, Patrick Joseph. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Flinn, Hugo. V. Flynn, John. Flynn, Stephen. Fogarty, Andrew. Geoghegan, James. Gibbons, Sean. Gormley, Francis. Gorry, Patrick Joseph. Goulding, John. 
             Humphreys, Francis. Jordan, Stephen. Kelly, James Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Keyes, Raphael Patrick. Kilroy, Michael. Kissane, Eamonn. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Lynch, James B. MacEntee, Sean. Maguire, Ben Maguire, Conor Alexander. Moane, Edward. Moore, Seamus. Moylan, Sean. Murphy, Patrick Stephen. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Norton, William. O'Grady, Sean. O'Kelly, Sean Thomas. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas J. O'Rourke, Daniel. Rice, Edward. Ryan, James. Ryan, Robert. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy. Sheridan, Michael. Smith, Patrick. Traynor, Oscar. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. (Dr.). 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Doyle and Conlon; Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       That decides amendments No. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. 
     
     
      
       Do I understand that the previous ruling was that amendments 9 and 10 were to be taken together; that they would not be allowed to be discussed and voted upon separately? 
     
     
      
       I understand that was the ruling. 
     
     
      
       I move amendments 9 and 10. 
       9.  Before sub-section (2) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous foregoing sub-section no person shall be deemed to have been engaged in military service while destroying or attempting to destroy any public property or any property, the property of any public company or of any firm.&rdquo; 
       10.  Before sub-section (2) to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous foregoing sub-section no person shall be deemed to have been engaged in military service while illegally taking moneys from any bank or from any public office or from any private person.&rdquo; 
     
     I submit again that in deciding to grant pensions to persons who suffered disability wounds or disease contracted in the revolt against the State the House ought, in its own interest, and in the interests of the country, draw a line at some point.  In the documents I put before the House on the Second Reading, one of which stated that a number of persons were to be   killed and others to have their houses destroyed, a note was attached that &ldquo;factories are not to be interfered with.&rdquo;  There was, in fact, a record of destruction of property and a record taking of moneys that I submit was entirely vicious and outside any reasonable kind of revolt.  It was unnecessary and simply nothing but destruction. Earlier in the year 1922 the Press reported that on the 13th February three banks were raided&mdash;two in Sligo and one in Croom&mdash;and that £10,000 was taken from these banks. On 10th May the Press reported that ten branches of the Bank of Ireland were raided by armed men and over £46,000 taken away.  In all the good-will atmosphere that was embodied in the resumed Christmas message of 1922 it was nevertheless possible at that time, as reported in the Press, on the 27th by means of a mine explosion to blow up a furniture repairing depot and a shop in Dawson Street, belonging to a person not then a member of this House, but who subsequently became a member.  I submit to the House that the blowing up of a piano repairing establishment in this city, or of a musical warehouse, could not, in any sense, be regarded as military service by which this Bill would give pensions to persons who injured their hands while handling the mine that blew up that house. 
     I have already spoken of the destruction of railways in many ways, such as when an engine was let loose on the Great Northern Railway line and crashed into a passenger train at Raheny, as reported on the 7th January; where members of the Dublin Metropolitan Guards were held up on January 26th and robbed of £700, intended to pay the police.  I submit that was not military service.  The destruction of a train at Westport, the wrecking of a train at Macmine, the wrecking of a train at Ballymote, all of which took place in January, is not work that this House, for the purposes of this Bill, should regard as military service.  The setting of a train alight, the setting of a train in motion at Killala and hurling the engine into the sea on the 15th February is not military   service, nor in any sense the natural part of revolt.  I submit that this House should not include them as persons who should be regarded as on military service, and entitled to pensions for their wounds, nor those who cut off the water supply at Portlaoghise and other towns in the neighbourhood, on 1st March, nor those who made an attempt to derail a train between Dalkey and Killiney on 19th March.  There was a regular campaign of sabotage on cinemas and theatres during the month of March in the city of Dublin, and a train between Sligo and Leitrim was wrecked.  The residences of Sir William Mahon and Lord Clonbrock were burned in Roscommon, and in Galway there was a raid for money and goods by armed men on 17th May.  As the Bill stands these are instances that could be regarded as military action and the persons who were engaged could receive from the Minister wound or disability pensions in respect of their wounds. 
     Although Deputy MacDermot has again asked the Minister, and the President, I submit that the House is still in the position that there is outside an armed organisation&mdash;a tolerated organisation&mdash;threatening the position of Parliamentary institutions in this country.  As Deputies have stated, if that were not so, and that the general attitude towards our institutions here, and towards this House was different, this House might simply give pensions in cases of wounds and disease to persons who had been in revolt, no matter what the circumstances were.  In the circumstances in which this institution finds itself to-day I submit that it ought not to tolerate the granting of pensions to persons who, although they claim they were on military service, were carrying out the acts indicated in the amendments. 
     
      
       Of course, the Deputy forgets that under the Bills that were passed the acts to which he alludes were not excluded; that actually they might have been given pensions for doing practically all the acts that he talks about.  Similar acts were done under his orders in the Black-and-Tan war.  Not alone did I burn up one train; I burned about sixteen trains. 
     
     
     
      
       Then the Minister regards this House as being in the same position as the British Government. 
     
     
      
       I burned up sixteen trains by the Deputy's orders and I was clapped on the back for doing it.  We did not burn them with petrol; we burned them with whiskey.  While the Deputy wants to exclude people from this Bill&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I would like if the Minister would elaborate his recent statement that he burned up trains on my orders with whiskey. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister move to report progress? 
     
     
      
       I will move to report progress in a few minutes. 
     
     
      
       The Minister will move to report progress now. 
     
     
      
       I move that progress be reported. 
       Progress reported; the Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     Private Deputies' Business. - 1916-1923 Period: Claims for Compensation. 
     Debate resumed on the following motion: 
     &ldquo;That the Dail is of opinion that a Committee should be appointed to the Executive Council to inquire into and report on claims:&mdash; 
     (a)  arising out of the billeting of Volunteers and members of Flying Columns during the period 1916 to 31st December, 1921, and for moneys claimed to be due in respect of food, clothing and transport, including petrol, provided for such Volunteers or members of Flying Columns by merchants and traders during the said period; 
     (b)  for arms, ammunition, and bicycles voluntarily surrendered during the said period by householders and others; 
     (c)  in respect of the granting of   adequate compensation to the parents or partial dependants of officers, section commanders and Volunteers who were killed on active service or who died as a result of illness contracted on active service during the period 1916 to 31st December, 1921; 
     (d)  in respect of the granting of adequate compensation to the parents or partial dependants of officers, N.C.O.s and men of the National Army of Defence Forces who were killed or died as a result of illness arising out of active service in the years 1922 and 1923.&rdquo; (Deputy Sean MacEoin, Deputy John Joseph O'Reilly.) 
     
      
       When this motion by Deputy MacEoin was last before the House, the Deputy, in moving it, seemed to be under a misapprehension when he stated that the Indemnity Act put a statutory bar to compensation in all cases where food, clothing and equipment were given voluntarily to members of the flying columns or where arms were voluntarily surrendered. The Deputy, in making that statement, must have confused the Indemnity Act of 1924 with the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923.  In point of fact, the Indemnity Act Committee recommended payment in all cases where goods were given voluntarily or where they were taken forcibly or under compulsion.  Where the Committee found that the goods had, in fact, passed out of the ownership of the person who made the claim in respect of them, the Minister for Finance awarded compensation in every case. Over 5,000 claims were dealt with by this Committee and 2,900 were successful. As I stated on the last occasion, compensation totalling £80,300 was paid in respect of them.  Therefore if there were any cases in which goods or equipment or food or clothing were given or afforded to the Volunteers in respect of which no compensation was given, they can only fall under two classes&mdash;(1) cases in which, for one reason or another, a claim was not made to the Committee established under the Indemnity Act within the   prescribed time, that is, within three months from the date of the passing of the Act.  I grant that, in those cases, there is considerable ground for hardship because the time allowed for making the claims was very short and, possibly, some of the people who might have good and sustainable claims to make would not have been, owing to the political situation at the time, in a position to press those claims.  I am quite certain that there were a considerable number of people who, on grounds of what they believed to be political principle, did not make claims which they might otherwise have made to the Government.  So far as that section of the community is concerned, the Government hope to introduce legislation in the near future which will enable those claims to be dealt with.  There is a second section composed of people who did go before the Indemnity Act Committee and were not able to sustain their claim there.  It is not proposed to do anything in regard to them under the new Bill.  As I was saying on Friday, it is quite clear that, so far as paragraphs (a) and (b) of Deputy MacEoin's motion are concerned, the only question with which we have to deal is the question of billeting.  That was a very difficult problem to deal with in 1924.  It has become a much more difficult problem with the lapse of time. The State in 1924 was in a better economic position to consider these claims and in a better position to investigate them than it is in 1932.  But in 1924 claims for compensation&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that one of the arguments put forward by the late Administration was that there were several people outside the House who had information to give, and would not give it in 1924. Does he deny that these people are available now to give the information &mdash;members on the opposite Benches as well as on these? 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly certain that if this question of billeting could have been satisfactorily dealt with in 1924, the Govenment of the day, in view of the fact that they were   anxious to attract the support of every section of the community at that time, would not have refused to consider those claims&mdash;that is, if they felt they could possibly set up any satisfactory machinery for dealing with them. 
     
     
      
       To which evidence could be tendered. 
     
     
      
       They set up, as I stated, the Indemnity Act Committee. That Committee considered 5,300 claims for compensation in respect of arms, of equipment, of food, and of clothing voluntarily given or, by compulsion, surrendered to the Volunteers. The Committee which dealt with these claims could quite as easily have dealt with claims for billeting if it was felt that it was practicable to consider that sort of claim at all.  The Committee, so far as the claims in respect of food, clothing and equipment were concerned, laboured under exactly the same disability as the Deputy alleges the Committee would have laboured under in respect of billeting&mdash;the disability which the Deputy alleges compelled this House to rule out claims for billeting and not allow them to come before the Committee at all.  If there is any substance in that contention, then the Committee should equally have been precluded from considering the claims which it did consider for compensation in respect of food, clothing and equipment.  So it is quite clear that the circumstances which the Deputy has mentioned was not the determining factor which decided the Government and this House to rule out the claims of billeting entirely.  The factor was this, that first of all there was no machinery which could investigate those claims. There was no possible way of determining the circumstances, of determining the justice or otherwise of those claims, and there was no possible way in which compensation could be paid in respect of such claims if such claims could be equitably assessed.  That was true in 1924.  It is much more true in 1932.  I wonder if Deputy MacEoin has ever seen some of the claims which might be presented to a Committee in regard to this matter. 
     
     
     
      
       I have seen perhaps more than the Minister. 
     
     
      
       Possibly, but I have seen some.  If the Deputy has seen even as many as I have perhaps it would be no harm if I were to refresh his memory as to the sort of claim which might be presented.  I have one here.  It has been received quite recently, following I think the introduction of the Deputy's motion.  Here is the claim: &ldquo;I have been informed you are having claims for maintenance of the I.R.A. during the Anglo-Irish trouble.  Well, sir, I maintained off and on from June to December sixteen men.  Myself and my sisters gave them our beds and got up at every hour of the night to admit them.  I may also mention that I had to see an eye specialist soon after that.  I strained my eyes watching for them.&rdquo;  I will now put it to the Deputy if he were a member of the Indemnity Committee&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Read the letter to the end. 
     
     
      
       If Deputy MacEoin were a member of the Indemnity Act Committee&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I must ask the Minister not to make any comment in the middle of the letter.  Let him read the letter first. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy seems to be unaware of the fact that he is implying that I am suppressing something. 
     
     
      
       Read the letter. 
     
     
      
       I have read the letter.  I have not mentioned any names.  I am asking the Deputy, and I think in fairness to the House he should in his speech tell us how if he were a member of the Indemnity Act Committee or of any other Committee set up by this House what compensation would he award in respect of a claim of that sort on this letter? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not read the letter through.  I want him to read the letter and to make his point on it afterwards. 
     
     
     
      
       As the Minister is not quoting names&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Let him leave out the names. 
     
     
      
       I cannot dictate to the Minister as to the nature of his speech. 
     
     
      
       I put it to the Chair, surely if a document is introduced the House is entitled to hear the whole of the document.  I am only stating a general principle. 
     
     
      
       I understand the type of letter that is being read because I have received thousands of them myself.  I did not ask the Minister to quote the name or to make a case that could be identified at all, but I want him to read it out to the end. 
     
     
      
       I hope this is not a new form of obstruction.  This is the whole of the letter:&mdash; 
       I have been informed that you are having claims for maintenance of the I.R.A. during the Anglo-Irish trouble.  Well, sir, I maintained off and on from June to November 16 men.  Myself and my sisters gave them our beds and got up at every hour of the night to admit them.  I may also mention that I had to see an eye specialist soon after that.  I strained my eyes watching for them. I had a doctor coming here at every hour of the night and a man almost died here.  I claim for all my trouble and maintenance £60. 
     
     
      
       That is just the thing that I wanted that was not read. 
     
     
      
       Very well, supposing that Deputy MacEoin was a member of an Indemnity Act Committee how could he possibly deal with a letter like that?  He is to take at its face value this letter and give the man £60! What record could those people have had of the number of times that people were seated in their houses, what amount of commodities did they place at their disposal and what amount of food did they give them?  I will give another letter.  This claim is set out in a more ordered fashion. 
     
     
        (1) Food and lodgings supplied to 14 officers and men from the 14th July to 22nd September at £1 per week&mdash;£240; cigarettes and drink supplied during the time&mdash;£60; service and damages done to four boats used for pleasure by those and other men encamped on the mountains&mdash; £30; 650 meals supplied periodically between the 14th July and the 22nd December at 1/- per meal&mdash;£32 10s; cigarettes and drink supplied periodically between 14th July and 22nd December&mdash;£25; three stacks of turf destroyed by barricading roads&mdash;£18; knives, forks, spoons, cookery, utensils and blankets supplied&mdash;£20; groceries supplied&mdash;£35. 
     The first thing I would look upon in regard to that thing is that quite a considerable number of these items are for food and clothing and equipment possibly.  Probably they have been already considered by the Indemnity Act Committee who, if not, would probably come across it again, but what check can there be as to the number of meals supplied and as to the amount of service and the damage done to these boats?  As to the amount of cigarettes and drink supplied under two heads during that time, what check can there be?  I have another typical case.  The claim runs:&mdash; 
     I claim the undersigned amount for support and work done for men on the run&mdash;so and so £109 10s; for so and so £109 10s. 
     This is supposed to be the amount for support and work done. 
     
      
       I think that the Minister is prejudicing very considerably the actions of the Committee that I am asking to have set up.  He has cited a case that can be identified by somebody.  After he has cited that and I cite from this side of the House we are both making the case for persons that can be identified.  I think the Minister should not go into these cases. In my reply I was going to ask your permission to make a case such as he is making before I had concluded. When one mentions certain particulars about somebody and something one is establishing one's case automatically. There is some such case in   the Minister's mind and I think it is not good business.  I would ask the Minister either to accept the principle or to reject it straight without going into details of individual cases, because that is what the Minister is doing. 
     
     
      
       A question has already been asked about the quotation of such letters, in whole or in part. They are not official documents.  They are claims which have been sent in and are now submitted by the Minister to support his contention.  The Minister is the best judge of the wisdom of doing so.  The Chair is not the judge and, if such claims are quoted by the Minister, the Deputy is quite entitled to quote others in reply, but in neither case should names be mentioned. 
     
     
      
       But between the Minister and myself, we are committing the House to an acceptance of these things because, when we cite them, they can be recognised. 
     
     
      
       You will not commit the House by quoting them in argument. 
     
     
      
       These are the sort of claims which would undoubtedly be made in considerable numbers, if Deputy MacEoin's motion were accepted by this House.  They would be as thick as the leaves in Vallambrosa, and they would increase with the fecundity of rodents.  First of all, there are two claims in respect of support and work done for one man.  In respect of one man, he claims £109 10s., and, in respect of another, he claims £109 10s.  For one man for two days he claims 12/-; for another man, he claims 12/-, and for another man for four days, he claims £1 4s., while for another man he claims £27 12s. for three months.  Then follow a considerable number of men in respect of whom he claims two days at 12/-.  Then he comes on down, and there is another man for whom he claims £27 12s. in respect of three months.  Then there is an item &ldquo;48 Dinners, £6,&rdquo; followed by &ldquo;Bedding and Clothes, £15,&rdquo; and &ldquo;Canvas and Boards for camp, £5.&rdquo; Then there is &ldquo;Money lent for buying guns and ammunition, £20,&rdquo; and &ldquo;Conveying boxes of rifles in a car,   £2.&rdquo;  The total amount of the claim is £330.  How are claims of this fantastic nature&mdash;because they are fantastic&mdash;going to be sifted and going to be examined, at least ten years after the event? 
     
     
      
       Because everybody is available to give the evidence. 
     
     
      
       Everybody is not available to give the evidence.  Many of the men whose names might be mentioned in these cases might be under the ground. 
     
     
      
       But there are the higher officers. 
     
     
      
       The difficulty and cost of searching and investigating even one of these claims, ten years after the event, would make it absolutely impracticable to set up the Committee, or to consider them at all in the way in which Deputy MacEoin suggests they should be considered, apart altogether from whether they have any claim to consideration on their merits.  These services, and it goes to the foundation of the whole matter, were rendered by the people at the time, because they regarded it as their patriotic duty to render them, just as any men to whom they were rendered regarded it as their patriotic duty to be in flying columns, the Volunteers or the I.R.A., and we do not propose, and we have never proposed, and Deputy MacEoin never proposed to pay the men who were in the I.R.A. as Volunteers, and not as mercenary soldiers, or to compensate them in any way for the services which they gave or the risks which they ran during the period of 1919-1921.  We have always recognised that the Government had an obligation towards those who were disabled during the conflict, but the men who came out of that conflict unimpaired in health we have at any rate steadfastly refused to compensate in any way for what they did, as a matter of patriotic duty, and when we cannot accept that principle in regard to the men for whom these services were rendered, we certainly cannot accept it with regard to those who now propose to claim compensation for giving these men shelter when they   were on the run and for housing and feeding those who were fighting for the cause of Irish independence. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister if he states that the farmers who did the work and gave the shelter are not impaired?  The Minister says that he admits the right of those who were impaired&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Whose health was impaired, and certainly the farmers' health was not impaired no more than the health of those who were on the run was impaired. 
     
     
      
       I thought there would be at least two Deputies from Longford-Westmeath to talk on this motion, and I am rather disappointed that they did not. 
     
     
      
       Is Deputy MacEoin concluding? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Because I want to make a claim on the Minister's generosity. I want to refer to a case which might be covered by Deputy MacEoin's motion.  I refer to the case of a family identified with the national movement in this country for over a century&mdash;identified with the struggle of Ireland for national independence covering that period&mdash;and, in fact, if the records were examined it would be found that the family to whom I refer have even a longer record in the national life of this country than I claim for them. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if Deputy Anthony can go into the merits of the case of a particular family.  I tried to stop the Minister from going into a case a moment ago, and I think it is hardly fair to the House&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I understood that the Deputy was anxious to find out whether a certain case would come within the scope of this motion.  That was his preliminary statement. 
     
     
      
       Interpreting Deputy MacEoin's motion as literally as I can, I feel that it would cover the case to which I have just referred and to which I wish to make a further reference.   The case I refer to is the case of the family of Kent.  It is well-known to most members of this House that that family suffered more, perhaps&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy desire to find out whether that particular case comes within the scope of this motion or not; the merits of the case could not be argued here.  That will be for the Commission if and when it is established. 
     
     
      
       I obey your ruling, sir, but I want to know from the Minister whether the motion would cover the case to which I have just referred and was about to refer to in greater detail when called to order by the Ceann Comhairle.  The case to which I wish to bring the Minister's attention is where one member of a family was executed by the British Military Forces and the other brother died of wounds received in action. 
     
     Now, sir, I feel that the motion put down here in the names of Deputy MacEoin and Deputy O'Reilly should cover such a case because I feel that, whilst the Pension Bill with which we were dealing during the evening does not cover such cases, if this motion is accepted in principle by the Minister it may enable such persons as I have indicated to appear before the Commission and make a claim for loss sustained during that disturbed period in Irish history.  If this Commission which Deputy MacEoin seeks to have set up were established it would undoubtedly give a good deal of satisfaction to many persons who have suffered material damage during that period, and I would ask the Minister, if he is not able to subscribe to sections A, B, C, and D in the Bill in all their implications, to at any rate yield to the demand which is I think fairly general but perhaps not made vocally throughout the country, that there have been a great many special cases of hardship.  I am glad to say that, in the cases which I have in mind, these activities, in so far as they related to armed resistance to the established Government of the State, were not continued.  These men were executed, one of them was executed by the   British military authorities, and the other person to whom I refer, died of wounds received as a result of military action.  Now, sir, if the Minister could see his way to accept the principle contained in General MacEoin's motion, and set up a Commission before which the persons I have indicated might appear and make a case, if they are not able to establish, in the opinion of that Commission, a good case for compensation of some kind or character, well then that would be the end of the whole matter.  But if the Commission, as I suggest and as I suggested in this motion, were set up, it would enable many persons who now feel that they have a grievance to make their case before the Commission, and it would be a source of satisfaction, at any rate, that their side of the story was heard.  I would suggest that the Minister should give some consideration at any rate to the matter and if he is not able to meet Deputy MacEoin on the motion as it is on the Order Paper that he might himself, of his own volition, institute an enquiry on the lines I have indicated. 
     
      
       A Chinn Comhairle, the Minister states that the principal objection to the motion is that the year 1924 would have been a very much better time to investigate claims of this nature.  I agree that in normal circumstances his argument would be all right, but he must remember that in the year 1924 the position was not normal and there were people at that time who for various reasons&mdash;I do not want to go into all the reasons, but for example there were people who would not put in a claim at that time owing to the propaganda of himself and his Party before they came into the Dail&mdash;although they had genuine claims, did not put them up.  I agree that there would be a number of fantastic claims.  The Minister mentioned that there would likely to be a number of fantastic claims, but at the same time I think he would find in his record, if he was pleased to produce some different record to that which he has produced, claims that would be supported very fully with regard to   losses, with regard to people who gave their services at that time, and with regard to billeting and that sort of thing.  In connection with the fact that people gave their services at that time, the same as the Volunteers gave them, and had not expected any payment, there may be something in that also, but at the same time there are people who have lost a tremendous amount, and there are people in this country who have been placed in the position that they are in absolute want owing to the fact that they gave such services as they did at that time, a large number of people, for instance, who, as an example of a similar nature, subscribed to Dail Loan in 1920, never expected to be paid, but a great deal of expense has been gone to to have the money refunded to those people, and with regard to the expense that would be entailed in setting up a Committee of this sort I do not think it would be very great.  It would all depend on the nature of the Committee, and the people who would be appointed.  Then with regard to the applications which would be sent in, if a form were available for any people making application,&mdash;naturally it would be quite cheap to draw up a prescribed form,&mdash;it would not cost a great deal either.  With regard to the whole motion, it might, as I said, have been better to have it done in 1924, but there are a great many reasons which I could show as to why it could not have been done in 1924.  In regard to (A) the Minister has not stated I think that he is opposed to the motion, and I do not know whether he accepts it in principle or not, but I certainly would appeal to him to accept the principle of the motion, and to have further consideration given to the matter with a view to seeing whether or not something could be done for poor people who have certainly given very great services, and suffered very much as a result of the services they gave at that time. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister desires to reply to the question of Deputy Anthony, does the Deputy give way? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I am not sure whether Deputy Anthony was in the Dail on Friday when I was dealing with this matter originally, because in my anaysis of the motion then, I pointed out that in so far as existing legislation had not dealt with paragraphs (c) and (d) of the motion relating to pensions, and the grant of compensation to parents or partial dependants of officers who had been killed during the period 1916 to 31st December, 1921, the Bill which the Minister for Defence is introducing would be thought to cover the whole of the ground that remains. With regard to paragraphs (a) and (b) which deal with the &ldquo;billeting of Volunteers and members of the Flying Columns during the period 1916 to 31st December, 1921, and for moneys claimed to be due in respect of food, clothing and transport, including petrol, and for arms, ammunition and bicycles voluntarily surrendered during the said period by householders and others,&rdquo; I pointed out that the operations of the Indemnity Act Committee of 1924 had disposed of a considerable number of claims which might be made under that head and that in so far as any just claims remained to be disposed of they remained, I think, mainly because they had not been presented to the Indemnity Act Committee. When the Government proposed to introduce legislation at an early date which would enable such claims to be considered, and if found to be just claims, to be compensated for in some way by compensation out of the Exchequer.  So far as the Ceannt family are concerned, I do not see how any of them could possibly fail to be dealt with under Deputy MacEoin's motion unless it was in respect of the claim for billeting.  If there are dependants of the men who were killed or executed by the British they will be dealt with under the new Pensions Bill. If there are any claims in respect of clothing and equipment&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I am sorry to butt in, but you are not correct when you say that.  Unless there is full dependency proved, the new Bill or previous Bill does not cover I am putting in the words &ldquo;partial dependency.&rdquo; 
     
     
     
      
       Yes.  I know.  I think there must be full dependency proved before a pension can be granted or compensation paid.  There is one way in which the Deputy can deal with that&mdash;that is by putting in an amendment to the present Bill before the House.  I am not promising to accept it but to consider it on its merits, and it might be a helpful amendment to put in, but that is the proper place.  When a Bill of that sort is before the House and the question of partial dependency is to be raised, it should be raised by an amendment to the Bill; it could be raised much more appropriately by an amendment before the House than by a motion of this sort. 
     
     
      
       We are talking on a motion which was in last March.  I think the Minister should put the thing that I had in my motion into the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry.  The Deputy more or less pulled me up in my reply to Deputy Anthony.  Unless dependency were proved in the case of people claiming in respect of men killed or executed, I cannot see how they can come in under the Pensions Bill, and I do not think any member of the Ceannt family would make such a claim.  With regard to the other items whether it is for food, clothing, or transport supplied, either voluntarily, or as I say, by compulsion, any people may make claims under the new Bill which we hope to introduce, and I believe that, considering the scope of the new Bill and the Pensions Bill now before the House and the existing legislation, any claims that might be made by people circumstanced as those are to whom the Deputy referred will be fully considered. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand from the Minister that if and when claims are made for injury to property, such as injury to the houses which were bombarded during that period if a claim is made under that heading&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I want to be quite clear in that regard. 
     
     
     
      
       I want to be clear too. 
     
     
      
       The new Bill will not deal with questions of compensation for property damaged during 1916. 
     
     
      
       That is the reason I mentioned the case at all, because I did consider that the sins of omission in the Pension Bill and sins of omission in this motion of Deputy MacEoin's were too great to be passed over very lightly.  The cases I had in mind were cases of very grave and severe hardship and I did think that the Minister, as he is becoming so liberal in the treatment of other persons&mdash;that the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Finance might at least have regard to those persons who suffered so severely as the family I referred to. Some compensation should be paid, apart altogether from the question of dependency, because a case of partial dependency could easily be made out. I think the Minister for Finance knows sufficient about common law to recognise that it could easily be established that there was partial dependency, not that this family want to make a claim on that score as far as I know, but certainly there should be some compensation given for damage to property. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance in the course of his speech on Friday and to-night has attempted to meet the case by opposition, and we have had some interesting statements made by both Deputy Anthony and Deputy Conlon.  Deputy Anthony said that my motion contains sins of omission. Well I want to reply to that very briefly by saying there is no sin of omission in the motion that could not be amended if somebody else thought fit to do so.  I believe under the rules of the House, sir, it is possible to amend a motion standing in any Deputy's name, and therefore, there is no sin I may have committed by omission that could not be amended, and therefore it is quite possible to make the thing right if there was somebody anxious to do so.  Anyhow there has been no amendment made to the motion and while we may get criticism now for its shortcomings, I submit that   the motion standing in Deputy O'Reilly's name and my own meets the case as we see it all over the country. The Minister for Finance, in the course of his speech on Friday last, told us that he had legislation in the course of contemplation&mdash;in contemplation and about to be produced&mdash;and that it would meet and make provision for certain paragraphs of the motion, and he paid particular attention to paragraphs A and B.  Then he set off and he gave us an outline of what his proposed legislation was and then he told us in the next breath that he could not give effect to it at all simply because some Board of Inquiry or some Court of Inquiry set up by this House in 1924 had made investigations and reported against it.  He said the chief argument that he based himself on that point was that when there was not information available in 1924 it could not be available now.  I want to point out, what was not possible in 1924 is possible to-day, that there were a great number of people in this country in 1924 violently opposed to each other, and what one thought the other automatically thought against, and I must confess to the Minister we were afraid of each other, if you like, and that the Government that has gone out of office would not accept my word because the Minister for Finance would not certify it was true.  But we are both here now to certify what I say is true, because he knows the fact just as well as I do, and therefore, it can be an accepted fact&mdash;there is neither of us to dispute it.  Therefore, there is much more information available in 1932 than there was in 1924, and I hold the Minister's point there breaks down completely, and it does not stand any test. 
     
     Now, he said that in his proposed legislation he intended to cover certain types of cases.  I do not know if it is necessary to quote the Minister's speech in the Official Report to sustain my case, but if the Minister thinks I should do so I will, but I do not think there is any purpose to be served.  All I want to say is this, that the argument he made against me on last Friday as to his intended legislation does not cover my case at all and if he asks   me to cite examples of the cases I have in mind I will do so.  I interrupted the Minister in his speech by saying that I would much rather not because if I cite certain cases they are capable of being identified.  Somebody would know the cases cited, and the result would be, if this motion were passed, that these people would say that the Dail had accepted these claims.  If, however, the Minister wants to hear some of my cases against those he has quoted, I will quote them to him.  I do not know if he wants to hear them but if it will help him to make up his mind to accept the motion I shall quote them to him with pleasure. 
     
      
       If the Deputy thinks they will prove his case. 
     
     
      
       I submit they are as relevant to the point at issue as those he has used against me.  I feel, however, it is not wise to do so, if the motion is accepted, because these would be cases that could be identified just as I can identify some of the cases the Minister has quoted.  I do not know whether I shall do so. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should act in accordance with his own judgment. 
     
     
      
       It is no harm perhaps to quote some of them.  The Minister tells us that there is no hardship involved and that most people voluntarily did so and so.  I want to quote a few cases in regard to what people did.  On Friday he said referring to cases under (a) and (b), cases from 1916 to 1919, that there could be no recognition given to them and that there was no reason why any Government should accept responsibility, that is a Government in this country, for that period.  I do not know, sir, whether you are aware of the conditions that obtained all over the country at that time or not. 
     
     
      
       Well aware of them. I was over most of the country at that time. 
     
     
      
       You were over most of the country?  From 1916 to 1917 you were under lock and key. 
     
     
     
      
       From 1917 to 1919. 
     
     
      
       You were somewhere else during the period 1916 to 1917.  There were people that the British were trying to capture.  There was only one Government at that time, the Government of the Republic.  The Minister knows the Government to whom I refer.  They gave certain farmers in this country orders that certain people must be received in their houses, kept there and maintained. If they refused to give them the food and shelter necessary for their maintenance you know what would happen. You might say that these people were of no importance but you cannot say that they were not soldiers.  They were soldiers just as good as you and I and they fought their fight just as they knew how to fight it.  They were kept in these farmers' houses all over the country from Easter Week in 1916 right down to the general release and the first time we saw them was when they had full-blown beards in 1917.  Then they came out and told the natives that they were on their keeping.  The fact remains that these people did maintain them during that time.  From 1917 to 1918 there was an order issued&mdash;any officer who is here remembers it well&mdash; that if you were arrested in your own home you would have to account for the fact that you were arrested there. The result was that these men, obeying an order that the Government of the Republic issued to them and, carrying it out to the full extent of their ability, had to go into homes in the country and somebody ordered the occupants of these homes to take them in. 
     
     
      
       I think that is very unfair.  I think it is, if I may say so, a slander on those who willingly with open arms received those men. 
     
     
      
       I am not denying that the people received them, but remember there was a certain amount of compulsion there. 
     
     
      
       There was no idea of compulsion. 
     
     
      
       Refute it so. 
     
     
      
       I scarcely for four years slept in my own house and I   know I was well received everywhere and everybody in the same circumstances knows it as well. 
     
     
      
       Because they might not like to offend you as I should not like to offend you. 
     
     
      
       If there was an element of compulsion, would they not send you to an enemy house? 
     
     
      
       I am talking of a certain period.  The Deputy can talk of his own period after I have finished. 
     
     
      
       I say it is a slander. 
     
     
      
       It is no slander to say that there were people who were told to take in certain other people. 
     
     
      
       The people voluntarily took them in. 
     
     
      
       The people who would take them in voluntarily could not afford to do so because they were as much suspect as the people seeking shelter and you know it.  If that is a slander I will slander them. 
     
     
      
       Where is the compulsion? 
     
     
      
       There was the compulsion that people who would take men into their house in order to provide them with a safe shelter must not be suspect by the authorities and you know that.  What is the use of saying I am slandering somebody because they were not friendly?  They might be members or supporters of the Irish Parliamentary Party.  To what better shelter could these men go than to a house such as that?  I am slandering nobody when I say they had to take in so and so.  It is no slander because they did it.  I think it is something of which they might well feel proud. 
     
     
      
       They were not compelled to take them in. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what the Minister means by compulsion. There was just the amount of compulsion the Minister would use on me to induce me to make the speech that he would like me to make. 
     
     
     
      
       I would rather quote the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       He would just compel me so far and no more.  I want to make the point under paragraph (a) and (b) that people supplied all that refuge and succour to us in our hour of need and I think it would be much better that I only just touched lightly upon it.  Being the mover of the motion, if I quote too much of any case, in the event of the motion being passed I am definitely proving that that person is entitled to recognition. Therefore I do not want to cite any particular case that can be identified. I want to make myself clear on that before a decision is reached.  I can assure you that this is a fact, that a small farmer with a wife and about six or seven children, accommodated 21 men for approximately 24 weeks during the period covered in my motion. I do not say what county he is in.  I have travelled many counties, and it can be any county, but I can give the details to the Minister, if he wants them, for the period covered by the motion. He contracted debts in the shop for the food consumed during that period. He supplied beds to that number and he is now financially embarrassed from that time and it can be safely said to be due to that cause.  I do not want to go any further than that because it might do more harm than good. 
     
     Another case was that of a small farmer and artisan.  He had two wounded people in his house, billeted on him for nine weeks, and this entailed a guard of from two to four first-aid helpers and doctors during a period of from three to six weeks, just as the circumstances demanded, and there were special expenses.  The Minister has estimated the sums that would be demanded.  I will not cite any sums in case they might say that this was a case which I cited.  The smallest case which I investigated or which has been investigated on my behalf was that of a small farmer with two men billeted on him for three weeks.  That is the smallest case and it works out at about a £5 claim for two men for three weeks.  The other   case runs to about £60&mdash;the highest. This is a case where you have two wounded men left in a house and the case was carefully weighed, not by a Cumann na nGaedheal organisation or even by an Army Comrades' Association, but by one that I can depend on to a great extent, and they have assessed that amount.  That is for billeting and that represents five counties.  Having taken the claims of five counties they have estimated that the total amount for billeting would run to, approximately, £100,000.  I have told you that the whole cost of my motion for the Twenty-Six Counties is £540,000.  There are some people, I admit, who say that I have underestimated for billeting, but, as I have told you, in moving my motion, the higher you make the claim or the more you increase it, the more imperative it is that it should be paid. 
     Under Section B, that is the arms and ammunition, you have told us that sections so-and-so and so-and-so of the Indemnity Act and the Compensation Act have done so-and-so and so-and-so. I want to tell you this for a fact&mdash;that nobody has been paid under these Acts except the men from whom the arms have been compulsorily taken.  I will cite a case on that, and I can cite two or five or six or ten or a hundred cases.  John Brown, an officer, proceeds to the house of Tom Jones, a farmer, and he takes a single-barrelled shot-gun from him with a force of Volunteers behind him, but in doing so, Jones, the farmer, fires at him before he gives it up.  The result is that when the Anglo-Irish war is over, Jones sues that officer for £7 damages for the forcible taking of that gun.  That case is heard in court and all that the Indemnity Act does is that it protects that officer.  When the judge gives a decree for £2 or whatever the amount is for that gun, the amount is paid under the Indemnity Act instead of forcing the officer to pay. 
     I will cite the other case now.  Tom Murphy, down the road, had a shot-gun as well as Jones and he voluntarily surrendered that shot-gun.  In other words, he simply goes down to the officer and tells him, &ldquo;I have a shot-gun, and any day you care   to come for it you will get it.&rdquo;  The officer walks up and gets the gun and takes whatever ammunition may be in the house.  Because Murphy voluntarily surrenders that shot-gun he cannot get compensation, but the man from whom we took it compulsorily and who brings us to court about the matter, gets paid.  These are the kind of cases which I am trying to cover. 
     
      
       I think that the Deputy is misinformed and I would like to correct him on that.  The cases under the Indemnity Act Committee never went to court at all.  There was a Special Committee consisting of a District Justice and two Civil Servants set up to try these claims, and I am advised that whether the guns were surrendered voluntarily or not, if they were taken by a Volunteer or Volunteers or any servant of Dail Eireann, the claim was paid.  If the Deputy would give me particulars of the cases he is citing I would have them examined. 
     
     
      
       I can cite them by the score. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will write to me about them I can promise him that I will have them very searchingly inquired into. 
     
     
      
       I am not going to write to you about something which Deputy Fitzgerald would not do.  I am telling you what actually happened. The case is that if a man can prove that the guns were taken compulsorily he can succeed, but if they were given voluntarily he cannot succeed. 
     
     
      
       Is not this tantamount to suggesting that the people who are advising me are deceiving me on these matters?  If the Deputy will give me particulars of the cases he has in mind I will have them searchingly investigated. 
     
     
      
       This is only the second part of the motion and the Minister has not yet told us whether he is taking (a), (b), (c) or (f).  You ask me to cite you cases of (d) and (e) of the motion.  The Minister tells us that the previous administration has done everything that can possibly be   done in the matter as far as certain types of claims are concerned, that they have covered all the members of the National Army and Defence Forces very generously, and that the only people to be seen to are people who, for political reasons or for some other reason, have not yet made application, and that these latter cases are amply covered under the new Bill. Again, that is a question which I dispute very strenuously. 
       I want to point out that the late administration refused recognition unless there was full dependency established, or at least a certain degree of partial dependency.  I agree with the Minister that they were fairly generous. I believe it is true to say that the International Labour Bureau at Geneva admitted that the two Bills of 1923 and 1927 were generous.  Notwithstanding the fact that the International Bureau at Geneva thinks so, I do not think it and I am not going to take my information from them.  I can cite cases. The Minister on Friday last said: &ldquo;I do not think that he put forward the proposition&mdash;I would be surprised if he put it forward&mdash;that irrespective of whether the people to be compensated were dependent on the deceased or not they should be paid for the death of their son.&rdquo;  These are the Minister's exact words following the introduction of my motion.  My answer to that is &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;  I do put it forward with all the vigour at my command, that the very fact of a father and mother losing a son is sufficient to entitle them to recognition and compensation of a definite kind.  Even that does not sufficiently compensate them for the loss of their son, because that could never be done.  You could never give them adequate compensation for such a loss, but you can give them compensation that would be some recognition of the services that son rendered to the State.  That is what I ask you to do.  I will not raise any question as to whether that son fought on this side or that side.  I will ask you to remember that every man who fought in the interests of the State deserves recognition from the State.  He is deserving of some little recognition if he has fought in the interests of the country. 
     
     
     
      
       I will put one question to the Deputy.  Is the only consideration which the Deputy has in mind a monetary consideration? 
     
     
      
       I am asking you to set up a committee to inquire into what is the best way of compensating these people, whether it be a monetary or some other consideration.  I am not tying you to anything in this motion. I am merely asking for a committee that will inquire into the matter and report&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;on the granting of adequate compensation.  The Deputy has just now said that nothing can adequately compensate them. 
     
     
      
       Nothing can.  But at least there can be some recognition of their services and that is all I am asking you for.  I do not know that I should labour the point any further beyond mentioning that this motion is brought forward in the interests of the people who have served Ireland faithfully and well in her hour of need.  I ask the House to give them whatever recognition it is possible for the House to give. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy wish to press this motion to a vote? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister will agree to accept it? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has already stated that so far as the compensation which the Deputy is asking for in this motion is concerned, if dependency is proved it is already given in the existing Acts so far as members of the National Army are concerned and those who served in the Volunteers before 1921, but not afterwards. So far as that latter class is concerned, they are dealt with in the Bill before the House and therefore it is not necessary for the Government to accept this motion.  We have, in fact, given everything the Deputy asks for. We have conceded everything except this question of billeting.  On that we cannot do anything more. 
     
     
      
       I cannot and I will not accept that.  I would like this   to go to a vote of the House.  In this connection I will ask the Government to permit a free vote and not have the Whips put on.  I do not see any reason why they should put on the official Whips. 
     
     
      
       This is a matter which could have been raised by the Deputy's Party during the last ten years and yet it was not raised.  I am not questioning the bona fides of the Deputy in raising this matter now, but when his Party had the responsibility they could have raised the matter quite easily.  It is in view of the fact that we have the responsibility that the Whips must be put on. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is unfair when he makes a statement like that at a critical point.  I have tried to meet the Minister's points in every way. 
     
     
      
       I frankly admit that the Deputy is a comparatively newcomer to the House, but so far as the general body of his Party are concerned they could have raised this matter when they had the responsibility. 
     
     
      
       I may say that even if Deputy Blythe were in the Minister's place now this motion would have been brought forward.  It was bound to come sooner or later. 
     
     
      
       I am not saying that the Deputy has not good intentions, but the fact remains that this was not done until the responsibility changed hands. 
     
     
      
       In the circumstances I will have to press the motion to a division. 
       Question put. 
     
     
      
       I think the motion is carried. 
     
     
      
       Votail. 
     
     
      
       May I ask how many Deputies are challenging a division? 
     
     
      
       Is it not usual when a member of the Front Bench challenges a division, that the Chair accepts it?  Therefore there is nothing in Deputy Cooney's point. 
     
     
     
      
       It was a member of the Deputy's Party who called the   division and the division was called before the Deputy rose. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 37; Nil, 64:&mdash; 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Anthony, Richard. Blythe, Ernest. Brasier, Brooke. Burke, Patrick. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Cosgrave, William T. Desmond, William. Doherty, Eugene. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Esmonde, Osmond Grattan. Finlay, Thomas A. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Gorey, Denis John. Hayes, Michael. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). 
             Keating, John. Keogh, Myles. McDenogh, Fred. MacEoin, Sean. McGilligan, Patrick. McMenamin, Daniel. Minch, Sydney B. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Nally, Martin. O'Connor, Batt. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Hara, Patrick. O'Leary, Daniel. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Reidy, James. Reynolds, Mrs. Mary Vaughan, Daniel.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Bartley, Gerald. Beegan, Patrick. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Bourke, Daniel. Breathnach, Cormac. Breen, Daniel. Briscoe, Robert. Browne, William Frazer. Carty, Frank. Cleary, Micheal. Cooney, Eamonn. Corry, Martin John. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Flinn, Hugo. V. Flynn, John. Flynn, Stephen. Fogarty, Andrew. Geoghegan, James. Gibbons, Sean. Gormley, Francis. Gorry, Patrick Joseph. Goulding, John. Humphreys, Francis. 
             Jordan, Stephen. Kelly, James Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Keyes, Raphael Patrick. Kilroy, Michael. Kissane, Eamonn. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Lynch, James B. MacEntee, Sean. Maguire, Ben. Maguire, Conor Alexander. Moane, Edward. Moore, Seamus. Moylan, Sean. Murphy, Patrick Stephen. Murphy, Timothy Joseph. Norton, William. O'Grady, Sean. O'Kelly, Sean Thomas. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas J. O'Rourke, Daniel. Rice, Edward. Ryan, James. Ryan, Robert. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy. Sheridan, Michael. Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. (Dr.). 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies MacEoin and Conlon; Nil: Deputies Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared lost. 
     The Dail adjourned at 10.30 p.m. until Thursday, October, 27th at 3 p.m. 
   
 