 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh An Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EX-JUDGES' TITLES. 
     
      
       asked the President whether he can say that the title of honour recently conferred on the Right Honourable T.F. Moloney. late Lord Chief Justice, and the Right Honourable James O'Connor, late Lord Justice of Appeal, were not conferred in respect of services rendered in or in relation to the Saorstat, or, if the titles were conferred in respect of such services, whether the Executive Council approved or recommended the conferring of them. 
     
     
      
       The titles of honour recently bestowed on the Right Hon. T.F. Moloney, late Lord Chief Justice, and the Right Hon. James O'Connor, late Lord Justice of Appeal, were not conferred in respect of services rendered in or in relation to Saorstat Eireann. 
     
     
      
       Were they conferred on the advice of the Executive Council? 
     
     
      
       No, they were not. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INCOME TAX REFUNDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that holders of Bank of Ireland Stock residing outside the Saorstat have been unable   to obtain a refund of Income Tax deducted here for 1923; whether he can state the reasons for this delay, and whether there is any prospect of it being put an end to. 
     
     
      
       Repayment of Income Tax, in cases in which it is due, has already been made in the great majority of claims submitted to the Revenue Commissioners by persons resident outside Saorstat Eireann, in respect of the Saorstat Eireann income tax appropriate to the dividends of Saorstat Eireann concerns, including the Bank of Ireland, for the years 1923-24 and 1924-25.  The title of non-residents to repayment is contained in Section 24 of the Finance Act, 1920, the provisions of which do not, however, extend to all persons resident outside Saorstat Eireann.  In the circumstances it is possible that the Deputy may have in mind either the case of a non-resident who is not entitled to relief within the provisions of the law or the case of a person whose repayment has been computed on a provisional basis.  If the Deputy will furnish me with particulars in any specific case I will have the matter enquired into, and will arrange to have him informed of the position. 
     
     
      
       Has the attention of the Minister been called to letters in the English Press, particularly in  The   Times , as to this matter, and will he consider the advisability of issuing a statement on the whole subject explaining the matter without reference to Acts? 
     
     
      
       I have not seen the letters.  I will see them and consider the question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BLIND PENSION WITHDRAWN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that Miss Catherine Loughlin, of Feighcullen, Rathangan, Co. Kildare, who is living with and dependent on her sister, who is an old-age pensioner with a pension of 9/- per week, has had her blind pension of 10/- per week withdrawn since November 1st, 1924, and whether, as this woman is sixty years of age and is almost totally blind and deaf, and unable to work, he will have her case reconsidered with a view to having her pension restored. 
     
     
      
       Miss Loughlin was in receipt of a pension, under the Blind Persons Act, granted to her in April, 1921.  A question raised by the Pension Officer last Autumn as to whether she fulfilled the statutory condition of blindness was before the local Pension Committee on the 4th November last.  That body allowed the question, and thereby cancelled the pension. Miss Loughlin appealed against that decision, and the case came to me for determination. The Department's Medical Inspector examined the woman's eyesight on the 30th ultimo, and his report showed that on her standard of vision she is not eligible for the blind pension.  Her appeal must, therefore, it is regretted, be rejected. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this woman is living with and dependent on her sister, who has an old-age pension but who has no other means? 
     
     
      
       When the Inspector visited this lady she was out by herself driving in a pony and trap, a fact which is sufficient to show that she is not completely blind.  I am aware that the   lady is in poor circumstances.  She is 66 years of age, and is a case deserving of relief but does not come under the provisions of this particular Act. 
     
     
      
       Does the horse know the way, I wonder? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REDUCED OLD AGE PENSIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will have enquiries made regarding the reduction to 6/- per week of the old age pension of James Walshe, Dunbyrne, Kilmeague, Naas, Co. Kildare, with a view to increasing it to 9/-; futher, whether he is aware that Mr. Walshe is seventy-four years of age, unable to work, and cannot get sufficient food, as he has little or no return from his two-acre holding. 
     
     
      
       There has been no appeal to me in connection with the review of the old age pension in this case.  Consequently, there is no information in my Department in regard to the facts.  If the pensioner contends that he is entitled to a higher rate than that allowed on review, the only course now open to him is to raise a Question with the Pension Officer, applying for a suitable increase.  A statement of means should accompany the Question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ALTERATIONS AT DUN LAOGHAIRE PIER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if any decisions have been made with respect to alterations to the Pier at Dun Laoghaire, with a view to improving the facilities for passenger traffic, and, if so, if he will state what alterations it has been decided to make and how soon the work will begin. 
     
     
      
       Certain alterations were carried out at the Pier during the Winter of 1923-24 in order to improve the facilities for passenger traffic, and no further alterations are at present contemplated. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister received any representations from various bodies in regard to the necessity for alteration with a view to making more convenient the landing and departure of passengers at Dun Laoghaire? 
     
     
     
      
       I have received certain representations from time to time and I think the facilities are not bad and I know that any scheme that has been put up for greatly increased facilities would be a very serious matter financially. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION REGULATIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether steps would be taken to provide that all documents for use of old age pensioners and claimants in the Irish-speaking districts would be printed in the Irish language. 
     
     
      
       Some of these forms (e.g., the old age pension order book and the form of authorisation to pay the pension to an agent) are at present printed both in Irish and in English for use throughout the whole Saorstat.  I will bear in mind the Deputy's suggestion on the next reprint of the other forms. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GAELIC TERMS IN CUSTOMS AND EXCISE DEPARTMENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether advantage would be taken of the considerable number of able Gaelic scholars now serving in the Customs and Excise Department to appoint a Committee therefrom to provide the Department with a vocabulary of suitable Gaelic Terms in order to facilitate the gradual introduction of the Irish language into the work of this Department. 
     
     
      
       The question of an extension of the use of the Irish language in connection with the work of the Revenue Commissioners' Department has not been lost sight of.  It is not considered necessary to appoint a committee on the lines suggested in the question, as the services of the official translators are always available for the preparation of vocabularies in Irish for use in the conduct of any branch of public business. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUBLIN TRAFFIC BILL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he can state when the Bill for the better regulation of   traffic and street trading in the Dublin Metropolitan area will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       Bills for the better regulation of traffic and street trading in the Dublin Metropolitan Police area are at present being prepared and will be introduced as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say that they will be introduced before Easter? 
     
     
      
       I could not say that at the moment.  If the Deputy would care to put down a question in about a fortnight's time I would be more definite. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that we were told that these Bills had been prepared about six months ago? 
     
     
      
       Yes, that is so, and it is not a question of further time being necessary for their preparation or consideration, but rather a question of getting Parliamentary time for them. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider introducing the Bills on Friday, when I understand there will be time? 
     
     
      
       There may be time for First Reading. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRAPPING OF FOXES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware that advertisements have appeared in the Press on behalf of English firms offering high prices for foxes' skins, and if, in view of the fact that the trapping of foxes is a serious menace to the continuation of hunting in some districts, he will, if necessary, introduce legislation to prevent this practice of trapping which, if persisted in, would seriously interfere with this popular sport and lucrative asset of the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       My attention has not been drawn to the advertisements in question, but enquiries have been instituted and if the facts are as stated by the Deputy, I shall consider whether the introduction of legislation to deal with the matter is desirable and possible. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAHARDANE DISPENSARY RESIDENCE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that the dispensary residence of the Lahardane Dispensary District, Castlebar Union, Co. Mayo, is occupied by the Garda Siochana for the past two years; that Dr. Jane Brennan, the Medical Officer of the District, whose residence the Garda occupies, could not get lodgings in the district and had to take up residence in Castlebar, about 12 miles away; that the poor of the district, which is one of the poorest and most congested in the West, are now without a doctor, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by his Department to provide suitable Barracks for the Garda and give over possession of the Dispensary Residence to the Mayo Board of Health. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that the Garda Siochana occupy the Medical Officer's house at Lahardane, and I accept the Deputy's statement that such occupation causes inconvenience. The Board of Works have been requested to take immediate steps to provide alternative accommodation, but I understand that no alternative premises are available, and that it will be necessary to erect a new barrack.  With this object the Board of Works are making enquiries for a suitable site. 
       Pending the erection of a new building it would not be possible to evacuate the present house, unless the Guards were withdrawn from Lahardane, and in the interests of the district itself I am not prepared to authorise such withdrawal. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRISON WARDER'S SUSPENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if Warder M. Heffernan, Galway Prison, was suspended from duty on January 26th, 1924, and tried before Judge Piggott on a charge of obtaining money by false pretences, on March 27th, 1924, and acquitted; and whether he was not reinstated to duty till last June; if the officer has lost in salary and allowances nearly £264, and if any steps have been taken to compensate him for this loss. 
     
     
     
      
       Warder M. Heffernan was arrested at Limerick in January, 1923, on a charge of obtaining money and drink by means of obsolete postal orders, and was suspended from duty.  He was tried at Limerick Quarter Sessions on the 27th March, 1924, when he was found &ldquo;not guilty&rdquo; by a jury, and was acquitted.  He was allowed to resume duty on the 26th June, 1924.  Apart from the question of his guilt or innocence of the offence with which he was charged, this warder's conduct, which led to his arrest (including a tour from publichouse to publichouse) was highly discreditable, and the only doubt which I have in the matter is whether an error was not made on the side of leniency by allowing him to resume duty.  I cannot accept the suggestion that he should receive compensation for loss of salary while suspended. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SAORSTAT TRADE AGENT IN MADRID. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to the statement in the leading article of the  Irish Times  of January 14th that the Saorstat has a trade agent in Madrid, and, if this is correct, whether he will state what were the circumstances justifying the appointment of such a trade agent; who has been appointed; when he was appointed, and whether he has any other functions than those of an agent for purely trade and commercial affairs; and, if not, to whom holders of Irish passports in Spain should apply for such assistance as is usually given by consuls to citizens of their State. 
     
     
      
       The statement referred to in the  Irish Times  by the Deputy is misinformed.  There is no Saorstat agent in Madrid.  As we have not been able to come to an agreement with the British Government on the matter we cannot promise that the British Consul, who acts as agent for the Government of Canada and for the Governments of the other States members of the British Commonwealth, will give assistance to our nationals.  Therefore,   for the time being any passport holders who may require special assistance and who fail to get it from the British Consul would have to communicate with our office here.  I may add that such cases occur only exceptionally. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEAGUE OF NATIONS CONVENTIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether he will circulate a list giving the titles and dates of the general Conventions and similar Agreements adopted by the League of Nations, including the International Labour Organisation, indicating those to which the Saorstat has adhered, and those to which Great Britain adhered prior to the establishment of the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The list asked for by the Deputy has been circulated. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BROADCASTING IN THE SAORSTAT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he can state what is the position regarding Broadcasting in the Saorstat; whether the statements which appeared in the daily Press on January 10th, to the effect that the consent of the British Government was necessary before an Irish Broadcasting Station could be erected, are correct, and, further, if he can state when the scheme is likely to be put into operation. 
     
     
      
       The position as regards broadcasting in the Saorstat is the same as when I replied to a question from the Deputy on the subject on the 23rd October last.  The question of the establishment of broadcasting stations is still under the consideration of the Department of Finance. The subject may be affected by Annex 2 (a) to the Treaty, which provides for the setting-up of a Convention between the British Government and the Government of the Saorstat for the settlement of questions relating to the landing of cables and the establishment of wireless stations. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. KILDARE ARMY PENSION CLAIM. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will expedite payment of pension or gratuity to Mrs. Brigid Cribbon, Newtown, Rathangan, Co. Kildare, in respect of the death of her son, Corporal John Cribbon, Army No. 3144, in view of the fact that this woman is in very poor circumstances. 
     
     
      
       Mrs. Cribbon's claim will be disposed of forthwith.  I will communicate further with the Deputy relative to the matter. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY ALLOWANCE STOPPED. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that the allowance made to Mrs. Mary McNeice, Ballinvalley, Delvin, Co. Westmeath, in respect of her son, William McNeice, 1st Eastern Division, who was killed in Cork on December 6th, 1922, has been stopped since March 8th, 1924; that on August 6th, 1924, she received a letter stating the matter was under consideration, and if he can now state what compensation this woman will receive for the loss of her son. 
     
     
      
       The issue to Mrs. McNeice of the allowance referred to by the Deputy was a continuation of dependent's allowance granted to her during her son's service in the Army, and was authorised in anticipation of an award under the Army Pensions Act, 1923.  Her claim under that Act has been finally considered.  It was ascertained that she had not been wholly dependent on her deceased son. A pension is therefore not issuable to her.  Having regard to the sums already paid by way of the allowance referred to and to the circumstances of her case it has, I regret to say, been necessarily decided that no additional compensation may be granted to her. Mrs. McNeice was accordingly notified on the 15th December last, that her claim had been disallowed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A VOLUNTEER'S PROFICIENCY PAY. 
     
      
       asked the   Minister for Defence whether he has yet issued proficiency pay applied for by Volunteer Daniel O'Connell, Army No. 51398, of Lackagh Cottage, Kildare, and if not, whether he will expedite payment. 
     
     
      
       In accordance with prevailing practice Mr. O'Connell should have been remunerated for his services as a barber by payments from Battalion Funds and not by way of extra official pay.  It appears that for a time he was recompensed in this connection by charges which he made to individual soldiers.  Owing, however, to the disbandment of battalions to which he belonged and the demobilisation of officers under whom he served, it has not yet been practicable to ascertain all the facts of the case.  The necessary inquiries are being made as rapidly as possible, and I will communicate the result to the Deputy in due course. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE TRADE LOANS (GUARANTEE) ACT, 1924. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he can state how many applications for loans under Section 2 of the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act, 1924, have been received; how many have been granted, and how much money has been guaranteed or advanced. 
     
     
      
       Nineteen applications have been received under this section of the Act, ten have been rejected, and eight are under consideration. In one case the application has been approved, but the formalities preliminary to the giving of a guarantee have not yet been completed. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister think that that is an effectual way of dealing with profiteering&mdash;that six months after the passing of this Act one application has been approved and the formalities have not yet been carried through? 
     
     
      
       The conclusion I draw from the figures quoted is that there is a very much greater disposition   on the part of the public to complain of high prices than to take any steps to have them reduced. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say what encouragement has been given either by the Ministry of Local Government or the Ministry for which he is responsible to take action under the Act? 
     
     
      
       That is another question. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister give us an answer? 
     
     
      
       Not now. 
     
     
      
       Has there been any encouragement by circular or otherwise to local authorities to take advantage of the Act? 
     
     
      
       That is the same question. 
     
     
      
       The Minister refuses to reply? 
     
     
      
       No, I say I cannot reply at the moment. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state how many applications under the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act, 1924, and of what aggregate amount, have been recommended by the referees and how many have been approved by the Minister and how much money has been advanced under those guarantees. 
     
     
      
       Twelve applications involving a total amount of £223,600 have been recommended by the Advisory Committee.  In the first four cases, involving a total amount of £51,100, the recommendations have been approved, subject to the completion of formalities preliminary to the giving of a guarantee.  The remaining eight are under consideration. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if any money has actually been guaranteed or made available? 
     
     
      
       I think not. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say where the responsibility lies? 
     
     
      
       I cannot agree   immediately that it is a matter of fixing responsibility.  These preliminaries are necessary before a guarantee can be given, and these preliminaries have not been completed.  The working of an Act of this sort, after the recommendations of a special Committee have come to hand, requires some little time further. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister oblige the Dail by giving information as to what the preliminaries are that have not been completed, although, as I gather from the Minister's reply, approval had been given for a considerable time? 
     
     
      
       I am not sure that I understand the end of the supplementary question, which seems to say that the applications had been recommended for a considerable time.  I have made no such statement.  One of the obvious things to be done prior to giving the guarantee is that the applicant should receive from some bank the money which the Government is guaranteeing. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister explain whether it is the banks who are refusing to give these guarantees after the formalities of an appeal before the board or tribunal have been gone through, or is it some other factor which is preventing the development of these industries through the operation of this Act? 
     
     
      
       That is reading too much into what I have said&mdash;to impute a refusal on anyone's part and to say that anybody has deliberately held up the working of the Act.  These things take time.  The application goes before the advisory committee, is considered, probably sent back, goes forward again, and is recommended.  It is then sent to two departments, and after sanction is given the money has to be obtained from a bank before a guarantee can be given.  The bank will necessarily require some time to consider the application. 
     
     
      
       How long will the Act be in operation? 
     
     
      
       It is scheduled   to expire at the end of twelve months after the date of its passing, but it can be renewed. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister tell us the date of its passing? 
     
     
      
       The 6th August. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ATHY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will have enquiries made as to the claim for Unemployment Benefit of Peter Sheridan, Athy Labour Exchange Office; further, whether the Inspector of the Department who received Mr. Sheridan's card from his employer, Mr. Coe, of Monasterevan, on May 3rd, 1924, and for which Mr. Coe holds a receipt, forwarded it to Head Office, and, if so, whether he will expedite payment of benefit or state why it is withheld. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Peter Sheridan, Unemployment Book No. 583, Athy, claimed Unemployment Insurance Benefit on the 10th November, 1924. On this claim he was paid 13 days Unemployment Insurance Benefit.  It has since been ascertained that 34 further contributions were collected on his account in respect of his insurable employment with Mr. Coe, of Monasterevan. These contributions have been placed to the credit of his account with the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and 34 days further benefit have accordingly been authorised and will be paid to Mr. Sheridan forthwith subject to the satisfaction of the usual conditions for the receipt of Unemployment Insurance Benefit. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SUGAR BEET FACTORY IN BUTTEVANT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is now in a position to make a statement as to the intentions of the Executive Council in regard to the establishment of a Sugar Beet Factory in Buttevant, Co. Cork. 
     
     
     
      
       The Government have received, from several groups interested in the manufacture of beet sugar, proposals relative to the financial assistance by way of remission of excise duty or otherwise which they would require to enable them to found the beet sugar industry in this country. Pending further consideration of these proposals, I am not in a position to make a statement as to the establishment of a beet sugar factory or factories. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REPAIR OF ROADS IN CLAREMORRIS DISTRICT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that the roads marked out and partly constructed by the late Congested Districts Board, through Ballycarrick, Coolaght (Ormsby Estate), Mossbrook, Duimady, and Cunlaghfadda bogs in the Claremorris districts are impassible; that over four hundred tenants of the Irish Land Commission are unable to remove their turf from those bogs, and that acute distress exists in those districts; whether he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Land Commission to repair those roads out of the Relief Funds voted by the Dail for such purposes. 
     
     
      
       Owing to the shortness of the notice given of this Question I have not been able to get the information necessary for a reply.  I must, therefore, ask the Deputy to repeat the Question on, say, Tuesday next, 10th instant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISTRESS IN CO. KILDARE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether his attention has been drawn to the very acute distress that prevails amongst one hundred and six congests in the townlands of Borraderra and Old Grange, Monasterevan, Co. Kildare, owing to the loss of their oats and potato crops by the flooding of their lands caused by the choked-up condition   of two tributaries of the Figele or Black River, and whether he will send an Inspector to enquire into and report on the conditions of living of those congests with a view to making a grant for the drainage of this area, which work would also give employment to these people. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to are situate in the Barrow River district, and on looking into the problem it would not appear to be one for the application of Section 44 of the Land Act, 1923.  It is suggested that the Deputy raise the matter with the Minister for Finance. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SUB-DIVISION OF DONADEA (KILDARE) LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is aware that the lands of Grangepottle, part of the Aylmer Estate, situate near Donadea, Co. Kildare, have been let as grazing lands on the eleven months' system for a number of years by the tenant, and whether the Land Commission propose to acquire these lands for sub-division amongst the uneconomic holders in the district. 
     
     
      
       No townland of the name of Grangepottle appears in the official alphabetical list of townlands. 
       If the Deputy refers to the townland of Grange, on the Estate of Major John Aylmer, the Commissioners have gazetted 418 acres, 1 rood, 14 perches of untenanted land in this townland, and other lands, on this estate, as lands which will, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MAGANEY (CO. KILDARE) DISABLEMENT BENEFIT CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that Mrs. Julia Malone, Castleroe, Maganey, Co. Kildare, who is insured with the Irish Amalgamated Insurance Society, was drawing 7/6 per week disablement   benefit up to May 18th, 1924, when payment was suspended, although she still claims to be entitled to benefit; further whether, as this woman is suffering severely from neuritis and unable to do any work and is in very straitened circumstances and will probably have to apply for home help, he will take the matter up with the society with a view to having the benefit restored so that she will not become a charge on the funds of the County Board of Health. 
     
     
      
       Mrs. Julia Malone received sickness and disablement benefits from the Irish Amalgamated Health Insurance Society continuously for four and a half years up to the 17th May, 1924, when she was examined by the Society's Medical Referee, who reported that she was not incapable of work.  Payment was therefore discontinued. Some time after she had been notified of the Society's decision to discontinue payment, she applied to them to have her case submitted to arbitration. Her application was refused, as the application had not been made within the time-limit allowed by the Disputes Rule of the Society.  In October last a complaint was received by the Insurance Commissioners from a solicitor acting on her behalf.  In reply, it was explained that as a result of her failure to comply with the rules of the Society she had forfeited her right to have her claim submitted to arbitration. At the same time, it was pointed out that if she claimed to be incapable of work for any period subsequent to the date on which she was examined by the Society's Medical Referee, she should forward to the Society medical certificates covering that period so that the claim could be dealt with.  No medical certificates covering any subsequent period have, however, reached the Head Office of the Society, but inquiries are being made from her as to whether she is in possession of, or is in a position to obtain, evidence of further incapacity in which case she will be instructed as to the steps she should take to make her claim for further benefit. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PAYMENT OF INSURANCE BENEFIT. 
     
      
       asked the   Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that the Saorstat Section of the Prudential Approved Society has withheld disablement benefit from Mrs. Margaret White, Limerick Street, Newbridge, Co. Kildare, who is a qualified member of the said Prudential Society, although she furnished proper medical evidence of her inability to perform remunerative work for the period from May 15th to June 9th, 1924, and whether he will take steps with a view to having the benefit paid by the said Prudential Society. 
     
     
      
       Mrs. Margaret White, Newbridge, received sickness and disablement benefit from the Prudential Health Insurance Society for 73 weeks, ending in December, 1923.  She made a fresh claim for disablement benefit and furnished medical certificates in respect of the period from the 15th May, 1924, to the 9th June, 1924, but the Society, after considering the report of their local agent and consulting the doctor who had examined her, decided at that time that she was capable of some work, and therefore had not satisfied the provision of the National Health Insurance Acts, which requires that an insured person must be incapable of work to be entitled to sickness or disablement benefit.  Benefit was accordingly refused, and the insured person was notified of the Society's decision and of her right to have her case submitted to arbitration if she was dissatisfied. Though she has not up to the present made any application to the Society for arbitration, it is understood that they have on reconsideration decided to pay the benefit claim for the full period now in question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOOD AND DRUGS AND WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will instruct the Department's Inspector at Cork to approach the County Council and arrange with that body for the early supply to the Chief Superintendents of the Garda Siochana in Cork City and County of the necessary equipment to   enable members of the Garda appointed many months ago to carry out their important duties under the Food and Drugs and Weights and Measures Acts. 
     
     
      
       This matter is being referred to my Department's Inspector with a view to securing that the Cork County Council will provide the Garda Siochana in the County with the necessary equipment to carry out their duties under the Sale of Food and Drugs Acts.  The matter is also being brought under the notice of the Commissioner for Cork County Borough. The Department of Industry and Commerce have informed me that so far as weights and measures standards for the County are concerned, the necessary equipment was completed in November last and it is understood from reports received that the Inspectors have been working actively since that time.  So far as Cork City is concerned, I am informed that the Corporation made a contract for equipment separate from the inclusive contract entered into by every other County and Borough Council and that the full equipment has not yet been completed.  Sufficient local sub-standards were, however, supplied from other sources to enable the Inspector to start work over four months ago, and on the 29th of last month he reported that a considerable area of the City was finished.  It is understood that, owing to the fact that the Weights and Measures Acts were in abeyance for four years, the accumulation of arrears was very substantial and that progress is necessarily slow. 
     
   
   
     METHOD OF TAKING DIVISIONS. 
     
      
       Before we proceed with the business, I wish to state that a memorandum has been circulated to the Deputies with regard to the method of taking divisions.  It has been considered by the Committee on Procedure, and, subject to its having the consent of the Dail, it is intended to have the divisions taken by the new method, that is going into the lobbies, instead of as heretofore by the Deputies answering their names.  To do that it will be necessary to suspend two of the Standing Orders.  We can suspend the Standing Orders to-day and have the divisions taken by the new method. Or if Deputies prefer another course the Dail can have time further to consider the question and go into the whole   matter next week.  It is altogether a matter for the Dail as to which course is to be adopted.  I will take a motion now as to whether we should suspend Standing Orders 52 and 54. 
     
     
      
       I move that we suspend the Standing Orders so as to have the division taken by the new method. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     ORDER OF BUSINESS. 
     
      
       Before we proceed with the business on the Orders of the Day, I would like the President to tell us what business it is proposed to take later this week, and what the order of business will be after this week, so that Deputies might have some idea of the matters that will be coming before them. 
     
     
      
       I have received from the Chairman of the Deputy's party&mdash;if that is the correct description &mdash;a request that the motion that is down for consideration to-morrow be postponed to the following day.  If we reach the end of the agenda, as it is here to-day, I will ask the Dail to adjourn until to-morrow week, and we will take the motion then.  That motion is on the agenda for to-morrow.  That would mean that we would take it up on to-morrow week instead of to-day. 
       There are two Bills that I would like to introduce if we are going to adjourn this evening.  One is the Dail Courts (Winding-Up) Bill, and another is the Local Authorities (Combined Purchasing) Bill.  That would enable us to adjourn after finishing the work on the agenda.  I would request the permission of the Dail to sit late to-night so that we can finish that work and adjourn until to-morrow week. 
     
     
      
       I think that this is a suggestion which ought not be made to the Dail.  The Deputies have come from the country in the belief that they would have business to do.  For one thing, that is obviously a charge upon the revenue.  It is very inconvenient to Deputies to come up here.  After expecting to be here for two or three   days, or at any rate, say, until Friday, they are now told they are to sit late to-night and adjourn for a week. Surely that is not a reasonable proposition. The Minister for Justice told us a little while ago that a Bill was ready with respect to Dublin Street Trading, but that he did not wish to bring it forward because of Parliamentary time. Now, here is an opportunity that the Minister could avail of to introduce that Bill and explain it.  Some of the Bills that have now been placed on the Order Paper are of importance, and, I understand, the President's request is that we should pass them forthwith.  I do not know whether I am right in that, but I took it to mean that we should suspend the Standing Orders with regard to these Bills and pass them without any further question.  I, for one, protest against this method of doing business. 
     
     
      
       Is there any suggestion of doing any more business than there is on the Order Paper to-day? 
     
     
      
       The Dail Courts (Winding-Up) Bill is not on the agenda, and it is obvious that the mere introduction of a measure does not give us business for Wednesday or Thursday. The Local Government Bill is not yet finished in the Seanad.  It was anticipated that it would be back from the Seanad.  I do not wish to rush the business this evening, but I think it would suit the convenience of the Deputies, if we sit late to-night in order to get the First Reading of these Bills through.  It would suit the convenience of the Deputies by enabling them to get away sooner. 
     
     
      
       I think the President has overlooked the fact that the less work we do now the more work we shall have to do in June and July. We shall have legislation crowded up with Estimates, and we shall have to sit late at night, and we shall be subject to the strain which we all know injured the health of more than one Minister last year.  There are many Bills which ought be ready.  There is, for instance, the Street Trading and Traffic Bill, and the Bill for the Regulation of Copyright, Patents, and Trade Marks,   which was promised 18 months ago.  It was in draft, to my knowledge, more than a year ago.  There is also the Army Bill&mdash;a Bill that has got to be put through before March, as the present Act will have expired before that time.  Nobody grudges the Ministers their holidays.  But surely there must have been some laxity in the Departments concerned when they failed to have these measures ready so that the Dail could be going on with them.  By all means, what we have to avoid is the crowding of work at the end of the Session. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is rather missing the point that if all these Bills of which he speaks were ready and if their First Reading were moved to-day, that would not assist in providing business for Wednesday and Thursday of the current week.  The proposal is to finish the business on the Order Paper to-day, in addition to moving the First Reading of one Bill which has not appeared on the Order Paper to-day, and after that is gone through, that we adjourn until next week.  It is proposed to take the First Reading of two Bills to-day. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Justice, acting for the President, promised, previous to the Recess, that a statement would be made on the reassembly of the Dail, with regard to the Government's legislative intentions. We have not had that statement.  Had such a statement been presented us, the Dail would have had an opportunity of discussing that future legislative programme.  At the same time, the Minister for Justice indicated that an Army Pensions Amendment Bill would be introduced.  We have heard nothing about that, and, apparently, there is no intention on the part of the Government to introduce it.  There was also a promise made in regard to a Drainage Bill.  It is only reasonable that some explanation would be forthcoming now in regard to all those promised measures. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Davin has covered the very point regarding which I put the question.  It   is not merely what is before us now I was anxious to learn about, but what the general plan of business is for the immediate future.  It would be greatly to the convenience of Deputies to have information on that matter. 
     
     
      
       Will the Ministry tell us whether it is intended to introduce a Bill dealing with Army Pensions arising out of sickness and incapacity following service?  It has been promised definitely, but I would like to know whether that promise is to be fulfilled, or if it is the intention of the Ministry not to introduce such a Bill.  If it is their intention to introduce a Bill on those lines, how soon will its introduction take place? Further, I would like to know what is the intention regarding the Army Bill. As Deputy Cooper has pointed out, that will have to be considered at a very early stage.  It is necessarily a very voluminous measure, as it intends to establish the Army.  I believe it has two or three thousand sections&mdash;I really do not know the exact number. At any rate, it is a very heavy measure. It was passed temporarily without any discussion; but now we are entitled to know the intentions of the Ministry in regard to the Army. 
       I would like to refer, also, to promised measures touching upon copyrights and patents, flags and Board of Trade questions.  We would like to have some information from the Ministry regarding those things.  We were promised some of those Bills last year, or rather at the opening of the 1923-24 Session.  I think even some of them were promised&mdash;although I am not quite sure&mdash;in the previous Dail.  Then, again, there has been promised a Bill dealing with compulsory school attendance. Can we have some information regarding those several matters of very great importance?  The Minister for Justice has told us that even if they got a First Reading we could not deal with them this week.  At any rate, we would have at least a longer time to read and think about them than has been the practice in regard to other Bills in the past. 
     
     
      
       Practically all   the Bills mentioned by Deputy Johnson are on the Schedule for introduction.  I have already explained that the Army Pensions Amendment Bill is a very complicated measure.  It has not been easy to settle a great many points that arose in connection with it.  It will not be possible, for the moment, to introduce a permanent Defence Forces Bill, and I believe the present Act will have to be continued in force until the new Bill is introduced somewhere in the Spring. With regard to the other measures referred to, they are on the Schedule for introduction, and they include a Bill in regard to school attendance.  Those measures are not yet ready for actual introduction. 
       Deputies may complain that time may be limited in regard to their consideration, but it must be remembered that all those measures require very careful consideration before their introduction. The Bill in regard to the Army is most exhaustive.  The Dail will be asked to adopt the Defence Forces Act for another period.  It will be necessary to reintroduce that measure and have it adopted for a little while longer.  That will allow time for greater consideration of the permanent measure.  It is also intended to set apart certain days for the consideration of Estimates.  It is not anticipated that there will be any rush towards the end of the Session as there was last year. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister for Finance say when he expects to be able to circulate some of the Estimates? 
     
     
      
       They will be circulated about the middle of March. 
     
     
      
       As it appears to be a foregone conclusion that we will adjourn this evening for a week, perhaps the Minister for Industry and Commerce will, before the Dail concludes, make some announcement in regard to the future working of the Dublin and Lucan Tramway Further, perhaps he might make some announcement regarding reciprocal arrangement for unemployment insurance between the Northern and British Governments. Those matters are of importance to the city of Dublin, and there is a certain   urgency about them.  If we adjourn now for a week without knowing the position in regard to those matters, it will create the feeling outside that we are neglectful. 
     
     
      
       Can the President tell us if the Executive Council has decided to make any statement regarding the future legislative programme, or if it is, as it appears to be, the intention to announce legislative programmes from public platforms rather than in the Dail? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that there has been any pronouncement from public platforms in regard to our proposed legislation.  I am endeavouring to get the information required presented in such a way to the Dail that it will afford satisfaction to Deputies, and that it will be possible to have it fully considered and carried out with the least possible delay. 
     
     
      
       Will the President tell us if it is his intention to consult with the Committee on Privileges and Procedure in order that there might be some kind of provisional timetable prepared in regard to future business? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will be pleased to know that I had a brain-wave of that kind last week. 
     
     
      
       Splendid. 
     
     
      
       May I expect some answer from the Minister for Industry and Commerce in regard to the points I have raised? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy accompanied a deputation to my Department on one of the matters to which he has referred, and received an answer which appeared to be satisfactory to him.  Apparently, it is no longer so.  I gather the deputation arrived at a conclusion&mdash;a conclusion with which I agree&mdash;that there is not going to be any working of the Dublin and Lucan Tramway for at least one month.  An adjournment of the Dail for one week will not prejudice the future working of the tramway to any extent.  In regard to reciprocal arrangements over   insurance benefit, that is a matter that I have informed the Dail about on many occasions.  I have nothing new to add to what I said prior to the Recess.  The Patents Bill that has been the subject of reference here has been in draft for a long time.  It has been subjected to certain queries and has been altered.  I cannot say that it will be ready for introduction for at least one month. 
     
     
      
       May I take it that as the Minister has nothing to add on the question of reciprocity, he is going to leave matters as they are and go no further?  Will the two thousand Irish sailors and firemen engaged on British ships be in the meantime deprived of all benefits under the Insurance Acts? 
     
     
      
       It is not necessary for me to answer all the impressions that Deputy Byrne may get from answers that I make.  It is not, of course, my intention to stand still on anything that requires attention.  But with regard to the seamen, I may say again that people who do not pay contributions to the Insurance Fund are not prejudiced if they do not receive help from the fund. 
     
     
     
      
       It is a matter for the Government to help them out of their difficulty. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister for Justice in a position to make any announcement in regard to his intentions in connection with the setting up of the Liquor Commission, and the terms of reference? 
     
     
      
       It is possible that I may be able to make a statement before we adjourn this evening.  I have asked nine persons to act on this Commission, and I have received replies from all but two.  When I hear from these two persons I will announce the personnel and the terms of reference. It is expected that the Commission will be able to hold its first sitting next week. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Dail sit later than 8.30 this evening, if necessary, and that the adjournment be taken not later than 10.30.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I think that this is the best opportunity to take an experimental division.  I oppose the motion. 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 42; Nil, 10. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan Altun. Richard H. Beamish. Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. Sir James Craig. Louis J. D'Alton. Maighread Ni Choileain. Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Sean de Faoite. Darrell Figgis. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. William Hewat. Liam T. MacCosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Patrick MacGilligan. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick J. Mulvany. 
             Martin M. Nally. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Ailfrid O Broin. Sean O Bruadair. Conchubhair O Conghaile. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Tadhg S. O Donnabhain. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon S. O Dugain. Donchadh S. O Guaire. Seamus O Leadain. Fionan O Loingsigh. Padraic O Maille. Risteard O Maolchatha. Sean M. O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. Patrick W. Shaw. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             David Hall. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Tadhg P. O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). 
           
         
       
     
     
        Tellers: Ta, Mr. Dolan and Mr. Sears; Nil, Major Cooper and Mr. Morrissey. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     LOCAL AUTHORITIES (COMBINED PURCHASING) BILL, 1925&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I beg to move the First Reading of the Local Authorities (Combined Purchasing) Bill, 1925.  It is a Bill to make provision for the purchase of commodities by local authorities from contractors appointed officially with a view to the obtainment of such commodities by local authorities at the lowest possible price and for other matters connected therewith.  I do not intend to make any statement at this stage.  I will reserve my remarks until the Second Reading, after the Bill has been circulated. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That leave be given to introduce the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 11th February, 1925. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DUBLIN PORT AND DOCKS BILL, 1924&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       I desire to move that the Dail agree with the amendments to the Dublin Ports and Docks Bill, 1924, sent up from the Seanad.  They are merely altering the dates that were originally in the Bill to conform with the unexpected delay that has arisen in getting power to hold our elections, that we anticipated would have been given last Session.  I think there is nothing contentious about that; it is merely an alteration of dates, and I would ask the Dail to accept the amendments at this stage  in globo,  if I am in order in doing so. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is asking for leave to move that the Committee agree with the   Seanad in all the amendments, as they all deal with the one matter? 
     
     
      
       Yes, if you please.  I beg to move that the Committee agree with the Seanad in the following amendments:&mdash; 
       In Section 3, page 2, line 39, the words and figures &ldquo;the 31st day of December, 1924,&rdquo; deleted and the words and figures &ldquo;the 16th day of March, 1925,&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
       In Section 4 (2), page 2, lines 51 and 52, the words and figures &ldquo;8th day of January, 1925,&rdquo; deleted and the words and figures &ldquo;19th day of March, 1925,&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
       In Section 5, page 3, lines 4 and 5, the words and figures &ldquo;12th day of January, 1925,&rdquo; deleted and the words and figures &ldquo;31st day of March, 1925,&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
       In Section 6, sub-section (1) deleted. 
       In Section 6 (2), page 3, all words up to and including the word &ldquo;shall,&rdquo; in line 20, deleted and the following words inserted in lieu thereof:&mdash;&ldquo;The places of the members of the Board who went out of office on the second Thursday in the month of January, 1925, shall on and after the fourth Thursday in the month of April, 1925.&rdquo; 
       In Section 6 (2), page 3, line 26, the word &ldquo;February&rdquo; deleted and the word &ldquo;April&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof, and in the same line the word &ldquo;second&rdquo; deleted and the word &ldquo;fourth&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
       Section 7, page 3, deleted. 
       In Section 8, page 3, line 37, the figures &ldquo;1924&rdquo; deleted and the figures &ldquo;1925&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
       In the Title, page 2, line 9, the word &ldquo;in&rdquo; deleted and the word &ldquo;for&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
       In the Title, page 2, line 10, before the word &ldquo;for&rdquo; the words &ldquo;to make special provisions&rdquo; inserted. 
     
     In the Title, page 2, lines 13, 14 and 15, the words &ldquo;for a limited   period the retirement of certain members of the said Board and&rdquo; deleted and the words &ldquo;to a date in the year 1925&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof, and in line 16 the words &ldquo;to supply their places&rdquo; deleted. 
     
      
       Before we allow this Bill to pass with all these amendments inserted, I would like to ask the Deputy in charge of the Bill whether he has been able to consult those who act with him on the Port and Docks Board in regard to questions raised by the introduction of this Bill&mdash;the question of the franchise, the qualification for the franchise, the representation on the Board&mdash;and whether he proposes to make any suggestion to the Dail on behalf of the Board in regard to the necessity for electing on that Board representatives of the citizens as distinct from representatives of the interests involved. I understand that there have been at least informal discussions, and I think it would be helpful to the Dail, reassure the public, and remove some of the, shall I say, prejudices that have developed round the Ports and Docks Board, if we could learn from the Deputy that what he suggested&mdash;a change of heart&mdash;has in fact taken place, and whether the Board are preparing to take some steps in regard to the constitution of the Board and the franchise.  I hope that he will be able to help us in this matter.  The subject has had a certain amount of discussion, and the matter has been brought to the notice of the Dail, the Seanad, and the public.  I hope that the Port and Docks Board, this private corporation, has given consideration to the matter, in relation to the public concerned, in the proper administration of the Board and its work. 
     
     I do not know whether the Deputy and his colleagues in that Board are still of opinion that it was a loss to the Board not to have representatives of the Corporation&mdash;representatives of the citizens in their civic capacity, rather than in their trading capacity.  The Deputy professed certain regret, personally, on that matter on the occasion of the original discussion of this Bill.  I think we should have some information from him as to whether the influence of the Board, whether through   a private Bill or upon the Minister for Industry and Commerce, in regard to a public Bill, would be exerted towards removing this blot upon the administration&mdash;that a very big undertaking, affecting the citizens of Dublin city and county, be allowed now, through the action of the Minister for Local Government, to remain entirely in the hands of a non-representative body, because I do not consider that the present body elected in the way it is elected, can be reasonably called representative. I hope the Deputy in charge of the Bill will be able to tell us whether the Board has taken any steps towards the end I have indicated. 
     
      
       Deputy Johnson throughout the passage of this Bill has persistently and consistently thrown it up to me that the Port and Docks Board requires reform.  I have avoided entering into a matter which does not come within the scope of this Bill in any shape or form, because in dealing with this matter I am subject to the goodwill of the Government to give me time to get the Bill through.  The Bill has been going through on Government time, and I have hesitated to trespass on that time. 
     
     
      
       You have plenty of time now. 
     
     
      
       I desire to have the Board put in a position to carry on its work properly and efficiently.  As regards the constitution of the Board, at the right time and place I am prepared to maintain that the constitution of the Board is a fair constitution, considering the trust it has to administer. 
     
     
      
       Minus the Corporation members. 
     
     
      
       That does not enter into the question, because that is a matter which the members of the Port and Docks Board had nothing to say to.  At an earlier stage I expressed both my own regret and that of every member of the Board that the Corporation members had of their own free will ceased to attend the meetings of the Board. That may be getting into a contentious matter, but as far as the Port and Docks Board are concerned there is no   contention about their desire that the members of the Corporation should continue to act on the Port and Docks Board. 
     
     I maintain that a discussion on the franchise in relation to this Bill is stretching the point rather far, because this Bill could not, even if the Port and Docks Board were willing to admit that a reform was desirable, deal with the matter in the way it has been going through this House.  I take it that the revision of our powers or of the constitution as laid down in our Act would, of necessity, have to be accomplished by means of a Government measure or a Private Bill promoted by the Port and Docks Board or some outside interest. At all events, by no stretch of the imagination could the constitution of the Port and Docks Board be dealt with under the scope of the Bill before the House.  If my saying so would help in any way, it is the intention of the Port and Docks Board to submit evidence before the Greater Dublin Commission. In this way&mdash;Deputy Johnson will agree with me, as he has great experience of those Commissions&mdash;the question of the administration of the port can be discussed very fully, and it may be that in their wisdom the Commission will recommend some changes. At all events, it would enable the matter to be discussed more fully than it could be discussed under the scope of the Bill.  Perhaps that statement will, to some extent, satisfy Deputy Johnson in connection with his opposition to the measure.  I would say, too, as Deputy Johnson has opposed this Bill consistently, that while the franchise of port authorities very to some extent, they are all fairly consistent in having certain trading and shipping representatives. As far as the work of the Port and Docks Board is concerned in Dublin, I say the administration of the port in the hands of the present Port and Docks Board was not unsatisfactory in the past.  We must remember that the Port and Docks Board does not derive its revenues by levying rates on the people as a whole.  It is the nearest approach to a business run on the limited liability system or company system.  It has got to pay its way, and as far as it can, provide a surplus for the carrying   on of the work.  It has got to raise its own capital without assistance from anyone else.  It has to run the show as a business proposition, on business lines. That carries with it a privilege that the people that pay the bulk of the revenue derived in connection with the carrying on of the Board get representation on it.  By means of the Corporation representatives, universal franchise operates to that extent, but our own electorate is a very wide one, with over 4,000 voters who get their qualifications on account of the work they are carrying on in the city, either as payers of shipping dues or owners of shipping or other ways.  No one except the Corporation members sits on that Board who is not directly elected on a franchise which is in conformity with that of other ports carrying on business in a similar fashion.  Consequently, there is nothing strange about the qualifications for voters in connection with the Port and Docks Board.  All boards are subject to criticism.  All boards are human and liable to err, but I make the broad statement that as far as a workable, businesslike board is concerned, and subject to certain limitations, Deputy Johnson's condemnation of the whole Board would not meet with general approval. 
     I have been a member of the Board for 20 years.  As far as I know the opinion of my colleagues on that Board, they are quite willing to place their case before any unbiassed commission, to have it examined and inquired into, and to have decided whether what Deputy Johnson says is right in regard to the Constitution.  I maintain that, though the Constitution, like every other Constitution, might be improved, it is not so unsatisfactory in the basic principle which underlies it, as the Deputy would have us believe. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Committee agree with the Seanad in the amendments submitted&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Amendments reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agrees with the Committee in its Report&rdquo;&mdash;put, and agreed to. 
     Message ordered to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - MONEY RESOLUTION&mdash;POLICE FORCES AMALGAMATION BILL, 1924. 
     
     
       
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru n-iocfar amach as airgead a shola throidh an tOireachtas gach costas agus eileamh fe n-a raghfar margo gheall ar an bhForsa Cosanta a cuir-far le cheile fe fhoralacha aon Achta a rithfar sa tSioson so chun Poilini Chathrach Bhaile Atha Cliath agus an Garda Siochana do cho-nasca agus chun foralacha do dheanamh i dtaobh nithe a bhaineas leis an gco-nasca san no a thiocfas da bharr. 
             That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas of all costs, charges and expenses incurred in respect of the Amalgamated Force constituted under the provisions of any Act of the present Session to amalgamate the Dublin Metropolitan Police and the Garda Siochana and to provide for divers matters inciden tal to or consequential on such amal gamation. 
           
         
       
     
     The necessary Message prescribed by the Constitution has been received from the Governor-General.  The Bill with which this motion deals will cause no charge on the Exchequer, except the charge that will result from the gradual disappearance of the police rate.  That amounts now to about £52,000 per annum, representing a rate of 8d. in the £, which will be reduced by a penny per annum, and thus disappear in eight years.  This rate represents the only local contribution in aid of any police force.  It has been felt that on the amalgamation of the D.M.P. and the Garda Siochana and the disappearance of a separate police force for Dublin, it will not be possible to continue to levy this contribution. Provision is made in the Bill for the gradual extinction of the contribution. That is the only matter in the Bill which will cause any charge which does not now fall upon the Exchequer to do so. 
     
      
       Are we to understand that the amendment which is down providing that after eight years there shall be a charge upon the local authorities, has escaped the notice of the Minister? 
     
     
      
       It will not affect the motion which is down. 
     
     
      
       Before this motion is passed, I would like to know whether the view taken by the Minister in proposing it will limit the authority of the Dail, should it decide on eliminating those particular clauses.  The question of carrying on this liability for a further period of seven or eight years is one that will occupy the attention of the Committee, and I want to be satisfied that the Committee will have a free hand and that they will not be restricted by anything the Minister has said in proposing this motion. 
     
     
      
       The Committee would not be restricted by anything the Minister has said or can say.  The Committee will, of course, be bound by the terms of the resolution as they may be interpreted&mdash;not necessarily as interpreted by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I gather from the terms of the resolution if the Committee, in its wisdom, thought it right to eliminate those clauses dealing with financial questions from the Bill, that the Bill in its amended form would still be within that resolution. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can relieve the Exchequer of any amount proposed in the Bill, but he cannot put on the Exchequer an amount not contemplated in the Bill.  If the Deputy wants to know whether he can move that that 8d. in the £ rate be continued indefinitely, it is open to him to do that, but if he proposes to move that that rate be reduced to 4d. next year, he has not got that right. 
     
     
     
      
       That puts rather a different complexion on this resolution.  If we pass this resolution in the form in which it is before us, it will prevent us dealing with those particular clauses. 
     
     
      
       That is in accordance with the Constitution. 
     
     
      
       The resolution does not prevent anything. The resolution is very general.  The Deputy may be prevented from doing a thing he wants to do, but if he is he will not be prevented by this resolution but by the Standing Order which has been adopted, that no Deputy, except he be a member of the Executive Council, has authority to move to impose a charge upon the Public Funds.  By &ldquo;Public Funds&rdquo; is understood National Funds, not local funds&mdash;the National Exchequer as distinct from a local fund of the Dublin Corporation or any other such body. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be possible to widen the scope of this resolution so that we might have a free discussion on these financial clauses?  It is rather a serious matter that in the Metropolitan area a burden will be continued under this Bill amounting to practically £50,000 per annum.  Why the people of the Metropolitan area should pay that sum for a police force, in addition to the ordinary liability assumed by other sections of the community, is a matter that the Government will have to justify.  I want the terms of this motion arranged so that we may have a free discussion on this matter which is so important to the ratepayers of the Metropolitan area. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Good is, apparently, unaware that Deputy Johnson has secured, without canvassing and without asking, a recruit of his own importance.  Nobody ever raised a question as regards the Constitution or the terms of the regulations respecting the exclusive right of Ministers to impose financial burdens, except I think Deputy Johnson's party, and even that party did it with very great reluctance on particular occasions&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       I wish the President would give us some reference. 
     
     
      
       It was with regard to unemployment or extension or development or something of that kind. This suggestion of Deputy Good is one of the most unorthodox that could be imagined.  It offends against every principle that makes for financial stability.  Deputy Good, in essence, wants to be in the position of placing a burden upon the Exchequer, but at the same time not to have the responsibility of having that put publicly before the people as his suggestion. The Dublin Corporation have been protesting against this burden for years, but they never got any assistance from Deputy Good or the Chamber of Commerce. 
     
     
      
       We are not going to discuss the history of the Dublin Corporation and the police rate. It may be an excellent thing to discuss, but we are not going to discuss it now. In essence, what I think Deputy Good wants is that the Minister for Finance should introduce a Money Resolution to make it possible to do something which the Minister for Justice, who is a colleague of the Minister for Finance, and shares with him collective responsibility, does not want put in the Bill.  I am afraid that is a difficult conundrum for the two Ministers in their positions. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be in order to have this question raised on Section 16 of the Bill? 
     
     
      
       Certainly, but I do not want to rule upon amendments which I have not seen. Deputy Good, I think, wants to move an amendment of some kind. 
     
     
      
       My point is this: In the event of certain decisions being come to by the Committee, throwing an additional burden on, shall I say, the Minister for Finance, can that be done in view of the limited nature of the Resolution before us? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy, I think, is under a misapprehension in thinking   that the Resolution is of a limited nature.  It is, in fact, of the most general nature possible.  So far as the Resolution is concerned, it will not prevent him moving anything. 
     
     
      
       Is it constitutional? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy may be prevented, but not by the Resolution.  Sometimes resolutions are very limited.  This particular one is very general.  There is a general provision by which a Deputy, other than a Member of the Executive Council, cannot move a motion to impose a burden upon the public Exchequer. That is to say, Deputy Good could move to reduce the income tax in the Finance Bill, but, even if he wanted to do so ever so much, he could not move to increase the income tax.  That is the exact position. 
     
     
      
       That is a great relief. 
     
     
      
       It is a comforting assurance. 
     
     
      
       There is a point that, without going outside the scope of the discussion, I would like to raise now.  It, to my mind, affects very deeply the Minister for Finance. Would he assure us that, in the development of the new police force, in the matter of clothing and equipment for them, whether of a utilitarian or dress nature, materials of non-Irish manufacture will not be used?  I fear very much that, in the case of the Civic Guard, and of the Army&mdash;if it can be mentioned now&mdash;points have not been kept in mind recently with regard to Irish manufacture in the matter of dress that, I feel, should have been kept in mind.  However necessary it may be in respect to matters that are absolutely utilitarian for these forces to get materials of foreign manufacture in cases where we cannot possibly provide the stuff economically in this country, where it is a matter purely of dress or ornamentation I feel that we should not go outside our own country for any matter of that kind. 
     
     The police force and the army, in these matters of dress, occupy, to some   extent at any rate, a privileged position or a powerful position, perhaps, in what would be called setting the fashion.  Apart altogether from the loss occasioned by sending out of the country money for ornamentations, either in materials or what we call trimmings for the dress of those forces, if we allowed ourselves in a pivotal position like that to tolerate the importation of dress materials for fancy purposes, the reactions on our people generally might be very bad and might create very much more serious financial obligations for the Minister for Finance than the actual and immediate loss to the country in utilising any money directly provided for the police force or the army in such a manner. 
     
      
       I am glad that Deputy Mulcahy has raised this question of the dress of officers in the police force.  We know that there is, quite commonly, a certain amount of rivalry between public forces of the defence kind, forces whose duty it is to keep order and to prevent trouble.  I think it would be a very sad reflection on the policy of the Ministry if it were to encourage in any way, whether by paying out of public funds or throwing a burden upon the officers themselves, a liability for certain fancy dress for appearance on fancy dress occasions. I imagine it would create a very considerable amount of dissatisfaction if there were thrown on the officers of the police forces&mdash;the Civic Guard, or the D.M.P.&mdash;a responsibility for sums amounting to £20 or £30 for mess dress, for instance.  I believe that the officers concerned would not be any more amenable to discipline, and the effect upon the Constables or the Guards would not be beneficial.  Certainly the effect upon the public, as regards the reputation that has been gained by the Garda Siochana and other forces of a similar kind, would not be enhanced or improved if there were a fashion set for, shall I say, the aping of the practices of the old and expiring aristocracy. I hope we will get some reassurance from the Minister for Justice that he, at any rate, will insist that as regards these forces there shall be no such thing as the dressing up of officers   of the Garda Siochana or the D.M.P. for show purposes, or of throwing upon individual officers on the one hand, or the revenue on the other, a charge which neither the one nor the other ought to be asked to bear. 
     
     
      
       We are not concerned with the expenses that individual officers are asked to bear. It is a question of public funds. 
     
     
      
       It is a matter of discipline.  An officer would not be allowed to appear on certain occasions unless in certain dress, so that although it is not directly a matter of public funds, indirectly it might well become a charge upon the public funds if the Dail were to allow it. 
     
     
      
       I do not propose to reply to Deputy Johnson, and I do not know really what instances Deputy General Mulcahy was referring to.  It is the policy of the Government to use Irish manufacture and to give a substantial preference to Irish manufacture, and I think this has consistently been done.  I should be glad to know of any instance in which it has not been done.  It should be obvious on the other hand that we cannot take up a policy of buying Irish manufacture at any cost.  There must be a limit, and people who supply Irish manufacture at goods must know they have to compete, even although they may be sheltered in their competition.  But they must not have the idea that Irish manufacture will be taken, and that no matter what profit is made on it still the contract would be secure.  The policy of giving a substantial preference to Irish manufacture has not been departed from as far as I know.  If it has, it has only been by something of an accidental nature. 
       Resolution agreed to: Ordered to be reported. 
     
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the Resolution&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - POLICE FORCES AMALGAMATION BILL, 1924.&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
       Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4, put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 5. 
       (1)  On and from the commencement of this Act the Dublin Metropolitan Police and the Garda Siochana shall be amalgamated and form one force (which force is in this Act referred to as the amalgamated force), and it shall thenceforward be lawful for the Executive Council to train, equip, pay, and maintain such amalgamated force as a police force in Saorstat Eireann. 
       (2)  The amalgamated force shall be called and know as the Garda Siochana, and shall consist of such officers and men as the Executive Council shall from time to time determine not exceeding the total numbers of officers and men respectively specified in the Third Schedule to this Act. 
     
     
      
       There is just one point on this section that I would like to ask a question about.  Section 5 transfers the whole of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, including the Detective Division.  I was not in the Dail when the Garda Siochana were set up, and I wish to ask the Minister for Justice is there any statutory provision that prevents the arming of the Garda, because if so, that would then, under this section, apply to the Detective Force, and that would not be desirable. 
     
     
      
       No.  There is no statutory provision preventing the arming of the Garda Siochana. 
       Section put and agreed to. 
       Sections 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 were agreed to and added to the Bill. 
       SECTION 11. 
     
     (1)  No officer or other member of the Dublin Metropolitan Police or the   Garda Siochaan shall be capable of holding office or acting in any way as an officer or other member of the amalgamated force after the expiration of one month from the commencement of this Act unless he has before the commencement of this Act taken the oath or made the declaration required by law to be taken or made by officers or other members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police or the Garda Siochana (as the case may be) or shall before the expiration of the said month make and subscribe before a Peace Commissioner a declaration in the form contained in the Fourth Schedule to this Act. 
     (2)  No person appointed after the commencement of this Act to be an officer or other member of the amalgamated force shall be capable of holding the office or acting in any way therein until he shall have made and subscribed before a Peace Commissioner a declaration in the form contained in the Fourth Schedule to this Act. 
     
      
       I beg to move as an amendment:&mdash; 
       Before Section 11 to add a new section as follows:&mdash;The Commissioner of the amalgamated forces shall appoint a Deputy-Commissioner, or an Assistant Commissioner, who shall be specially charged with the control and supervision of those officers and men of the Garda Siochana who are serving in the Dublin Metropolitan area, and who shall also be responsible for the public order and security of that area. 
     
     I move this amendment with a view to providing more efficient administration and control of the police force of the Metropolitan area than is provided by the Bill.  On Second Reading I asked the Minister how Dublin would be controlled in future.  He said that the present Commissioner of the D.M.P. who, under the Bill would become Deputy Commissioner of the Garda, would no doubt exercise a special interest in Dublin, and, in addition, there would be a Chief Superintendent who would be in charge of the Dublin Metropolitan   area.  With all respect to the Chief Superintendents of the Garda who are responsible officers of high rank, I venture to think that the Dublin area is too big to be controlled by one Chief Superintendent.  We have in the Bill no guarantee that it will have any officer of higher rank interested in it&mdash; of course, the Commissioner will be interested, but it will not be his exclusive care.  I want to make it his exclusive care.  I want to make it the exclusive care and responsiblity of one individual. There are to be altogether 29 Chief Superintendents for the 26 Counties.  The Metropolitan area has a population of well over 400,000 people, about one-eighth of the whole of the Saorstat.  It contains the High Courts of Justice, the State Legislature, the principal business emporiums, and two of the chief universities.  It has very special problems, and problems that should be the definite charge of some officer of high rank&mdash;a rank higher than that of Chief Superintendent General Mruphy, having special knowledge and experience of Dublin problems, might probably be giving up the Commissionership and the general supervision and care of that area. General Murphy might suddenly be told to take an interest in affairs in Munster, or he might cease to hold office in Dublin.  All men are mortal, and there is no guarantee in the Bill that any important officer would be in charge of Dublin.  The problems of Dublin are very great.  There are great traffic problems, street trading problems, and a problem that the Ministry has not yet tackled, but will have to tackle in time, namely, the control of public meetings and the extent to which they should be allowed within the immediate radius of this building and the Seanad Chamber.  All these are very specialised problems for a special officer, not merely for one of the 29 superintendents who may possibly, though not probably, be a junior officer. He might be a man whose previous experience was gained in Clare or Mayo with very little knowledge of urban problems at all.  I agree that while the force is under its present control that is not likely to arise.  But I want to   create a statutory safeguard so that it shall not arise, and that one of the five chief officers of the force in Dublin should be a man to whom the citizens could look for help and sympathy, and whom they could approach without troubling the Commissioner, but he should be in a position to be made responsible to the public opinion of Dublin so far as it is able to express itself. 
     
      
       I do not propose to accept this amendment.  I interpret the amendment as really conflicting with the underlying principle of the entire Bill, and as inconsistent with the whole object the Bill seeks to achieve &mdash;the unity of control and responsibility of the police force.  Deputy Cooper in explaining and advocating his amendment said that he moved it with a view to providing more efficient administration in the metropolis, and that he was actuated by a desire to make the policing of the metropolis the exclusive responsibility of one individual. I also want to make the policing of the metropolis the responsibility of one individual, but that one individual will be the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana. 
     
     I think that the conception of some other individual than the Commissioner of the force with an exclusive responsibility for the policing in Dublin is, in fact, a traversing of the principle of the Bill and of the object at which the Bill aims.  I see no stronger case for having statutory responsibility placed on one individual for the policing of Dublin than, say, for the policing of Cork.  He will have an adminstrative responsibility, and the sanctions of that responsibility will be the sanctions of discipline.  If we agree that it is a proper thing to have a single police force operating throughout the entire area of jurisdiction of the State, then I submit that it is not a proper thing to move on from that conception and have, side by side with it, the conception of some special legal as distinct from administrative or disciplinary responsibility, some special statutory responsibility on an officer of the force, other than the Commissioner of the force.  In fact and in practice, a Deputy Commissioner will always have   special primary responsibility for the conditions of order in the capital, but his responsibility will be through the Commissioner to the Minister.  It will not be a statutory responsibility.  I submit that Deputy Cooper's design to make it so, is not well founded and would mean in fact or, at any rate, tend to a return to the conception of two distinct police areas, which is exactly what I am trying to get away from, because I am satisfied it does not make for efficiency in police administration and constitutes a factor in favour of the law breaker.  The amendment in its wording speaks of a Deputy, or Assistant, Commissioner who shall be responsible for public order and security in the Dublin Metropolitan area.  Responsibility to whom? 
     
      
       I intended him to be responsible to the Commissioner, and should have added those words. 
     
     
      
       Responsible to the Commissioner.  All the officers of the Garda Siochana are responsible to the Commissioner, and through him to the Minister, and through the Minister to the Dail and the people, but this amendment under consideration seeks to impose some special or statutory responsibility on one particular officer for the police administration of the Dublin area.  I see no necessity for that, and in so far as it tends to break away from the conception of the area of jurisdiction of the State I dissent from it.  It is not any question of degree but in essence and in principle, there is no greater case for putting special statutory responsibility on one officer of police for Dublin area than there is for proceeding to do the same for Cork, Waterford, and elsewhere.  Therefore, I am not accepting the amendment, and I ask the Dail to agree with that view. 
     
     
      
       I am not entirely satisfied with the Minister's reply.  I do not think that a word of the amendment undermines the authority of the Commissioner.  I would not stand for that in any way.  I say that it is ridiculous for a Commissioner for the whole Saorstat to be called on to deal, as some officer will have to deal, with the whole question of Dublin.  When dealing with gunmen, say, in Kerry and disturbed conditions in Leitrim, he should   not have his attention diverted from that to the question of parking motor cars outside the Chamber of Commerce. City problems are special problems. There is nothing in the amendment about Cork or Waterford, but if I were a Deputy from Cork or Waterford I might put down an amendment to that effect.  There is a precedent in the days of the old R.I.C., which was a unified force for the whole island.  It was found that it was impossible to administer the City of Belfast under the ordinary R.I.C. system, and they had to establish a City Commissioner and a special force in Belfast to deal with the problems in that area.  I am not particular as to the rank of the officer chosen, but I think that the Chief Superintendent, as one of such a comparatively large number, would not carry sufficient authority and weight. The Chief Superintendent, who is charged with administering the whole area from Killiney to Clontarf or Rathmines, will be grossly overworked as compared with any other Chief Superintendent. 
     
     Imagine the severity of the task of the Chief Superintendent in Dublin as compared with, say, the Chief Superintendent in Kilkenny or Longford. There is no provision in the Bill to give the Chief Superintendent who is responsible for Dublin any extra pay, although he would have under his command a far larger force of men than probably three other Chief Superintendents. If the Dublin force is to be properly supervised it will not require one but at least three superintendents, judging by the scale on which things are done in the rest of the country.  If you have three such officers you must have a senior officer to supervise.  The Minister objects to it being made a statutory obligation to do this, but I believe that making it a statutory obligation is the only way by which we shall be assured of getting it done.  If the amalgamation is to work&mdash;and I agree with it in principle&mdash;it will work badly in Dublin unless an amendment such as mine is adopted.  If it is rejected now, I believe that sooner or later the Minister will have to come to the Dail, or else by administrative   action, and do what I am asking the Dail to do now. 
     
      
       I think I explained to the Deputy that in fact and in practice there will be special and primary responsibility on the Deputy Commissioner for good order in Dublin city and county, a division which will be known in future as the metropolitan division of the Garda Siochana.  My objection is to making that a statutory responsibility which would seem to take away from the primary responsibility of the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana for all the area over which the Garda Siochana operates and over every man who is a member of the force.  I do not feel at all that the question of good order or security in Dublin city and county will suffer by a refusal to accept this particular amendment. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Before Section 11 to add a new section as follows:&mdash; 
       (1)  The Minister shall establish by order a Consultative Council for giving advice and assistance to the Commissioner of the amalgamated force in connection with any matter in relation to the public order and security of the Dublin Metropolitan area. 
       (2)  The said Consultative Council shall be composed as follows:&mdash; 
       (i)  four members to be nominated by the Corporation of the City of Dublin; (ii) two members to be nominated by the Rathmines Urban District Council; (iii) one member to be nominated by each of the Urban Councils of Pembroke, Blackrock, and Dun Laoghaire; (iv)  one member to be nominated by the Urban District Councils of Dalkey and Killiney, sitting jointly under arrangements to be made by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health; (v) one member to be nominated by the Dublin Chamber of Commerce; (vi) one member to be nominated by the Dublin Workers' Council. 
     
     Each member shall retain his membership for three years only, from the   date of his nomination, but shall be eligible for renomination. 
     (3)  In the event of any local governing body entitled to nominate members of the Consultative Council being dissolved by order of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, the member, or members, nominated by that body shall continue to serve on the Council until the expiration of their term of membership, but, in the event of any vacancy occurring among them, the nomination to fill the vacancy shall be made by the person, or persons, to whom the duties of the said local governing body have been entrusted by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
     (4)  The said Consultative Council shall meet whenever summoned by the Commissioner of the amalgamated force, and also on such occasions as the Council may, from time to time, determine. 
     This amendment intends, in principle, to establish the consultative council named, by which representatives of the ratepayers should assist the Commissioner in the administration of the Dublin metropolitan area.  I have given four members to the Corporation of the City of Dublin, two to the Rathmines Urban Council, one each to Pembroke, Blackrock, and Dun Laoghaire Councils, and one to Dalkey and Killiney, jointly.  I have also given a certain element of outside representation, one to represent the Chamber of Commerce, and one the Dublin Workers' Council.  I have also made provision for the not impossible contingency of any of these local bodies being dissolved by order of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.  I have provided that existing representatives shall hold office for three years, and if the necessity arises the office is to be held by any Commissioner performing the duties. In drafting this amendment I have followed as nearly as I could the consultative council established by the Minister for Lands and Agriculture in connection with the Livestock Breeding Bill.  I think that there should be some element of popular selection and popular control   in the administration of the Bill, particularly in view of the fact that in later years very considerable contributions from the rates will be paid for the maintenance of the force. 
     In most English cities there is, as the Minister knows, what is known as a Watch Committee which has complete supervision of the police force.  This is not a Watch Committee.  It will not concern itself with the question of promotion or dicipline in any way whatever. It will be merely there to meet and consult with the Commissioner on points that are of very legitimate concern to the citizens, as to the adequacy of protection afforded in certain areas, as to the control of traffic, bye-laws about street trading, and the holding of public meetings in a public thoroughfare. These are points upon which the local authority has a certain right to express opinion, and, by means of this Council, that opinion will be given expression to. 
     From time to time we see letters in the newspapers complaining of inadequate police control in certain areas, and that hooligans are allowed to make noise late at night&mdash;a thing which the Minister for Justice would not approve of&mdash;or complaining of the riotous conduct of children.  It is a great pity to have these complaints in the papers, and it would be much better if there was a definite channel by which they could be brought to the notice of the Commissioner, or someone in authority. In the event of the council that I suggest being set up it would be possible for anyone with a grievance to write to the local member of the council, who would investigate the matter, and if satisfied that it was a cause of complaint, he would be in a position to bring it before the Commissioner in the same way that Deputies are able to bring grievances before Ministers in the Dail. 
     I know that there is a certain dislike in the mind of members of the Government towards doing anything that may detract from responsibility.  The Consultative Council does not detract from responsibility.  It is a device adopted by Ministers in many cases during the last year, though I admit   that Ministers usually maintain the right of nominating their own council. As rates are paid for the police in the Dublin area, and not paid for the police in any other area, I think the case for the existence of a council of this kind is extremely strong, and I hope the Minister will accept the amendment. 
     
      
       The Deputy does not, apparently, share a superstitious dislike of the number thirteen.  He proposes to set up a consultative committee of thirteen persons to advise the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana as to how best to keep order and create conditions of security for life and property in the metropolitan area.  He quotes in favour of that course the analogy, or alleged analogy, of another Department which set up consultative committees.  He speaks of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, and the Minister for Industry and Commerce, having availed themselves of consultative committees for one purpose or another connected with their Department. I submit there is something of a difference between the question of police work and certain problems that fall for consideration, say, by the Minister for Agriculture.  I have not any natural genius for police work, but, certainly, I would not like to be the officer who would be compelled from time to time, in a particular set of conditions, to seek counsel or inspiration from thirteen persons representing different elements and different points of view within the city.  I imagine he would come out from such a council meeting somewhat less wise and less inspired than when he went in.  I wholly disapprove of the suggestion. 
     
     The Deputy says that the local authorities should have the right to express an opinion.  That is not a very revolutionary sentiment.  It is one with which I am in entire agreement.  The right to express an opinion is one thing, but the right to take executive action is another.  Police problems, or certain kind of police problems and responsibilities, cannot be shared between the police officer and a body of thirteen laymen&mdash;thirteen civilians&mdash;elected   haphazard by a half-dozen local authorities. The Deputy speaks of letters in the evening papers&mdash;probably written in the office of the evening papers&mdash; about children kicking football in the streets, and people trying their top notes on the way home late at night, and so on.  There is no objection to these letters at all, and I have only this comment to make about them, that it might be a little more practical if, instead of being sent to the papers, they were sent to my Department.  It is eminently proper that people who are conscious of a nuisance or abuse in the city should draw attention to it through one or other channel.  It is quite another thing to move on, and say that the officer responsible for the police administration in Dublin must take counsel from time to time with a body of thirteen laymen&mdash;thirteen civilians&mdash; elected by the local authorities. 
     The said Consultative Council shall meet whenever summoned by the Commissioner of the amalgamated force and also on such occasion as the Council may, from time to time, determine. 
     It is not entirely optional on the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana to seek advice when he feels in need of it, but it is put, according to the Deputy's amendment, outside that, when it feels called upon to advise the Commissioner. We might as well be practical.  Imagine a situation, say, when you have industrial disputes of one kind or another in the city, and the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana is called upon to take counsel with this mixed body of thirteen persons, each with his own point of view, and with his own particular interest, as to the steps which he ought to take for maintaining proper order and security, and possibly the steps he ought not to take.  In so far from making for efficient administration it would simply make for friction and chaos.  It sounds nice.  It is the kind of thing that one can enthuse about, the right of public bodies to express an opinion and so on.  But in practice it would be almost incapable of smooth administration.  I disapprove of it.  I feel that if the Deputy were a Commissioner of the Garda   Siochana he would disapprove of it.  I feel that if he were Minister for Justice he would also disapprove of it.  He would probably disapprove of it a little more strongly after six or twelve months' experience of it in operation. I am not accepting the amendment. 
     
      
       I can quite understand the Minister's state of mind when he says he is opposing this amendment, and the ideas involved in it.  In giving us that information he tells us that, no doubt, if Deputy Cooper were Commissioner of Police, he also would disapprove of the proposal.  Of course, every person in such a position is going to disapprove of any suggestion about receiving advice from anybody. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  It is the very essence of the idea of centralised control of any public service.  That means centralised control in the hands of one man not subject to criticism.  The Minister has imbibed the R.I.C. spirit. 
     
     
      
       What is that? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps if the Minister looks up his records in Donegal and Mayo he will see what it is.  The Minister has taken upon himself the ideas that used to prevail about the necessity of having a militarised police force in Ireland, and centralised control, not having any intervention or interference from any public authority of any kind, responsible to the Chief Secretary, who was responsible to the Ministry in London&mdash;centralised control of militarised forces.  Now one asks oneself what is the conception of future development in the mind of the Minister?  Does he imagine that they are always going to be ruled and governed in all parts of the country, from, shall I say, Merrion Street, in matters of local administration?  We have apparent in the Bill of the Minister for Local Government a tendency towards bureaucracy.  We have now in this Bill, and, particularly, in the statement of the Minister, refuting Deputy Cooper's arguments, his adhesion to the idea of a centralised force responsible only to the Minister, who in turn is   responsible to a body&mdash;the Dail&mdash;representing the whole country, and collectively a body without any definite local responsibility. 
       I realise, as well as anyone, perhaps, that we are not now in a position to devolve upon local authorities power for the maintenance of order locally. I do not think that the time is at hand when the local peace forces can be locally controlled.  But I look forward to the time when the police forces of the country will not be centrally controlled, and will be, in fact, controlled locally, with whatever national coordinating authority there may be. The Minister does not seem to imagine that there can be any improvement upon centralised militarised forces to act as peace forces.  I support the idea in this amendment, reserving the right to suggest certain alterations.  I believe it is desirable to associate locally elected authorities with the administration of peace officers, in the work of keeping order, and advising the police authority what their desires are, and what are the needs of the district.  The Minister assumes that the Commissioner of Police will be sufficiently in touch with the needs of the community. It is possible that that may be so.  A benevolent autocrat is very often looked upon as the most idealistic method of Government, if you can find a benevolent autocrat, and be sure that you are to get one with sufficient benevolence to govern rightly. 
     
     
      
       Benevolently. 
     
     
      
       Yes, benevolently, as Deputy Figgis suggests.  But we are not sure of our Commissioners of Police; we are not sure of our Ministers for Justice.  When the Minister refers to the idea of a local authority having at least the right of approach to the Commissioner of Police with regard to the keeping of order in the locality which it represents, as though it were something new, has he ever heard of police committees of public bodies, corporations, county councils or the like?  It is entirely in keeping with the best and, as I believe, the freest method of administration of   police forces that can be found anywhere. If the Minister and the Dail desire that the system of the R.I.C. shall continue, that is centralised police forces covering the whole country, under the direction of one man, who, in the happy and frequently-expressed phrase of the Minister, may press a button himself and be responsible to the Minister for Justice for the time, and not have any obligation upon him to consult or take into account the authorities responsible for the local administration, then, of course, the Dail will pass this Bill and reject the amendment. 
       I suggest that if we look ahead, and if we look for development in the direction of autonomy and local responsibility for purely local affairs, we ought at least to take this step and approve of the appointment of a Committee representative of the existing local authorities, until they change, a Committee that would act as a body whom the Commissioner would be able to approach and consult, and who, in turn, would be able to approach the Commissioner in matters affecting their localities.  I disagree with the proposition that the Chamber of Commerce of Dublin, and the Workers' Council of Dublin should appoint any of these persons.  I believe that the locally-elected authority is the body which should have the appointment of any such Committee.  I, therefore, approve of, and I will support the motion of Deputy Cooper with that reservation. 
     
     
      
       I remember that, some time ago, the Minister for Justice told us he was bad at arithmetic.  I sympathise very much with him, because I, too, am bad at arithmetic.  I am, however, capable of simple addition. If the Minister for Justice will take his pad and write down the figures I am about to give him, the result of a small sum in addition might be of interest to him.  There are four members nominated by the Corporation of the City of Dublin, two nominated by Rathmines, three by each urban district council, one being from each; one nominated by two urban councils sitting jointly, one representing the   Chamber of Commerce, and one the Dublin Workers' Council.  If the Minister adds that list up he will find it makes twelve and not thirteen.  If the Minister cannot do the adding himself, perhaps the Minister for Finance would help him. 
       I do not know how the Minister arrived at the figure of thirteen.  I think he must have thought that &ldquo;Dun&rdquo; was one place and &ldquo;Laoghaire&rdquo; another.  It reminds me of the foreign journalist who once said that the two most important men in the Government were Kevin and O'Higgins. That is apparently the basis of the Minister's reasoning.  His reasoning is as sound in that matter as his arithmetic, if one is to judge by the arguments he has brought to bear on this matter.  He speaks of a council of thirteen when I speak of a council of twelve.  I am quite willing to make it a council of ten.  I do not know if the Chamber of Commerce or the Workers' Council would have any serious objection to a council of ten.  The Minister says that if I were Minister or Commissioner of Police I would not have such a council. If I were Minister I would appoint an advisory council in order to be able to share some of the responsibility.  I admit I would appoint them myself and not have them appointed by local bodies.  But I am not Minister and I am not a bureaucrat.  The Minister tells me that to work with a committee of this kind would render administration almost an impossiblity.  He suggested that to do so would interfere with the control of affairs.  My suggestion is purely with a view to having advice and assistance, and nothing else. 
     
     
      
       Can you guarantee assistance? 
     
     
      
       As to assistance, I refer to the assistance of collective wisdom.  As to the Minister's point in regard to the Committee, consultative committees under the Minister for Lands and Agriculture are already operating, and I should imagine they could do as much harm to the live-stock trade as the committee I suggest could do to the police force.  The Minister contends   that such a system would be almost incapable of administration.  Let me inform him that that system is being administered in Glasgow, Manchester, Leeds and Liverpool&mdash;all places with a large Irish population.  It is also, I believe, administered in London.  In every one of these cities the chief constable has to work with a committee appointed by the local governing body, and the system works well.  Those cities and towns are not worse policed or less orderly, taken as a general rule, than Dublin.  What is being done every day across the water is quite impossible here, we are told.  You could not administer it here simply because those responsible for administration have not vision enough to see what an improvement it would be. 
     
     
      
       This amendment raises a rather important matter.  The committee Deputy Cooper proposes to set up would, in my judgement, be very ineffective at the present time.  It would be ineffective because of the circumstances we are faced with.  I think it is right and proper the Dail should pass this Bill amalgamating the two forces; but I view with very grave apprehension the state of affairs that would exist provided the conditions we are faced with to-day would also continue in operation.  The underlying idea of Deputy Cooper is, I think, that the police force, as a whole, as far as Dublin is concerned&mdash;and possibly he would extend his argument to other parts of the country&mdash;should not be put in the autocratic position of a force being a law unto themselves, or, rather, a law based on the authority of the Minister for Justice.  That danger does exist. 
     
     The remedy really lies in the development of the local government of the country.  Local government to-day is in a position of grave discredit.  Surely the Dail is not looking forward to a continuance of those conditions.  Under the new Local Government Bill, county councils are being set up with certain powers.  As far as they are concerned, it does seem to me that the Minister is forecasting a curtailment of their operations, which curtailment, when it comes into effect, will be resented by   them to a great extent.  Take, for example, the position of Dublin.  We are without any representative Corporation. Surely we cannot contemplate that state of affairs existing beyond a reasonable time.  We have now a Greater Dublin Commission sitting, and possibly changes will take place in connection with the area that will be governed by the Corporation at no very distant date. 
     
      
       Query. 
     
     
      
       I am only throwing that out as a possibility.  At all events, it seems to me that when the new Corporation comes into operation, they will and must have a very considerable say on the question of whether the Dublin area is being properly administered under the provisions of this Bill, or whether they are not entitled to have some say in connection with the administration of the city police force. A nominated miscellaneous committee, without any responsibility, would be a retrogade step.  I would accept this Bill for a transition stage, but, beyond the transition stage, I believe that the claim of Dublin citizens through their Corporation, or in other directions, will be insistent that they should have a voice in connection with all matters of city control.  I would certainly look with very grave apprehension on a body such as Deputy Cooper proposes to set up, as it would interfere with the discipline of the police force.  I think it will be bound to come into conflict with the Commissioner of Police, and I think will be bound to interfere with the due and proper carrying out of the duties that would be entrusted to the Commissioner and which he is responsible for. It is a very different thing from saying that the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana should be entrusted with any such arbitrary powers as are outlined in this Bill without some provision for public opinion having an effect on the force as a whole, and particularly on the force as it will operate in the city. 
     
     
      
       I was not quite able to follow the whole tendency of Deputy Hewat's argument, because it seems to me that he at first started by urging that the amendment should   be defeated, and then urging that the substance of the principle embodied in the amendment&mdash;which is that there should be some close connection between the administration of a centralised police force and the areas over which that administration is to be conducted&mdash;was a right and proper principle. As I understood him, he justified that apparent contradiction by appealing to that measure as a temporary measure.  Well, there is nothing in the measure to indicate that it is temporary and there is a great fear that any Legislature might undertake a measure of this kind, considering it as a temporary measure, and once it finds its way to that resting place known as the Statute Book, it becomes not a temporary measure, but a very permanent measure, difficult to dislodge or amend. 
       The Minister for Justice will remember that when the Garda Siochana Act was before the Dail, in the first Dail of the Free State, a good deal of argument was brought before him that steps should be taken by him to bring that force into some contact with local areas and local bodies, especially urban and corporate bodies.  I think I am correct in saying&mdash;if I am wrong the Minister will correct me&mdash;that the Minister did at that time say that he felt a certain degree of sympathy with that point of view, that he did feel that there ought to be some close contact between bodies locally elected and locally responsible and a force of this kind, administered as it would otherwise tend to be administered, as a bureaucratic and centralised police force. 
     
     
      
       I would like the Deputy to quote what I said. 
     
     
      
       Whether he expressed that sympathy or not&mdash;I have not the Minutes before me&mdash;I do not know, but I do know that point of view was strongly urged upon him. Another point of view was urged upon him at the same time, but this other matter was experimental.  It was that the Garda Siochana should be sent out at a time of civil war and that it should be unarmed and thrown upon the people and their confidence and support.   I am glad to say that the Minister accepted and urged that point of view himself very forcibly.  It looked to be, and many people did at the time profess it to be, unduly optimistic with regard to the people's support of a force of this kind.  I think the Minister would be the first to admit now that that was a right action to have taken, and that nothing did actually create a stronger feeling of responsibility for public order than the presence amongst the people of an unarmed police force.  Now, the two things are not very dissimiliar.  We do want to create in Ireland a sense amongst the people that the police force is their force.  Unless that feeling can be created there will be no identity in the public mind with the enforcement of law, and the Minister must be aware that there is at the present moment a very deep-seated suspicion, not altogether without cause, that there is a tendency towards centralised bureaucratic control and that this Bill is one of these tendencies. 
       I am not altogether in agreement with the details of Deputy Bryan Cooper's amendment.  Rather than to see a general consultative council of this kind acting for all Ireland, I would much prefer to see some council representing Dublin, some council representing Cork, and that the Commissioner of the Garda Siochana should find himself in and under law be compelled to enter into consultation with these consultative councils before he took any action in the areas from which they were nominated. 
     
     I would have preferred that form, and I am now speaking generally in the advocacy of the principle of this amendment, the principle, as I understand it, being that the administration of a centralised force of this kind, existing throughout the entire territory of the Free State, gathered entirely into the hands of one man, is a dangerous principle unless that administration is brought into contact with local bodies, and local bodies nominating consultative councils of some sort so that there might be contact between the administration of a force of this kind and the popular will.  The Minister may say that he would doubt the wisdom of the   advice given by these bodies.  He has suggested that doubt.  He has also suggested a doubt as to whether there will be any real co-operation given.  That doubt was also expressed in the summer of 1923 as to whether people would cooperate with the unarmed Garda Siochana, and the people have co-operated and are, in the main, co-operating. It is a well-known principle that the Minister should be very familiar with, that it is only by exercising a faculty that that faculty can be preserved and continued.  If the people's sense of responsibility is going to be divorced from the maintenance of law and order, by the existence of a bureaucratic police force, then that faculty will fall into desuetude, and this Bill will do harm.  Therefore, I urge upon him, without advocating all the details of the amendment, the general priciple of the amendment, which I take to be that a centralised police force in which all power is gathered into the hands of one man, whose acts cannot in all detail be brought into review in this House, because the knowledge will not be within the possibility of ascertainment by this House, should be brought into contact in general administration with bodies that are representative of the public will over the territory where that administration is conducted. 
     
      
       I am somewhat surprised to hear at this stage what we did not hear on the Second Reading, that the tendency of this Bill is bureaucratic, and I am rather surprised to hear that word at all in connection with administration in a country where adult suffrage, proportional representation and other systems of that kind prevail.  You do get down in the end to the question of where you want responsibility to lie in connection with your police force, whether you want it to lie here to the Dail, through a Minister, or to dissipate it over the country to this local authority and that local authority.  There are two conceptions: there is the conception of the local force, subsidised, possibly, to a proportion by the State, and there is the other conception which, in our wisdom, or unwisdom, we have opted for here, the   conception of a centralised State police force, maintained out of money provided by the Parliament and regarding which there is the responsibility of a Minister to the Parliament.  Deputy Cooper talks of Liverpool, Leeds, and other cities, with their Watch Committees, as I think they are called, which supervise the work of the local force.  That is one conception, and if it were considered that that is the wisest thing for this country, and that we would get the best results in that way, we really ought to repeal the Garda Siochana Act, divest ourselves of the responsibility for the policing of the country and place it in Watch Committees set up here and there, in Ennis, Tralee, Galway and other towns.  I am far from thinking that that is the wisest conception, that it is in the interests of the country, or in the best interests of efficient police administration. There is one or the other conception, and there is this hybrid thing between the two which Deputy Cooper embodies in this amendment.  You are to have a State force: that is all right. He does not dissent from the principle of the Bill.  He did not dissent on Second Reading: he does not dissent now.  You are to have a State force maintained out of moneys voted by the Oireachtas. 
     
     The responsibility is to lie in the Dail through a Minister, but at the same time you are to have twelve or thirteen persons who will advise and assist your police officers.  I have no doubt that they will advise; whether they will all advise the same thing is another question, and whether they will assist, collectively or individually, is another.  This Committee would have no responsibility to the Dail or through the Dail to the people for what it would advise, and is the police officer's responsibility to his Commissioner, or through him to the Minister and the Dail, to be diminished in any way in regard to a particular matter, through the fact that he has this morning attended a meeting of these twelve gentlemen; and that they had advised him to do a particular thing?  In other words, taking the actual concrete facts of the case, is an indiscretion on the part of a police officer to be diminished   in any way by reason of the fact that he acted in accordance with advice given by this body, born of Deputy Cooper's brain?  Or let us assume that there was not a full attendance, and that he took the advice of a particular two or three.  Is his responsibility to his Commissioner less because he took the advice of two or three members of this body? 
     
      
       It is the Commissioner it advises.  The Minister has not read the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I have read the amendment.  Is the Commissioner's responsibility for his acts to be diminished in any way by reason of his acting on the advice of a particular two or three of these gentlemen? 
     
     
      
       He is obviously the final authority to decide whether he may take it or not. 
     
     
      
       The Commissioner may be summoned before this body, and may be harangued by them along a particular line. 
     
     
      
       Invited to meet them. 
     
     
      
       As I say, take a local authority which is maintaining the police in its area, or, to a large extent, bearing that expense.  That is one conception.  It would then be simply a State subsidy, and the real authority and the real responsibility would lie on a particular body.  We have decided that the line of responsibility shall be through the Dail, and I have the feeling that it would be unwise to take a step that would tend in any way to weaken or obliterate that line.  We are told that local authorities should have a voice and a say in the matter.  These are vague expressions.  Who denies them a voice or a say?  Surely our whole idea of government is that particular individuals for the time being have responsibility to the Dail for certain spheres of administration.  Is it not open to any person or to any body of persons to make whatever representations they may wish to the Ministers who are, for the time being, the political heads of Departments?  Is there anything to prevent a Dublin Corporation of the future, or a Blackrock, Rathmines   or Dun Laoghaire Urban Council, or any of the bodies mentioned in the amendment, form making any representations they wish to make, from presenting any memoranda that they wish to present, on the question of police work, either in the metropolitan area or in their own particular districts? 
     
     
      
       Is there any machinery by which such memoranda will be dealt with by a clerk and never brought to the notice of the Commissioner at all? 
     
     
      
       There is machinery by which Deputy Cooper can ask questions about it&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       When the Dail has adjourned? 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;and he must get answers.  And when memoranda on important matters are submitted, they get all the attention in the Departments which they deserve, and the responsibility of the Minister remains.  The Deputy can take it as a very sure thing that memoranda submitted on police matters will in turn be submitted for their observations to the police authorities. But this body of twelve is another matter.  I bow to the Deputy's superior mathematical knowledge.  I had not noticed that Dalkey and Killiney Councils were to sit jointly and select one of these twelve rulers of the metropolis. We heard, some time ago, about twenty-five men who had been nominated to govern the world.  The Deputy would have twelve to govern Dublin city and county.  I think such a body would give many counsels to a Commissioner.  The net result of his occasional consultations with this body would be simply to impress him more and more with the inutility, so to speak, of such consultations, and I imagine that very few sittings of that body would take place on his initiative, and that after a while very few would take place on anyone's initiative.  If the line of responsibility for the police work of the country is not clear enough in a Dail elected on an adult franchise basis we should reexamine the Garda Siochana Act, but we ought not in this way, simply by trimmings to a Bill of this kind, set up fantastic councils whose powers or functions we ourselves scarcely know.   They certainly are not defined in the amendment.  We are told generally that they are to assist and advise, and, as I say, I doubt the net value of the advice, and I doubt if the Deputy can guarantee assistance. 
     
     
      
       The powers and functions referred to by the Minister are defined in exactly the same words as the Minister for Lands and Agriculture has defined the powers and functions of his advisory council.  If my advisory council is open to criticism so is his, and I did not hear the Minister, or any Deputy, criticising his verbiage. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy cannot recognise that there is a difference between police work and cattle breeding, then I despair. 
     
     
      
       I admit that there is a difference, but it is not customary to use very different phraseology in statutes dealing with these matters.  Deputy Hewat, as far as I understood him, approved of the principle of my amendment but disliked its wording.  I find myself in the position of the gentleman in Dickens who wanted to see Mrs. Todgers' idea of a wooden leg.  I want to see Deputy Hewat's idea of an amendment.  If he does not like my amendment but likes the principle of it, why does he not put down an amendment of his own?  If it covered the same ground I would be delighted to support him. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that I expressed approval of Deputy Cooper's amendment at all. 
     
     
      
       I approve of certain basic principles underlying the latter part of Deputy Hewat's speech which I would like to see embodied in the amendment.  Deputy Figgis was rather short-sighted in one respect in his criticism.  He suggested that I was setting up this council for the whole country.  That is not the case; it was in specific reference to the Dublin Metropolitan area.  It would be open to Deputy Beamish or to any Cork Deputy to put in a similar amendment with regard to Cork, and a Deputy from Waterford or Limerick might do the same thing with regard to their respective   constituencies.  I was not merely legislating for the area which I happen to represent.  The Minister invited me to put down amendments decentralising the police force.  He has given me a great deal of instruction and I am grateful for it.  I would be more grateful if he told me how to set down amendments which would be uniform in the Police Forces Amalgamation Bill. 
     
     
      
       I said if the Deputy approved of the idea of a decentralised police force then we could only meet him by a reorganisation of the Garda Siochana Act, but I do not think it can be done by putting in trimmings like those. 
     
     
      
       If I bring in amendments will the Minister sit for the rest of the week and consider them? 
     
     
      
       I will if the other Deputies agree. 
     
     
      
       Am I to take that as a fair offer&mdash;that the Government will find time for such a Bill if I bring it in?  It is rather unfair for Ministers who have at their disposal very much more material than private Deputies to taunt them with bringing in amendments. 
     
     
      
       Surely it is open to the Deputy to move here that the Dail, after experience and observation of its defect, disagrees with the principle of a centralised police force as in the Garda Siochana Act and to ask the Government to introduce a new Bill? 
     
     
      
       What would the effect be of a resolution of that kind on the discipline of the police force? 
     
     
      
       There would be an interesting debate. 
     
     
      
       It might be interesting or uninteresting.  The Minister and I are concerned for the discipline of the police force, and any debate that would make them feel that their positions are not secure would be a disaster to the State.  I hope I have too much sense of responsibility to put down a motion of that kind.  I hope also that the final word is not a centralised   police force.  It is impossible for a private Deputy to introduce a measure of the kind the Minister suggests. It must be done by a Minister. If the Minister objects to the term &ldquo;bureaucracy,&rdquo; then I will not use it. I say that the tendency is to have a centralised, as against a decentralised authority.  That was the tendency of the Government in this and other matters. I am disposed to quarrel with that, because it is throwing on the Dail more duties than the Dail can perform, particularly when it adjourns now and then for a week at a time.  It is all very well for Ministers to go down the country and talk about the responsibility of the Dail.  Responsibility can be made too much.  It is like the quotation from Shakespeare's play, Henry V.: &ldquo;Upon the Dail&rdquo; our lives, our souls and all our deaths.&rdquo;  I am inserting the word &ldquo;Dail&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;King.&rdquo; The function of the Dail is to criticise and control.  How do we exercise the function of criticism and control in the case of the police forces? 
     
     The Estimates come up in June or July on an evening when we are sitting until 10.30 in a half-sleepy, half-empty house.  The Ministers are tired, Deputies are tired, everyone is tired, and in three hours the Estimates are hurried through.  One or two people with local grievances make their points.  Every Deputy here remembers how we dealt with the Estimates last year.  They were not closured.  They were given full discussion by the Government, but they were closured by exhaustion, each and every one of them, and the immediate consequence of taking the Estimates in that manner was the breakdown of the Minister for Finance.  I do not want that to happen again.  That is the manner in which the Dail exercises the function of control.  I should like to see throughout the country decentralised bodies closely in touch with local needs dealing with those matters instead of Deputies sitting here listening to grievances, one, say, from Kerry, and one, say, from Tirconaill.  There I join issue with the Minister, and I shall try to secure such decentralisation as I can obtain.  I ask leave of the   Dail to amend my amendment in two particulars: (1) to insert in the first line of sub-section (1) &ldquo;on a date not later than the 1st January, 1927.&rdquo;  At present this amendment is open to the criticism that it is too vague.  I want to make it concrete and want to give a fixed time in which this Council should be set up.  Secondly, in deference to the criticism of Deputy Johnson, I wish to remove the last two categories in sub-section (2), namely: (v) one member to be nominated by the Dublin Chamber of Commerce; (vi) one member to be nominated by the Dublin Workers' Council. 
     
      
       Might I direct Deputy Cooper as to the functions of the Chamber of Commerce.  Its functions are not as suggested in the amendment.  They are not of the nature he suggests. 
     
     
      
       That is so.  It should have been the Employers' Federation.  Deputy Johnson objects to giving non-representative persons this position.  I gathered form Deputy Hewat that he is anxious that the Chamber of Commerce should be represented, and I ask leave to withdraw those two categories. 
     
     
      
       If leave be given, the first sub-section of the proposed new section will read as follows:&mdash; 
       The Minister shall, on a date not later than January 1, 1927, establish by order a consultative council for giving advice and assistance to the Commissioner of the Amalgamated Force in connection with any matter in relation to the public order and security of the Dublin Metropolitan area. 
       In sub-section (2), categories 5 and 6 are to be omitted and the sub-section will end at the words &ldquo;public health.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       That is correct. 
     
     
      
       Does the Dail give leave to alter the amendment? 
       Leave given. 
     
     
      
       There were a couple of phrases used by the Minister which suggest that we should take note of   what is working in his mind.  They were not, I think, very deliberate, but they were very illuminating.  We have been waiting with interest during the past two or three years to discover what were the likely lines of demarcation as to the outlook upon public affairs of the different sections in the Government Party.  We are beginning, I think, to get some light.  We have had the Minister for Local Government telling us, inferentially, what his views are regarding the future course of legislation and administration in this country, and the responsibility or relationship between the Dail and the Ministry and the country as a whole.  We have had light this afternoon from the Minister for Justice as to what his conception is of the relations between the Ministry and the Dail and the attitude of the Ministry towards the country and towards administration generally.  Two or three sentences that have fallen from Ministers latterly show us, I think, that they conceive of the Dail as a body responsible for administration, that the Ministers who have responsibility direct from their Departments are to be subject to the criticism of the Dail, but that the Dail is responsible for the administration of particular services.  The Minister refutes the suggestion that the word &ldquo;bureaucracy&rdquo; can be applied in any way when a system of proportional representation and adult suffrage is in vogue.  He says the idea is quite foreign to such a system, because the Ministry is responsible to the Dail.  I suggest to the Minister that, when Departments deprive local authorities of power in administration of their local affairs, take to themselves such power and administer local affairs from the office of the Minister, the idea of bureaucracy is not at all foreign to the method of government.  The Dail is in session for perhaps four, five or six months in the year, and opportunities for detailed criticism of departmental work is only afforded on Estimates, unless Ministers wish to provide time otherwise.  Unless Ministers depart from their present course, we shall undoubtedly see established what has come to be known as bureaucracy in matters of administration. 
     
     I disagree entirely with the view that   our Constitution makes the Dail responsible for the administration of local services.  Otherwise, we shall have to being re-enacting certain constitutional provisions, or enacting certain new constitutional provisions.  That is well worthy of consideration, but it is not yet within the scheme of things.  It is well worth considering whether there should not be attached to each Minister a Committee of the House, to whom the Minister will be responsible directly, and with whom he will consult.  Then you may say that the Dail is responsible for administration.  Certainly, that is not the fact at present, and it is not within the conception of the Constitution, so that Ministers seem too frequently to suggest to the Dail and to the public that it is we who are responsible for the administration of any particular Ministry. 
     That colours the Minister's view of this amendment.  He will not even consider for a moment the idea that that shall be the direction of thought in respect to the administration of the police; he will not even consider that the Corporation of the capital city can have any right or authority even to advise the police officer responsible for the maintenance of order in the capital. The Minister would like to put us into a dilemma, and he says: &ldquo;You must have one thing absolutely, or you must have the other thing absolutely.&rdquo;  I want to know whether it is the Minister's view that this method of centralised police administration is the perfect method, and should be maintained for all time.  If that is his position, then we can understand his opposition to the amendment.  If, on the other hand, he thinks that it is a relic of the past system of government; that it must be borne with for a time, but that, ultimately, it would be desirable to devolve upon local authorities responsibility for maintenance of order within their locality, then I think we should move tentatively, as this amendment proposes, in respect of the metropolitan area towards some kind of minor responsibility, responsibility for advice&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Responsibility to whom? 
     
     
     
      
       Responsibility for advice to the Corporation, in the first instance.  The Corporation is the body I would like to see responsible for maintenance of order in the city, and I would like to see the local authority in every county responsible for the maintenance of order within its area.  I realise that such a state of things is not possible or practicable in the near future, but I want to see our thoughts and ideas developing in that direction. This method of the consultative council for the capital city would, at least, indicate which way our ideas are tending. 
     
     
      
       I have been slow to intervene in this debate, but judging from the way in which the debate has gone I think it is necessary to indicate our view-point.  I think this amendment is one of the most ill-conceived amendments I heard of for a long time. It proposes to hand over to the local authorities who were elected for the specific purposes of local administration, including upkeep of roads, etc., duties they were never elected to perform. The proposal is to hand over to them one of the arms of Government. I think Deputy Cooper will admit that the police force of a country is one of the most important arms of Government. If there is any responsibility in this matter at all, it should be the responsibility of the members of the Dail, and there ought to be no shirking of that responsibility.  There ought to be no dereliction of duty.  There ought to be no handing over to county councils and other bodies work which we were elected to do. 
     
     Even though we are not members of the party that happens to be the Government at the moment, we have an opportunity here of expressing our views, and we are elected to participate in the government of the country.  The county councils and the Corporation are not, and we had better assume our responsibility and carry out our duty instead of handing them over to somebody who is not elected for the purpose. We had better shoulder our responsibility or else, as some people recently did, resign and hand over those responsibilities to somebody else.  This amendment has nothing at all to recommend it, especially in the atmosphere   in which we are living and have been living recently.  I do not think it would serve any healthy or useful purpose. Deputies on these benches will vote against the amendment. 
     
      
       Will Deputy Gorey tell us how the United States can get on so well with local police forces? 
     
     
      
       Very, probably the local bodies in the United States are elected for that particular thing. 
     
     
      
       Can we not do the same? 
     
     
      
       If you were to do so you should have provided it in the Local Government Bill and elect people to do these things under the law. 
     
     
      
       I wonder&mdash; and when I use the word wonder I use it to express surprise&mdash;whether members of this Dail have any idea of the assistance that eighty members of the Corporation gave to the police force for the last forty years.  Instead of having six members representing the Corporation on the committee or council suggested by Deputy Cooper I suggest that eighty members of the Corporation assisted the police in the past. I remember when I was elected a member of the Corporation I received six letters on the first morning.  One was from a lady in a particular street complaining that children were making a playground of it.  Another complained of the lamps being broken.  Another complained of children playing on the side-walks and making all sorts of noises and so on.  I brought these letters to the Town Clerk, who was a very estimable man, as most Town Clerks are, and I enquired from him how many letters an ordinary member of the Corporation got on these matters, and he said about 250.  All these letters are carefully sent to the Town Clerk, and he, with the aid of his assistants, sent them on to the police authorities.  There was never a day that there was not a police officer in with the Town Clerk making enquiries as to the accuracy of the statements made in the letters. Occasionally members of the police force came and took advice on these   matters.  Whenever a complaint was sent to the police from a private citizen they gave it instant attention with the idea of helping themselves and the citizens to maintain law and order. Occasionally there were anonymous letters to the papers, such as the Minister referred to, but for every one complaint of that kind there would be ten complaints received by members of the Corporation and sent on to the police for consideration. 
       In the past, under the old regime, people would never think of writing to the Chief Secretary, and I do not think that people will bother the Minister for Justice here about the breaking of lamps and children playing on the streets.  I hope they will have the good sense to complain to the police.  I speak with a recollection of 40 years of the South side of Dublin, which I represent here in this Dail, and I say what I have said on behalf of the police lest the discussion here might lead people to think that the police were the enemies instead of being the faithful custodians of the rights of the citizens.  I know every police station in Dublin, and if I do not know every policeman in Dublin personally it is quite certain they all know me. 
     
     
     
      
       You are well known the police. 
     
     
      
       I agree.  Some days ago I saw a policeman in plain clothes in a street in Dublin.  I asked him what he was doing there, and he said he was there because of a complaint made by a lady of children kicking football on the street.  I cannot believe that the House realises, as far as the city of Dublin is concerned, the attention given by representatives of the people in the past in assisting the police and giving every possible advice.  In the Children's Court, in which I had the honour to preside, we had the advice of the Chief Superintendent of the Police.  He came to our office and gave advice and took advice and brought suggestions and did everything possible to be of assistance.  I cannot see my way to agree that six members of the Corporation would be sufficient.  I believe that in due time the Corporation will be given its proper share of responsibility. 
     
     
      
       I am putting the new section as altered by leave. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 5; Nil, 33. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Darrell Figgis. Tomas Mac Eoin. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Tomas O Conaill. Liam O Daimhin.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Desmond Fitzgerald. John Good. Donnchadh Mac Con Uladh. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Maolmhuire Mac Eochadha. Patrick McGilligan. Risteard Mac Liam. Eoin Mac Neill. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Martin M. Nally. 
             John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Peadar S. O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Donchadh O Guaire. Aindriu O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Risteard O Maolchatha. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers.&mdash;Ta: Major Cooper, Mr. Morrissey.  Nil: Mr. Dolan, Mr. Sears. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 11, 12 and 13 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 14. 
     (1)  The Minister may from time to time subject to the approval of the   Executive Council, make regulations in relation to all or any of the matters following, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  the admission, appointment and enrolment of members of the amalgamated force; 
     (b)  the promotion, retirement, degradation, dismissal, and punishment of members of the amalgamated force; 
     (c)  the duties of the several ranks of the amalgamated force; 
     (d)  the maintenance, training, discipline, and efficiency of the amalgamated force; 
     (e)  the formation of representative bodies of members of the amalgamated force; 
     (f)  any other matter or thing relating to the internal management of the amalgamated force. 
     (2)  All orders and regulations made under Section 5 of the Dublin Police Act, 1836, or Section 8 of the Dublin Police Act, 1924, and in force at the commencement of this Act may be amended or revoked by regulations made under this section and until so revoked and subject to any such amendment shall (notwithstanding the repeal of those sections) continue in force and shall apply to the members of the amalgamated force stationed in the Dublin Metropolitan Area. 
     (3)  All orders and regulations made under Section 16 of the Garda Siochana Act, 1924, or made under Section 18 of the Garda Siochana (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923, and continued by Section 21 of the Garda Siochana Act, 1924, and in force at the commencement of this Act may be amended or revoked by regulations made under this section and until so revoked and subject to any such amendment shall (notwithstanding the repeal of those sections) continue in force and shall apply to members of the amalgamated force stationed outside the Dublin Metropolitan Area. 
     (4)  For the purpose of this section members of the amalgamated force stationed at the Headquarters of the force in Dublin, or at the Depot in   Phoenix Park, Dublin, who were members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police immediately before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be stationed within the Dublin Metropolitan Area, and all other members of the amalgamated force stationed at the Headquarters aforesaid or the Depot aforesaid, shall be deemed to be stationed outside the Dublin Metropolitan Area. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Before sub-section (4), to insert a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;All regulations made by the Minister under this Act shall, immediately upon the same being made, be laid before each House of the Oireachtas, and if either House shall, within twenty-one days of which such House has sat next after after such regulations were laid before it, pass a resolution annulling such regulations, such regulations shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such regulations.&rdquo; 
       I am very reluctant to take up the time of the Dail further.  I will not make a speech if the Minister indicates that he can accept this amendment. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to accept the substance of the amendment, but verbal changes may be desirable, and I would like to ask the draftsman to look at it.  I will, however, give an undertaking to bring in an amendment on the Report Stage which will embody the principle of the Deputy's amendment. 
     
     
      
       I accept that statement, but I should say, to avoid the Minister getting into hot water, that the amendment is taken literally from another Bill. 
     
     
      
       I just want to pass it through the draftsman's office. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 14 and 15 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
        SECTION 16. 
     (1)  The rate (in this section called the police rate) heretofore levied in the Dublin Metropolitan Area for the maintenance of a police force in that area shall in the local financial year commencing next after the passing of this Act and in the seven succeeding local financial years be levied at the respective rates hereinafter mentioned and shall at the expiration of the last of those local financial years cease to be levied or raised. 
     (2)  In the local financial year commencing next after the passing of this Act the police rate shall be levied at the rate of eightpence in the pound and in the next succeeding local financial year shall be levied at the rate of sevenpence in the pound and so on, abating by one penny in the pound in each succeeding local financial year. 
     (3)  During the eight local financial years aforesaid the police rate shall be assessed, levied, raised, and paid in the like manner as heretofore, and all enactments relating to the police rate and in force at the commencement of this Act and all orders and regulations made thereunder and for the time being in force shall continue to apply to the police rate subject to such modifications as the Minister for Local Government and Public Health may by order make therein for the purpose of giving effect to this section (which modifications the said Minister is hereby authorised to make) and in particular subject to the modifications following, that is to say&mdash; 
     (a)  the amount of the rate as fixed by this section shall be substituted for the estimate required by paragraph (2) of Section 66 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, to be made by the Minister for Justice, and 
     (b)  the amount raised, by the police rate in the said eight local financial years shall be applied towards the maintenance of the amalgamated force in like manner as the amount raised by that rate   has heretofore been applied towards the maintenance of the Dublin Metropolitan Police. 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       (4)  In sub-section (3) (b), page 9, line 23, after the word &ldquo;years&rdquo; to insert in brackets the following words: &ldquo;(less such sums as are chargeable against that amount by virtue of Section 66 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898).&rdquo; 
       The sums that are deductible under that Act fall under two headings.  First, there is 5 per cent. charged on the cost of collection and office expenses, and secondly, there is a sum in respect of the Collector-General's annuity.  The amendment proposes to authorise deduction of this amount.  The office of the Collector-General under the Act of 1898 was abolished, and it was necessary to provide funds for officers whose office was abolished. 
     
     
      
       Was the pension paid by the local authority in the past? 
     
     
      
       It was paid out of rates generally, but a portion was taken out of the police rate. 
     
     
      
       Is the appointment made by the local authorities or by the Ministry? 
     
     
      
       The office ceased to exist on the passing of the Local Government Act, 1898, and the fund provides for the superannuation of officers whose services were dispensed with as a result of the cessation of office. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In page 9, line 27, to add at the end of the section two new sub-sections as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(4)  After the expiration of the eight local financial years aforesaid the council of the county borough of Dublin and the council of the county of Dublin shall in each half year pay to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health in such proportions as that Minister shall certify such sum as the said Minister shall certify to be the amount which but   for this section would in that half year be deductible in respect of the Collector-General's annuity from the police rate. 
     All sums payable in any half year by the respective councils of the county borough of Dublin and the county of Dublin to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health under this section shall be raised by these councils respectively in the like manner in all respects as the police rate would but for this section have been raised by them respectively in that half year. 
     (5)  In this Section the expression &ldquo;Collector-General's annuity&rdquo; has the same meaning as in Section 66 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898.&rdquo; 
     The object of the amendment is to provide for the payment of the Collector-General's annuity after the expiration of a period of eight years when the police rate will no longer be collected. 
     
      
       I may say that the amount involved is very small.  In 1924 it was £160 in the City of Dublin and £109 in the county. 
     
     
      
       It may not be in existence at all at the period? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       It is only making provision in case it should be. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       Before the section is put I must say that I cannot agree with it, because it proposes to continue what has been a very real grievance on the part of local authorities for a considerable time past.  I was, in fact, personally engaged on some deputations on this subject so far back as twenty years ago.  This grievance is admitted by all the local authorities within the area. Under the Act as it stands local authorities within the Metropolitan Area have to levy a sum of 8d. in the pound for the purposes of maintaining the police force in those particular areas.  Outside the Dublin Metropolitan Area the police forces are maintained out of State funds and the ratepayers in the   metropolitan area could never see that they got any advantage whatever for this particular burden against which they have been fighting, to my knowledge, for the last twenty-five years.  All the ratepayers, quite irrespective of whether they are farmers or other classes of the community, have had to carry this burden for many years past in the metropolitan area.  The reason why I object to the clause is that it continues for a period of eight years that particular grievance.  Of course it can be argued that they are reducing the burden year by year.  This Bill proposes that for the year of the passing of the Bill the burden shall continue, and that for each subsequent year the burden shall be reduced by one penny in the pound, until at the end of eight years it expires altogether, except that portion that may remain for continuing this pension, of which I have just heard, in connection with the Collector-General's department.  That admits to some extent that the principle is wrong.  If the principle is wrong why not get rid of it immediately instead of perpetuating what is wrong for a period of eight years? 
       It may be said that it would not be right to get rid of it immediately.  I am not in agreement with that principle. If a thing is wrong, the sooner you get rid of it the better for all parties concerned.  If the Minister maintains that that principle is sound, will he tell us what advantage we get for it?  In the past we got no advantage, and we argued that Cork, Limerick and Waterford got their policing paid for out of the pockets of the taxpayers, without any burden at all being thrown on the local ratepayers.  In Belfast, in pre-Treaty days, a great portion of the burden of policing was borne by the taxpayers of the country.  That city was within the Constabulary area, and if they got any additional police above the quota they were entitled to, they paid for them, so much per head, and in that way placed some small burden on the rates. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       The policing of the areas outside the metropolitan area was paid   for out of the taxes generally, and only in the metropolitan area by the local ratepayers.  This has been a very real grievance on the part of the ratepayers of the metropolitan area for a great many years.  I hope those who have been drawing attention to it in the past will now object to its continuance.  If the Minister can put forward any reasons why this tax should be continued, and why the burden should be still cast upon the ratepayers, I am prepared to consider them.  As the matter stands at present, all the counties in the Saorstat will have their police paid for out of State funds, while ratepayers in the metropolitan area, in addition to having to pay other State charges, will have to bear a burden of £50,000 yearly for police.  I say that is a condition of affairs that should not exist. As far as I am concerned, I shall object very strongly to any such imposition being continued to be placed on the ratepayers of the metropolitan area, as a result of the Bill now before the Dail. 
     
     
      
       There are some questions on which Deputy Good and I can agree.  This is one of them.  We have had a division on the question of local responsibility for police services.  The Minister took a line in favour of the centralisation of authority.  I think the necessary logical co-relative of that is centralisation in regard to payment for such services.  To postpone for eight years the relief of local rates cannot be justified on any ground except that the local authorities must be made to go through a certain purgatory.  I do not want to intervene between the President and his defence of the Dublin Corporation, and Deputy Good, in his position as representative of one of the urban councils, in regard to the incidence of this rate in the past.  In my opinion the case for the immediate relief of the rates of the metropolitan area is conclusively proved. 
     
     Surely there cannot be, in the mind of the Minister, any defence for throwing on the rates, even for eight years, in a diminishing amount, a force which he says must be centralised in its authority and government.  I think the case made by the Minister for centralisation   is equally the case for payment out of the Central Fund, or out of the national revenue.  I would approve of this, as in other things, of local responsibility, of even local financial responsibility, when there is local control. When we are denied even the shadow or prospect of future local control I refuse to agree to a proposition which would throw for eight years the police charge upon those by whom it was hitherto borne.  I am not sure whether any vote on this amendment would have the effect of relieving the local authorities of that burden.  I think that, probably, if we refuse to pass this section, there will be an opportunity of passing another section, which would meet the requirements of the case.  In any case I hope the Minister will be able to give us an assurance that he is willing to reconsider his attitude on this matter, continuing a charge against the local rates for a force that he refuses to give any semblance of control over. 
     
      
       I think we should accept Deputy Good's apology for his protest in this matter.  He has explained that he has been making it for twenty or twenty-five years, that it has become a habit; and he makes it mechanically this evening.  There is somewhat more to be said in favour of the gradual diminution of this rate than either Deputy Good or Deputy Johnson seems to allow.  As a matter of fact, when this part of the Bill was under consideration the argument was put up to me&mdash;and it is not an entirely unsound argument either&mdash;that even with an amalgamated force for the whole country, a certain amount could be said in favour of asking the citizens of the metropolis to contribute towards the cost of that force. The argument was based on the proportion of the police force which has to be allocated to the metropolitan area, in proportion to population, and in proportion to the value of property protected in the area. 
     
     The metropolitan area, as far as I have been able to ascertain, has property situated within it the valuation of which is 15 per cent. of the total valuation of the property of the country. With regard to the population,   it has 13 per cent. concentrated within that area.  On the basis of the present authorised strength the metropolitan area has 18 per cent. of the police of the country, so that 13 per cent of the population, with a valuation of 15 per cent., has 18 per cent. of the police.  The argument was that Dublin should pay for that extra proportion of police. Now, we did not call for that particular argument, and it was finally arranged that this rate should diminish at the rate of 1d. a year for an eight year period.  Deputy Good asked: &ldquo;Is it right or is it wrong?  If it is wrong let us get away from it.&rdquo;  That is very laudable, but there is no commandment which says &ldquo;Thou shalt not get assistance to the extent of £52,000 a year from the ratepayers of Dublin City for an amalgamated police force.&rdquo;  There is no question of principle or moral wrong about it.  To throw that £52,000 a year extra on the Exchequer just at present is not a nice matter, having regard to the many burdens on the Exchequer. The citizens of Dublin have borne this rate for many years.  Relatively it is much lighter now that it was 20 years ago. 
     They will get services and protection, I hope, to a higher degree of efficiency, than they got in the past.  There is this further point, that in fact you do not get straight away a real fusion, a really amalgamated force.  That is something that will only come in time.  Security of tenure in the metropolitan area is being given under the Bill to all the men at present serving in the Dublin Metropolitan Police. Therefore you will have in the unified Garda Siochana this anomaly: you will have a self-contained division, the metropolitan division.  The members of it will not be transferable outside the metropolitan area, except with their own wish and their own consent. That, of course, will pass; it will be a disappearing anomaly, because recruiting in the future will be recruiting for a single force, and the recruits can be sent to any point in the area which that force serves. 
     The existing D.M.P. are given security of tenure in the metropolitan area,   which gives you a kind of self-contained division within the Garda Siochana.  This Bill, although it is important and valuable, does not give us immediately that at which we are aiming&mdash;an amalgamated force in the fullest sense of the word.  It gives us fusion at headquarters, but the Dublin police will remain, with their tenure in the metropolitan area, a self-contained division.  The rate will be disappearing over the eight years' period.  It will take a good deal more than an eight years' period for the anomaly of that self-contained division in the Garda Siochana to disappear.  I simply put it to the common sense and the sense of fair play of Deputies, that there is no hardship really in asking that the Finance Department should get just a little time to look around before this £52,000 a year burden based on this rate will disappear.  It will be reduced by 1d. in the pound per annum, and it will have disappeared in 1933.  The service and personnel will be the same as before the Act passes, and it gives a little breathing space to the National Exchequer before the full burden passes over to it. 
     I can see, of course, that Deputy Good and Deputy Johnson might claim that they have the strict logic in the matter, but this is not a thing you can draw a straight line about, more particularly when this new division in the Garda Siochana will remain in effect the same body as was serving the citizens up to the present.  We are committed to that situation for a considerable period of time.  There is that other point, which I mentioned in passing, and which was put up to me when this matter was up for discussion between the two Departments.  That point was that it could be argued that Dublin, having such a big percentage of the total police, might be expected to make some contribution, even when you have a single police force serving the entire country; and that an area which gets as big a service as 18 per cent.  of the total police of the country, might reasonably make its contribution towards the expenses and towards the National Exchequer.  However, the idea of asking that that should be done has been definitely rejected, and a   diminution over a period down to a vanishing point is embodied in the Bill. I think that Deputy Good, if not enthusiastic, ought to be at least acquiescent in the proposal. 
     
      
       I am afraid that much as one would like to agree with the Minister, I cannot agree with him in the proposals he makes, for the reason that they are not sound.  Now if we in Dublin have a larger number in the force than we are entitled to, let us pay for the extra number over and above what we are entitled to have. That has been the principle that has been adopted in the past with regard to the extra constabulary in Belfast. The City of Belfast was entitled to a certain number.  It required more than that number, and consequently they paid so much per head for the additional number.  That, I think, is a sound principle, because if extra police are required in a particular area it is only reasonable that that area should be called upon to pay for those extra police.  That is sound, but this proposal here is not sound, and because it is not sound in principle is the reason I object to it.  It is all very well for the Minister to say that it does not seem morally fair to take the burden of £52,000 off the ratepayers and cast it on to the Exchequer.  If it is wrong to put that burden of £52,000 on the ratepayers of the metropolitan area, it is doing no moral wrong to take it off. 
     
     It would be doing what is morally right to take it off the ratepayers and put it on to the Exchequer, which should really carry the burden.  It is a matter that has been the subject of contention in the city for a great many years past. In fact all the local authorities that have been carrying the burden have been objecting to it, to my personal knowledge, for the last 20 or 25 years. When we ourselves get an opportunity of rectifying the wrongs that existed in the past, and in regard to which we have made certain utterances, we should take advantage of that opportunity. Instead of putting those things right, we here in the Dail pass an Act bringing into law things we objected   to in the past as strongly as we could. 
     
      
       I make you a present of that. 
     
     
      
       I make you a present of it.  It appears to me that now is the opportunity of putting right what we all admit is wrong.  There is no difference about it.  We should avail of the opportunity that is now given to us to put wrong right instead of continuing what is wrong. 
     
     
      
       The Minister takes credit for not having listened to, or conceded, the arguments of another Department in regard to the incidence of taxation on this matter.  He puts that forward in the Dail, no doubt in the hope that it will receive consideration. Deputies for the city and county of Dublin have a right to consider the effect of this burden upon the local authorities.  The argument of the other Department, which the Minister did not succumb to, was that because there was certain excess expenditure in centralised administration in and around Dublin, therefore the city should be made pay its proportion for that service.  For instance, there is probably a larger proportion than 18 per cent. of the Army in Dublin.  Is it suggested that because Dublin gets certain benefit of the expenditure in that respect, it should be made pay a larger proportion than is due in the ordinary course of taxation? Then again, take the staffs in Merrion Street and in the Dail, because of the centralisation of administration in Dublin. Government servants are to a greater degree resident in and about Dublin and are serving Dublin in a way which is very disproportionate compared with other parts of the country. The argument that the Minister puts to us in that case, though he does not really press it, is that Dublin should be made pay a larger proportion because of the fact that the administration is here centralised.  I do not think that is a matter of moral right.  I think both the Minister and Deputy Good have used that expression. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
     
      
       Surely it is both politically and economically sound and just that the Dublin metropolitan area should not any longer have to bear an additional charge for police services over and above its ordinary payment for that service to the Revenue.  I say it is politically wise and economically sound that that burden should no longer be thrown on the local authority. I hope Deputies representing Dublin city and county, with the exception   perhaps of the Minister himself, will all support the deletion of Section 16.  I am sure the ratepayers, whose interests even the Minister occasionally speaks of when addressing public meetings, will thank him for his support of the proposition that no longer shall the rate be levied upon Dublin when it is not levied upon Cork, Limerick, Galway, or any of the county areas. 
       Question put&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 16, as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 30; Nil, 6. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. John Conlan. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Desmond Fitzgerald. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Risteard Mac Liam. Eoin Mac Neill. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick Mulvany. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O h Aodha. 
             Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Conchubhar O Conghaile. Seamus O Cruadhlaoich. Tadhg O Donnabhain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Donchadh O Guaire. Seamus O Leadain. Padraic O Maille. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. Liam Thrift.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             John Good. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. 
             Eamon O Dubhghaill. Tadhg O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar). 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers&mdash;Ta: Mr. Dolan and Mr. Sears; Nil: Mr. T.O'Connell and Mr. Davin. 
     Motion declared carried. Sections 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, First Schedule, Second Schedule, and Third Schedule put and agreed to. 
     FOURTH SCHEDULE. 
     FORM OF DECLARATION. 
     &ldquo;I....................do solemnly and sincerely before God declare and affirm and my word and honour pledge that I will be faithful to the utmost of my ability in my employment by the Executive Council of Saorstat Eireann in the office of ...................in the Garda Siochana and that I will render good and true service and obedience to Saorstat Eireann and its Constitution and Government as by law established, without favour or affection, fear, malice, or ill-will, and that I will see and cause the peace to be kept and preserved, and that I will prevent to the best of my power all offences against the same, and that while I shall continue to hold the said office, I will to the best of my knowledge discharge all the duties thereof faithfully according to law, and that I do not belong and that I will not while I hold the said office, join, belong, or subscribe to any political society whatsoever, or to any secret society whatsoever.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I want to restate my objections to the last few lines in this Schedule.  The matter arose on previous Bills and I objected to making policemen and soliders liable to subscribe to the condition regarding political and secret societies which was not made applicable to other civil servants. I want to repeat that protest. I think it is not right to select policemen or soldiers and to say that they   and that they alone, being civil servants, must not be members of any secret society whatsoever, while we leave outside the embargo other civil servants, magistrates, judges and others.  I would say that if there is to be a prohibition of that kind it should be made applicable to every civil servant, to every person who is serving the State whether in high or low degree.  We have refrained for reasons of which, perhaps, the Minister himself will be the best judge, from imposing such a declaration in respect of Peace Commissioners, Judges, or civil servants of any kind.  I submit it is not right that we should select particularly police&mdash;it is police we are dealing with in this case&mdash;and leave out other persons who are concerned in the administration of the law or who are engaged in the Government service.  I suggest if it is considered desirable that any public servant must be asked to make such a declaration&mdash;&ldquo;That I will not while I hold the said office, jom, belong, or subscribe to any political society whatsoever, or any secret society whatsoever&rdquo;&mdash;and if such a declaration is required from the police, or lower civil servants, then a similar declaration should be required from every other civil servant.  I make that protest now as I have done on other occasions.  I submit there is no answer to the proposition that if you are going to call for such a declaration you must make it general and include every person serving the State in any capacity whatsoever. 
     
     
      
       This is a Police Bill, and I am not going to attempt to answer Deputy Johnson's arguments in full.  I confine myself simply to the question of whether or not it is a proper thing to demand of the members of your police force that they will take this declaration which prohibits them from participation in politics and which prohibits them from membership of any secret society whatsoever. In my view it is an eminently proper thing.  Deputy Johnson ranges over wider ground, and says that we should demand a similar declaration from other persons in the Government service. He probably would have a better   right of pressing that view had he not omitted to avail himself of whatever opportunity presented itself in the past.  I do not know whether on the District Justices Act, for instance, or in the course of the Courts of Justice Act, Deputy Johnson urged that such declaration should be demanded from Judges and District Justices, and I do not know whether he took any opportunity of insisting that such a declaration should be demanded from civil servants. 
     
     
      
       No.  I think it would have been useless in any case. 
     
     
      
       But here I am simply dealing with the question of the declaration, if any, which it is proper to ask members of your police force to take.  There is embodied in this Fourth Schedule my view, and the view of the Executive Council, as to the kind of declaration which is right and proper, and I ask the Dail to endorse that view by passing the Schedule. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has, by implication, criticised me for not having brought forward a proposal to insert a similar declaration regarding secret societies in the Courts of Justice Act or other Acts.  I certainly did not bring forward any such proposition.  I do not believe that such a proposition, in any case, is of any value, especially in relation to secret societies, but if it is the intention of the Ministry and the Oireachtas that any person shall be made to subscribe to such a declaration, a policeman particularly in this case, surely it is equally requisite that the judge on the bench who tries the prisoner whom the policeman brings before him should also be subject to a similar embargo.  I think that by obliging this particular class of civil servant to take such a declaration, leaving all other civil servants free to join any secret society, social or political, we are practically telling them that we look upon them as less desirable citizens, more likely to be subjected to the influences which secret societies may bring to bear.  My objection is that you are selecting a particular   type of civil servant to make a declaration which other civil servants are not required to make. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister is not quite right in stating that this question has not been raised before.  It was raised previously, and it was indicated, I think, quite clearly from these benches that if an obligation of this kind was to be imposed upon what appeared to be unskilled workers in the service of the State the same obligation should be imposed on the people who administered the law.  I think the question of membership of secret organisations has been a bone of contention, for some time past, in the party with which the Minister has been associated. My idea is that if a servant of the State is a member of a secret organisation that membership does not allow him to be a free agent in the administration of the law, and that if this declaration is to be imposed upon a policeman, who is in reality only an unskilled worker in the service of the State, the higher people, District Justices and Judges, should have the same obligation imposed upon them.  I do not see why that should not be and why it has not been done under a previous Act. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry that the Deputy considers General O'Duffy and the Chief of Staff unskilled workers. 
     
     
      
       Are you confining this obligation to them? 
     
     
      
       They are members of the two forces concerned. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the Fourth and Fifth Schedules and the Title stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill, as amended, reported. 
     Fourth Stage ordered for Wednesday, 11th February, 1925. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL EIREANN COURTS (WINDING UP) BILL, 1925&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
     
      
       I ask leave to move without notice the First Reading of a Bill which might be described as a Bill&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Might I draw attention to the fact that there is no House. 
     
     
      
       There is no House.  It has been the procedure to ring the bell and see whether a House can be got. 
       The Sitting was suspended until the House was constituted. 
     
     
      
       This is a Bill to transfer to the High Court the powers and the jurisdiction of Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners appointed under the Dail Eireann Courts (Winding Up) Act, 1923, and for other purposes connected therewith.  The Dail Court Winding Up Commission itself has come to the stage of being wound up.  It is necessary to transfer to some permanent court the powers and jurisdiction of that body to secure continuity so that orders made by this Commission and so on will remain valid and that there may be a tribunal to which matters connected with them may be brought.  This will be a short Bill transferring the powers of the Dail Winding Up Commission to the High Court for that purpose.  I ask permission to have the Bill printed and circulated. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 11th February, 1925. 
     
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT OF THE DAIL. - INTOXICATING LIQUOR COMMISSION. 
     
      
       In moving the adjournment to Wednesday, 11th February, perhaps I might announce to the Dail the personnel and terms of reference of the proposed Intoxicating   Liquor Commission.  The terms of reference for the Commission will be as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To enquire into and report to the Executive Council on the question of whether the existing number of licences for the sale of intoxicating liquor is in excess of reasonable requirements, and in the event of such excess being found to exist, to make recommendations by which an adequate reduction may be effected on an equitable basis, and generally to review the state of the law regulating the sale and consumption of intoxicating liquors and to make such suggestions thereon as may appear to the Commission to be sound and practicable.&rdquo; 
       The personnel of the Commission is as follows:&mdash; 
       J.J. Horgan, Solicitor, Cork, 
       Chairman. 
     
     
        Rev. John Flanagan. 
     R. Wilson, T.D. 
     Sir James Craig, T.D. 
     Alderman Seumas Murphy, T.D. 
     John O'Neill, Lucania Cycle Works. 
     Senator O'Farrell. 
     J.J. McElligott, Department of Finance. 
     There is one other person who has been asked and from whom no reply has come.  Senator Mrs. Costello has been asked and I hope she will be able to act.  That gives a Commission of nine members which is considered adequate and I hope the Commission will be able to start work, perhaps next week, or the week after. 
     The Dail adjourned at 7.45 p.m. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TRANSFERS OF POST OFFICE OFFICIALS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance why transfers on the head for head basis between Post Office officials in the Saorstat and those in Great Britain and Northern Ireland are being held up, and whether he will state when they will be allowed to proceed. 
     
     
      
       The transfer of Post Office   officials between the Irish Free State and Great Britain and Northern Ireland temporarily ceased on the 5th January, 1924, at the instance of the British Post Office administration, pending the completion of the arrangements contemplated under Section 7 (2), of the Irish Free State (Consequential Provisions) Act, 1922, and Section 8 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923.  These arrangements are at present the subject of discussion between the two Governments.  The number of applicants for transfer from Great Britain and Northern Ireland is far in excess of the number desiring transfer from the Free State, and it is thought that when the arrangements are completed it will not be possible to agree to many applications. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BAWNBOY SUB-POSTMISTRESS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he can state why Miss Cole, Assistant at Bawnboy Post Office, who was acting as Sub-Postmistress for some time, and who owned the premises in which the Post Office was situated, was not given the position of Sub-Postmistress which was recently vacant there. 
     
     
      
       I have communicated the reply privately to the Deputy. 
     
   
 