 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 3 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ISSUE OF CIVIL SERVICE CERTIFICATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the cause of the delay in issuing Civil Service Certificates to candidates who have been successful in examinations conducted by the Civil Service Commission, and if he will state when such certificates will be issued. 
     
     
      
       The delay in issue of the forms of certificates has been due to pressure of other official duties falling on the higher staff of the Civil Service Commission, which was inevitable in the early stages of the Commissioners' work.  The delay in no way affects the rights of the officials concerned, as the certificates will have effect as from the date on which the candidates were in each case accepted by the Commission. The first batch of certificate forms is now ready, and it is hoped that further issues will be made without interruption until the work of issue has been brought up to date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether, in the published accounts of the Government, viz., the Income and Expenditure Account, the proceeds of taxation under the Income Tax, Corporation Profits Tax, and Excess Profits Duty are shown gross or net; if the proceeds are shown gross,   whether he will state where the repayments for drawback under the Excise duties, repayments for Income Tax and Excess Profits Duty, are shown and included on the Expenditure side, under what Vote they are paid, and what are the gross amounts of same for 1923/24; if the proceeds are shown net, whether he will state under what Vote or authority of the Dail repayments are made, the head of expenditure under which shown, and their gross amount for the year 1923-24 under the separate heads of Excise, Customs, and Income Tax; further, if the published proceeds of Income Tax include non-recurring receipts in respect of arrears, and, if so, if he will state the gross and net amounts of such arrears shown in the published totals. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is referred to the Finance Accounts of Saorstat Eireann for the financial year ended 31st March, 1924, which have been presented to the Oireachtas, and in which the total of Gross Receipts, Drawbacks, Repayments, Allowances, etc., and Net Receipts are shown under the several heads of Revenue. 
       Authority for repayments is contained in Acts imposing the duties or in Acts governing their administration. For example, repayment of duty by way of drawback (1) on beer is authorised by Section 4 of the Customs and Inland Revenue Act, 1881, and the Inland Revenue Act, 1880, Sections 36 and 37; (2) on sugar by the Finance Act, 1901, Section 2 (1), and Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, Section 13.  Repayments of Income Tax are made under the provisions of numerous sections of the Income Tax Act, 1918, such as Sections 10 to 16, 25, 29, etc., and of the Finance Acts, 1920, Section 27 (2); 1921, Sections 25, etc.; 1922, Section 26; and 1924, Sections 3 and 8.  Authority for repayment of Corporation Profits Tax is contained in Finance Act, 1920, Section 31; 1922, Section 21 (5); and 1924, Section 35; and of the Excess Profits Duty in the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, Sections 38 (3) and 45 (6); and Finance Act, 1921, Sections 35 to 39. 
     
     The published proceeds include all Income Tax arrears.  The gross amount   of such arrears, exclusive of super-tax arrears, for years prior to 1923-24, collected during the year ended 31st March, 1924, was £3,564,928.  As repayments are made out of the total receipts in the year it is not possible to state the net amount of such arrears collected.  The figure of £3,564,928 includes a large amount of revenue for 1922-23 normally collectible in 1923-24. For example, it includes the collection of the second instalment of Income Tax for 1922-23. 
     It must be borne in mind that the collection of abnormal arrears always reacts unfavourably on the collection of current revenue, and, furthermore, that the collection for 1923-24 was adversely affected by the state of the country in the early part of that year and other circumstances, such as the disorganisation arising out of the transfer of the administration of the tax from the British authorities to our own officials. 
     The net receipts from Income Tax (exclusive of super-tax) for the calendar year ended December, 1924, were £5,570,000, and this will probably afford a better guide to the amount of the normal collection if allowance be made for abnormal arrears and abnormal pressure on the staff.  The non-recurring receipts which may be regarded as included in this figure in respect of abnormal arrears cannot be stated with accuracy, but is estimated at £1,100,000. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LOSSES BY BORDER RESIDENTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that in the border fighting that occurred in Pettigo in June, 1922, a number of people suffered considerable losses through having to abandon their homes owing to military action, with the result that their crops for that year were practically ruined and their live-stock seriously injured through lack of attention for two or three weeks, and whether it is proposed to set up a &ldquo;War Compensation Commission&rdquo; to inquire into and make awards in respect of such losses with a view to payment. 
     
     
     
      
       A number of claims for compensation have been received in respect of injuries to property sustained during the course of military operations in the Pettigo area in May and June, 1922.  These claims are being investigated through the ordinary machinery which we have set up for dealing with claims for damage to property, and payment of such amounts as may be approved will be authorised without prejudice to the question of ultimate liability, which is being pursued with the British Government.  The need for setting up a Commission of the kind mentioned by the Deputy does not, therefore; arise. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - AMOUNT OF INVESTED CAPITAL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is in a position to state approximately the total amount of capital owned by the citizens and the banking and other institutions of Saorstat Eireann and which is at present invested in external enterprises and securities; and the amount of externally owned capital now invested in securities and enterprises in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The income derived by Saorstat residents and companies from investments outside the Saorstat is estimated at a figure between £8,000,000 and £9,000,000 per annum. This figure would include the income derived by Saorstat residents from shares held in companies, such as Arthur Guinness, Son &amp; Co., Ltd., and the National Bank, Ltd., which are registered in England, but whose undertakings are largely carried on in the Saorstat.  I have no information as to the amount of capital producing this income, but if the average yield be taken at five per cent. the capital would probably be in the neighbourhood of £170,000,000 or £180,000,000. 
       I am not at present in a position to express any opinion as to the amount of externally owned capital now invested in securities and enterprises in the Saorstat. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - R.I.C. PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the   Minister for Finance whether he will state the grounds on which he based his decision to refuse to issue the necessary certificate which would enable Mr. Patrick Finnegan, Kilkerrin, Ballinasloe, who served in the R.I.C. from September, 1916, to September, 1920, and who resigned on that date at Newcastle, Co. Limerick, to obtain a pension. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Finnegan joined the Royal Irish Constabulary on 19th September, 1916, and resigned on 26th August, 1920, and had, therefore, completed less than four years' service at the date of his retirement from the Force, and in accordance with the general policy followed in such cases as communicated by me to the House on the 5th November last, I have not felt able to issue the necessary certificate under Section 5 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923, which would render Mr. Finnegan eligible for the award of a pension. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TEACHER-PENSIONERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the number of teacher-pensioners who are in receipt of pensions from the Teachers' Pension Fund who retired on or before August 4th, 1920, and who are now ordinarily resident outside Ireland. 
     
     
      
       There are thirty pensioners of the class to whom the question relates now ordinarily resident outside Ireland. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SHANNON WATERPOWER SCHEME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he can state upon what rate of wages the estimates for the carrying out of the Siemens-Schuckert Shannon Waterpower Scheme have been based; what rate per hour, or per week, has been allowed for ordinary labourers, and what rate for tradesmen; if he is aware that the scheme cannot be compared with other schemes, unless the rate of wages included is known and allowed for. 
     
     
     
      
       I do not propose to publish details of these matters which the Deputy will find sufficiently dealt with in the Experts' Report, and which must ultimately be the subject of arrangement between those responsible for carrying out the works and the employees.  I do not agree with the Deputy's view that decisions as to what electrification schemes are the best for the Saorstat depend upon a comparison as to rates of wages. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister give any information as to whether or not that report will be published?  I think there was a suggestion that it might be possible to publish the report, either in full or somewhat abridged, for Deputies. 
     
     
      
       The Experts' Report is at present in the hands of the Experts for the reconciliation of certain very small details, and I had a wire from one of them to say that his particular portion had been sent on last Friday.  I am in hopes it will be possible to publish the report&mdash;a document of 120 printed pages&mdash;about the end of the week.  The Siemens' scheme in an abridged form ought to be published about the same time.  I hope to get both published together. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT (CO. KILDARE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will expedite payment of unemployment benefit in respect of his wife to William O'Brien, Blackrath, Curragh, Co. Kildare, Serial Book No. 1014, Droichead Nua Labour Exchange Office. 
     
     
      
       William O'Brien lodged a claim to unemployment benefit on the 30th October last, but did not claim increased benefit in respect of dependents.  The claim was duly authorised, and benefit was paid on it up to the 21st November, on which date he lodged a claim for increased benefit in respect of his wife and child, and unemployment benefit with increased benefit was allowed and paid from that date up to the 26th January, when the   claimant became employed, after having received benefit for 76 days.  No benefit appears to be due to Mr. O'Brien in respect of his wife. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that Volunteer Patrick Doyle, of Sunnyhill Cottages, Kilcullen, Co. Kildare, Army No. 53112, who was discharged from the Army on the 21st January, 1925, lodged a claim for unemployment benefit at Droichead Nua Office on the 23rd January; that he has not yet received any benefit, although he has from fifty to seventy stamps to his credit from 1920 to the date of his joining the Army on the 4th April, 1922, and whether he will expedite payment. 
     
     
      
       When Patrick Doyle, of Sunnyhill Cottages, Kilcullen, Co. Kildare, claimed unemployment benefit on the 23rd January last he stated that he had an account with the Unemployment Fund, and that contributions had been paid for him prior to his enlistment in the National Army, but was unable to give the number of the book or any particulars that would lead to the identification of his account. Search for his account was made without result in the records of the Department, and the Ministry of Labour in London were asked whether he had an account there.  That Department did trace an account which appeared to relate to the claimant.  The papers were sent to the Local Office on the 26th ultimo with a view to verifying the particulars.  That office invited the applicant to call for interview, but he has not yet attended.  Only 29 contributions had been paid on this account, and they were refunded on representations made by the payers that they had been paid in error in respect of employment which at the time of payment was thought to be insurable, but was subsequently found to be uninsurable. The position, therefore, is that the only account that can relate to the claimant which it has been possible to trace either here or in London has no unexhausted contributions to credit, and I regret, therefore, that it is not   possible to pay unemployment benefit to Doyle, who, moreover, is not entitled to the special benefit provided by Section 3 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1924, because he was discharged from the Army subsequent to the 29th June, 1924. 
     
     
      
       I am informed that this man was working for 12 months on the Country Council works, and that he has 12 months' stamps to his credit. 
     
     
      
       My only answer to that is that he was unable to give the number of his book or any particulars that would lead to the identification of his card.  If the Deputy can get him to furnish these particulars, and the particulars with regard to the County Council about which he has now spoken, then we will have further investigation made. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OCCUPIERS' LIABILITY FOR RATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he intends to introduce legislation to transfer to owners of houses of £4 and a lesser valuation the liability for rates of such houses, and thereby relieve local authorities of a heavy burden, and poor occupiers of such houses of a liability that is increasingly difficult to meet. 
     
     
      
       This question, with other anomalies and difficulties arising out of the rating problem, will form the subject of special legislation at a later date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM (KILDARE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he can state the reasons of the Pension Officer for rejecting the claim of Mrs. Mary Wiseman, Bishophill, Ballymore-Eustace, for the old age pension. 
     
     
     
      
       This claim was disallowed on appeal on the 7th January last, on the ground of insufficient evidence of age.  A previous claim was disallowed on the 5th May, 1923, for the same reason. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PAYMENT OF COUNTY COUNCIL PENSIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that great hardship is inflicted on persons receiving pensions from county councils through having to wait three months for payment, and, if so, if he will instruct the county councils to make payment monthly in future. 
     
     
      
       Complaints have not reached my Department in this matter.  If the Deputy will give me particulars of any cases which have been brought to his notice the matter will be taken up with the local authorities concerned. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM (KILDARE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that the second claim of Patrick Keogh, Church Lane, Kildare, for an old age pension passed by the Pensions Committee has been appealed against by the Pensions Officer; further, whether he is aware that the Kilcullen Parish Register was destroyed when the vestry was burnt down some years ago; that Mr. P. Byrne, Principal, Kilcullen School, can verify from the old school roll-books that Patrick Keogh, of Castlemartin, Kilcullen, entered school on the 7th January, 1861, at the age of 73⁄4 years, and whether he will accept this as satisfactory evidence of age for award of pension. 
     
     
      
       The facts are substantially as stated in the Deputy's question.  The evidence put forward has been accepted as satisfactory, and a pension of six shillings a week has now been allowed as from the date of receipt of the claim by the Pensions Officer. 
     
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say why the full pension of 9/- was not awarded in this case?  I understand that the man is without any means, and, therefore, I think the pension of 9/- should have been awarded. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy will have to ask a separate question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FEES FOR ADMINISTERING OATHS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware of allegations to the effect that in certain cases Peace Commissioners have demanded and have obtained fees for administering oaths, and whether he can say if they are legally entitled to make any such charge. 
     
     
      
       Peace Commissioners are not entitled to any fees.  I have had one complaint of the nature referred to; it has only reached me within the last few days, and I am investigating it. 
     
     
      
       Is any penalty imposed on Peace Commissioners who ask for such fees? 
     
     
      
       I presume there would be, but the Minister is only investigating this case at present. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GALWAY CIRCUIT COURT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he is aware of the delay in furnishing copies of shorthand writers' notes of Circuit Court proceedings in County Galway to solicitors; if, to enable appeals to be proceeded with, he will issue instructions to the Circuit Court Clerk to furnish copies of the notes required to solicitors and counsel engaged in law cases in the Galway Courts. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that any such delay has taken place.  No complaint has been made to me on the subject.  All necessary instructions have been issued. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WESTMEATH LAKE FISHERIES. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether one of the duties of Boards of Conservators is the protection and care of the brown trout fisheries, and, if so, if he will state what steps were taken in 1923 or 1924 by the Limerick Board to foster or protect the free brown trout lakes of Westmeath; whether, in view of the fact that the Limerick Board of Conservators received a grant of £1,203 in 1923, in addition to revenue derived from salmon licences, which amount is equivalent to almost fifty per cent. of the total revenue, he will take steps to see that the Westmeath lakes receive from the Limerick Board an equitable proportion of those public funds. 
     
     
      
       The duty of preserving brown trout, as well as all other freshwater fish, is entrusted to the Boards of Conservators of Fisheries. 
       No water-bailiffs were appointed by the Limerick Board of Conservators to look after the brown trout lakes of Westmeath during 1923 and 1924.  The Board, it is understood, are unable to provide bailiffs for these lakes owing to their restricted funds.  I am satisfied that the Limerick Board is expending its resources to the best advantage in concentrating at present upon the protection of the salmon fisheries, which are much more valuable to the State than brown trout. 
       I am, at the same time, anxious to see that the brown trout fisheries in our large lakes should receive attention, and my Department has given special assistance to the Westmeath lakes trout fishery during the past two years. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ROSCREA POSTAL DELIVERY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he is aware that letters are not delivered in Roscrea until 11.30 a.m. each day, and whether, as this is a hardship on business people, he can arrange to have an earlier delivery. 
     
     
      
       There is a   delivery at Roscrea at 7.0 a.m. of correspondence received the previous night from Dublin and the South of Ireland.  There is another delivery at 11.0 a.m., consisting of the previous night mail postings in Dublin and the provinces, and the English mails due at Dun Laoghaire at 5.50 a.m. 
       A railway connection to Roscrea is not afforded from the up or down night mail main line trains, but I am having enquiries made as to the practicability of arranging an alternative service to Roscrea with a view to the inclusion in the first delivery of night mail correspondence posted at Dublin and in the provinces, and I will communicate with the Deputy in the matter as soon as the enquiries have been completed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FLOODING IN COUNTY CLARE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commission has taken any action regarding the bursting of the bank of the River Garney, Rosmanagher, Sixmilebridge, Co. Clare, and if he is aware that three hundred acres are submerged, and eighty tenants are affected by the flooding. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are aware that damage has occurred to the embankment referred to.  It is situate on the estate of D'Esterre, which was sold by the owner to the tenants under the Irish Land Act, 1903, and on the sale the vendor provided a fund for the upkeep of the embankments, the income of which is expended by local trustees appointed by the tenants in accordance with a deed of trust.  The Commission have had the damaged bank inspected, and have made arrangements whereby the necessary repairs will be carried out at the earliest possible date.  The ordinary income is unable to meet the case. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF COUNTY CLARE ESTATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if the Land Commission has reached any decision regarding the acquisition of the estates of H.V.   Parker, Castlelake, Sixmilebridge, Co. Clare, Mrs. A. Dundon, Cappa Lodge, Sixmilebridge, Co. Clare, and Mrs. A. H. Butler, Sixmilebridge, Co. Clare, for distribution. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have made a proposal to purchase some 129 acres of untenanted lands in the townlands of Ballyvorgal North, Ballyvorgal South, Ballyvorgal Beg and Castlelake, on the estate of R.J. Parker, County Clare, which the owner has accepted. 
       The Land Commission have gazetted untenanted lands comprising 336 acres 1 rood 32 perches in the townland of Cappa Lodge, County Clare, on the estate of Annie Dundon, for acquisition under the Land Act, 1923.  These proceedings are nearing completion. 
       With reference to the estate of Mrs. A.H. Butler, Sixmilebridge, County Clare, referred to in the question, the Commissioners are at present in negotiation for the purchase of some 241 acres in the townland of Drumullan, County Clare, on the estate of Miss Butler, which is probably the estate referred to.  These negotiations are not yet completed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FLUKE IN CATTLE AND SHEEP. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if any steps have been taken to discover the number of cattle and sheep which have died during the last few months from fluke disease, and, if not, whether steps would be taken to have the Garda Siochana instructed to ascertain particulars from farmers; and whether he would be prepared to recommend a free loan to farmers who have lost practically all their stock owing to the disease. 
     
     
      
       From the reports so far received from Agricultural Instructors and Overseers, it is clear that the mortality of sheep through this disease has become very prevalent throughout the West, and particularly in Counties Galway and Roscommon, in which counties probably thirty or forty per cent. of the sheep have become affected. Possibly, from four to five per cent. have died.  In Counties Sligo, Mayo, Clare, and Kerry the position is not so   serious.  In other parts of the country the disease is mostly confined to the low-lying districts, and even in these areas the mortality amongst sheep is only slightly higher than in a normal year. 
       Fluke in cattle is also much more prevalent than usual, but is apparently confined almost entirely to young cattle, principally in the West of Ireland. In the North of County Roscommon about a quarter of last year's calves or yearling stock have died.  In Counties Cavan, Louth, Longford, and Kerry the disease has also made considerable headway amongst cattle, mainly in the low-lying districts. 
       It is not considered necessary, in view of the information at the Department's disposal, to make inquiries from the Garda Siochana. 
       As the Deputy is probably aware, the Department have made arrangements whereby farmers may obtain at a moderate cost (3d. per sheep) supplies of a tested specific for the treatment of infected sheep, and are doing what is possible to induce farmers to take advantage of this arrangement. 
       It is impossible to say at present whether the epidemic will develop to such an extent as to make it necessary to adopt special measures for the relief of the farmers concerned. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NAAS EX-SOLDIER'S PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he can state why Patrick McDonald, Oldtown, Naas, who was discharged from the Army as medically unfit after being one year in hospital, on a weekly pension of 16s. 9d., has received no money for the past three months. 
     
     
      
       The pension awarded to Mr. McDonald was subject to review after further medical examination on the 1st December last.  When the examination had been carried out, certain enquiries had to be made.  These have been completed, and the arrears due to Mr. McDonald will be paid forthwith. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY SERVICE PENSIONS ACT&mdash;POSITION OF IRISH VOLUNTEERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if members of the Irish   Volunteers who took part in the Anglo-Irish war in April, 1916, or in the period from 1920 to July, 1921, but who did not, although supporters of the State, serve in the National Defence Forces of Saorstat Eireann, are not entitled to any pension under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, and, if not, if it is proposed to give such men's claims recognition in any other way. 
     
     
      
       The Volunteers in question are not entitled to pensions under the terms of the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, and it is not proposed to make any financial provision in their cases. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY SERVICE PENSIONS ACT.   POSITION OF DEPENDENTS OF DECEASED VOLUNTEERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that parents and dependents of deceased Volunteers claiming pensions or gratuities under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, have been informed that such applications cannot be entertained, and whether he would consider the advisability of introducing legislation to amend the Act so as to include such cases. 
     
     
      
       The cases referred to by the Deputy may fall into two classes, namely, the cases of Volunteers who died prior to the 1st October last, and the cases of those who died after that date.  The Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, prescribes the 1st October last as the earliest date for the commencement of pensions.  Obviously, nothing could be payable in the cases of Volunteers who died prior to that date.  As regards the other cases, provided that the Volunteers themselves have stated valid claims on the prescribed forms, arrears of pensions accruing up to the date of decease will be issued to next-of-kin. 
       There appears to be no necessity to amend the Act in connection with any of the cases referred to. 
     
     
      
       In order to prevent an   injustice being done in the case of a young man who was expecting that he would secure a gratuity and who died within the last twelve months, and left relatives, will the Minister see that the Act is amended in such a way as to give the relatives the benefit that might have been given to the deceased? 
     
     
      
       The pension is payable to the Volunteer or soldier and not to the dependents.  The Deputy, perhaps, may have been mixing up the Acts. 
     
     
      
       I am not.  I have a case here in which a young man died. He had already received a form, but had not completed it, and when the relatives wrote asking whether they would be entitled to the benefit which this young man would have participated in, they received an answer stating that the application for a certificate of military service, in accordance with the terms of the Military Service (Pensions) Act, 1924, must be made by the person who rendered the services in question.  This is a case in which the young man who rendered the services received no benefit, and his relatives were hopeful that the Act would be amended in such a way as to allow them to get the benefit. 
     
     
      
       As I stated, the pension is payable to the volunteer or soldier. At present there is no intention of amending the Act. 
     
   
   
     QUESTION ON ADJOURNMENT. 
     
      
       I beg to give notice that, on the motion for the Adjournment, I will draw attention to the growing distress in Co. Clare. 
     
   
   
     DEATH OF PRESIDENT EBERT. 
     
      
       It is with deep regret that I rise to move an expression of sympathy with the Government and people of Germany in the great loss they have sustained by the death of their President.  The Government has already forwarded an expression of regret, and I believe that in that action they have the approval of all the Deputies of the House. 
       Motion approved, Deputies standing. 
     
   
   
     ORDER OF BUSINESS. 
     
      
       Would the President be able to say whether any   of the Supplementary Estimates on the Orders of the Day will be taken to-day and, if so, which of them? 
     
     
      
       Before that question is answered, perhaps we could get from the President an indication as to what exactly the order of business will be and what portion of the business on the Orders of the Day will be taken to-day. 
     
     
      
       I propose to take the items in the order in which they appear on the Orders of the Day. 
     
     
      
       As regards the Supplementary Estimates, I think the question as to when they will be taken could very properly be raised on item 2 of the Orders of the Day. The motion therein set out would give an opportunity for fixing the time. 
     
   
   
     LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILL, 1924&mdash;MESSAGE FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       The following Message has been received from the Seanad:-&ldquo;The Seanad has this day passed the Local Government Bill, 1924, in which it has inserted the subjoined amendments, in which the agreement of the Dail is desired.&rdquo;  The amendments number 111.  Is there any intention of fixing the time when this business will be transacted? 
     
     
      
       I propose to ask the Dail to give the earliest possible consideration to these amendments and, if the House agree, I would ask the Dail to take up this business on Tuesday next. 
     
     
      
       Would it be convenient for the Minister, in circulating the amendments, to indicate which of them he proposes to advise acceptance of?  Some of them were obviously inspired by the Minister himself.  Others may have been accepted by the Minister. If we had some indication by the Minister as to the amendments he proposes to accept, it would save a great deal of inquiry and the looking-up of Local Government enactments. 
     
     
      
       It is intended to issue a statement to the effect suggested.   It will give information to Deputies as to which of these amendments, or how many of them, will be proposed for acceptance by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       The amendments will be circulated to-night and should reach Deputies in the morning, at latest. 
       Consideration of Seanad amendments to Local Government Bill fixed for Tuesday, 10th March, 1925. 
     
   
   
     SUMMER TIME BILL, 1925.&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I ask leave to introduce the Summer Time Bill, 1925. The lines upon which it is drawn are such that it will be only necessary in future to give notice of the time on which the Act will come into operation. 
     
     
        Question put&mdash;&ldquo;That leave be given to introduce the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;agreed. 
     Bill read a first time. 
     
      
       I propose to take the Second Stage on Tuesday. 
     
     
      
       I understand the Local Government Bill will be down for Tuesday, and the Treasonable and Seditious Offences Bill will also be down for that date.  I suggest that those two Bill will provide us with about as much work for that day as we will be able to discharge. 
     
     
      
       The strain which will be imposed by consideration of this Bill will not be such as to warrant a change to another day. 
       Second Stage of Summer Time Bill, 1925, fixed for Tuesday, 10th March, 1925. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Go dtugaidh an Dail cead chun na Meastachan Bhreise agus Nua seo a leanas, i gcoir seirbhisi na bliana dar crioch 31adh Marta, 1925, do thabhairt isteach, eadhon&mdash;Votalacha a 5 (Oifig an Aire Airgid), 9 (Coimisiuin Shealadacha), 13 (Coimisiun um Stat-Sheirbhis)), 21 (Costaisi fen Representation of the People Act, 1918, fen Acht Timpeal Toghachan, 1923, agus fe Acht na gCoisti Dhareag (Leasu), 1924), 28 (Oifigigh Cuirte Contae), 29 (Eilithe Dli), 49 (Oideachas Idirmheanach), 51 (Scoileanna fe Bhrontanas), 60 (An Roinn Iascaigh), 64 (Aisiocanna isteach sa Chiste Teangmhais), 65 (Banca Naisiunta Talmhan, Teo). 
             That leave be given by the Dail to introduce the following Supple mentary and Additional Estimates for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1925, viz.&mdash;Votes Nos. 5 (Office of the Minister for Finance), 9 (Temporary Commissions), 13 (Civil Service Commission), 21 (Expenses under the Representation of the People Act, 1918, the Electoral Act, 1923, and the Juries (Amend ment) Act, 1924), 28 (County Court Officers), 29 (Law Charges), 49 (In termediate Education), 51 (En dowed Schools), 60 (Department of Fisheries), 64 (Repayments of Con tingency Fund), 65 (National Land Bank, Ltd.). 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       Would it be possible to meet the convenience of Deputies by fixing a time for the consideration of at least one of those Votes in which a great many Deputies are interested?  The Vote I refer to is Vote 49, which deals with Intermediate Education. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to meet the convenience of the Dail in any way. When the Vote comes on, if any Deputy expresses a wish to have it postponed, I will be glad to postpone it until a time that suits him. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Estimates will be reached to-day. If any Deputy desires to have a particular estimate taken at a particular time would it not be well to fix the time now? 
     
     
      
       I propose to take the Estimates at the earliest possible hour to-morrow. 
     
     
     
      
       On Vote No. 5 (Office of the Minister for Finance) I desire to raise a matter that I think might possibly come within that Vote &mdash;the method of assessing and collecting income tax from railway employees. If it is not possible to bring the matter under that Vote, I will raise it on the motion for the adjournment to-morrow.  Perhaps I may be allowed to give notice of my intention to raise the matter in that way now. 
       Motion for leave to introduce Supplementary and Additional Estimates put and agreed to. 
       Ordered: That consideration of Supplementary and Additional Estimates be placed on the Orders of the Day for Thursday, 5th March, and that Vote 49 be taken first. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - LIVE STOCK BREEDING BILL, 1924&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       I move that the Committee agree with the 19 amendments to this Bill which have been made by the Seanad.  They are, in the main, drafting amendments.  In amendment 7, as set out on the Order Paper, portion of the last line of sub-section (1) should read &ldquo;as it thinks proper.&rdquo;  The use of &ldquo;he&rdquo; is a printer's error, but it is rather important as the reference in the amendment, as printed, would be to the Minister, whereas it should be to the Consultative Council.  The 19 amendments are as follows:&mdash; 
       1.  In Section 1 the words &ldquo;and also that the bull was on that day a bull to which this Act applies&rdquo; added at the end of sub-section (3). 
       2.  In section 1 (4), before paragraph (b), a new paragraph inserted as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(b) a person to whom the bull has been lent, hired or leased for a period exceeding one month, and&rdquo; 
       3.  In Section 1 (4), paragraphs (b) and (c) deleted and the following paragraph substituted therefor:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;(c) the owner or the person having the charge or management   of the lands or premises on which the bull was when the offence was alleged to have been committed, unless such owner or person proves that the bull was then on the said lands without his knowledge or connivance.&rdquo; 
     4.  In Section 3, sub-section (2) deleted. 
     5.  In Section 3 (3), line 20, the word &ldquo;section&rdquo; deleted and the word &ldquo;Act&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     6.  In Section 4, sub-section (2) deleted. 
     7.  Before Section 5 a new Section 5 inserted as follows:&mdash; 
     (1)  The Minister may by regulations made under this Act declare that any particular breed or breeds or any particular type or types of bull is or are unsuitable for any specified area or areas, but the Minister shall not make, revoke or vary any such regulation until he has consulted the consultative council established under this Act in regard thereto, and the Minister, in the making, revoking or varying any such regulation shall take into consideration any advice in regard thereto given to him by the said council after making such (if any) inquiries and investigations as it thinks proper. 
     (2)  Subject to the provisions of this section the Minister may, if he thinks fit so to do, refuse to grant a licence under this Act in respect of a bull kept or proposed to be kept in an area specified in such regulations if the bull is of a breed or of a type declared by such regulations to be unsuitable for that area. 
     (3)  The Minister may, subject to the provisions of this section, at any time, if he thinks fit so to do, suspend or revoke a licence granted by him under this Act if the bull to which such licence relates is brought into or kept in an area specified in any such regulations and is of a breed or of a type declared by such regulations to be unsuitable for that area. 
     (4)  The Minister shall not under this section refuse, revoke or suspend a licence in respect of a bull which is entered or eligible for entry in a prescribed herd book, and is used or intended to be used exclusively for the   service of cows of the same breed as the bull.&rdquo; 
     8.  In Section 5 (2), after the word &ldquo;fails&rdquo; in line 62, the words &ldquo;without just cause or excuse&rdquo; inserted. 
     9.  In Section 5 (3), page 4, the word &ldquo;any&rdquo; deleted in line 2 and the word &ldquo;the&rdquo; substituted therefor, and the words &ldquo;for the time being&rdquo; added at the end of the sub-section. 
     10.  In Section 8 (4) after the word &ldquo;permit&rdquo; in line 64, the following words inserted &ldquo;and such personal representative shall during such period or until such determination (as the case may be) be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be the holder of such licence or permit.&rdquo; 
     11.  In Section 10 (1), line 12, the words &ldquo;and for the time being in force&rdquo; deleted. 
     12.  In Section 12 (1), lines 63-64, the words &ldquo;at his own option any one of the following things&rdquo; deleted and the words &ldquo;such one of the following things as the Minister shall specify in the notice&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     13.  In Section 12 the following words added at the end of sub-section (2) &ldquo;and the cost of such slaughter or castration shall be paid by the owner of the bull to the Minister on demand and may be recovered by the Minister on demand from such owner as a civil debt.&rdquo; 
     14.  In Section 12, sub-section (3) deleted. 
     15.  In Section 14 (1), paragraph (d), lines 53-55 deleted and the following substituted therefor:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(d) serves under this Act either a notice requiring that a permit to be taken out in respect of a bull or a notice requiring that a bull be slaughtered or a notice requiring that a bull be castrated.&rdquo; 
     16.  In Section 14 (4), page 7, after the word &ldquo;licence,&rdquo; line 9, the words &ldquo;or permit in lieu of such transfer&rdquo; inserted. 
     17.  In Section 15 (2), after the word &ldquo;persons,&rdquo; line 42, the following words inserted: &ldquo;(being persons   having experience or special knowledge in relation to the matters on which the council may give advice or assistance to the Minister&rdquo;). 
     18.  In Section 20 the following words added at the end of sub-section (1) 
     &ldquo;save that&mdash; 
     (a)  this Act shall not apply to a bull kept solely for experimental purposes under and in accordance with the written authority of the Minister, and 
     (b)  in the case of a bull lawfully imported into Saorstat Eireann after it has attained the prescribed age and in respect of which the prescribed conditions are complied with, this Act shall not apply to the bull until the expiration of the prescribed period after its importation into Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
     19.  In Section 23 the figures &ldquo;1924,&rdquo; line 50, deleted and the figures &ldquo;1925&rdquo; substituted therefor. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Reported&mdash;That Committee have agreed with the Seanad in the amendments to the Live Stock Breeding Bill, 1924. 
     Motion made and question put: That the Dail agree with the Committee in the amendments from the Seanad to the Live Stock Breeding Bill, 1924. 
     Agreed. 
     Message ordered to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL EIREANN COURTS (WINDING UP) BILL, 1925.&mdash;FOURTH STAGE. 
     
      
       I move amendment No. 1:&mdash; 
       In page 2, lines 28 and 49, to delete the words and figures &ldquo;31st day of March, 1925,&rdquo; and substitute the words and figures &ldquo;30th day of April, 1925,&rdquo; and in line 33 to delete the words and figures &ldquo;1st day of April, 1925,&rdquo; and substitute &ldquo;1st day of May, 1925.&rdquo; 
     
     The effect of this amendment is to postpone for one month the date upon   which the Act will come into force.  It was anticipated that the Bill would become law in time to become operative on the 31st March, but it is obvious that it cannot become law in time now. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
      
       The next two amendments are designed to have the same effect.  The amendments, which I move, are as follows:&mdash; 
       In page 3, lines 1, 9, 17, 22, 40, 41, 52 and 57 to delete the words and figures &ldquo;1st day of April, 1925,&rdquo; and substitute &ldquo;1st day of May, 1925,&rdquo; and in line 47 to delete the words and figures &ldquo;31st day of March, 1925,&rdquo; and substitute &ldquo;30th day of April, 1925.&rdquo; 
     
     In page 4, lines 3, 13, 20, 26 and 31 to delete the words and figures  &ldquo;1st day of April, 1925,&rdquo; and substitute &ldquo;1st day of May, 1925,&rdquo; and in lines 8 and 17 to delete the words and figures &ldquo;31st day of March, 1925,&rdquo; and substitute &ldquo;30th day of April, 1925.&rdquo; 
     Amendments put and agreed to. 
     Motion made and question put&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill, as amended, be received for final consideration.&rdquo;&mdash; Agreed. 
     Fifth stage ordered for Friday, 6th March. 
     
      
       I ask to have consideration of the Prisons (Visiting Committees) Bill, 1925, postponed for the present, as the Minister for Justice is engaged in the Seanad. 
       Leave granted. 
     
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - MONEY RESOLUTION&mdash;DEFENCE FORCES (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) BILL, 1925. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfar amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas aon chostaisi fe n-a raghfar fe aon Acht a rithfar sa tSioson so chun buanu agus leasu do dheanamh ar na hAchtanna Forsai Cosanta (Foralacha Sealadacha), 1923 agus 1924, le na socruitear i gcoir cosaint Shaorstait Eireann agus i gcoir nithe eile a bhaineas leis sin. 
             That it is expedient to authorise the payment out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas of any expenses incurred under any Act of the pre sent Session to continue and amend the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Acts, 1923 and 1924, which provides for the defence of Saorstat Eireann and other matters incidental thereto. 
           
         
       
     
     There will be no new charges. 
     Motion put and agreed to. 
   
   
     COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Resolution reported. 
     Motion made and question put: &ldquo;That the Dail agree with the Committee in the said resolution.&rdquo;  Agreed. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DEFENCE FORCES (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) BILL, 1925&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     Section 1 to 8 put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 9. 
     (1)  Upon the discharge of any soldier of the Forces who is certified by a person registered under the Medical Acts in actual practice of the medical profession to be a person of unsound mind and to be a proper person to be detained under care and treatment, the Minister, or any officer of the Army Medical Corps not below the rank of Commandant deputed by the Minister, may, by order, cause such soldier to be sent to the lunatic asylum established for the district to which it appears to the Minister or such officer (as the case may require) after investigation   made by him in accordance with the provisions of this section that such soldier belongs.... 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), lines 51-52, to delete the words &ldquo;of the Army Medical Corps,&rdquo; and in lines 52-53 to insert the words &ldquo;for the purpose&rdquo; between the words &ldquo;Minister&rdquo; and &ldquo;may.&rdquo; 
       Under the sub-section as it stands it might happen that the same officer would be the certifying officer and the committing officer.  The amendment gives the Minister power to ensure that that shall not happen. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 9, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 10, 11 and 12 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       Title put and agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be reported. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Bill, 1925, reported with one amendment. 
     Report Stage ordered for Friday, 6th March. 
   
   
     LOCAL AUTHORITIES (COMBINED PURCHASING) BILL, 1925. - COMMITTEE STAGE (RESUMED). 
     
      
       The discussion was proceeding on Amendment 4 to Section 6 of the Bill.  That amendment is now before the Committee. 
     
     
      
       There was a considerable amount of discussion, when this Bill was before the Committee on the last day, regarding the terminology of sub-section (3), Section 6.  If it would meet the objections that were raised, I propose to introduce on the Report Stage an amendment to this effect:&mdash;&ldquo;After the word &lsquo;that&rsquo; on line 55, to add &lsquo;at the time such purchase   was made the members of the local authority had reasonable grounds for believing that such purchase or contract would be.&rsquo;&rdquo;  I should have stated it is proposed that would be inserted after the word &ldquo;that&rdquo; and all the words from &ldquo;such&rdquo; down to the word &ldquo;duties&rdquo; on line 59 would be deleted. The sub-section would then read: &ldquo;At any such audit unless the Auditor is satisfied that at the time such purchase was made the members of the local authority had reasonable grounds for believing that such purchase or contract would be in the interests of the ratepapers, he shall charge against such members jointly and severally ....&rdquo;  I think the amendment which I propose to introduce on the Report Stage would meet the objections raised to the section as drafted. 
     
     
      
       While there may be a certain improvement in form, so far as I can understand it, the essence of the objections has not been met.  Even in the amended form, the implication remains in the Bill that if a local authority decided to purchase articles from firm (A), instead of from firms (B), (C), (D), (E) and (F), who might be on the official contract list, such action would be due to unworthy motives unless there could be proof to the contrary. You are throwing an onus on the local authority, and you are implying upon it blame for doing that which the Bill itself, according to the interpretation of the Minister, specifically allows it to do. 
       In the previous discussion the Minister took as an illustration the case of a local authority which paid a higher price for an article, or bought an inferior article than could have been obtained from the official contractor.  I want to take as an illustration a case which is more likely to be met with in practice.  I take as an example the case that the articles purchased from a local purveyor, merchant or manufacturer, not on the official contract list, were purchased at an equal price or at a lower price, and that they were of better quality than could be obtained from the official contractor.  Consider the position. 
     
     According to the Minister's interpretation of the Bill, it is quite open to   a local authority to purchase from a firm which is not on the official list.  In the case I instance, the local authority purchase at a price equal to or lower than the official contract price.  But even in the proposed amendment, the Minister wants to assume that there were  mala fides  on the part of the local authority in going outside the official contract list.  I think the reverse should be the position.  It ought to be the auditor's duty to assume honesty of purpose and not to assume, as it appears the Bill permits, that there was some wrongful intention in going outside the official contract list. 
     I believe the very phraseology of this is important, inasmuch as there is all the difference between having some faith in public authorities and having no faith in public authorities; there is all the difference between believing they are elected as honest men to do honest work and believing they are there to feather their own nests or to do something dishonest.  If you are going to assume that, then you are going to get that kind of person. You are inviting such a type, and it will be casting a slur beforehand on the character of public bodies if there is inserted in a Bill of this kind a phrase which assumes wrong intentions unless they can prove to the contrary. I do not think the proposed amendment, in its phraseology, does satisfy the requirements of the case, and in the circumstances I will ask the Committee to divide on my amendment. 
     
      
       Deputy Johnson has just stated that he considers the wording is a matter of very great importance.  I think he might have gone further and said the wording was practically the fundamental matter.  When the Dail reported progress on this very question I think there was substantial agreement&mdash;I venture to claim that&mdash;between the three Deputies who pressed this particular point and the President.  If I understood the President aright, I do not think it was his intention&mdash;and I do not think it is his intention&mdash;to let there be the assumption that unless the contrary be proved, there has been some dishonesty in the transaction of   the local body in going outside the official contractor. 
       I suggest to the President that the matter might be met if the auditor had imposed on him just those duties that are proper to an ordinary auditor in any ordinary business, and not have imposed on him duties that no auditor would accept in an ordinary commercial way.  When an auditor goes into a firm and finds some item entered against some transaction, and that is not intelligible to him, he calls for information. If no such provision as this section were in the Bill, and the Local Government auditor went down, he would still, I take it, be empowered to ask why it was the local authority went outside the official contractor in a specific case.  In that case he would be putting the question upon the assumption that sufficient information was not before him.  With the section remaining in the Bill containing the phraseology that has been chosen for it, the auditor will have to assume, no matter what be the price or specification, and even if the price and specification were better, that there was something undesirable and something dishonest about the transaction. 
       That is neither fair to the auditor, nor is it fair to the local authority. Why not leave the auditor with the ordinary functions of an ordinary auditor, and let him, if he finds that the official contractor has not been selected and that the official contract list has been departed from, call for information? Let him not, however, stipulate or assume or proceed on the foundation that there has been something dishonest, as this wording would seem to suggest.  I think it is a question of wording, and I believe some change in the wording would carry out the President's intention.  I do not think the proposed amendment quite carries out the intention. 
     
     
      
       It would not be a proper course for the Government to accept Deputy Figgis' interpretation of how the auditor should conduct his business.  It is not the work of an ordinary auditor who would deal with ordinary business, and the Deputy ought to know the reason why it is not. There is a considerable amount of   money distributed by the Government amongst local authorities throughout the country under various heads.  In other words, the Government assumes the burden of the cost of a local service to a very considerable extent.  In a great number of cases representations have been repeatedly made that the burden should become even heavier on the Government.  It is with that in mind, and having it as the fundamental basis of this proposal of combined purchasing, that the idea has become strengthened that the cost of local administration could be&mdash;as it must be &mdash;brought down to the lowest possible level. 
       While looking for the advantages that may be derived by local contractors or local business people, the main question is the least burdensome rate that may be borne both by the State and the local authority.  That is the real business in connection with this matter. Now we start to get what is known as a list of official contractors.  The case is made, &ldquo;What about the local man? Why will he not be allowed to tender? Why will his tender not be accepted?&rdquo; This is a matter in which it is impossible to have it both ways.  If you endeavour to get a list of official contractors who will tender at the lowest price, obviously you must be in a position to guarantee the maximum of business.  If you make a reduction of the amount of business accruing to the official contractor, you will naturally have a higher price than if it were known that he was going to have the whole of the business.  I do not know if Deputy Johnson agrees with that. 
     
     
      
       What does it mean? Does it mean that you are going to guarantee a maximum of business to a particular contractor or to any number? Does it mean guaranteeing anything to the contractor?  Is that the intention of the Bill? 
     
     
      
       The intention of the Bill is to buy at rockbottom price and I am not concerned with anything else. 
     
     
      
       If you can get that from a non-official listee what is the position? 
     
     
     
      
       I guess it is going to be a new creation.  The official contractor must be given some special reason for giving rockbottom price.  Let any Deputy make a case for the exclusion of his area from the list so that the local business men, but not the local ratepayers, will benefit.  There is nothing for an official contractor to go in for in a case of that kind. 
     
     
      
       Then your scheme breaks down. 
     
     
      
       I am going to see that it will not break down.  If the local contractor applies for a local contract at a price equal to that of the official contractor it is open to the local authority to take it. 
     
     
      
       Then what is the value of the guarantee? 
     
     
      
       That it is more than likely that a particular contractor, say in the case of tenders for two thousand bedsteads, will be given the contract at a price at which the local contractor would supply single bedsteads for.  That is agreed.  Is the proposal this: that having seen the price of the official contractor, the local contractor can say: &ldquo;I will supply at the same price&rdquo;?  If that is the case, then there is obviously a conspiracy to make this non-operative. 
     
     
      
       That is not the case I put.  I will take one specific case. 
     
     
      
       Day and date. 
     
     
      
       On any given date that the Minister chooses to name. 
     
     
      
       1st of April. 
     
     
      
       That will be a very appropriate date.  Let him choose his own local body and any article he likes.  Suppose, for instance, a local body on the 1st April gives a contract to a local contractor, as distinct from an official contractor, at a lower price than that of the official contractor and at the same specification&mdash;the President might say that that would be an extraordinarily rare thing &mdash;why in that particular case should   the Local Government auditor assume that there had been something that had not been quite straight?  Let him ask for information by all means, but not in the manner suggested in the Bill, on the basis of the assumption that there has been something crooked. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not object to giving the information. He complains about what I once heard was the first law of natural philosophy, and that is, the acquiring of knowledge and communicating it to others.  In this particular instance a local authority accepts a tender on the 1st April for a particular class of goods from a local contractor at a lower price with the same specification than that of the official contractor.  The Deputy did not state at what time the official contractor was declared.  If he were declared, say, on the 5th day of March, and if the local contractor comes in on the 1st April, I say that that is not fair.  Both events ought to take place about the same time.  There should be a fair field. We are prepared to give a fair field to the local contractor.  We are entitled to learn from the local authority when it makes a bargain that will be of benefit to the rest of the local authorities throughout the country.  The Deputy would do it himself.  Supposing he had a number of branch houses in the country with a big house in Dublin, and   if he found that one of the branch houses was in a position to purchase shovels or spades at a price lower than that which he was paying in Dublin, surely he would consider it advisable that an entry should be made in the books pointing out why the contract was accepted by the branch house, and stating the price, specifications, and so forth.  If the Deputy admits that, and if he were dealing with business on a big scale, surely he cannot object to the same thing being done by local authorities. 
     
     
      
       I do not. 
     
     
      
       Very well.  I suppose it will be admitted that official contractors will be placed on a fairly low price.  If that be the case, surely when there is an alteration made, when you go outside the official contractor, it is not too much to ask that in a column, specially prepared for the purpose, the local authority should state why it has accepted a tender other than that of the official contractor.  That is in one portion of it.  In the other portion, the amendment which I suggested may not go the whole length of Deputy Johnson's amendment, but it meets the case and, in my opinion, ought to be accepted. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 13; Nil, 31. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Darrell Figgis. John Good. David Hall. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Ailfrid O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seoirse de Bhulbh. John J. Cole. John Conlan. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Michael Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. Connor Hogan. Donnchadh Mac Con Uladh. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam Mag Aonghusa. 
             Patrick J. Mulvany. Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Peadar O hAodha. Sean O Bruadair. Partholan O Conchubhair. Conchubhar O Conghaile. Seamus O Dolain. Micheal O Dubhghaill. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Padraig O Dubhthaigh. Seamus O Murchadha. Sean O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Sean Priomhdhail. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     
        Tellers.&mdash;Ta: Mr. Morrissey and Mr. Nagle.  Nil: Mr. Dolan and Mr. B. O'Connor. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       Before we go to amendment 5, may I ask when it is that the President proposes moving his amendment? 
     
     
      
       On Report. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 5:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (3), line 55, to delete the word &ldquo;unless&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;if,&rdquo; and in line 56 to delete the word &ldquo;not,&rdquo; and in lines 57 and 58 to delete the words &ldquo;for any object other than the  bona fide  discharge&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;without due regard,&rdquo; and in line 59, to delete the words &ldquo;of their duties&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;to their duties.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is in the interest of possible contractors.  I have no special duty imposed upon me to look after the interests of either shopkeepers or merchants, but there is such a thing as acting fairly to men who have entered legitimately into a contract and protecting their interests.  The section imposes upon the auditor the single duty, in certain circumstances, of declaring the contract illegal.  The illegality may be on either side.  The fault may be on the side of the local authority or on the side of a contractor and it would be very hard to judge who is to blame. But if the contract is declared illegal there is a possibility, even a probability, of a slur upon the character of a contractor. The amendment merely asks that the auditor shall have a discretion to terminate the contract in certain circumstances, if the occasion warrants such a course, or to declare the contract illegal if there has been any fraud or  mala fides  on the part of the merchant. I think that some such amendment is required, allowing the auditor the alternative of declaring the contract terminated without any declaration of illegality, instead of merely declaring the contract illegal. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I cannot accept the amendment.  The   amendment, in essence, postulates giving the auditor a discretionary power. He has no such power, and he ought not to have such power.  His duties ought to be so defined for him that he will act in the nature of a machine.  If you place him in the position of exercising a discretion you put him in the same position as the representatives of the local authority, who are open to temptation, to put it in the lightest possible way.  If the contract be a costly one for the ratepayers of a particular district, whose interests should be safeguarded?  In my view, it is the ratepayers.  A local contractor, or an official contractor, ought not to have a right against the best interests of the ratepayers of a particular district.  If his tender has been accepted in the knowledge that it is at a higher price than the official contractor is getting, should there be a cast-iron safeguard in respect of a man like that? 
     
     
      
       Why assume a higher price? 
     
     
      
       If you do not assume a higher price, or a level price on a lower specification, there is no necessity for the auditor to enter into the matter at all. 
     
     
      
       The auditor has a discretion in the first part of the section, a discretion which the President says he should not have.  You give him the discretion of saying he shall be satisfied or dissatisfied as to the  bona fides  of the local authority.  If he comes to the conclusion that the local authority was not justified in making a contract at a lower price than the official contractor's price&mdash;perhaps thinking on the lines on which the President himself has been thinking, that he must protect the interests of the central contractor so as to cut prices&mdash; he may say that the local authority was not justified or that the advantage they were getting was not big enough to entitle them to go outside the official list of contractors.  In such a case there is a mandatory provision that he must declare the contract illegal.  Inferentially that is a slur upon the character of the local contractor or national contractor, who is not on the   official list of contracts.  Something he has entered into  bona fide  is declared illegal.  There is an imputation of illegality on the part of the contractors. All I am asking is if there are no  mala fides  that the power of the auditor may be one of two things, either to declare the contract illegal or, in circumstances which do not show any  mala fides  on the part of the contractor, to terminate the contract.  I imagine that anybody representing mercantile interests would feel that that was due to them, and I leave it to those Deputies who are more interested in business concerns than I am to stand up for their interests. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy might reasonably leave it to them, because, from my experience, the business men of this Dail are very much alive to what their interests are.  I wish to say that Deputy Johnson misinterprets me if he thinks I am concerned only with looking after the interests of the central contractor.  I am not.  The only interest involved is the question of getting the lowest price. You can only get the lowest price in certain circumstances.  You cannot get an official contractor to tender at a low price if he knows that the business he is going to get from local authorities will represent only 25 per cent. of the total business.  In other words, let us assume for a moment that whiskey was the item that was looked for.  The Deputy, I am sure, has not much knowledge of that article of diet.  But in that instance the specification is a very real item.  There are various strengths of whiskies.  The standard I think is usually called proof, and the higher the percentage of degrees under proof the lower the quality of the article. When I mention the word &ldquo;quality&rdquo; I mean the lower its exhilarating properties. A case is on record of where the price per bottle of whiskey has been lower through the local contractors than through the central contractor, but the percentage of degrees under proof has been very much higher, and while they may claim that they are getting whiskey at 12/6 a bottle I do not think there are many people suffering from severe colds or wishing to help their digestion who would be   much enamoured at purchasing whiskey 39 degrees under proof.  We have evidence of the fact that in some places it was purchased at such a standard.  The local trader who has bought a huge quantity of this particular article at a low price, if he does not sell it to the county home or some other local institution, would have it on his hands for the rest of his life, unless he gets a much stronger article and blends the two together.  I am prepared to take each article the Deputy has mentioned seriatim and make the case I am making for whiskey for the rest of them.  No case exists for allowing a contract to run an hour beyond the moment that the auditor finds that it was entered into at a price higher than the price of the central contractor or at a level price where the specification is lower. 
     
     
      
       The President, then, has made my case.  The contracts are not allowed in certain circumstances to run beyond a certain time.  My amendment provides that the contract shall be terminated or, in other circumstances which may show  mala fides , that it shall be illegal.  Does the Minister not realise the possibility that a local authority may enter into a contract, not with a local shopkeeper, but a shopkeeper, merchant or manufacturer anywhere who is not on the official list? 
     
     
      
       I do, I admit that. It may be either with a local contractor or anybody else, but our experience has been that it is invariably a local person. 
     
     
      
       The President is speaking of experience in the past, but he is legislating for the future. 
     
     
      
       I am speaking of the last month or two, or three months. 
     
     
      
       After all, we are supposed to have some foresight, and we must consider the possibilities of injustice being done by a Bill of this kind.  You may be legislating generally, but you must also take into account the possibility of doing injustice in a particular case.  You may have a national contractor who is not   on the official list.  He may be able to sell an article to a local authority, say in County Cork, at a price below that of the official contractor.  The auditor then comes along and says: &ldquo;No; these official contractors entered into a kind of bargain.  They got some kind of promise of a certain amount of trade within the year and the amount of the cut under that price is not sufficient to justify you in entering into this contract. Therefore, I am going to declare it illegal.&rdquo;  I am sure that is an imputation against the honesty of the contractor.  I am not talking about local shopkeepers at all, but of the possibility of a national contractor, perhaps of higher merit than the official contractor.  The auditor is going to declare that the contract entered into  bona fide  is illegal.  I am suggesting that the auditor should get an opportunity of saying that it shall be terminated without declaring an illegality. 
     
     The President has quoted instances of whiskey.  I am not going to refer to that, because, as he says, I know very little about it&mdash;either the trade or the taste, I am glad to say.  But Deputy Good the other day quoted another item&mdash;cement&mdash;which is more likely to be on the official list.  There are many other items that are likely to become the subjects of rings, trusts, agreements or understandings between either merchants or manufacturers.  You get this list of traders, manufacturers or merchants upon the official list of contractors. They know what price they quote. They make their arrangements.  You cannot do better at the moment than the price they have quoted, and you are going to bind every local authority, according to the Bill, to purchase from that possible ring; you are making it as difficult as possible&mdash;you are going to make it almost impossible&mdash;for the local authority to go outside that ring. You are making it not only difficult, but you are going to cast upon other contractors not on the official list an imputation, at least of impropriety, if they attempt to sell an article to a local authority.  As I said earlier, that is a case that the merchants, the manufacturers and the business men ought to be making for themselves, but I am   quite sure that this Bill is going to be quite disastrous in its operation if you are going to encourage the formation of rings and arrangements and to deprive local authorities of the opportunity of buying in a better market than the ring will provide. 
     
      
       I could make the same case as Deputy Johnson in theory, but our experience goes to negative everything he has said.  On the last day I instanced the case of a local authority being beset by a ring, so that milk could not be purchased at anything under 2/- per gallon.  Deputy Johnson can conceive a number of members sitting round a table and receiving tenders, every one of which quotes at 2/- per gallon. 
     
     
      
       The Minister surely is not saying that milk is one of the articles which he precludes from being on such a list, because he will not allow any contractor to contract, except he is prepared to contract for the whole country. 
     
     
      
       Precisely.  As a matter of fact, it was the institution of this trade department which prevented that local authority from being salted and having to pay that price, even though milk was not on the official list. There was no central contractor for milk.  There was no official price for milk, but the Department were able to get a price from another part of the country which would have been impossible but for this central purchasing system. 
     
     
      
       That is my case. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy then makes the case: &ldquo;Better let the local authorities hang separately; they cannot hang them all together.&rdquo;  The principle of this Bill will result in better prices being obtained by the local authorities.  If the principle be admitted, why provide every possible avenue to enable local authorities to slip out of purchasing from the central contractor?  If that be the idea, then there is every reason why this particular section should be objected to.  If the central purchasing system be a good system, what is the objection to having examined and investigated the   reasons for departing from it?  I do not see any objection to it.  There should not be protection provided for a contractor who, knowing that there is a central purchasing system and being in a position to get on the official list, is able to get a contract in a local area, when he might have tendered for supplying local authorities throughout the country. 
     
     
      
       I have listened to the discussions on the Bill and the various amendments and, frankly, I must say that my opinion of the Bill is not a favourable one in any respect.  The centralising of control by throwing upon the auditor obligations which, under ordinary circumstances, are not within the province of an auditor at all, is based on the idea that a few of the local authorities are going to be bodies, like little children, that cannot be allowed to have any say in such an important matter as purchasing for the institutions which they were elected to control.  In one particular case the President stated that milk was the subject of a ring, where all the people in the district quoted the same price. Surely it does not require a drastic Bill of this kind to enable local authorities to extend the areas of operation.  The Local Government Department stepped in in the case that was mentioned.  The Local Government Department will have supervision over the operations of such a public body and can criticise or bring before them points which an auditor may call attention to.  I think anything in the way of an amendment that would moderate the harshness of the decisions that may be come to, and that are compelled to be put into operation by the Bill, is all for the good. 
       Central purchasing, it seems to me, brings into play possibly more objectionable features than those that the Bill proposes to remedy.  It may be that the purchasing of large quantities from the central contractor will be cheaper, and, as the President stated, it is due to local bodies that they should be put in a position to purchase at the lowest price.  To say that the local bodies must under any circumstances purchase from the official contractor&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       No, that is not the case. 
     
     
      
       I cannot see with the operation of the Bill that any locally-elected bodies will be safe if they go outside the central contractors.  No matter what consideration arose that influenced the local authorities in departing from central purchasing the auditor must, in the ordinary course, start with the assumption that there is fraud behind it.  I think that is taking away from the judgment of the local authorities.  It may be said that there have been great abuses in connection with local authorities.  I do not know. I think it is a slur on local bodies, and on the men who will be elected to them, if, when the auditor comes in, they are, practically, to be put into the dock and compelled to justify their action, whether that action was open to suspicion or otherwise.  I intervened rather on the invitation of Deputy Johnson on this matter, because I feel that as the Bill is going through more questions may arise than are now evident on the face of it.  I think the modification proposed by the amendment of Deputy Johnson would materially assist to soften the Bill in a way that is required. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if the Deputy was here when I undertook to introduce an amendment on the Report Stage.  I think it would compose the Deputy's mind if he was aware of that fact.  The section would read:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;At any such audit, unless the auditor is satisfied that at the time such purchase was made the members of the local authority had reasonable grounds for believing that such purchase or contract would be in the interests of the ratepayers.&rdquo; 
       Amendment put and declared lost. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 6 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I want to repeat some of the arguments that have been used because I think this is the essence of the Bill, inasmuch as it imposes what are, in effect, penalties for doing what ostensibly the Bill allows to be done.  The proposal is that the Minister   shall enter into tentative or provisional contracts with central agencies or principals, and shall notify the various local authorities throughout the country that such articles can be obtained at a certain price for a certain period, such price to be the price at which they are to be delivered in any part of the country.  A small manufacturer in Cork, Dundalk, Wexford or Galway tendering for particular articles of common consumption would not feel justified in entering into a contract to supply the whole country.  Unless he can enter into a contract to supply the whole country, if required, he is not allowed to go on the list of official contractors.  That contractor may say he is prepared to supply that article within the province of Connaught, of Munster, or of Leinster, but not outside.  He can calculate the rate of carriage, cost of delivery, etc., and he knows that within such an area his equipment would allow him to supply all probable requirements.  He may not go on the official list of contractors, however, because he will not bind himself to supply the whole country.  In effect, the local authority is to be debarred from going to that contractor outside the official list.  If the local authority risks the penalties and defies the intention of the Department of Local Government by making a purchase from the contractor for the province rather than the contractor for the whole country, when the auditor comes along he will say: &ldquo;No, you are not justified in entering into this contract, though you are saving the ratepayers money.&rdquo;  The contractor is then going to have imputed to him wrong motives, and the local authority is going to have imputed to it wrong motives; and both are placed entirely at the mercy of the judgment and discretion of the auditor.  There is a pretence that the Bill intends to allow contracts to be made outside the official list.  That is shattered by this section. Everything in this section is designed to frighten the local authority from entering into any such contract outside the official list of contractors even though they may be getting a better quality and paying a lower price. 
     
     
        The imputation all the time is that they have been doing a dishonest thing and acting against the interests of the ratepayers.  The Bill, with this section, is going to do what Deputy Wilson will be glad to hear, and what I once would have thought, from certain speeches from their benches, Business Deputies would be glad to hear&mdash;to establish by a side-wind, in respect of certain scheduled articles, a system of National Purchase and State Socialism.  It is going to say: &ldquo;We, the Local Government Department, are going to purchase through particular agencies all the commodities required for all the Local Government institutions in the country (naming the particular articles), and we are going to make it penal for any of those Local Government institutions to go outside that range.&rdquo;  I said &ldquo;State Socialism,&rdquo; but State Socialism with a difference; it is rather State Socialism  via  organised commercial trusts.  You are going to encourage the trusts and are going to tell the customers of the trusts that they will have no alternative but to purchase from one or other member of this trust. 
     I think, if this section passes, it will be quite useless to suggest any longer that the intentions of the Bill are to give liberty to local authorities to purchase outside the official lists.  As Deputy Good pointed out the other day, we do not know the kind of commodity to which this Bill is going to apply. That is all in the future. It may be bricks, cement, ticks, flour, bread, milk &mdash;anything, at the discretion of the Minister for Local Government.  You are going, by passing this section and the Bill as a whole, to make it incumbent on every local authority to purchase those articles from the small group, as it probably will be, or the single person, as it possibly will be, that the Minister for Local Government designates.  You are going to make it as difficult as possible for any person to go outside that list.  I say this section ought not to be embodied in the Bill in its present form.  It is an insult to the local authorities, and it is doing by a side-wind what might be in certain circumstances a good thing, but which is being done in a bad way. 
     There is no necessary divulgence to   the people of why certain persons should be put on the official list.  Under the Bill, it is not going to be made clear that certain contracts have been entered into with certain persons for good and sufficient reasons.  At the discretion of the Minister, certain persons will be put on the official list for supply of certain articles for the whole country.  You are almost making it penal for the local authority to go outside those contractors.  I say the section should not pass.  If it passes, it will be doing what the Minister for Local Government, in his introductory speeches, denied he was attempting to do. 
     
      
       I am sorry I did not hear all the President had to say by way of explanation of some of the clauses that presented considerable difficulty on the last day.  One of the objects we had in view on the adjournment asked for was to get information on those particular matters.  I agree with Deputy Johnson that the object of this Bill is not exactly what has been explained to us by the President.  The President is anxious to paint in rather attractive colours some clauses in this Bill that are anything but attractive.  The Bill, as drawn, is really intended&mdash;the more one studies it and the more one hears it debated the more one is convinced&mdash; to prevent local authorities from purchasing any particular commodities for which a price has been arranged centrally.  The President has done everything he can to try and get rid of that particular feature of the Bill, but I am convinced he has not succeeded. The intention of the Bill is just, as Deputy Johnson has explained, to prevent local authorities purchasing locally.  That being so, before I give my approval to this Bill or this particular clause, I want to know what particular items the Bill is to apply to. That is the kernel of the measure. While it would be an advantage to apply the principle of central purchasing to certain items, I am satisfied it will be a disadvantage to apply it to other items.  I do not know whether the President has given us the information we called for on the last day about the schedule to be attached to this Bill.  If we had that, we would   know what items it applies to.  Until we get such schedule, one is at some disadvantage in dealing with the Bill. I urge, therefore, that the President should give us some information on that point. 
       The President has laid stress on one feature.  He thinks that by purchasing centrally he will get rid of a certain amount of what we might call the &ldquo;local fraud&rdquo; that has arisen in connection with contracts.  Central purchasing, instead of getting rid of &ldquo;local frauds,&rdquo; may create national fraud. There is no use in using that argument amongst practical men.  I might as well argue, on the other side, that this Bill is going to aggravate rather than reduce the trouble he has mentioned. I want to know, before I can give my consent to this Bill, the particular items it is going to apply to, because I am satisfied, from my experience of business matters, that central purchasing will be an advantage in some cases and a disadvantage in others.  I think we should apply central purchasing to goods, where it is an advantage, and not apply it where it is going to be a disadvantage. 
     
     
      
       I was glad to hear my colleague, Deputy Good, on this matter, because he voiced my opinion now to a greater extent than he did on former occasions.  Deputy Johnson stated that this was State Socialism.  We have been getting used to a certain amount of Socialism, so this measure has not come so suddenly or harshly on us as it would earlier in the session.  But Clause 6, no matter what any Deputy's opinion on it is, would be a dangerous clause in any Bill.  The whole principle of central purchasing could be dealt with, I think, without this Bill at all.  If this Bill is necessary, clearly Clause 6 aims at bureaucratic control of all the institutions in the country, as far as purchasing is concerned.  You cannot get over that.  The people elected to run the local government of the country are going to be puppets in the hands of the Local Government Minister.  The auditor can make the position of the individual councils practically unbearable unless they deal with the official contractor.   Deputy Good has said that this clause is just as likely to lead to abuse as if the local authorities were left, as in the past, free to use their own judgment in connection with the purchasing of supplies.  I would like to emphasise that.  You have got a body in Dublin&mdash;a trades body&mdash;with a valuable concession to give to a contractor in connection with supplies to all the institutions within the Free State.  Whatever contractors are selected are going to be in the happy position of State concessionaires for valuable supplies.  Human nature being what it is, does any Deputy imagine there is not going to be a great deal of wire-pulling and general manipulation? By &ldquo;manipulation&rdquo; I mean that the efforts of a great many people will be put forward in the most strenuous way to get concessions which must be valuable. It is quite true that the weapon that is going to be put in the hands of the Local Government Department can be used to the benefit of the country. As has already been pointed out, in connection with articles that can be manufactured in the country, it would be a tremendous advantage to be able to place with a manufactory a substantial order, instead of its having to compete in the several places where contracts were to be given.  But does not that cut both ways?  Is that not likely to lead to a state of affairs whereby a particular manufactory may be without competition of any kind because the local bodies in the country are informed that they must get their supplies from the official contractor?  Those people who would be, in ordinary circumstances, willing to compete, are going to be told beforehand that there is no use in their doing so, because the inference is that a particular contractor is going to get the supplying.  People in an ordinary business way are not going to put in tenders when they know that their tenders are not going to get due consideration.  The tendency in some cases may be towards the setting up of a monopoly for certain articles, and this monopoly so far from cheapening the article, as is the President's idea, may increase the price, to the benefit of the suppliers. 
     
     
        Various other things may arise, under the operation of this Bill, to the detriment of the trade of the whole country. I think it is a very difficult thing, once you embark on legislation dealing with business, not to do a great deal more than you intended to do.  The intentions which brought about the production of this Bill I am satisfied were good and sound&mdash;the cheapening of the goods to the benefit of the ratepayers. But it is a very difficult thing to carry that out in actual practice.  This Bill goes a long way beyond that.  Under the drastic powers taken in Clause 6, and other clauses of this Bill, you are going to provide another step in the ladder of bureaucratic control.  This Bill will take away all initiative from those people who are elected on the local boards.  That, I think, is not desirable.  The objects which are sought to be attained by this Bill would, I think, be attained more surely by cooperation between the Local Government Department and the local bodies. To come along with a hammer and hit a man on the head is not the best way to persuade him.  This clause is holding out a threat to every man on the local boards.  That threat is not going to serve as encouragement to the local men to use their judgment or to assume that full sense of responsibility which their election under the Local Government Act would warrant their assuming. 
     
      
       I notice that while the speeches against this particular clause dealt almost entirely with the theory of objection, very little attention was paid to the particular items.  In other words, the speeches did not come down to brass tacks.  Deputy Hewat pointed out that there is a danger of placing the local authorities in the country in the hands of a monopoly, or of particular monopolists.  I suppose I will be quoted extensively as a desperate character when I say that I would like very much to see in this country monopolists of that kind manufacturing goods which do not happen to be manufactured here at the present moment. There are such institutions in this country that, even though they are monopolists, are splendid institutions.   I think Deputies will admit that Guinness's is a very well run monopoly&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       For the benefit of the shareholders. 
     
     
      
       Is the President right in saying that it is a monopoly? 
     
     
      
       It is.  I think if there be any person here who has any particular liking for the product of that institution, he will admit that it is a monopoly. 
     
     
      
       Would you wipe out Beamish and Crawford? 
     
     
      
       Not at all. Beamish and Crawford are still at liberty to tender for all the institutions in their area, and I think it will be found that there will not be much difference between the prices.  The price is generally an understood price. It is not subject to reduction.  It is on a standard.  It is not one of those articles that one can select for examination from the point of view of price. If Deputy Corish were sitting over there I would be prepared to ask him whether or not his particular constituency did benefit by reason of the activity of this Department&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does that mean that this Bill is merely continuing the activities of the present Trade Department? Does the President not admit that this is extending and enlarging, to a very considerable degree, the activities of the Department he is now praising? 
     
     
      
       I hope so. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister desires and intends to make legal and formal the present activities of the Trade Department, then I am with him. The present activities do not attempt even to preclude competition with an official contractor. 
     
     
      
       I thought it was understood that I had explained the provisions on a previous occasion, when dealing with this section.  At the present time it would be open to the ordinary ratepayer to go into the audit of   the accounts of any local authority and if that local authority were taking goods from the official contractor, and if the local authority had not advertised for tenders for these he could object to the payments being made. That is the position. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister now suggest that he is only trying to regularise the present position of the Trade Department and remove this obligation from the local authority? 
     
     
      
       Yes, and more. The Deputy smiles, and there is good reason for it.  The position is that at present there is an official contractors' list.  Local authorities advertise for tenders after that list has been published. Then people are in a position to see what the price is that has been tendered by the Central Purchasing Department.  I take it that will be admitted not to be exactly good business. Deputies Hewat and Good would agree with me in that, that it is placing a rather big strain upon the Local Government Department to have their list printed and published and in the hands of the local authorities, and then allow these bodies to look for tenders. 
     
     
      
       How is the President going to prevent that? 
     
     
      
       If that has not been already provided for it will be dealt with by me on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       Will the President attach a schedule?  He would be quite right when he said that we did not discuss the particular item which he called brass tacks.  Now to come to brass tacks, we have been calling for them by way of a schedule.  Will the President on the Report Stage bring in a schedule and then we will be able to discuss the brass tacks?  At present we cannot. 
     
     
      
       I have two copies which I will circulate to Deputy Good. 
     
     
      
       Will it be attached to the Bill? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Then it is no use. 
     
     
     
      
       I am not going to be limited by what is in the schedule. I want this Department to be a workable institution.  If Deputy Good had been here on a former occasion he would have heard me say, in response to criticism from Deputy Morrissey, that I would have been bound to accept the amendment from Deputy Morrissey or any other Deputy in connection with the distribution or consideration of the tenders, and that I would have members appointed by the General Council of County Councils, sitting with the Minister or with the official on these tenders in order to deal fairly with them. 
     
     
      
       As an Advisory Committee? 
     
     
      
       Or more than that.  I would be prepared to give them a statutory position. 
     
     
      
       That is quite fair.  The other point with regard to the schedule is one in which the Minister does not go as far as that.  If he attaches a schedule to the Bill he can easily get the authority of this Dail to add to that schedule any items brought forward by the Minister and passed through the Dail from time to time.  That is, that we should have a clause attached to the Bill giving the Minister authority to add to that schedule, providing that certain notice is given.  That would prevent any difficulty arising on a particular point.  Now, that being so, I would urge, both in the national interest and the local interest, that a schedule should be attached to this Bill, a schedule that we would have an opportunity of discussing in the Dail before we are asked to pass this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that is necessary at all.  I see a little force in that, but with the enormous number of items which a local authority requires and which perhaps a local authority may require in the future, and which might be required, say, while the Dail was not in session, the Minister would be unable to instruct his particular department to ask for tenders for that by reason of the fact that he had not got authority from the Dail. 
     
     
     
      
       We could get over that; we could provide for that. 
     
     
      
       I do not like the idea.  I would be prepared to consider it.  I do not promise to consider it favourably, but I do promise to consider it with a view to seeing whether anything can be done.  Deputies fail to realise the potentialities of this proposal. 
     
     
      
       It is a bad principle in this section. 
     
     
      
       It is.  There are several kinds of goods manufactured in this country since this Trade Department was set up.  Amongst them are bedsteads, fenders, fire-irons, handles, army shirts, dungarees, and soft cotton shirts.  Deputies have laid particular stress upon the advisability of giving due consideration to the discretion of members of local authorities in accepting tenders.  I admit that theoretically the case could not have been put stronger.  In actual practice it has turned out that there is a considerable partiality amongst certain local authorities or members of certain local authorities for buying goods that are not of Irish manufacture.  As far as I am concerned I am against that.  I believe Deputy Johnson is against it too. 
     
     
      
       I have got an amendment dealing with that matter down. 
     
     
      
       We propose to accept that amendment.  As far as giving members of local authorities special discretion in those matters is concerned, I will tell you what my experience was.  I was a member of a local authority for a great number of years.  That authority was probably the largest purchaser in Ireland.  I was at one time Chairman of its Supply Committee.  The amount of work done there and the volume of it was remarkable. For three hours members were sitting working as fast as they could through long lists of schedules of prices. One was really more like a machine than a person exercising discretion. One's discretion was limited by the recommendations made by officials who had time to examine and set out in detail   figures and specifications.  Except in very rare circumstances, the lowest tender was accepted.  So far as my experience of that particular local authority is concerned, if I were still a member of it, I would rejoice in being assisted, in the matter of purchases, by such a measure as this. 
     
     
      
       Would the President rejoice in being compelled to follow the decision of the Trade Department in this matter? 
     
     
      
       I would rejoice in being able to set out in the columns provided the reasons why we would accept a tender other than that indicated in the official lists, if those reasons were good reasons. 
     
     
      
       The President has been good enough to agree to consider the appointment of an Advisory Committee. That is a distinct step in advance. 
     
     
      
       I agreed to do so when we were dealing with this in Committee the last day. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear it.  I only heard it for the first time to-day.  I would now also ask the President to undertake to consider between this and the Report Stage the question of inserting a schedule. 
     
     
      
       Certainly, but not favourably.  I will, however, consider it. 
     
     
      
       Unfavourably? 
     
     
      
       No, not unfavourably; but I will examine it very critically. 
     
     
      
       I thought, as we got the President to go so far, we might get him to go a little bit further and so settle our difficulties.  I am sorry he will not do so. 
     
     
      
       I am concerned about a small blanket factory in my area which, through the operation of this institution, has been practically wiped out.  I am very much inclined to follow the reasoning of Deputy Johnson that there should be some way in which a small factory of that kind would be   allowed to enter into competition with the official contractors. 
     
     
      
       This will kill them all. 
     
     
      
       I believe it will. 
     
     
      
       It will throw a wet blanket on them. 
     
     
      
       The articles I have referred to, blankets, are very necessary in the county homes.  Up to the present those manufactured locally were sufficiently cheap to be used; but through the operation of this Central Authority the factory is now closed and many hands are out of work. There should be a recasting of Section 6, so that an article of that nature should be allowed to be taken on its merits.  The factory I have in mind is not large enough to supply more than one county.  It is, however, a case in point following up Deputy Johnson's argument. 
     
     
      
       Would Deputy Wilson give us some information as to the price that the blankets were supplied at? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps if Deputy Wilson cannot give information in the matter of the price, I can supply some information which may be of interest. It has come to my knowledge that on more than one occasion where articles were tendered for in competition with the official contractors, it was found that some of the local articles would be about 50 per cent. dearer but would be above 300 per cent. better, and therefore the local authority thought they were justified in accepting the local tender.  Even the Inspector of the Central Authority thought the local authority were justified in giving the contract to the local contractor.  There are several cases in which local authorities ought to be allowed to exercise their discretion.  I think we will insist on being allowed to exercise our discretion. Where local authorities are justified they will insist on exercising their own discretion. 
     
     
      
       I have the official list before me for flannels and blankets and I observe that as regards nine items   mentioned, each item is of Irish manufacture. There are no things on the list bought from persons manufacturing in any country other than Ireland.  The case mentioned by Deputy Gorey is a case which, in my opinion, would justify the insertion, in the column provided for the purpose, of the reasons why the local authority purchased from the local contractor.  I am not the Local Government auditor, but I can say from my experience of Local Government auditors, that they would not question an item of that sort.  If it were found the particular article could be purchased in another county, goods for goods, at a smaller price, then you have no right to complain. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree. 
     
     
      
       In the case Deputy Gorey referred to he said the price was 50 per cent. higher but the goods were 300 per cent. better.  Is the auditor to be the judge of the better quality of the goods?  Who is to be the judge of the difference between the relative qualities of goods and their relative prices? 
     
     
      
       I have not heard that particular question raised before. I should say the auditor would have the facts on the paper before him.  He would have percentages of wool and he would have weights and measurements. All that would be down on the list.  In a case like that I do not think the discretion of the auditor would be necessary. The quality in the case brought forward by Deputy Gorey was 300 per cent. better, but the price was 50 per cent. dearer. 
     
     
      
       As regards the case I mentioned, the local inspector was satisfied, and there was never a word about it afterwards. 
     
     
      
       The only thing is that the specification provided for the acceptance of blankets 300 per cent. inferior. 
     
     
      
       I did not mention blankets.  I said an article was contracted for. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Wilson mentioned   blankets, and I presumed Deputy Gorey was following in reference to the same article.  If the official specification is to be zero, and the article 300 per cent. better in quality is going to be accepted, it seems to me the zero official figure should not be there at all. 
     
     
      
       I would like to emphasise that an Irish factory cannot get on to the list of official contractors unless it is prepared to supply an article at a given price, not merely in its own area but in any part of the Saorstat. The manufacturer must be prepared to supply that article to any institution in any part of the country.  If he cannot do that, and if his equipment is not adequate enough, he cannot get on the official list.  A local authority near at hand, if it purchased an article from that man at a lower price even than what is on the official list, has again the imputation put against it that first the local authority and then the man himself were acting  mala fide.   This section confirms that position, and practically puts the local authority and the contractor in a position of defence. 
     
     
      
       That is a good case theoretically, but the experience of the Trade Department has been that the small local contractor is delighted to get an order to supply the country. 
     
     
      
       What is meant by the President's reply that the small local contractor is delighted to get an order to supply the country? 
     
     
      
       I should have said the small local manufacturer. 
     
     
      
       That is exactly Deputy Johnson's point. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson's point is theoretical; mine is practical. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Johnson's point is&mdash;and the point put forward by the Farmers' Party is similar&mdash;that the local contractor is only capable of supplying one county.  Deputy Johnson says the man cannot get on to this list of contractors at all except he can supply the whole country.  That appears to be a logical interpretation of the Bill.  I would like the President to   explain the last statement he made, that the local contractors were delighted to get the opportunity of supplying the country. 
     
     
      
       I corrected that by saying &ldquo;manufacturers.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Do you mean that they could supply the local area? 
     
     
      
       With regard to that, there was a previous amendment down. 
     
     
      
       I know there was a previous amendment down in the name of Deputy Johnson, but that it was not accepted.  The question was discussed, when this Bill was before us on a previous occasion, of having what we call contractors in certain prescribed areas.   Now the Bill prescribes that it is to be the contractor on a schedule that is to supply the whole area.  The difficulty is to get outside of that.  My difficulty on that is a primary one, because if you had what you call bulk purchasing and were to start local purchasing, you would knock the bottom out of the bulk purchasing.  No matter what way we take it, there is considerable difficulty in it.  The blanket illustration that was given was an excellent one, and showed the necessity of having a schedule attached to the Bill.  I think if the President would give us a schedule he would clear away a great many of his difficulties in connection with the Bill. 
       Question put&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 6 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 27; Nil, 13. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Maighread Ni Choileain Bean Ui Dhrisceoil. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. Connor Hogan. Liam T. Mac Cosgair. Padraig Mac Fadain. Patrick McGilligan. Risteard Mac Liam. Liam Mag Aonghusa. Patrick J. Mulvany. 
             Martin M. Nally. John T. Nolan. Michael K. Noonan. Peadar O hAodha. Partholan O Conchubhair. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Seamus O Leadain. Seamus O Murchadha. Padraig O hOgain (Luimneach). Sean O Suilleabhain. Caoimhghin O hUigin. Liam Thrift. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             John J. Cole. Darrell Figgis. John Good. David Hall. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Padraig Mac Fhlannchadha. 
             Ailfrid O Broin. Tomas O Conaill. Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Padraig O hOgain (An Clar).  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Mr. Dolan and Mr. O'Connor; Nil, Mr. Morrissey and Mr. P. Hogan (Clare). 
     Question declared carried. 
     Sections 7 and 8 were agreed to, and added to the Bill. 
     SECTION 9. 
     (1)  The expenses of the Minister in carrying this Act into effect to such amount as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, shall be paid out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas. 
     (2)  At the end of every local financial year the Minister, by order under his seal, shall certify the sum which has been expended by him out of moneys provided under sub-section (1) of this section during such local financial year in carrying the performance of his duties under this Act into effect, and shall assess that sum on the several counties and county boroughs in Saorstat Eireann in proportion to the net annual value of the property rateable for poor rate in such counties and county boroughs respectively and shall send copies of such order to the council of every such county and county borough. 
     
        (3)  The council of every county and county borough shall raise the amount assessed by such order on such county or county borough by means of the poor rate as a county at large charge and shall pay the same into the Exchequer of Saorstat Eireann in accordance with such directions as may be given for the purpose by the Minister for Finance. 
     
      
       I beg to move amendment 6:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2) to delete all words after the word &ldquo;several&rdquo; line 36, and substitute the words &ldquo;local authorities purchasing supplies from official contractors in proportion to the total value of the purchases made by them from such contractors during such financial year and shall send copies of such order to every such local authority.&rdquo; 
       This amendment applies the acid test to the President's statement that it is not intended to make purchasing from the central authority compulsory. If a local authority purchases locally it is not fair to ask them to meet the general expenses.  They should be only asked to pay in proportion to the use they make of the central authority. The obvious method of allocating expenses to local authorities is to allocate it in accordance with purchases made, and not to put upon it the expense of keeping up the central purchasing department from which they do not receive any benefit.  The President can conceive local authorities that will purchase locally and that will not make use of the central authority, and, when he says that it is not intended to make it compulsory that they should purchase from the central authority, I think they ought not be compelled to bear expenses of the central authority, or, at any rate, only in proportion to the extent to which they use it. 
     
     
      
       I regret I cannot accept the amendment.  Although the words &ldquo;local authority&rdquo; are used, the principal purchasers will be the county councils, and I am not disposed to open up a very intricate accountancy arrangement in order that no local authority will be charged a pound more in the year, perhaps, than it would be required   to pay in ordinary circumstances. It may be necessary later on, should it appear that a particular local authority would derive major advantage, to consider whether or not an extra charge should be borne by that local authority.  But as to the principle of the thing, as far as the majority of the local authorities are concerned, they are very much on the same level, and I should say that on the whole the extra cost that might be imposed upon a particular body will not be so considerable as to warrant the accountancy that would be required if we were only to charge for value received in every particular case.  Deputies are aware that the amount paid to the local authorities by the central Government under what is known as Government grants through the local taxation account vary very considerably, and it is not regulated according to either the wealth or the extent of the area of each county council, and to superimpose this particular exact accountancy arrangement for charging to each area only its exact amount would really place an undue burden upon the economy of the scheme, and it might perhaps even minimise the advantage that would be derived from it. 
     
     
      
       It occurs to me that the equities of the case would surely be met more easily and fairly by making the local authorities pay the cost of the administration proportionate to their use of the administration.  This is supposed to be a Bill to enable the local authorities to obtain jointly such supplies as may be required.  When you are enabling the local authorities to do a certain thing one would imagine that they would pay for the machinery according to the use they made of it, but the Bill, as it is framed, proposes to make them pay according to the rateable value whether they use the machinery or not.  I do not know what amount is likely to be involved.  It may be quite small and not of very great importance, but certainly, theoretically, the case for making the charge a  pro rata  charge according to purchase is much more likely to be just.  Again, I point out, difficulty arises from not knowing what kind of articles are going to be put on the contractor's list.   You may find, for instance, predominating, such articles as might be used by the county boroughs for roads or houses.  Conceivably these may be dominant, and the county boroughs will pay according to the rateable value, and not according to the use they make of the machinery for purchase. On the other hand, the articles upon the contractor's list may be mainly articles used by the county homes and the like.  In such cases the cost may be fairly well distributed over the country. But on the face of it the equity seems to be much more fairly met by allocation according to the amount of purchase rather than rateable value.  If the cost is not going to be great I do not suppose very great difficulty will be experienced by the local authorities, but if the cost is to be considerable I suggest that the method of allocating the cost to be borne should be the method proposed in the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I calculate that the amount per county council, taking it at 50 per cent. in excess of the information which I have at my disposal, would be about £200.  The average county council would produce about £2,000 for one penny in the pound.  Two hundred pounds would mean a rate of one-tenth of a penny.  I do not think that the case is one on which a great deal of time may be reasonably spent. 
     
     
      
       Do I take it that the Minister is expecting that the cost of administration will be about £5,000? 
     
     
      
       The actual figure given to me is not £4,000. 
       Amendment put and negatived. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Sections 9 and 10 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 11. 
       The Minister may by order make regulations for all or any of the matters following, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  appointing the procedure to be adopted by local authorities in carrying this Act into effect, 
     
     (b)  determining the standard of quality for any commodity for   which the Minister has appointed or intends to appoint an official contractor, 
     (c)  prescribing the conditions of supply for any such commodity as aforesaid, 
     (d)  regulating the procedure and other matters relating or incidental to any testing or ascertaining of the quality or nature of any commodity for which he is authorised by this Act to make arrangements, 
     (e)  prescribing any matter or thing which is referred to in this Act as prescribed or as being or to be prescribed. 
     
      
       As the President has expressed his willingness to accept it, I will formally move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       Before paragraph (e) to insert a new paragraph as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;requiring that any commodity to be supplied shall be manufactured wholly or in part in Saorstat Eireann.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Yes, I accept the amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Nagle, I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       Before paragraph (e) to insert a new paragraph as follows:&mdash;&ldquo;requiring that the wages to be paid and the conditions of employment to be observed by an official contractor for the supply of any commodity to local authorities shall be such as are required in the execution of contracts with a State Department.&rdquo; 
       I am assuming in this amendment that the practice regarding the fair wages clause is being rigidly adhered to in respect of purchases by State departments. The proposition in that case would, I imagine, be acceptable, inasmuch as the contract is, more or less, similar to a State contract.  A contract made with a local authority is, in the first case, made with the State, in effect although not in form. 
     
     
      
       I accept the amendment. 
     
     
        Amendment put and agreed to. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 11, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Sections 12 and 13 and the Title were agreed to without amendment. 
   
   
     LOCAL AUTHORITIES (COMBINED PURCHASING) BILL, 1925. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill, as amended, reported. 
     Fourth Stage ordered for Tuesday, 10th March. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - PRISONS (VISITING COMMITTEES) BILL, 1925.&mdash;COMMITTEE. 
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 1 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     SECTION 2. 
     (1)  There shall be constituted in manner provided by this section a visiting committee for every general prison, every convict prison, and every prison or part of a prison set apart for the confinement of persons undergoing preventive detention, and every such visiting committee shall consist of such number of responsible persons, not being more than twelve nor less than six, as the Minister shall think proper. 
     (2)  The members of every such visiting committee as aforesaid shall be appointed by the Minister, and every member so appointed shall hold office as such member for such period not exceeding three years as the Minister shall think proper and shall specify when appointing him. 
     
      
       I beg to move the following amendment:&mdash; 
       To add at end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;The persons to be appointed as members of a visiting committee shall be persons who by reason of past or present membership of a local authority or of Dail Eireann or Seanad Eireann, professional eminence or other qualification may be deemed to have the confidence of the community,   and shall in no case include persons receiving remuneration, other than pension or superannuation allowance payable out of the Central Fund or out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.&rdquo; 
     The amendment is in line with the criticism which I levelled at the Bill on Second Reading.  I am not quite satisfied with its form, but I cannot think of any other method in the absence of what might be called a general system of local authorities.  We are rather anticipating, as things are going, that local authorities are to be steadily, gradually, but certainly abolished; but for that the local authority would be reasonably considered to be the right authority to nominate this committee.  I have suggested other possible qualifications. That is to say, persons who shall be appointed to the committee would be those who, by reason of past or present membership of a local authority, or of Dail Eireann or Seanad Eireann, professional eminence, or other qualifications may be deemed to have the confidence of the community.  That is the point: that the visiting committees shall be composed of persons who may be said to be persons representative directly of the public interests as distinct from the Ministerial interests, which, in the case of criticism, would be the body of persons to be criticised. It is not, I think, in accordance with usage that the person who may be brought under the lash or under the gentle tincture of criticism, should be the person appointing the critic.  In this case the position of a visiting committee or visiting justice, as he used to be, is one rather of the protection of the public against possible abuse in the administration of the prison system. The prison system is of necessity apart from the public.  It is not within the public eye.  It cannot be watched over. There is nobody there to look after the interests of the public, or the interests of the prisoner, or to protect the prisoner, except the officers of the Minister. In any other public concern, except a lunatic asylum, and that has been the subject of a great deal of criticism, there is some possible light shed upon the administration, but in the case of the prison system it is of   necessity almost impossible that any public criticism can be levelled at it because of the absence of knowledge.  The object of a committee of this kind should be, at least, to help to illuminate dark places, if there are dark places, and the illuminant should not be held up by a person whose administration may be the subject of criticism.  The main purpose of this new proposed sub-section is to ensure that persons who are officers of the Department, receiving pay, shall not be appointed for this purpose, to visit prisons and to act as visiting committees, but that they shall, so far as possible, be representative of the public in a sense different from that of the Minister responsible for the whole system. 
     
      
       There is some objection to the first portion of the amendment.  The amendment states that members must possess some undefined qualifications by reason of which they may be deemed to have the confidence of the community.  It would be difficult to determine who has, or who has not, the confidence of the community short of a system of popular election or something of that kind.  The wording, at any rate, is rather too vague for insertion in an Act, and there would be the difficulty of framing any test which would determine whether particular individuals were covered by the section. 
       There is no objection to the substance of the second portion of the amendment, but I consider that the wording might be improved.  &ldquo;Pension or superannuation allowances&rdquo; would not be covered by the term &ldquo;remuneration,&rdquo; and, therefore, the words &ldquo;other than pension or superannuation allowances&rdquo; are not necessary.  With your permission, Sir, and if Deputy Johnson will accept it in substitution, I would move an amendment to add at the end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;No person who is in receipt of salary paid out of the Central Fund, or of money provided by the Oireachtas, shall be eligible for appointment as a member of any such visiting committee as aforesaid.&rdquo; 
       I could move that on Report. 
     
     
     
      
       I am quite prepared to meet the Minister on that point.  I can withdraw the amendment, or move what the Minister has suggested in substitution. 
     
     
      
       I undertake to move this on Report. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Every such visiting committee as aforesaid shall include at least one person who is a registered medical practitioner and in the case of any prison in which women or young persons are confined shall include at least two women.&rdquo; 
       This proposed new sub-section speaks for itself.  I imagine that this amendment would be acceptable.  The necessity for a doctor is, I think, clear, and the necessity for women visitors in the case of a prison where women are confined is quite clear also. 
     
     
      
       The proposal is that every visiting committee must include a registered medical practitioner. That proposal opens up a difficulty. The initial difficulty would probably be the difficulty of getting a doctor to act in that capacity.  It would, of course, be an honourary capacity, and I doubt very much whether, on the question of professional etiquette a doctor would agree to act or interfere in any way in the matters coming within the scope of the medical officer of a prison.  The proposal that at least two women should be included in the visiting committee for every prison in which women might be detained might be accepted.  An alternative amendment framed by the draughtsman is as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Every such visiting committee as aforesaid appointed for any prison in which women may be detained shall include amongst its members at least two women.&rdquo; 
     
     I would be prepared to move that on Report.  As to the suggestion that that should be extended to prisons in which young persons are detained, that would have the effect of including all prisons, except convict prisons, and under the   Children's Act, 1908, no person over 14 and under 16 can be sent to prison unless the court certifies that he is too unruly or depraved to be kept in a place of detention, a reformatory or some such place.  As a matter of fact, very few youthful offenders go to jail at all.  The great majority go to reformatories. This Bill does not extend to an institution like the Borstal Institute, but under another Act, the Act of 1908, the Minister for Justice has power to appoint visiting committees for the Institute.  If the Deputy will agree to what I have suggested, I would move that on Report. 
     
      
       I have not consulted any medical practitioner.  I do not know what the views of the medical men may be with regard to the first part, but it seems to me desirable that the committee should include one person who has knowledge of the health requirements of the institution.  If there is any difficulty in the way which the Minister knows of, but which I do not, then I am prepared to accept his view, and perhaps the matter might be brought forward in some other form. In the case of the women, I am glad the Minister has met the point, and with permission I would withdraw the amendment in view of the promise to bring in the other amended form on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be better to have a separate committee of women for women's prisons? 
     
     
      
       There are no separate prisons for women.  There are separate wings of the same prison. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 2 stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 3. 
       (1) Every visiting committee appointed under this Act shall conform to and observe such of the rules made by the Minister under this Act as shall apply to them, and, subject to such rules, it shall be the duty of every such visiting committee 
     
     
        (a)  from time to time and at frequent intervals to visit the prison in respect of which they are appointed and there to hear any complaints which may be made to them by any prisoner confined in such prison and, if so requested by the prisoner, to hear such complaint in private, and 
     (b)  to report to the Minister any abuses observed or found by them in such prison, and 
     (c)  to report to the Minister any repairs to such prison which may appear to them to be urgently needed, and 
     (d)  to report to the Minister on any matter relating to such prison on which the committee shall think it expedient or shall have been requested by the Minister so to report. 
     
     
     (2)  Every such visiting committee and every member thereof shall be entitled at all times to visit either collectively or individually the prison in respect of which they are appointed and shall at all times have free access either collectively or individually to every part of such prison. 
     (3)  Every such visiting committee may, subject to and in accordance with rules made by the Minister under this Act, do all or any of the following things in relation to prisoners confined in the prison in respect of which they are appointed, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  grant special privileges to any prisoner as a reward for good conduct or on account of ill-health or for other sufficient cause; 
     (b)  award special punishment to any prisoner guilty of a breach of prison discipline; 
     (c)  hold inquiries on oath into charges against prisoners of breach of prison discipline. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at end of the section a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Every report made by a visiting committee to the Minister shall be open to inspection, without charge, at any reasonable time, by any person who makes application to the Minister for that purpose.&rdquo; 
     
     
        This section is to ensure that the report shall be in some way available to the public.  I do not want to ask that it should be printed, for that may involve expense of an unnecessary kind, but I want to ensure that interested persons should have access to the reports of the committee in respect of prisons which are under their observation.  The alternative might be that the report might be laid on the Table of the House.  That might involve printing, and if the reports are of any length might involve an expense that is perhaps not quite necessary.  If, on the other hand, we are able to have them open for inspection when required the expense would not be great, and the public requirements would be served. 
     
      
       I am in favour of accepting this amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question: &ldquo;That Section 3, as amended, stand part of the Bill,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
       Sections 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 put and agreed to. 
       Schedule and Title put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     The Bill, as amended, reported. 
     Report Stage ordered for Friday. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ORDER OF BUSINESS. 
     
      
       Will No. 11 on the Order Paper be taken now? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The arrangement was that we should go through the Order Paper with a certain exception, that exception being the Prisons (Visiting Committees) Bill.  Have we not to go on now to the Dail Supreme Court (Pensions) Bill? 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to go on with that. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say when that Bill will be taken? 
     
     
      
       I am not in charge   of the Bill&mdash;the Minister for Finance is in charge&mdash;but I think it will be taken to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       No. 10 is also to be taken to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE TEACHTAS' BUSINESS. - CREATION OF A NATIONAL MILITIA. 
     
      
       The next business is the resumption of the debate on the motion by Deputy Darrell Figgis, which is as follows:&mdash; 
       That in the opinion of the Dail it is expedient that the Executive Council should prepare, and as soon as may be lay before the Dail, measures providing for the abolition of a Standing Army and for the creation of a National Militia. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy did not expect his motion to come on so early. 
       Motion put and declared lost. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE TEACHTAS' BUSINESS. - SUPERANNUATION AND PENSIONS (AMENDMENT) BILL, 1925.&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       The Bill, of which I am moving the Second Reading, is intended to remove a very great hardship on a very small number of people, comparatively speaking.  It will be necessary, in order that the Dail may fully understand the scope of the Bill, to give a short explanation of how this disability came about.  There was passed in the year 1920 an Act in the British Parliament called the Pensions (Increase) Act, and that applied to certain teacher pensioners among others. But there were very limiting conditions in that Act.  For instance, any person who had means up to £150 per annum, if single, or £200, if married, would get no increase whatsoever.  It also contained a provision to the effect that only what are called pre-war pensions would be increased.  It happened that in 1914 there was a new National Teachers' Pension Scheme introduced. Although it had been actually agreed upon twelve months before, that scheme   did not come into operation until 1st October, 1914, and as a result it was deemed, by the British Treasury, to be a post-war scheme.  The effect of that technicality&mdash;it was purely a technicality&mdash;was this: that when these old teachers who were on pension came to have their increases calculated, the increases were not calculated on the actual pensions which the teachers had, but on the pensions which they would be deemed to have had if the new regulations did not come into force.  The reason of that was that because the new scheme happened to come into force on the 1st October, 1914, a few months after the war started, it was deemed, for the purposes of the Act, to be a post-war pension scheme.  Immediately the Provisional Government took over control here this anomaly was brought to their notice, and the late General Collins made a promise to the pensioned teachers that he would remove, at the first opportunity, this anomaly.  That promise was implemented by the then Minister for Finance (the President) in the Superannuation and Pensions Act of 1923, by the introduction of Section 6, which declared that although the Teachers' Pension Rules came into operation on the 1st October, 1914, they would be deemed to have come into operation before the war for the purposes of the Act.  But, for some reason that I cannot understand, a new disability was created in that Act, and it is this new disability which the present Bill proposes to remove. Sub-section 4 of Section 6 of that Act reads as follows:&mdash; 
       No increase of pension shall be payable by virtue of this section in respect of any period during which the pensioner is not ordinarily resident in Saorstat Eireann. 
       This Bill proposes to repeal that section, and that is all it proposes to do. 
     
     The effect of putting that section in &mdash;and I think Deputies will agree, when they hear the facts, that it is a very peculiar section&mdash;is that no matter what part of Ireland outside the Saorstat, or even England or Scotland, pensioners may reside in, they are paid their ordinary pension from the Saorstat Teachers' Pension Fund, and they   are also paid the increase which they may have got under the old regulations made by the British Treasury, but, in case there was any little increase coming to them as a result of this 1923 Act, they are barred out from receiving it by this sub-section. 
     As to the total number of people affected, I am not quite clear.  Possibly the Minister for Finance may tell us later whether my information is altered by his answer to-day.  I was under the impression that the total number of people would be approximately thirty. I am not quite sure whether the thirty which he mentioned in his answer to Deputy Nagle to-day includes also the twenty-five resident in the Six County area or whether the thirty are in addition to the twenty-five.  In any case, it does not make very much difference one way or the other.  We got a return from the Minister for Finance in December last, on the motion of Deputy Sir James Craig, which gave the names and the actual sums paid to 25 people who were affected and who were living in the Six County area.  Most of these were old teachers who taught in the Donegal area or around the north of Ireland, and who, when they retired on pension, went to live in Derry or towns in the northern area.  Some of them are natives of that area and, having completed their term as teachers, they went back to live with friends and neighbours.  I find that the average sum paid to these 25 persons was £43, plus an increase in the case of 12, averaging £8.  In other words, the total average pension of these 25 people is £48.  Assuming they got the amounts set out in the return&mdash;they could get higher, but that would be subject to the disability with regard to means and so on&mdash;the average would be £11 for the 25, giving them an average pension of £59 each. 
     As far as the 25 in the return are concerned, the total cost in any year under this Bill would be £275.  That sum does not fall on the Exchequer. It would be paid out of the Teachers' Pension Fund.  Teachers who are in the service contribute 4 per cent. of their salaries to the Pension Fund. The fund also derives its income from investments and endowments set aside when the Pension Fund was established   in 1879.  In addition, there is an annual contribution from the State. The contribution from the State is set out in the Estimates for this year.  It is in the form of a grant in aid.  There is a fixed grant in aid of £29,000 this year.  There is a further grant in aid based on 15 per cent. of the actual expenditure of the fund in any one year. For example, if, in round numbers, £300 was paid out of the Teachers' Pension Fund to implement this Bill and give a small measure of relief to these old pensioners, 15 per cent. of the £300 would be contributed by the State. That is not a very big load for the State to bear in order to remove this very great hardship on the few old teachers who are affected by this particular measure. 
     I have searched through all the other Pension Acts that have been passed in the Dail and I have not been able to find in the case of any other class of pensioners a disability in regard to residence outside Saorstat Eireann. That disability refers only to the old pensioned teachers who were covered by Section 6.  Strange to say, the disability does not apply to any others but those governed by that section.  I do not know what the person who originally inserted this section had in mind, but it might be asked why, when this measure was going through, we did not see it and object to it.  There is an explanation, possibly two explanations. In the first place, we were pressing for a very long time to get the promise made by General Collins carried out by the Dail.  The matter was held up for various reasons and finally, at the end of 1923, we got a spate of measures when there was no time to consider them.  It was practically put up to us that if we objected we would get nothing at all.  That was one reason.  The other reason why I did not object was that I held then, as I hold now&mdash;although others hold to the contrary&mdash;that Saorstat Eireann included all Ireland.  Therefore, I was not particular.  I took it for granted that if a man lived outside the Twenty-Six County area he would get his pension or whatever little increase was coming to him as a matter of course. I stated when the matter was brought   to my notice, that that was my reading of it.  Since then an Interpretation Act was passed which definitely defined that Saorstat Eireann, for the purposes of legislation, did in fact mean the Twenty-Six Counties.  Because of that the Ministry of Finance has interpreted the sub-section which I am anxious to have repealed, as preventing them, evidently, from paying this little increase to the pensioners who, after retiring, went to live in some part of the Six County area. 
     There can be no other reason why the pensions should not be paid to those except the Ministry of Finance is not at liberty to do so, in view of this section which, to my mind, prevents the Minister for Finance from paying these increases.  I do not think there is any principle involved in this outside the actual principle of doing justice and giving fair play to men and women. The majority of them are women who gave a long period of service and have very poor remuneration and reward as a result of that public service.  It might be argued that it is a sound principle that all who receive pensions from the State should spend that money in the State.  The poorest class of pensioner you have should not be picked out as the only one to whom the principle would be applied.  If they are paid their ordinary pensions, less the increases which the Pension Increases Act gave them, and if they are paid the increases which they got under the British Treasury regulations, there is no reason, as far as I can see, for not paying in addition this small sum which would go to them as a result of the implementing by the Government of the promise made to the old pensioners by General Collins. I am sure when the late General Collins made that promise that he would remove that technicality which would prevent the teacher pensioners getting what was obviously due to them, he had not the idea of excluding 25 or 30 who happened to live in the Six County area.  That is in effect what this sub-section does.  It may be thought that if this was removed there would be no guarantee that others would not go outside the area and live, say, in the Six County area and spend   their money there.  Let us consider for a moment the class of pensioner with which we are dealing.  What possible object could one of those have in going outside the area to live?  Is it to escape income tax?  Not one of them comes anything near the lowest limit of income subject to income tax. 
     
      
       That will not be an impediment in the future. 
     
     
      
       The difference they would get would not pay the cost of removal from one part of the country to another.  It would hardly pay their rail expenses.  This expenditure, through which it is necessary to do justice to those old-age pensioners, will be a gradually diminishing sum, because no pensioner who has retired since the 4th August, 1920, can benefit in any way by any of the Pension Increases Acts.  I would like to emphasise that.  No new pensioners can come on to the lists as a result of this measure. It can only apply to those who were on the Pension List in August 1920.  Of course teachers generally are 65 years of age before they go on pension. They must serve until 65 or have retired owing to disablement.  That shows that most of those will now be up to the age of 70, and they cannot in the ordinary course of events be long a burden on the State.  The sum required will be a gradually diminishing one.  I do not think it is necessary to argue those things at any great length.  It seems so eminently just and fair and the number of people concerned is so small, and the amount of money required is so very small, that I have no doubt but that the House as a whole and the Minister for Finance will agree to give the measure a Second Reading and to pass it in all its stages. 
     
     
      
       I second the motion. There are two points I wish to make. First, the majority of the persons affected have gone to live in the City of Derry from Donegal.  Now, it is quite obvious that old people should desire to go to live with their relatives, and that explains the reason why they have gone out of the 26 and into the 6 counties. Then there is the further point   which is important to bear in mind, that what may be called identical legislation, involving similar pensions as applied in the Northern area, does not contain any limitation of this kind.  They may live in the Twenty-Six County area and continue to draw those increases from the Northern Government.  I think, on the principle of reciprocity in these matters, that that is a point in favour of the measure. 
     
     
      
       I will not deny that I am prejudiced in the consideration of this Bill by the fact that it is purely an expenditure Bill.  It does nothing except authorise further expenditure of public money for which no service is given or is to be given.  It does not propose to alter any system of administration or make any changes in the law in the ordinary way.  It simply amounts to an increase of public expenditure, and I do not know that I am satisfied that that would be a good Parliamentary principle.  At the present time I would feel very disinclined to procure the necessary Message or to take the steps necessary to secure the passage of a Bill which is purely an expenditure Bill introduced by a private member of the House.  The amount of money is very small in this particular Bill, but before I would be inclined to enable the other stages to be taken I would like to consider it at further length, because I think that it probably ought to be a principle of the House that Bills for a mere expenditure of money should not be passed unless they come from the quarter in the House that is for the time being responsible for administration and expenditure.  I can imagine there might be a stage when, if the House were to adopt the practice of giving the same consideration to Money Bills introduced by private members as Money Bills introduced by the people who were for the time being charged with Executive responsibility, you might have a lot of Money Bills introduced which it would be undesirable to have coming forward.  While I do not profess to have thought out the matter very fully I think there is a question of some importance involved of which we ought to think, because   we are now only establishing our precedents. I would not rush into this particular point.  The matter that the Bill deals with was dealt with in the Superannuation Act of 1923, before I was concerned with it.  I do not know all the circumstances that were taken into account at that particular time, but I think at the time we gave this particular concession to the teachers the Government in the Six-county area had not given any concession to them. I think it was subsequent to our action that the concession was given.  The Deputy must remember that the teachers are the only class of prechange of Government pensioners to whom an increase has been given. When he talks of imposing a new disability he is hardly absolutely correct. What happened was that the concession was not given to everybody. 
     
     The only thing that is really argued in favour of this Bill is that there is not much money in it.  The increases are there for these people.  They can come and get them if they want them. Anyone resident outside the Saorstat who likes to come in can get his pension. There is no great grievance on anybody's part.  As the Deputy indicated, There are teachers to whom this Bill would apply resident outside the Saorstat in addition to those resident in the Six Counties.  The Act, if it were passed, would apply to them as well as to the Six County people.  I do not know that there has been any argument put up that those who went deliberately outside and of whom it cannot be said that they went to friends, should get the increase.  I am prepared to look into the matter and to consider whether there is not a good case for extending this concession to those who have gone to the Six Counties and who have not deliberately gone a distance away from the district in which they were engaged and in which their associations were.  I am also prepared to consider whether we might not take action to extend the concession to those particular people.  The numbers, both of those resident in the Six Counties and outside Ireland, are small.  The real point is that we gave them an increase of pensions which we did not give to any other pensioners who were pensioners   at the time we took over the change of Government.  There is no great grievance even on the part of those who are resident in the Six Counties.  They taught in districts now included in the Saorstat.  Some of them had removed before its establishment. At any rate they have their friends and associates in the areas in which they taught, and I cannot see that they have any great grievance in the matter.  If there were any big sum of money involved.  I would not hold out any hope of giving consideration to this proposal.  Seeing that the amount of money involved is so small, it is not worth taking up any very strong attitude.  But I may say that I am not inclined to facilitate the passage of a Bill which is purely a Money Bill and which a private member introduces without any definite or personal representation in advance.  I certainly do not remember having the case put up to me.  I do think that, while the amount of money is trifling, there is a principle involved, and I would divide the House upon it. 
     
      
       There is unquestionably a great deal to be said in favour of the contention of the Minister for Finance, that a Bill which is purely, as he describes the present measure, an expenditure Bill, should, in consonance with the spirit of the Constitution, as governing the dealing with public moneys, be the type of measure that is reserved for introduction by an Executive Minister.  But that is a technical difficulty&mdash;a technical difficulty notwithstanding the fact that the Minister is absolutely and indisputably correct in saying that there is a principle involved in it.  He said: &ldquo;We are now making our precedents.&rdquo;  We are, and let us be careful that all the precedents that we make are animated by a spirit of justice and of equity&mdash;a spirit to which no one shall hereafter take exception as being un-Irish.  Many of the precedents which regulate this assembly are borrowed from the so-called &ldquo;Mother of Parliaments.&rdquo;  I have a distinct recollection of a precedent which might come to our assistance at the present moment.  The O'Conor Don, of that period, introduced a University measure into Westminster, and,   while it was not acceptable to the Government of the day, it was agreed that if he withdrew it the Ministry would adopt it in principle and in many of its leading details.  It seems to me that in view of the fact that the necessity for this Bill arises purely out of technicality, we might very well come, in the sympathetic spirit that animated some portions of the Minister's speech, to the rescue of those few people.  £11, according to Deputy O'Connell, is the average amount of increase that would come to them if there had not been this stipulation in the sub-section of Section 6 of our own Act.  That is a small sum to the Minister for Finance.  But to the recipient of a pension of £48, eleven pounds is too large a proportion to be despicable or negligible. 
       Now, the history of this transaction is a history of technicalities.  The war known as the Great War, though to us, of course, it is a little war, was declared in August 1914.  By a set of accidents this pension scheme, under which those people derive advantage, only came into operation in October. At a later stage that technical difficulty was removed.  The President, who was then Minister for Finance, agreed to regard this as pre-war, notwithstanding. Now Deputy O'Connell, who was acting on behalf of those teachers, pressed their case, and I have a distinct recollection of the Friday.  I think it was, upon which the House heard the recital of their grievances and was greatly moved.  Deputy O'Connell states that his interpretation of the phrase &ldquo;resident within the Free State,&rdquo; was let pass without criticism, inasmuch as it seemed to him the Saorstat was Ireland inclusive of the six counties.  Of course, legally what was intended was the area of jurisdiction of the Free State.  In consequence of that, those people who went to live with their own friends on the very fringe of the Saorstat, are by that slight removal outside our area of jurisdiction and are, therefore, to the bad financially to the amount of about £11. 
     
     It does not seem at all, as I have already suggested, in consonance with our traditions to say 25 poor people are to be muleted of a few pounds per   year merely because they found it necessary, as so many old people did and do find it necessary, to live with relatives.  It is not merely a matter of supplementing an insufficient income, but it is in obedience to a very natural tendency of our own people.  I think, therefore, that if we do put up this technical obstacle to Deputy O'Connell's Bill, that it is an expenditure measure pure and simple, it is quite easy to meet that by an undertaking on the part of the Executive Council, through the Minister for Finance, to make this a Government measure.  The amount out of purely Government funds of additional expenditure is only £45.  I would not say only £45 if there were any great principle involved.  We have already dealt with the question of principles.  The Bill, as introduced by Deputy O'Connell, might be treated as the advertising of the fact, and then the unhappy fact can be removed from the region of actualities by the Minister dealing with it. 
     It seems to me the Minister has expressed, if not explicity, at least by implication, a strong desire to do that, and I fancy if he were not the watchdog of public finance he would be as keen on the remedying of this defect as Deputy O'Connell or any of us.  I, therefore, put it to him, with all respect, as a suggestion, that the spirit of Deputy O'Connell's Bill and the spirit of his speech in advocacy of it are not at all at variance with anything for which the Minister stands.  Consequently, I think, if I may use the term, it would be a wise thing if the Government adopted the measure. 
     
      
       I thought I indicated &mdash;perhaps I did not do so clearly enough&mdash; that I am clear in my mind as to the people who live in the Six Counties.  I would be prepared to have a measure introduced that would certainly give to them some consideration. I have not really thought over the cases of the others.  I do not care to suggest to Deputy O'Connell that he should let the Bill drop. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister agree to accept the Second Reading as a formal matter?  Will he agree not to oppose it?  Then the matter would be   entirely in his own hands.  Nothing more would be done until he moves. Would the Minister accept merely the principle?  In speech the Minister has already done that. 
     
     
      
       That goes a little further than I have so far made up my mind to go.  The Bill does apply to all the teachers.  I would be accepting the principle somewhat further. 
     
     
      
       Up to this moment, of course, it would not be your Bill. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Of course it is quite reasonable, subject to amendment, and I myself would support the contention that it should only apply to those resident in Ireland. 
     
     
      
       If that is the principle of the Bill I would say I accept the principle; but I think the Bill will have to be altered to another shape from that in which it has been presented. 
     
     
      
       If it passes the Second Reading in this form nothing more would be heard of it until the Minister would move.  Then the Minister may introduce his own Bill and this goes out of sight. 
     
     
      
       There are many principles involved in this matter.  Obviously as a money measure the Bill cannot go very far through the Dail without the Minister for Finance taking it under his wing, so to speak.  Deputy O'Connell, in advocating this measure and in bringing forward the case of the comparatively few people concerned, was, as he generally is, eminently reasonable, and he put the case in an unanswerable way.  I do not think any Deputy would disclaim the idea that the people referred to are entitled to all the provisions he asks for.  On the other hand, he and other speakers have stressed the insignificance of the amount of money involved as an argument in favour of the Bill.  I rather object to that as a principle.  If the case is right, just, and proper, the amount of money is a secondary consideration, I take it, with Deputies anxious to do justice where justice is due.  But to touch on the insignificance   of the amount of money involved as a reason for the adoption of the measure is not, I think, dealing with the matter in a very broad spirit. 
       The Minister and others have said that, as applied to teachers residing in the Six Counties, they have no objection, but if teachers reside anywhere else there is an objection.  I take exception to that right away.  This pension, as has been explained, is based on contributions paid by teachers into a fund for provision in their old age.  If the Dail is going to lay down that no pension is payable to anybody unless they obey the dictates of the Dail as to where they are going to live, I say that is a restriction on the liberty of the individual. I do not think the Dail ought to lay down any such principle.  If a person has served the State for a number of years, and has contributed to a fund which will provide a pension for him in his old age, he is entitled to enjoy that pension without any restriction as to where he should live.  We must all be sympathetic with the case put forward by Deputy O'Connell.  I think the Minister is perfectly right in resisting the adoption of a principle whereby individual Deputies could bring in a money Bill.  But this case is so perfectly clear, apparently, as to the justice of it, that I think the object of the Bill has been, and will be, served by the introduction of the measure and the promise the Minister has made that the matter will have his due consideration with a view to remedying the grievance that obviously exists. 
     
     
      
       I would like to say that I do not wish to create any new precedents that would be in any way embarrassing to us at the beginning of our career as a Parliamentary Assembly. I might explain that, as a matter of fact, it was only after I had handed in the Bill that I discovered that it would, in fact, put any charge on the Exchequer, because until I discovered that this grant-in-aid was composed of 15 per cent. contribution of expenditure I did assume that any increase which would accrue as a result of this measure would come directly and entirely out of the Teachers' Pension   Fund.  As I say, at the time I actually handed in the Bill I did not think it would be necessary to increase even by a slight amount the vote from the Exchequer. 
       As I am on that, I might mention that as a matter of fact in the case of the Teachers' Pension Fund any increase of pensions under the Act of 1920 should not be borne and was never intended to be borne by this Fund.  The Teachers' Pension Fund was raided, not by our present Ministry, but by the British Treasury, and the present Government has followed in their footsteps. If the Minister will look into it, he will see that these grants were to be made out of the common Exchequer, but when they came to administer it here they raided the Teachers' Pension Fund, and it is out of that Fund they are paying the increased pension.  What I want to have security on is that plainly and squarely these teachers will get their increase.  If the Minister says he will give it to them I do not intend to push this matter further.  I do not want to create any precedent by having a Bill passed through its Second Reading here which deals with expenditure of money.  I would like to remove one impression from the Minister's mind, that this case was not put up to him before now.  It was put up to him twelve months ago, and I was for a long time in communication with the then Attorney-General, now Chief Justice Kennedy.  I understood from him, and from the correspondence I had from him, that he was discussing the matter with the Minister for Finance, and that although they had looked into the matter he was not clear at that time whether in fact that sub-section did definitely prevent the Minister for Finance from paying out.  But as nothing came of it I assume that there could be only one possible reason for the failure to pay and that was the presence in the Pensions Act of this sub-section. 
     
     There are just one or two other points mentioned on which I would like to say a word.  That is, that these people did not deliberately go out of the Saorstat as far as I know.  Every one of them was living in the Six   County area at the time this Act was passed.  They were all pensioned certainly before August, 1920.  It was when they went on pension that they went out of the Saorstat.  They did not deliberately go out of it.  They were in Ireland, and nine of them were teaching in Donegal.  I am sure the Donegal representatives will be interested to know that these people when they got the pension retired to the neighbouring city or town&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Does Deputy O'Connell agree with the contention that they had no right to go outside the Saorstat at all? 
     
     
      
       I am arguing the contrary.  There is this other point as a distinction between those in Ireland and those outside it.  I think it will be invidious for the sake of these few who might be involved, five, six, or at most a dozen, to introduce this principle, which is not in any of our Pensions Acts so far.  If it is going to be a general principle let it be a general principle so far as all pensions are concerned. It does not apply to any other section of pensioners.  Then you will have to face the position that it will be only four, or five, or twelve old pensioners who will be affected if that distinction is made as between Ireland and those who happen to live in England or Scotland.  If the Minister is prepared to give an undertaking in any way that he thinks is right or in any way he wishes to have these pensions paid to those old people and do justice to them, then I do not wish to proceed further. 
     
     
      
       I will give that undertaking. In the case of the few who live outside the country I must say that there are certain Acts, certain British Acts, which do restrict pensions to people resident in the British Isles, or, as it used to be called, the United Kingdom. However, I do not want to argue the matter further. 
     
     
      
       I would like to urge on the Minister the desirability of doing it without undue delay, because these are very old people. 
     
     
      
       I will.  I will see that the Bill will be soon drafted. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister might take into consideration the fact that the pensioners might be compelled for health reasons to go to reside outside the area of the Saorstat.  The Treaty allows people to go outside, and people who have taken advantage of Clause 10 of the Treaty have actually gone outside the Saorstat.  For that reason I suggest that no restrictions ought to be laid on people in the matter of living outside the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       With that undertaking I beg to withdraw the Bill, with the leave of the Dail. 
       Bill, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
   
   
     THE ADJOURNMENT. - DISTRESS IN CLARE. 
     
      
       I beg to move the adjournment until 3 o'clock to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       I gave notice that I would, on the adjournment, draw attention to the question of very acute agricultural distress in Clare, and the   prospect of a bad situation there becoming worse.  I see, however, that the Minister for Lands and Agriculture is not present.  Neither is the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.  Under the circumstances, I wonder whether I ought to proceed in their absence? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy wishes I would raise no objection to his raising the question to-morrow after Deputy Johnson has raised another question.  Would that be agreeable to him? 
     
     
      
       Will I get ample time?  Deputy Johnson's motion is on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       I would undertake to give the Deputy half an hour to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps you could make it a little more than half an hour? 
       The Dail rose at 7.10 p.m. until 3 o'clock on Thursday, 5th March, 1925. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - INTERIM GRANT FOR SECONDARY TEACHERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he will now say if he has obtained the sanction of the Minister for Finance for a supplementary distribution of the surplus of £11,708, remaining out of the Interim Grant for Secondary Teachers for the current financial year, and, if so, whether he will cause this supplementary distribution to be made with the least possible delay. 
     
     
      
       It is proposed that the surplus referred to should now be applied   as a set-off against the supplementary provision for increments for Secondary Teachers, details of which will be laid before the Dail shortly. The provision in the same financial year of the amount of Interim Grant already distributed and of a half-year's instalment for paying teachers' increments, is a very important and special concession as an alternative to a special supplementary distribution of the balance of the Interim Grant. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SALARIES SCHEME FOR SECONDARY TEACHERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether a definite initial minimum salary, by way of necessary completion of the salaries scheme for Secondary Teachers, has yet been fixed, and whether he will state what that figure is. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my reply to a question put to me by Deputy Thrift on this matter on the 13th February.  As the amount of grant to be paid to Secondary Teachers in future has not yet been decided upon, I am not in a position to announce the rate of minimum salary which schools will be required to pay their teachers. 
     
   
 