 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 12 a clog. 
   
   
     SELECTION OF DAIL PANEL FOR SEANAD ELECTION. 
     
      
       The time fixed for the voting expires at 2 o'clock. At 2 o'clock, therefore, the box will be sealed and taken away by the Clerk. Deputies who desire to vote must have their papers in the box before 2 o'clock. Voting papers are now available, and Deputies can come forward and receive them.  The voting is carried out by placing the numbers on the left-hand side of the names. 
       Voting papers were applied for, received by Deputies, filled in, and deposited in the ballot box. 
       At 12.20 p.m., 
     
     
      
       Is it in order to raise a point of order?  I desire to know whether there is any disqualification of candidates on whose behalf there has been a great deal of canvassing, telegraph-sending, letter-writing and personal importuning.  I do not know whether there is any Standing Order to that effect, or whether it is left to the judgement of Deputies to express their views on that method of procedure. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy can point to anything in the Resolution of the Dail governing this election that disqualifies a candidate, I shall be glad to hear it.  Deputies cannot express their views on candidates now. 
       At 12.55 p.m., 
     
     
      
       
          took the Chair.  The Chair was resumed by An Ceann Comhairle at 1.55 p.m. 
       At 2 p.m., 
     
     
      
       One hundred and one ballot papers have been issued.  The time of the election now being over, the box will be sealed and taken away for the count.  The adjournment is being moved until 10 o'clock this evening for the announcement of the results.  It is hoped the results will be available at that hour. This evening the Dail will adjourn until 3rd November. 
     
     
      
       Tuesday, 3rd November. 
     
     
      
       On rising to-night the Dail will adjourn until Tuesday, 3rd November.  The meeting this evening at 10 o'clock will be simply for the announcement of the results. 
       The ballot box was sealed and removed. 
     
   
   
     ADAPTATION OF CHARTERS BILL, 1925. 
     
      
       There was an Order made for the Committee Stage of the Adaptation of Charters Bill, 1925, on Tuesday, 10th November. It is desired to discharge that and make it for Tuesday, 3rd November. 
       Order discharged accordingly.  Committee Stage fixed for Tuesday, 3rd November. 
       Sitting suspended at 2.3 p.m., and resumed at 10 p.m., An Ceann Comhairle in the Chair. 
     
   
   
     ANNOUNCEMENT OF RESULTS. 
     
      
       One hundred and one ballot papers were given out.  The ballot box, when opened, was found to contain one hundred and one voting papers, of which one was rejected as being invalid.  I declare that the result and the order of the selection by Dail Eireann, pursuant to the Seanad Election Resolution, 1925, of the candidates for the completion of the Panel for the purposes   of the forthcoming election to Seanad Eireann, as nominated by Dail Eireann, is as follows:&mdash; 
       1.  Denis Houston. 
       2.  Thomas Ryan. 
       3.  Sean Milroy. 
       4.  Laurence Patk. Byrne. 
       5.  Sean O Murthuile. 
       6.  John Patk. Cuffe. 
       7.  John Charles M. Eason. 
       8.  John J. Horgan. 
       9.  Henry Harrison. 
       10.  Stephen O'Mara (Senior). 
       11.  George Crosbie. 
       12.  John Wm. Frederick Garvey. 
       13.  Francis Cahill. 
       14.  Thomas Patk. McKenna. 
       15.  Thomas Toal. 
       16.  Edward Patk. McLoughlin. 
       17.  Darrell Figgis. 
       18.  Michael F. O'Hanlon. 
       19.  Francis McGuinness. 
       20.  James Dillon. 
       21.  John Ryan. 
       22.  Patk. Phelan. 
       23.  Sir Simon W. Maddock. 
       24.  Michael Fanning. 
       25.  Risteard O Foghludha. 
       26.  Liam de Roiste. 
       27.  Sean P. MacEnri. 
       28.  Valentine E.P. Marquis Mac-Swiney. 
       29.  Joseph O'Connor. 
       30.  Cornelius Kennedy. 
       31.  Jeremiah MacVeagh. 
       32.  Anthony MacBride. 
       33.  Joseph Johnston. 
       34.  Sir Wm. Bernard Hickie. 
     
     
        35.  Denis Kennedy. 
     36.  Alasdair McCabe. 
     37.  Daniel Nealon. 
     38.  Michael Jordan.  
     There were forty-six counts.  I would like to express our thanks to the Election Staff who carried out the work of counting the votes in such an efficient and expeditious manner. 
     
      
       Might I ask whether you would be kind enough to have circulated to Deputies a copy of the Result Sheet in order to prove the utility of Proportional Representation? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will examine his portfolio he will find that on the last occasion on which an election such as this took place, that information was given in due course and in a very elaborate form; it contained all the information in regard to Proportional Representation that could be possibly conveyed to members of the Oireachtas. 
       I believe, A Chinn Chomhairle, you are expressing the wishes of the House when you mention that an expression of thanks should be conveyed to the counting staff for the efficient manner in which they carried out their work. 
       I will now move the adjournment of the Dail until Tuesday, 3rd November, at 3 o'clock. 
       The Dail adjourned at 10.10 p.m. until 3 p.m. on Tuesday, 3rd November. 
     
   
 