 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 12 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REVENUE FROM INCOME TAX. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state, for the last year for which such figures are available, what the revenue to the State amounted to respectively under each of the five schedules of Income Tax. 
     
     
      
       The year 1923-24 was the first year for which assessments were made for the Saorstat.  Until the accounts for that year are closed and detailed schedules of discharge and default are available, it will not be possible to state how much of the revenue collected was attributable to each Schedule.  These schedules are not expected to be ready for at least another year. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ORDNANCE SURVEY INQUIRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the Committee to inquire into the Ordnance Survey, the appointment of which he announced on July 25th, 1924, and referred to again on November 5th, has yet held any meetings, and, if so, how many; whether representatives of the various branches of the staff of the Department have been invited to give evidence or have yet done so; and if he can state when the inquiry is expected to be completed. 
     
     
      
       Owing to unforeseen difficulties in bringing all the members  together at one time, the Committee have not yet held a meeting.  The procedure to be followed in obtaining the evidence, if required, has not, therefore, been settled, but any evidence the staff can usefully give on the subject of the inquiry will, no doubt, be taken.  It is not possible at this stage to state when the inquiry will be completed, but arrangements now being made will, I hope, enable the work to be proceeded with without further delay. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister's attention been called to the statement of the President, made when this matter was first mooted, that it was obviously a matter of urgency, and that the Committee should set to work and bring in its report without delay?  That was in July of last year. 
     
     
      
       The Chairman, or one member of the Committee, Deputy Nicholls, who was appointed, found himself unable to act.  He is now resigning, and I hope he will be able to substitute a chairman who will proceed with the work at once. 
     
     
      
       In view of the probability of reorganisation, will the Minister reconsider the terms of reference of this Committee, so that it will be able to inquire into larger questions than it can under its present rather narrow terms of reference?  The question raised by ex-Deputy McGarry and Deputy Hogan was of rather more importance and greater consequence than the question raised by the terms of reference. 
     
     
      
       I have not given any consideration to that. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister do so immediately, so that there will be no unnecessary delay? 
     
     
      
       I will. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - STOPPAGE OF BLIND PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state the grounds on which the blind pension was stopped from Patrick Murray, Brianbeg, Drumraney, Moate; if he is aware that he resides in a labourer's cottage, and has no other income;   that the applicant has been in receipt of the pension since the passing of the original Act; that Murray has furnished doctors' certificates to the effect that he was and is stone blind, and whether he will have payment of pension made forthwith, with the arrears which were withheld since the 6th March, 1925. 
     
     
      
       The pension in this case was discontinued pursuant to the decision given on the 3rd instant on appeal upon a question raised by the pension officer as to whether the pensioner fulfilled the statutory conditions of blindness. One of the Department's medical inspectors made a detailed examination of Mr. Murray's eyesight on the 27th ultimo.  He reported that, in his opinion, the pensioner, who was difficult to examine as he would give no assistance, had useful vision, which debarred him from a pension under the statute.  Mr. Murray obtained the blind pension at the inception of the Act.  The medical certificate of the 15th November last, furnished in connection with the recent appeal, does not state that Mr. Murray is stone blind, but said that he was in the same condition as he had been four years previously, and was incapable of doing anything for himself, as his eyesight was so bad.  In view of the facts, as certified by the Department's inspector, it is regretted that the pension cannot be restored. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the applicant can supply doctors' certificates to the effect that he is stone blind?  This man did not receive a pension. He was not all attention to the inspector, and the inspector turned down his claim because he was not all apologies to him.  The man's sister is only getting 14/- a week, home help, and she is also blind.  These two people have to live on the county, and the Minister refuses to give this man his right.  Will the Minister consider fresh evidence in his case? 
     
     
      
       The medical inspector has a very precise method of ascertaining whether a person is blind or not,   and his decision in a particular case is final.  I am not prepared to accept representations from local doctors who have not the same qualifications to judge those cases as the medical inspector, who is a specialist in this matter, has. 
     
     
      
       Does it not fulfil the requirements of the Act if a person is sufficiently blind so as not to be able to follow his usual occupation? 
     
     
      
       That is not the exact wording of the Act.  He must be so blind as to prevent him doing any work for which sight is necessary. 
     
     
      
       Is this man in that position? 
     
     
      
       No; he is not so blind. 
     
     
      
       This man has not done a day's work for eight years.  The Minister now refuses to give him his right, and this is supposed to be a democratic Government. 
     
     
      
       Many a man did not do a day's work for eight years, whose eyes are very far from being closed. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DOG LICENCE FEE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will consider reducing the dog licence from five to three shillings, as the present amount is too high for workers; and whether the time for taking out such a licence will be extended. 
     
     
      
       The general question of these licences is under consideration at the moment, and will shortly be brought to the notice of the Dail in connection with proposed legislation, but I regret that I cannot hold out any grounds for hope that a reduction in the present licence fees will result. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the wages of workers of the country have been greatly reduced, and that they are not now in a position to pay 5/- for the only little enjoyment they have on Sundays, when they go hunting?  Surely, the Minister should give some facility to these people by reducing the cost of dog licences. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TRANSFER OF INCOME TAX OFFICERS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether four Income Tax Officials have been brought over from Great Britain within the past three months to aid in the administration of the Department of the Revenue Commissioners, and, if so, if he will state why this addition to his staff became necessary, and whether it is intended to have these officials permanently transferred to the Saorstat service. 
     
     
      
       The facts are as stated in the first part of the question. The Income Tax staff was reduced by six inspectors on 6th December, 1924, by reason of the departure of men who had been on loan since 6th December, 1922.  There were no trained officials available in the Saorstat to replace these men, and it became necessary to arrange for a loan of four inspectors to enable the Revenue Commissioners to carry on the work.  It is not intended to secure these officials for permanent service.  Arrangements were made to obtain permanent staff which is now in course of training.  It may be added that a period of at least three years is necessary for the training of an Inspector of Taxes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DEDUCTION FROM COMPENSATION AWARD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that the Revenue Commissioners propose retaining £146 from the sum of £550 awarded to Mr. Charles O'Neill, Tinnycross, Ballymore-Eustace, Co. Kildare, for the burning of the former police barrack situated in the above-mentioned town, and if he will state the reason for this course of action, as Mr. O'Neill disputes liability to income tax. 
     
     
      
       Mr. O'Neill's liability to income tax was determined on appeal by the Special Commissioners of Income Tax, and is not, therefore, in dispute.  Several applications were made to Mr. O'Neill by the collector of taxes for payment of the tax due by him, but as he failed to pay it became   necessary to deduct portion of the compensation award in satisfaction of Mr. O'Neill's liability. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Minister's answer, perhaps he is not aware that Mr. O'Neill never paid income tax under the British regime, because he was always in a position to show that he did not come within liability for income tax, and now he has got much less than he had before. 
     
     
      
       I think we will have to consider the question of getting arrears out of him. 
     
     
      
       If he would be allowed to explain the matter to somebody in authority, he could do it quite simply. He says that he would have no difficulty in doing that. 
     
     
      
       He explained it to the Special Commissioners, and he did not satisfy them, and he failed to take advantage of the opportunity he had of explaining to the Circuit Judge. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WEXFORD MAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why unemployment insurance benefit is not being paid to John Jones, Upper John Street, Wexford. 
     
     
      
       Only 45 contributions have been paid up to the present for John Jones, of Upper John Street, Wexford.  In respect of these contributions he has been paid in the current benefit year benefit for 45 days on a claim made by him on the 30th October.  Under existing legislation, there is no power to pay him further benefit unless and until further contributions have been paid for him. Contributions under the Unemployment Insurance Acts become payable in respect of employed persons when they reach 16 years of age.  It appears that there was doubt as to the exact date on which John Jones reached insurable age, and in consequence it may have happened that his last employers should have commenced to pay contributions   in respect of his employment earlier than they did.  It is understood that they are willing to pay any contributions that may be due when Jones satisfies them as to his age.  If further contributions are paid, it will be open to Jones to renew his claim for benefit. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REOPENING OF WEXFORD CEMENT WORKS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if his Department is making any effort to induce the Cement Marketing Company to reopen their works at Wexford; if he is aware that consignments of cement were leaving the works daily by rail until the railway siding there was broken, and if he can say who is responsible for the repair of this siding. 
     
     
      
       Various Government Departments have, during the past few years, continually taken such action as they could to secure a market for the cement produced in the Drinagh Cement Works, and these efforts have achieved a considerable measure of success.  At present, I understand, the works are closed, while accumulated stocks are being disposed of, when I presume, the works will be re-opened.  The siding referred to is, according to my information, the property of the Cement Company and will no doubt be repaired when the Company requires the siding for  orders received. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that it is apparent that the Cement Works require the siding at the moment; that up to the time the sleepers were broken, cement was being removed daily and that now it has stopped; is he aware that there has been a conference between the Railway Company and the Cement Company with a view to finding out who is responsible for the repair of the line, and if not, will he make inquires into the matter?  I would also like to ask the Minister if he is aware that the Dublin Corporation were taking a certain amount of this product up to the time the Commissioners were appointed   and that since then the supply has ceased? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that cement supplied by the same Company from its Northern Ireland works is coming into this city for houses which are receiving the Government subsidy? 
     
     
      
       With regard to what Deputy Corish has asked, supplementary to his original question, if the Cement Company require the immediate use of the siding, which, according to the best of my information, is their property, it is up to them to repair the siding and make use of it.  I am not aware as to the conference between the Railway Company and the Cement Company on the question of ownership. To the best of my information, the siding is the property of the Cement Company.  I understand that, prior to the advent of the Dublin Commissioners, cement was taken from the Drinagh Cement Works, when the Drinagh Cement Company had not sent in the lowest tender.  I personally endeavoured to secure a further contract for the Drinagh Cement Company, even though the same circumstances obtained.  I cannot say whether or not that contract was given to them.  I have no information on the point raised by Deputy Johnson. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister remember that, in connection with this matter some time ago, he promised that his Department would make inquires as to whether there was dumping from Belgium and France of cement into this country?  I would like to know the result of that inquiry. 
     
     
      
       This is a point which Deputy Corish has raised by way of Parliamentary Question and in the course of debate here and it is very difficult for me to state whether or not there was any promise made as to making inquiries into allegations of dumping.  I have always said, in reply to that, that there was no definition of what &ldquo;dumping&rdquo; was and, while inquires were made, I cannot state for the satisfaction of the Deputy whether or not there is proof of &ldquo;dumping&rdquo;  because, his idea of what &ldquo;dumping&rdquo; means and my idea of what it means may be quite different. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider the advisability of taking the matter up with the Cement Marketing Company, with a view to the holding of another conference?  I think the Minister will admit that matters have charged considerably in this connection since the amalgamation of railways was brought about.  He will remember that on the last occasion that we discussed this matter, there was a question of the cement passing over two lines, with consequent transfer and other charges, which militated against the best interests of the Cement Company. Would the Minister not think that this would be an opportune time for the holding of a conference, with a view to having the Cement Works opened and providing employment for the 60 men there? 
     
     
      
       The reduction of the terminal charges is one of the economies to be looked for under the amalgamation scheme.  I will consider the suggestion as to a further conference. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consult with the Minister for Local Government and the Minister for Finance with regard to contracts for housing material, such as cement, coming from outside the Saorstat, when the works belonging to the same company, within the Saorstat, are closed down? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SUSPENSION OF POSTS ON ST. PATRICK'S DAY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will state why all the outward and inward posts, including those ordinarily maintained on Sundays, were suspended on St. Patrick's Day, to the inconvenience of many citizens. 
     
     
      
       Deliveries and despatches of mails on Bank Holidays were suspended in An Saorstat as far back as March, 1923, but on Bank Holidays which follow a Sunday or   other public holiday night mail despatches take place where the train service permits.  St. Patrick's Day of this year did not follow a Sunday or other public holiday, and consequently there was a complete suspension of services, except in Dublin, where a delivery of correspondence for commercial houses was afforded to callers (which is not afforded on Sundays) and a special late evening collection was made as on Sundays.  The fact of the day being the National Holiday rendered restriction of labour desirable as far as possible.  It is not considered that any real public inconvenience was caused by the absence of deliveries and despatches. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Minister's answer, is it not a fact that, whether there was public inconvenience or not, there was a great deal of inconvenience in the service, owing to congestion on the subsequent days, and will he consider whether in future there should not be some degree of service on Bank Holidays, if not in respect of delivery, then in respect of collection of mails? 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to consider the matter. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE PEACE PROTOCOL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs if, and when, he proposes to make a statement to the Dail respecting the recent Peace Protocol and the Security Pact that has now been proposed in its stead. 
     
     
      
       The question of the Protocol is still being considered by the Executive Council.  When a decision has been arrived at, it will be communicated to the Oireachtas.  So far as I am aware, no definite alternative proposals have yet been formulated. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of that answer, would the Minister state exactly what he means when he says, &ldquo;when a decision has been arrived at&rdquo;?  Does it mean that the Executive Council will decide and intimate its decision to the Oireachtas, or will it lay its decision before the Oireachtas for confirmation, and will   there be an opportunity for debate on the matter? 
     
     
      
       Any decision taken by the Executive Council in a matter of that kind has been invariably brought before the Oireachtas. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RELIEF OF CONGESTION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the Land Commission will, for the relief of congestion, take over the farm on the Eustace, Kilgarvan Estate, situated at Ballinahown, Westmeath, consisting of one hundred Irish acres, which was sold by the former owner, Mrs. Johnson, Newtown, Moate, on the 14th February, 1925, to Mr. Thomas Dolan, Shannonbridge, Offaly, who already held two hundred and eighty acres, in view of the large number of uneconomic holding in the Ballinahown district. 
     
     
      
       In the schedule of particulars lodged by the owner of the Eustace estates with the Land Commission for the purpose of the Land Act, 1923, Mrs. Anne Johnson is shown as tenant of a holding in the townland of Kilgarven Glebe containing 180 acres 1 rood 23 perches held under a judicial tenancy. 
       When dealing with the estate the matter will be considered. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF FARM&mdash;MULLINGAR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if it is the intention of the Land Commission to acquire the farm of Tenelick, Colehill, Mullingar, consisting of seventy Irish acres, the property of George Miller, for distribution amongst the uneconomic holders in the district. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to appear to be a holding in the townland of Tennalick comprising 133 acres 30 perches on the estate of Lord Annaly; these lands were purchased in the year 1902 by the   tenant, Mrs. Kate Miller, under the Purchase of Land (Ireland) Acts, 1891-6.  The Commissioners do not propose to take any action as regards these lands. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM FOR COMPENSATION&mdash;CASE OF JAMES DOYLE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether his attention has been drawn to the case of James Doyle, who sustained the loss of a thumb as a result of an accident arising out of and in the course of his duties as Army butcher in Collins Barracks on 15th January, 1924, but who, being a soldier, is debarred from claiming compensation under the Workmen's Compensation Acts, and whether it is proposed to make provision for compensation in such cases by amendment of the Army Pensions Act, 1923, or otherwise. 
     
     
      
       My attention has been drawn to Mr. Doyle's case, which does not come within the provisions of the Army Pensions Act, 1923.  I am, however, at  considering proposals for dealing with this and similar cases. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARREARS OF SOLDIERS' PAY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether grade pay at the rate of 3s. per day for the period from 29th March, 1924, to the 2nd July, 1924, is due to Sergeant Charles Quinn, 8415, Transport Section; if he will state what is the cause of delay in payment, and when payment may be expected. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Quinn's claim is under consideration at the moment. Delay was occasioned, I regret to say, by his pay-book being mislaid.  An early decision will be arrived at, which I will communicate to the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INCORRECTLY FILLED CHEQUE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he has completed inquiries in the case of the cheque issued to Mr. John Cameron, of Bundoran; whether the cheque was incorrectly   filled, and whether he is aware that payment was refused by the bank; that this cheque was returned to the Department, and that the amount is still due to Mr. Cameron. 
     
     
      
       The cheque in question was returned by the bank for the reason that there was a discrepancy between the amount as written in words and in figures.  A fresh cheque was sent to Mr. Cameron on the 11th instant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIM AGAINST ARMY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that the wound pension granted to William Greene, Castlemaine Street, Athlone, amounting to £1 0s. 9d. per week, has been stopped; that the claimant's arm is powerless, owing to bullet wounds in the wrist, which prevents him from occupying any position; and whether, as the claimant has a wife and two children, payment of arrears of pension will be expedited. 
     
     
      
       Payment of Mr. Greene's pension was suspended in connection with the sentence passed on him at the District Court, Athlone, in April last.  It has now been decided to issue the arrears due and to continue the pension. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RUMOURED DEMOBILISATION OF OFFICERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether five hundred officers of the National Army are about to be demobilised, and, if so, whether he will state the reasons for such demobilisation. 
     
     
      
       There is absolutely no foundation for the suggestion contained in the question that five hundred&mdash;or any other number of officers are about to be demobilised.  I should say, sir, that rumours are circulated from time to time which, if they were to go uncontradicted, would be to the detriment of the Army.  Those rumours are circulated for the purpose of destroying the morale of the Army, which, I am glad to say, is at a very high pitch at the present time. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY MOTOR ACCIDENT. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that Mr. Patrick Nolan, 48D, Drumcondra, was seriously injured by being knocked down by a military motor car on September 27th, 1923; that on March 5th, 1924, in an action against Colonel M. Gilheaney, the occupant of the car, the Lord Chief Justice awarded Nolan £200 damages, and stated that Sergeant Clarke, the driver of the car, was guilty of negligence, and that he was not the agent of Colonel Gilheany; that, in reply to inquiries on Nolan's behalf, the Army Finance Officer stated that his claim could not be admitted, and a careful investigation showed that the driver of the car was in no way to blame for the accident; that the injured persons or his witnesses were not represented at this investigation; and if, in view of the comment of the Lord Chief Justice as to Sergeant Clarke's negligence, an  ex gratia  payment would be made in this case. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of any award or comments stated to have been made by a Lord Chief Justice in this case, but I am making inquiries in this connection and will communicate with the Deputy as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister state whether any Army officer has the right to override the decision of a High Court Judge?  I might also ask the Minister for Justice if he would pay attention to the two statements in this question regarding the statement of the Lord Chief Justice that there was negligence on the part of the driver of the car, and awarding damages, while a military inquiry tries to reverse that decision without calling witnesses for the plaintiff&mdash;a private inquiry held to reverse a High Court Judge's decision. 
     
     
      
       I have no knowledge of the decision given.  I have promised the Deputy that I will make inquiries into the matter and let him know the result. 
     
     
      
       I asked the Minister whether he is not aware that the case was defended in the High Courts   by the Colonel who occupied the car, on Wednesday, March 5th, 1924, and in giving the decision the Lord Chief Justice said that Sergeant Clarke was guilty of negligence in the driving of the car and the plaintiff sustained damages to the extent of £200.  What I want to get at is, what protection have civilians against interference by a military dictatorship which endeavours to reverse a decision of the High Court? 
     
     
      
       I do not know about any military dictatorship, and if the gentleman in question got a decree for £200 he can levy it off the person concerned. 
     
     
      
       I beg to give notice that I will raise the matter on the motion for the Adjournment. 
     
   
   
     APPROPRIATION ACCOUNTS, 1924. 
     
      
       Before the business of the day is taken up I would like, with the leave of the House, to move a formal motion.  I move:&mdash; 
       That the Appropriation Accounts of the sums granted by the Oireachtas for public services for the year ended 31st March, 1924, together with the reports of the Comptroller and Auditor-General thereon and his report on certain store accounts be printed and circulated. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     DUNDALK HARBOUR BILL. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That the report of the Joint Committee on the Dundalk Harbour and Port Bill be received and a copy laid on the Table of the Dail. 
       A copy of this report has been sent to each Deputy. 
       Ordered that the report be received and laid on the Table of the Dail. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - TREASONABLE AND SEDITIOUS OFFENCES BILL, 1925&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     Debate resumed on amendment 17 to Section 9. 
     
      
       The Minister for Justice, in moving the Second Reading of this Mussolini measure, stated that he was prepared to give the most careful consideration in Committee to any amendments that were brought forward. Yesterday he endeavoured to throw dust in the eyes of the Deputies by asking them to accept the view that this Bill was the main issue in the recent elections and that it had received an overwhelming endorsement   from the people.  Well, if the Minister's speeches in the many parts of the country that he visited to support his candidates are to be taken as any indication of what the real issue was, the real issue certainly was not the Treason Bill. 
     
     
      
       What was it? 
     
     
      
       The real issue, as I understand it, was the extinction of the State.  The non-recognition of the existing Constitution was the issue raised by the Minister's political opponents. Peculiar to relate, however&mdash;and it is a remarkable fact&mdash;in one of the constituencies in which a supporter of the Minister was seeking election the people were so inactive or so ignorant in realising that that was the issue that they elected a man who was not prepared to recognise the Constitution or this House in preference to a man who, if elected, would have come into the House.  I sincerely hope that this big issue that means nothing to the people, but is only blindfolding them, the issue of the Treaty  versus  a visionary Republic, will be dropped; that issues, like the present Bill, and other measures for which the Minister and his colleagues are responsible, will be put to the electors, that they will have an opportunity of voting on these issues, and not on blind issues and others which the people who were opposing the Minister have been raising for the past three years.  I am prepared, and have always been willing, to vote for the giving of the widest possible discretion to the judges appointed by the Executive Council in interpreting and administering the Acts that are passed here, but I am not prepared as a layman to allow to go through in a Bill like this words which it is not possible even for a judge to understand if he should be called upon to interpret them.  It states: 
     
     In this section the expression &ldquo;secret society&rdquo; means an association, society or other body, the members of which are required by the regulations thereof to take or enter into, or do in fact take or enter into, an oath or other engagement not to   disclose the proceedings or some part of the proceedings of the association, society or body. 
     I think it is not an exaggeration to say that many men before joining the Army belonged to or were associated or connected with tontine societies, insurance societies, and other bodies of that kind, that from the clause as it stands could properly be interpreted as being undesirable associations.  I also know that members of the police forces belong to tontine and sick fund societies, so that to allow the sub-section to remain as it is, without any explanation from the Minister as to what is in his mind when he asked the Dail to include such vague wording, is something I do not stand over.  Any person who joins any organisation composed of six or more individuals can be said to belong to a society, association or body. Most organisations of such a nature have some kind of written constitution. Surely it is going beyond all reason for the Minister to include in a Bill like this words that would prevent a policeman or a soldier from belonging to a tontine, a burial, or an insurance society, or even a football club or the Cumann na nGaedheal organisation. Perhaps even hurling clubs, athletic clubs and coursing clubs might be brought within the meaning of the sub-section as it stands.  I hope the Minister will explain to the Dail what he had in mind when he inserted these words.  I also hope that Deputy Gorey will support me in asking for the deletion of the words in view of the strong language he used yesterday evening, and that he will not walk into the lobby and not vote, but show what his convictions are by voting on this amendment. 
     
      
       I want to correct the Deputy's impression; I did not go into the lobby and refuse to vote.  The thing was so long drawn out that I had to leave for another engagement. 
     
     
      
       The definition of a secret society has been criticised on the grounds that it is too broad.  I am prepared to meet that view by inserting instead of the words &ldquo;or other engagement,&rdquo; the words &ldquo;affirmation or   declaration,&rdquo; so that the definition would read:&mdash; 
       In this section the expression &ldquo;secret society&rdquo; means an associaciation, society, or other body, the members of which are required by the regulations thereof to take or enter into, or do in fact take or enter into, an oath, affirmation or declaration not to disclose the proceedings or some part of the proceedings of the association, society or body. 
     
     I think that is as near as I can go to a satisfactory definition, while I am open to consider any alternative definition that may be proposed.  As I pointed out yesterday, the gist of the objection is that people might enter into commitments and obligations that from the nature of the position cannot be known to the general public, and may conflict with their obligations to the general public.  It is easy to criticise the definition in the Bill on the grounds that it is too broad, and that it embraces, or might be held to   embrace, bodies which there is no need in fact to cover, and which are not in themselves objectionable.  I will consider any alternative definition which any ingenious Deputy may put forward, and if it is considered more satisfactory than the definition in this Bill, I will certainly insert it. 
     
      
       I am prepared to accept the Minister's assurance that he will bring forward the sub-section with the altered wording on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       It can be put in now if Deputy Davin alters his amendment so that in sub-section 2, line 24, the words &ldquo;or other engagement&rdquo; are deleted and &ldquo;affirmation or declaration&rdquo; inserted in lieu thereof. 
     
     
      
       I agree. 
       Amendment, as altered, put and agreed to. 
       Question:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 9, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 23; Nil, 12. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. Earnan de Blaghd. Thomas Bolger. Seamus Breathnach. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. Patrick J. Egan. Connor Hogan. Liam Mac Cosgair. Patrick McGilligan. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. 
             Michael K. Noonan. Micheal O hAonghusa. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Donnchadh O Guaire. Aindriu O Laimhin. Fionan O Loingsigh. Risteard O Maolchatha. Caoimhghin O hUigin.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             John Daly. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Tomas de Nogla. 
             Ailfrid O Broin. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Padraic O Maille. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Seamus O Dolain, Liam Mac Sioghaird.  Nil: Domhnall O Muirgheasa, Tomas de Nogla. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     SECTION 10. 
     (1)  Every person who shall administer or cause to be administered or take part in, be present at, or consent to the administering or taking in any form or manner of any oath, declaration, or engagement purporting or intended to bind the person taking the same to do all or any of the following things, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  to commit or to plan, contrive, promote, assist, or conceal the commission of any crime or any breach of the peace or any other unlawful act, or   (b)  to join or become a member of or associated with any organisation, association, or other body having for its object or one of its objects the commission of any crime, or breach of the peace, or other unlawful act, or 
     (c)  to abstain from disclosing or giving information of the existence or formation or proposed or intended formation of any such organisation, association, or other body as aforesaid or from informing or giving evidence against any member of or person concerned in the formation of any such organisation, association, or other body, or 
     (d)  to obey the orders of any committee, council or body of men not lawfully constituted or of any leader or commander or other person not having authority by law for that purpose, or 
     (e)  to abstain from disclosing or giving information of the commission or intended or proposed commission of any crime, breach of the peace, or other unlawful act or from informing or giving evidence against the person who committed such an act, 
     shall be guilty of a misdemeanour and shall be liable on conviction thereof to suffer imprisonment with or without hard labour for any term not exceeding two years. 
     (2)  Every person who shall take any such oath as is mentioned in the foregoing sub-section shall be guilty of a misdemeanour and be liable on conviction thereof to suffer imprisonment with or without hard labour for any term not exceeding two years unless he shall show&mdash; 
     (a)  that he was compelled by force or duress to take such oath, and 
     (b)  that within four days after the taking of such oath if not prevented by actual force or sickness, or where so prevented then within four days after the cessor of the hindrance caused by such force or sickness, he declared to a Justice of the District Court or to an officer of the Dublin Metropolitan   Police or the Garda Siochana the fact of his having taken such oath and all the circumstances connected therewith and the names and descriptions of all persons concerned in the administering of such oath so far as such circumstances, names, and descriptions were known to him. 
     
      
       I beg to move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), page 6, line 45, to delete the words &ldquo;or any other unlawful act,&rdquo; and on page 6, line 49, and page 7, line 2, to delete the words &ldquo;or other unlawful act.&rdquo; 
       It was stated on the Second Reading that the words referred to caused a certain amount of ambiguity and uncertainty. On reconsidering the matter it was found that the intention to be covered by the section is really covered without the inclusion of those words. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I beg to move: 
       To delete sub-section (1) (d), lines 57-60. 
       That paragraph seems to be out of keeping with paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (e).  These paragraphs deal with questions of crime or a breach of the peace, but there is no specific reference to crime or breach of the peace in paragraph (d).  As it stands it would mean that a person present at any affirmation or declaration to obey the orders of any committee, council, or body of men not lawfully constituted, or of any leader or commander or other person not having authority by law for that purpose, is guilty of a misdemeanour. That is, to obey the orders of any such people, beyond what snag there may be in the words &ldquo;not lawfully constituted,&rdquo; is a misdemeanour. It seems to me the paragraph would hit against the Cumann na nGaedheal party, or might hit against many an ordinary group of business people who would be associated for the purpose of transacting their own business.  It seems to be out of keeping with the section as a whole. 
     
     
      
       The object of the sub-head was to prevent people from simply making a neat parcel of their   wills and intellects and handing them over to the custody of some other citizen or citizens, undertaking implicit obedience to any instructions that might come from a particular quarter. One can see the objection to that unless we are to assume that in any such engagement there is at all times the mental reservation that such instructions must be in accordance with law.  The instructions over a period may be perfectly harmless and lawful, but at some other time they may become of a different character.  That was the idea in which the sub-head was written in.  It has ocurred to me that possibly it is too broad and that it might, for instance, be held to cover such things as vows of obedience by religious orders, and so on.  I am willing to accept the Deputy's amendment.  As a matter of fact, I do not believe any prosecution will ever be brought under this section. I regard the section as of very little practical value. 
     
     
      
       Delete it. 
     
     
      
       If any Deputy seeks immortality by putting down a motion to have this section deleted I will give very careful consideration to it.  It is largely  in terrorem.  Undoubtedly the things that are sought to be guarded against by the section are objectionable and dangerous, but one could scarcely ever visualise sufficient evidence being forthcoming to support a prosecution under the section.  I do not undertake absolutely that if a motion is put down to delete the section, I will accept it automatically, but I will consider it very carefully, because I attach very little value or importance to the entire section.  For present purposes I am prepared to accept the Deputy's amendment to delete sub-section (1) (d). 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Question proposed: &ldquo;That Section 10, as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I hope the Minister has had time since he spoke a moment ago to consider whether he will press   his motion to include the section.  It is quite clear from the Minister's own statement that it is a useless section. It is not going to be ever enforced.  It is merely to be in keeping with the rest of the Bill, largely  in terrorem,  to be held over the people as a terror so that you make people good citizens by holding over them the big stick of five, ten, fifteen or twenty years' penal servitude. That is the conception behind the Bill as a whole, but in this case it is quite clear the Minister is not enamoured of the section, and I think in view of what he said that the House should vote against the inclusion of the section in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I wish the Deputy had made a better case for its deletion. In any case I have not had time to consider all the profound things he said on that point.  The things that are sought to be guarded against here are, beyond question, wrong and dangerous, and perhaps that is a sufficient reason why they should be formally prohibited in an Act.  I repeat what I said, that I think the practical value of the section will be small because it is a kind of offence regarding which it is very difficult, if not impossible, to substantiate a prosecution from the very nature of it.  If, by chance, evidence were to come into the possession of the Executive regarding this offence, it would be an eminently proper thing to have a prosecution, and for that reason, and in the absence of anything more substantial urged against the section, I will stand for its inclusion. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say, as one who must have considered these questions, whether or not there is at present on the Statute Book laws dealing with the administration of unlawful oaths?  I think he will find there is such a Statute, and all that now remains in this section, after the amendments have been accepted, is a prohibition against the administration of unlawful oaths.  If that is already prohibited by law, and a penalty imposed by law, why add another section to the Bill when it is entirely redundant? 
       Question put. 
     
     
       
        The Committee divided: Ta, 23; Nil, 13. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Earnan de Blaghd. Thomas Bolger. Seoirse de Bhulbh. Seamus de Burca. Patrick J. Egan. Osmond Grattan Esmonde. Connor Hogan. Liam Mac Cosgair. Patrick McGilligan. Seoirse Mac Niocaill. Liam Mac Sioghaird. Michael K. Noonan. 
             Peadar O hAodha. Micheal O hAonghusa. Partholan O Conchubhair. Eoghan O Dochartaigh. Seamus O Dolain. Peadar O Dubhghaill. Eamon O Dugain. Donnchadh O Guaire. Fionan O Loingsigh. Risteard O Maolchatha. Caoimhgih O hUigin.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Padraig F. Baxter. John Daly. Seamus Mac Cosgair. Tomas Mac Eoin. Risteard Mac Fheorais. Tomas de Nogla. Ailfrid O Broin. 
             Aodh O Culachain. Liam O Daimhin. Eamon O Dubhghaill. Padraic O Maille. Domhnall O Muirgheasa. Tadhg O Murchadha.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers.&mdash;Ta: Seamus O Dolain, Liam Mac Sioghaird.  Nil: Domhnall O Muirgheasa, Tomas de Nogla. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     SECTION 11. 
     (1)  Where a Justice of the District Court is satisfied on the information on oath of an officer of the Dublin Metropolitan Police or the Garda Siochana not below the rank of chief superintendent that there is reasonable ground for suspecting that there are treasonable or seditious documents in any specified building, land, premises, or other place, such Justice may issue to such officer such search warrant as is mentioned in this section. 
     (2)  A search warrant issued by a Justice of the District Court under this section shall be expressed and shall operate to authorise a named officer of the Dublin Metropolitan Police or the Garda Siochana not below the rank of superintendent, accompanied by such other members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police or the Garda Siochana (as the case may require) as such officer shall think proper, at any time within forty-eight hours after the issue of the search warrant, and if needs be by force, to enter and search the specified building, land, premises, or other place aforesaid (which place shall be also specified in the warrant) for treasonable or seditious documents and to seize and remove all documents found on such search which appear to such officer to be treasonable or seditious. 
     (3)  The officer conducting the search of a place under such search warrant as aforesaid may demand the name and address of any person found in such place during such search and (without prejudice to any other power of arrest vested in him by law or by virtue of any lawful warrant) may arrest without warrant any such person who refuses to give his name or his address to such officer or gives a name or address which such officer knows or suspects to be false or misleading. 
     (4)  In this section the expression &ldquo;treasonable or seditious document&rdquo; includes any document which relates, directly or indirectly, to the commission of any act which is by this Act declared to be treason or to be a felony or a misdemeanour and any document which is a seditious libel. 
     
      
       I beg to move the following amendments:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 30, sub-section (2). lines 43 and 45, sub-section (4) line 54, to delete the words &ldquo;or seditious.&rdquo; 
     
     In sub-section (4), lines 57-58, to   delete the words &ldquo;and any document which is a seditious libel.&rdquo; 
     These amendments seem to be consequential on the deletion of Section 5. 
     
      
       At first sight these amendments would seem to be almost consequential and to follow naturally on the dropping of Section 5, but the Deputy will remember that I said that certain offences of sedition would still be indictable in common law, and consequently it could be argued that the words sought to be deleted have their value in this section.  At the same time I do not propose to oppose these amendments.  I am willing to accept them and to confine the power of search to search for documents of a definitely treasonable nature. 
       Amendments put and agreed to. 
       Question proposed:&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 11, as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I would like the Minister to tell us, if he can, what is the present power of search regarding treasonable or seditious documents and whether there is any justification for enacting new legislation.  I would imagine from the experience of the last 25 years that police officers have ample power to make searches where they may believe documents relating to unlawful conspiracy, sedition, or treason may be.  Searches of that kind have been made and I assume that they have been made under law.  Perhaps the Minister would tell us what is the need for a section of this kind. 
     
     
      
       The section really bears its meaning and its reason on its face.  There is no power of search for documents at the moment.  While the Deputy could, of course, remember many cases where such searches were carried out by military and police in the past, they were carried out simply in a forced situation and had no statutory authority. 
     
     
      
       I mean pre-1914, pre-D.O.R.A. 
     
     
      
       Pre-1914 there was, so far as I have been able to find out, no power or right of search for documents.   There are many rights of search in the police.  There is, of course, the right of search for arms under certain Acts.  There is the right of search under certain of the customs and excise regulations and so on.  But there is, so far as I have been able to find out, no specific right of search for documents, and I think it is proper that there should be such a right and that the police should not be in a position of resorting to the subterfuge of saying that they visit a house in search of arms when, in reality, they visit in search of treasonable documents.  I think there ought to be a definite right of search to cover this particular matter, but it is new legislation. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 12. 
       Question proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 12 stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       With regard to Section 12 is an amendment necessary, or in the title? 
     
     
      
       I will consider that. I do not propose any amendment at this stage. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Title put and agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be reported with amendments. 
     
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - DAIL RESUMES. 
     Bill reported, with amendments. 
     Fourth Stage ordered for Thursday next. 
   
   
     DAIL IN COMMITTEE. - ADJOURNMENT OF THE DAIL. 
     
      
       I move that the Dail adjourn until Wednesday next at 3 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Byrne gave notice of raising a matter on the Adjournment, but we cannot take it as he is not here. 
       The Dail adjourned at 1.20 p.m. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWER. - DONEGAL RESIDENTS AND AMERICAN PASSPORTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether he is aware that citizens of the Saorstat resident in Donegal seeking passports to or having other Consular business to transact with the United States of America are required to go to Belfast for the purpose; if so, whether he will make representations to the United States Government with a view to obviating the necessity for Saorstat citizens to travel outside the jurisdiction of the Saorstat for the transaction of such business. 
     
     
      
       Citizens of Saorstat Eireann resident in County Donegal obtain their passports from Dublin, through the local Superintendents of the Garda Siochana in the same way as citizens resident in any other part of the Saorstat. 
     
     Consular districts are based on considerations of administrative convenience, and Donegal is included in the United States Consular District of Belfast, to which residents of that county must go to obtain a U.S. Visa or to transact other American Consular business. The alteration of the Consular   district involves a redistribution as between Consular district of the emigration quota and of other Consular functions, and it is not considered desirable to request the United States Government to make such alteration until the boundaries of Saorstat Eireann have been settled. 
   
 