 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gCeannas ar 12 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RESIGNED R.I.C.-MAN'S PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state the reasons for his refusal to grant a pension to Daniel O'Neill, of Enniskeane, Co. Cork, a resigned member of the 1R.I.C., who left that Force as a protest against the proposal of the British Government to enforce conscription in Ireland. 
     
     
      
       After most careful consideration of all the facts and circumstances of Mr. O'Neill's case, I have come to the conclusion that national sympathies were not the guiding factors in inducing Mr. O'Neill to resign from the Royal Irish Constabulary, and that, accordingly, he was not eligible for a pension under Section 5 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister endeavour to get any information or evidence from the County Wexford, where this man was stationed before he left the police force? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I got information from Wexford. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether the facts of his resigning as a protest against conscription, that, he definitely stated that in his application to the British authorities, and that he was for a considerable period, during the pre-Truce days, imprisoned, would be any indication of his national sympathies? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes, they might.  But I also regard his subsequent Irregular proclivities as indicating that he was probably more against the Government than influenced by national sympathies. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister insist on saying that the man was not influenced by national sympathies in resigning? 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied that it was through national sympathies he resigned. 
     
     
      
       We are quite satisfied that it was, and we know that it was definitely stated in the Government papers by him that it was through national sympathy he resigned.  Will the Minister produce some evidence that it was not from national sympathies?  We are quite satisfied that it was. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that owing to his resigning as a protest against conscription he had subsequently to leave the area in the County Wexford in which he was stationed because of the attitude of his former colleagues and the R.I.C. authorities? 
     
     
      
       I have not been satisfied of the national sympathies of anybody who subsequently displayed distinct Irregular proclivities such as he did. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BANDON R.I.C.-MAN'S PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state the reasons for his refusal to grant a pension to Richard Long, Mossgrove, Bandon, a resigned member of the R.I.C. 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied on the evidence placed before me that Mr. Long's resignation from the R.I.C. in December, 1917, was caused by his national sympathies, and I have, therefore, felt unable to issue the certificate required by Section 5 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923, which would render him eligible for an award of pension. 
     
     
     
      
       Are you aware that in this case the man resigned and that immediately after his resignation he joined the Volunteers and became a Company Captain and continued so until 1922, and that since the civil war he remained neutral and did nothing detrimental to the Government? 
     
     
      
       This is a very difficult case.  He stated in December, 1917, that he resigned in order to manage his father's farm.  I am satisfied, on the whole, that that was so&mdash; that that was a true statement on his resignation.  At that time the pay of the R.I.C. was £72 a year&mdash;less than an agricultural labourer was earning&mdash; and his father had a farm of about 54 acres.  I believe that the real reason for his resigning, and the real reason in the case of many other people who resigned round about that time, before there was extreme tension in the country, was the economic reason. 
     
     
      
       This is a clear case where subsequent action has proved the national sympathies of the man who resigned, for he started a company of the Volunteers, and there is no question of his having, at any time, Irregular sympathies. 
     
     
      
       I know there is no question of his having, at any time, Irregular sympathies, and if it had not been for his subsequent I.R.A. services, I would not have the slightest doubt that he should be turned down.  I believe that his subsequent services in that case do not outweigh the very strong presumption that anybody resigning at that particular period resigned for economic reasons. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this man's case has been under consideration for a long time, that it was an outstanding case when others were decided, and that he had to submit evidence to prove that he was asked to resign by the officers of the Volunteers? That evidence has been submitted, and are we to assume, in face of that evidence, that the proof of his reason for resigning was entirely ignored? 
     
     
      
       I feel it is a very difficult   case, but I have not yet been satisfied that the resignation was owing to national sympathies, or any reason other than economic. 
     
     
      
       If this man submits further evidence of the fact that he was called upon by the officers of the Volunteers to resign, will the Minister promise that that further evidence will receive consideration? 
     
     
      
       The case is a difficult one, and I will be glad to have further evidence.  I will consider further evidence. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUNMANWAY R.I.C.-MAN'S PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state the reasons for his refusal to grant a pension to Denis Regan, Garryglass, Drinagh, Dunmanway, Co. Cork, a resigned R.I.C. man. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Regan was discharged from the R.I.C. as medically unfit for further service, with the gratuity appropriate to his years of service, in accordance with statutory regulations, and I have been advised that there is no power under Section 5 of the Superannuation and Pensions Act, 1923, to award a pension in his case. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SEIZED MOTOR CAR (CARLOW). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if, on the 6th November, 1921, a motor car, the property of Mr. John Deering, Knockarda, Palatine, Carlow, was seized by an officer in charge of the Volunteers at Duckett's Grove and retained until the 14th of February, 1922, when it was returned in a wrecked condition; if on the 11th September, 1923, a claim for £150, covering cost of repairs (£59 3s. 4d.) and the loss occasioned by its detention, was lodged by Mr. J. J. Duggan, Mr. Deering's solicitor; if, in the month of February, 1924, detailed particulars of the claim, and subsequently a statutory declaration answering all queries, were returned to the Army Finance Office; if, on the 25th   of March, 1925, claimant's solicitor was referred to the Indemnity Claims Commission; if, on the 23rd and 26th of the same month, the latter body were communicated with and the correspondence acknowledged on the 8th of June, when information was given that the matter was being dealt with; if several further communications have been sent on behalf of Mr. Deering, which have not been acknowledged, and if the Minister will take steps to have this long-outstanding claim settled. 
     
     
      
       The claim referred to by the Deputy was received by the Department of Defence and referred in due course to the Committee appointed under the Indemnity Act, 1924. Representations have been made to the Committee with a view to having the consideration of the claim expedited. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OFFALY COUNTY COUNCIL VACANCIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state how many applications were received by the Civil Service Commissioners as a result of the first advertisement issued for the vacant posts of Secretary and Assistant Secretary to the Offaly Co. Council; how many applicants were residents of the constituency of Leix and Offaly, and from what counties the remaining applications were received; whether any, and, if so, how many, of the original applicants were interviewed by the Selection Board set up by the Civil Service Commissioners, and what recommendation was made by the Selection Board; if he will state how many applications were submitted as a result of the second advertisement issued for the vacant post of Secretary, and if it is proposed to re-advertise the post of Assistant Secretary and when it is proposed to fill the vacant positions. 
     
     
      
       Thirty-three applications for the Secretaryship and eleven for the Assistant Secretaryship of the Offaly County Council were received as a result of the first advertisement. Nine of the applications for the Secretaryship and two for the Assistant   Secretaryship were received from persons giving addresses in the constituency of Leix and Offaly.  The remaining applications came from addresses in ten other counties.  Twelve of the applicants for the Secretaryship and three for the Assistant Secretaryship were interviewed.  Forty additional applications have been received for the Secretaryship in answer to the second advertisement.  The question of re-advertising the post of Assistant Secretary is still under consideration and it cannot at this stage be stated at what date the positions will be filled. The recommendations to be made to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health for appointments with which the Civil Service Commissioners are concerned are determined by the Commissioners, and not by Boards of Selection, and I am not prepared to state what recommendation was made to the Commissioners by a Selection Board in this case, or any case. 
     
     
      
       Was the first advertisement that was issued in connection with these vacant positions sanctioned by the Civil Service Commissioners and had the positions to be again advertised, simply because they were not widely enough advertised in the first instance?  Why did the Civil Service Commissioners, or the Selection Board nominated by them, go to the trouble and the unnecessary expense of interviewing any candidates as a result of the first advertisement? 
     
     
      
       The second advertisements were really ordered because no suitable candidates presented themselves as a result of the first advertisement. 
     
     
      
       Was the first advertisement sanctioned by the Civil Service Commissioners? 
     
     
      
       I do not know, but I think that is irrelevant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRISONERS' DAILY FOOD RATIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will state what is the daily food ration provided for male prisoners undergoing hard   labour, and what is the estimated cost of same per man. 
     
     
      
       The daily food ration provided for male prisoners undergoing hard labour is as follows:&mdash;Breakfast: stirabout, 11⁄2 pints; milk, 3⁄4 pint.  Dinner: bread, 1⁄4 lb.; potatoes, 3⁄4 lb.; meat broth, 1 pint, with beef (without bone), 1⁄4 lb. (alternated with 10 ozs. suet pudding or 3⁄4 pint soup).  Supper: bread, 1⁄2 lb.; margarine, 1⁄2 oz.; cocoa, tea or coffee, 1 pint. 
       The estimated cost per prisoner per day of this dietary is 8d.  This figure does not include cost of cooking, which is performed by prison labour. 
       I hope no Deputy is contemplating qualifying for this daily ration. 
     
     
      
       Many people in the country would be glad to get that. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GERMAN WORKERS IN SHANNON SCHEME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether any agreement, implicit or explicit, has been made with Messrs. Siemens-Schuckert in respect of the number of German workers to be employed on the construction work in connection with the Shannon electrification scheme, and whether such immigrants are to be confined to the professional and office staffs. 
     
     
      
       There is no such agreement.  Siemens-Schuckertwerhe are bound to employ Irish workers so far as practicable, and may only employ German or other workers with the approval of the chief engineer, which will be given with due regard to the necessities of the case. There is no provision for the restriction of immigrants to any particular classes of works. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say what is the policy of his Department with regard to the test of need in the case of German workers, and whether consideration of the available labour in Ireland is taken into account before he advises the issue of any permits? 
     
     
     
      
       Ordinarily speaking, one would always take into consideration how far Irish labour is available for the particular work. &ldquo;Available&rdquo; means available in fact, not in theory. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister prepared to issue permits or to advise the issuing of permits for any other nationality in the case of any other shortage of available labour in Ireland? 
     
     
      
       When men of any other nationality apply, their case will be considered on the merits. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister take into account the wages paid in the countries from which the prospective labourers will be drawn? 
     
     
      
       No, I do not think so. 
     
     
      
       Or the standard of living they were used to? 
     
     
      
       No, we would take into consideration that men would be required in Ireland for work for which Irishmen were not available. 
     
     
      
       Coolies or negroes. 
     
     
      
       Or if you like to say &ldquo;coolies&rdquo; at a higher rate of wages than ordinary men in Europe get. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SOUTHERN RAILWAYS EMPLOYEES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if, in view of the complaints of employees of the Southern Railways Company as to dismissals on the grounds of redundancy, any steps have been taken to carry out the provisions of paragraph (8) of the Third Schedule of the Railways Act of 1924. 
     
     
      
       The Chief Justice has appointed Mr. Arthur C. Meredith, K.C., 25 Upper Mount Street, Dublin, to be a standing arbitrator to hear and determine appeals provided for by Clause 8 of the Third Schedule to the Railways Act, 1924. 
     
     This appointment was gazetted in the  Iris Oifigiuil  of 25th September, and Mr. Meredith has settled the procedure   and also the form of claim.  These were published in the  Irish Law Times  of 12th September. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMPILING STATISTICS RE UNEMPLOYED. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that Home Assistance Officers are now compiling figures as to the numbers of unemployed persons in their district; whether he is aware that in the course of such work, Home Assistance Officers in some cases merely call at Unemployment Exchanges and obtain figures of the numbers of persons registering, thereby providing a totally inaccurate return, and whether he will arrange that in order to provide an accurate return Trade Union officials in the different districts and other persons with local knowledge will be consulted. 
     
     
      
       The functions of Home Assistance Officers do not come within my province, and the question should have been addressed to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
     
     
      
       I am very glad to have the Minister's correction, but I assumed that any matter affecting the unemployed in the country concerned the Minister's Department principally. 
     
     
      
       I am asked in the question if I am aware that Home Assistance Officers are now compiling figures as to the numbers of unemployed persons in their district.  I cannot answer for Home Assistance Officers. 
     
     
      
       May I remind the Minister that we had a long controversy in regard to a question of a similar nature once before?  I presume the information that was being sought in regard to unemployed was being sought at the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 
     
     
      
       The presumption is wrong. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister taken   any official action to ascertain the exact number of people unemployed in the Saorstat since the Summer adjournment? 
     
     
      
       I have taken the only action open to me; I have had returns from the Unemployment Exchanges. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister made any application to the Minister for Justice for assistance in the ascertainment of the numbers of unemployed? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say that I have made any application to the Minister for Justice in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Then the action of the Home Assistance Officers in compiling figures is without the authority or the knowledge of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce? 
     
     
      
       I may point out that the Home Assistance Officers are not responsible to the Minister for Justice. 
     
     
      
       That was a mistake of mine.  It was the Minister for Local Government and Public Health I should have referred to.  Perhaps that Minister can give information on this point? 
     
     
      
       If the question had been addressed to me, perhaps I would have been able to give some information. 
     
     
      
       May I correct my query?  Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce sought the assistance of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health in respect to the ascertainment of the number of unemployed? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister intend to do that or to take any steps to ascertain the number of unemployed? 
     
     
      
       I have taken steps to ascertain the number of unemployed. 
     
     
     
      
       Not merely the number registered at the Labour Exchanges, but all the unemployed? 
     
     
      
       I have taken all the steps open to me in my Department to get correct figures in regard to the unemployed.  When I did take steps to do the same last year it did not meet with the approval of the Deputies opposite. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say if the procedure taken in regard to this question is a reasonable way of getting at the information? 
     
     
      
       That would mean that I would be passing judgment on officials not in my Department, and I cannot consider that. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy can reconsider the question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNSTAMPED UNEMPLOYMENT CARDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that the unemployment cards of men engaged at drainage works in the Saorstat are not being stamped, and whether he will take immediate steps to see that the law is carried out in this matter. 
     
     
      
       If the question relates to men employed by the Office of Public Works or the Department of Lands and Agriculture on the improving of agricultural land, by drainage works, such work has previously been decided to constitute work in agriculture and it is consequently not insurable employment under the Unemployment Insurance Act. 
     
     
      
       How does the Minister connect this with the ordinary work of an agricultural labourer? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is quite wrong; I have not connected it. It has been connected by a decision, not my decision. 
     
     
      
       Would not the Minister agree that this is a matter for his Department as to what cards should be stamped or not? 
     
     
     
      
       My Department cannot decide what is to be done in particular matters.  There is a law and there are certain methods of procedure laid down under that law.  Decisions have been obtained in accordance with that.  If those decisions are now to be questioned, there is a method of doing that. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say if men are employed at similar work by private employers, the same ruling will hold? 
     
     
      
       I cannot give any general ruling.  I am not a judge. These things will be decided in the ordinary way when cases come forward. 
     
     
      
       Is that an admission that nobody in the Minister's Department is allowed to interpret the Unemployment Insurance Act? 
     
     
      
       By no means. There is an interpretation and there is also a Court of Appeal.  There are certain channels through which an appeal can be made.  Those channels have been utilised and certain decisions have been got.  I have to stand by those decisions until they are appealed against and reversed. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say if he agrees with that decision or interpretation? 
     
     
      
       That would be a mere waste of breath.  It does not matter whether I do or not. 
     
     
      
       Is it the policy of the Minister's Department to take every step to prevent the payment of unemployment moneys and to disallow applications whenever any reasonable or unreasonable grounds can be found by the insurance officers?  Will the Minister say if it is the policy of his Department to minimise to the fullest extent the payments due under the law? 
     
     
      
       It is not the policy. 
     
     
      
       Did the Board of Works make any representations to the   Department of Industry and Commerce in this connection?  Did they ask for it? 
     
     
      
       They did. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS IN SAORSTAT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether aliens are allowed to enter the Saorstat for the purpose of employment without permission, if permits are requisite, what conditions must be complied with before issue; and if he will state how many permits have been granted to aliens from Germany since August 1st, 1925. 
     
     
      
       In accordance with the terms of the Aliens Order, 1925, leave is not given to an alien to enter Saorstat Eireann for the purpose of employment unless the Minister for Industry and Commerce permits the prospective employer to employ him; before a permit is issued the Minister considers whether suitable citizens of Saorstat Eireann are available to perform the work for which the alien is required.  The number of aliens from Germany in respect of whom permits have been granted since August 1st, 1925, is 174. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister any information to give as to the occupations   of these various German residents or citizens? 
     
     
      
       There were German governesses&mdash;at least there was one &mdash;and there were the people required on the housing scheme at Marino and the Shannon scheme. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say how many dockers and how many navvies and how many engineers were amongst those who came into the country? 
     
     
      
       I could not say for certain.  I should say there were no dockers. 
     
     
      
       They did not become dockers until they arrived here. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOOD RATIONS OF SOLDIERS AND CURRAGH INTERNEES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state what is the daily food ration provided for soldiers, and what is the estimated cost of same per man. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state what was the daily food ration provided for men recently interned at the Curragh Camp, and what was the cost of same per man. 
     
     
      
       I shall answer questions Nos. 12 and 13 together:&mdash; 
       SCALE OF RATIONS FOR OFFICERS, N.C.O.'s AND MEN. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             DAILY RATION. 
             ALTERNATIVES. 
           
         
         
           
             Bread 
             16  ozs. 
             
             
             
             
             ozs. 
           
           
             Butter 
             2  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Tea 
             0? ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Sugar 
             23⁄4 ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Potatoes 
             14  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Meat 
             8  ,, 
             (12 ozs. with bone) 
             Fish, fresh, when issued for dinner for fast days In lieu of fish 2 eggs, 
             8 
           
           
             Milk 
             1⁄2 pint 
             
             
             Tinned fish 
             7 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Bacon Tinned Milk, 16oz. tin (nett 14 oz.) to 8 men. 
             6 
           
           
             Cabbage 
             8 ozs. 
             
             
             Carrots 
             4 
           
           
             
               
             
             
             
             
             
             
               Parsnips 
             4 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Onions 
             2 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Turnips 
             4 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Peas 
             11⁄2  
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Beans 
             11⁄2  
           
           
             Bacon Rashers 
             3 ozs. 
             
             
             11⁄2 ozs. Bacon and 2 ozs. Sausage. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             11⁄2 ozs. Bacon and 1 egg. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             4  ,,  Black and White Pudding. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             4  ,,  Sausage. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             11⁄2  ,,  Bacon and 2 ozs. Pudding. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             4  ,,  Tinned Tomatoes and 11⁄2 ozs. Bacon. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             11⁄2  ,,  Bacon and 2 ozs. Liver. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             4  ,,  Liver. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             4  ,,  Kippered Herring. 
             
             
           
           
             Jam 
             01⁄2 oz. 
             
             
             2 Eggs. 
             
             
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             1 Egg and 1 oz. Oatmeal. 
             
             
           
           
             Rice 
             1 oz. 
             
             
             Cheese 
             1 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Marmalade 
             01⁄2  
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Sago 
             1 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Tapioca 
             1 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             1 oz. Jam and 1 oz. Flour. 
             
             
           
           
             Salt 
             0? oz. 
             
             
             1 ,, Marmalade and 1 oz. Flour. 
             
             
           
           
             Pepper 
             1 oz. 
              to every 100 men 
             2 ,, Dried Fruit and 1 oz. Flour. 
             
             
           
           
             Mustard 
             1 oz. 
             to every 100 men 
             to every 
             
             
           
           
             The estimated cost per person per day is 1s. 9d. 
           
           
             SCALE OF RATIONS FOR MEN IN TERNED AT THE CURRAGH CAMP IN 1923: 
           
           
             Bread 
             16  ozs. 
             
             
             
             
             ozs. 
           
           
             Butter 
             2  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Tea 
             01⁄2  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Sugar 
             21⁄2  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Potatoes 
             14  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Meat 
             12  ,, 
             
             
             Bacon (1 day a week) Fish, 8 ozs., or 2 eggs on fast days, 
             8 
           
           
             Milk 
             1⁄2 pint a man or 1 
             
             
             
             
           
           
             tin Condensed Milk for 20 men. 
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Oatmeal 
             2  ozs. 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Rice or Sago 
             2  ,, 
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Fresh vegetables 
             8  ,, 
             
             
             Peas or Beans 
             2 
           
           
             The estimated cost per man per day was 1s. 9d. 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       Is the cost the same in both cases?  I do not know if the Minister stated the cost of the present ration. 
     
     
      
       The estimated cost in both cases is the same, namely, 1/9.  I should add that for the half-year up to the 30th September the actual cost of the ration for the Army is 1/6, but we have to estimate at the commencement of the year for the entire year, and during the period from September to March provisions such as milk and butter are dearer. 
     
     
     
      
       Is it correct to state that a soldier on leave gets a ration allowance of 1s. 10d.? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       How does that compare with the 1s. 9d.? 
     
     
      
       A soldier on leave gets an allowance of 1s. 10d., as it is estimated that he cannot get food outside as cheaply as we can give to him inside with competition. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOOD RATIONS IN MENTAL HOSPITALS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state what is the daily food ration provided for adult male patients and attendants in mental hospitals, respectively, and what is the estimated cost of same per man. 
     
     
      
       The rations provided in the district mental hospitals for patients and attendants are regulated by the dietary scales, as laid down by the Committees of Management. Each committee has power to prescribe the scale, and, in consequence, the diets vary in different institutions.  There are altogether 36 scales in operation (18 for patients and 18 for attendants). The cost of rations depends not only on the amount supplied but on current contract prices in the various institutions, and also on the estimated value of supplies from the mental hospital farms. It would not be feasible within the limits of an answer to give all these. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister make a return of the Dublin hospital, or any other hospital he wishes to select? 
     
     
      
       I will do my best to carry out the Deputy's wishes in this respect.  We will probably have it within a few days. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUBLIN UNION HOSPITAL&mdash;FOOD SUPPLIES. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state what is the daily food ration approved by him for adult male inmates and attendants, respectively, in the Dublin Union Hospital, and what is the approximate cost of same per man. 
     
     
      
       The Clerk of the Dublin Union is not in a position to give material for a reply to this question to day, but states it will be available to morrow.  It is my view that it should have been procurable immediately, and the reason for its absence will be fully inquired into.  I trust it may suit the convenience of the Deputy if I send him full details as soon as they are received. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONTRACT SYSTEM ON ROADS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that the action of the Longford County Council in reintroducing the contract system on roads has resulted in increased unemployment in the area, and whether he will represent to local authorities generally the desirability of refraining from changes calculated to increase unemployment. 
     
     
      
       I am informed that the Longford County Council have, to some limited extent, reintroduced the contract system for road maintenance.  It is not for me to interfere with their decision, which, presumably, was arrived at on considerations of efficiency and economy.  Local authorities are already aware of my view that the maximum amount of employment should be afforded consistent with their resources and the discharge of necessary statutory duties. 
     
     
      
       When the Minister speaks of a maximum amount of employment, does he mean a maximum amount of employed labour, wage employment, as distinct from employment of men who are contractors themselves? 
     
     
     
      
       I mean that the work should be allocated in such a way as to employ the maximum number of men. 
     
     
      
       On wages? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NEXT YEAR'S CENSUS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he has entered into, or proposes to enter into, communication with the Government of Northern Ireland with a view to ensuring as high a degree of uniformity or comparability as is practicable in the census to be taken next year in the areas of the two Governments. 
     
     
      
       I have not entered into communication with the Government of Northern Ireland in the matter, but will do so if such is shown to be necessary.  The whole question of the data to be compiled is receiving attention by the most expert authorities available, but definite conclusions have not yet been arrived at. 
     
     
      
       I would ask the Minister if he is emphasising the word &ldquo;necessary&rdquo; in that answer.  It is obviously not necessary, but I am asking whether it is desirable that the two forms of census should correspond and should be comparable.  Will he consider the desirability of taking such steps as are necessary to make the returns comparable? 
     
     
      
       I will see that the Deputy's views are taken into consideration by the authorities considering the matter. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LANDLORDS' RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION OF RATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is yet in a position to state when it is proposed to introduce legislation which will make the landlord responsible for inclusion and collection of rates, in the rents of small houses in the various towns and cities in the Saorstat. 
     
     
     
      
       There appears to be considerable support amongst rating authorities for legislation to the effect indicated by the Deputy.  The proposal takes the form of transferring liability for rates from the occupier to the landlord in cases where the valuation does not exceed £4.  I have some doubt, however, as to whether the amount of valuation specified is now appropriate. It is intended to request the rating authorities for information as to their reason for adopting the figure of £4, and also to supply details as to the number of small ratings included in their lists. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say definitely what are the intentions of the Department in the matter?  Does he remember that six or seven months ago he gave me practically a similar answer, and is he aware that considerable confusion prevails all over the country in this connection?  Is he aware that although part of the rates are collected from the tenants in cities and towns a great many landlords refuse to pay even that part, as they consider that under the present law they are not called upon to collect the rates and pay them to the authorities? 
     
     
      
       I am quite aware that the situation is more or less as stated by the Deputy, but it should be clear that before bringing in any legislative measures I must have figures to go upon.  At present we are held up, as there is considerable doubt whether the sum of £4 is enough or whether we should increase it to £8. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister undertake to get into touch with the local authorities at once to ascertain their views in the matter? 
     
     
      
       I will undertake to do that. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PURCHASE OF LABOURERS' COTTAGES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether it is the intention of his Department to introduce   legislation to provide for the purchase by tenants of cottages held under the Labourers' Acts. 
     
     
      
       Owing to the great accumulation of arrears of rents on these cottages which prevailed in many parts of the country, a measure of this nature could not, up to the present, be considered.  A great improvement in the collection has now taken place in consequence of the abolition of the rural district councils, and the matter of legislation as proposed will be looked into.  It is not to be understood that any undertaking is being given. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - VERSCHOYLE ESTATE (ATHY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he can state when the Verschoyle estate, situate at Newtown Birt, Athy, will be divided; if he is aware that some of the uneconomic holders, on or in the neighbourhood of this estate, are under notice of eviction and have been deprived of turbary for the past three seasons pending the acquisition of the estate by the Land Commission, and if, taking those conditions into consideration, he will ask the Land Commission to expedite their division. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Newtownbirt, comprising 286 acres 3 roods 37 perches turbary, on the estate of W. H. Verschoyle, have been published in the Provisional List as lands which, in default of valid objection, will be vested in the Land Commission. The purchase money of the lands is the subject of negotiation with the owner. The matter will be dealt with as expeditiously as possible, having regard to the proceedings which are also pending for the adjoining estate. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE NOTICE QUESTION. - BOUNDARY COMMISSION AND POSTAL SERVICES. 
     
      
       I desire to ask the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether his attention has been drawn to the newspaper announcements that the   British Post Office is proposing to take over the postal services of certain post offices in the Saorstat, and whether he has any information to give to the Dail on the subject? 
     
     
      
       I have seen the report referred to, but I am not inclined to attach any special importance to it. It is true, however, that discussions have taken place, having in mind the administrative changes likely to be necessary as the result of the Boundary Commission's Report. 
     
     
      
       Likely to be necessary? 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Changes likely to be necessary.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand that the fact of discussions having taken place means that the British Post Office is to take over Post Offices at present within the area of Saorstat Eireann? 
     
     
      
       I do not think that the Deputy is entitled to understand any such thing, and I would refer him to the President's answer arising out of a question asked by Deputy Johnson a few days ago. 
     
   
   
     REPORT OF JOINT COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS. 
     
      
       A message of the 12th November, 1925, has been received from the Seanad that they passed resolutions amending Standing Order 41 and Standing Order 114 relative to private business. 
     
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the report of the Joint Committee on Standing Orders be now considered.&rdquo; Copies of this report I understand have been circulated to Deputies. It deals with the amendment of Standing Orders Nos. 41 and 114. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, this report of the Joint Committee has been placed in our hands only within the last few hours and I submit that it is not reasonable to have the consideration of this until we have had   some notice and an opportunity of reading it.  Is it essential, as a matter of order, that this matter should be discussed to-day? 
     
     
      
       What is actually being proposed is that the report be considered.  If objection, be taken to the moving of the report now the mover of the motion can make suitable arrangements for its discussion.  It is not essential from the point of view of private business that this report should be considered to-day.  Does Deputy Johnson, take objection to its consideration to-day? 
     
     
      
       My whole point is that I do not think we ought to consider it with a view to coming to a decision to-day, and while I think it is quite reasonable that Deputy O Maille should state his case the immediate process to follow that should be an adjournment of the discussion so that we may consider the matter contained in the report. 
     
     
      
       I think the members of this House who acted on the Joint Committee with regard to Standing Orders relating to private members' business have no desire that a matter of this kind should be rushed in any way.  Deputy Johnson's objection is a reasonable one, but the amendments suggested do not affect any great principle.  Standing Order 41 made provision whereby promoters of Bills should make application to introduce Private Bills at two dates in the year.  It is felt that in dealing with legislation of this kind in the first few years it would be desirable to provide promoters of Private Bills with every possible facility.  There is no likelihood that there will be a big rush of Private Bills, but it is felt by the Committee that there may in the first few years be Private Bills of urgency, and it would be unfair to the parties concerned if they had not an opportunity of having those Bills submitted twice a year.  This Standing Order allowed during the first two years the opportunity to promoters of Private Bills to introduce the Bills in March and April as well as October and November. The suggested amendment in   Standing Order 41 would mean the extension of that period for another term, provided that the promoters of the Private Bills received in writing the sanction of the Chairman of the Joint Committee dealing with Private Bill legislation. That does not effect any considerable change.  As regards the amendment of Standing Order No. 114, it has been suggested that the taxation of Parliamentary agents' costs in connection with Private Bills be carried out by the Taxing Masters of the High Courts in accordance with a practice which has been in vogue, to a certain extent, prior to the Treaty.  To enable this arrangement to be arrived at, without an amendment of Private Bill Costs Act, 1924, Standing Order 114 requires amendment.  This appointment of an official would not necessitate the expenditure of any further public funds, as those officials are already in existence. It was felt by the Joint Committee that one of the three existing officials should be made responsible for the taxing of costs of Private Bills.  The amount of work carried out by this official would not by any means be considerable, but it was thought that it is better to have one of the three officials directly responsible for carrying out the work. 
     
     
      
       The motion is: &ldquo;That the Report of the Joint Committee on Standing Orders be now considered.&rdquo;  If the word &ldquo;now&rdquo; was deleted, and, say, Tuesday or Wednesday substituted as the date for consideration, would not that meet the case? 
     
     
      
       I would suggest that the motion be amended to delete the word &ldquo;now&rdquo; and to insert next Friday.  My reason for saying Friday is to allow time for consideration of the Report, and also time to consider the explanation by the Deputy who has moved the motion.  I do not know whether this involves any matter of importance or not, but it is of considerable importance that we should be careful in our amendments of Standing Orders to ensure that the rights and privileges of members of the Dail should be conserved.  Standing Orders have been printed and circulated affecting   Private Bills, and changes are now proposed. Deputies may be absent from this meeting to-day who will not know anything until they have received the official report of the reasons for these changes.  Therefore we ought not to consider the Report until the explanation that has been given to us by Deputy O Maille has been available to Deputies in the country.  I move the deletion of the word &ldquo;now,&rdquo; and to insert in its place &ldquo;Friday, 20th November.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I am quite agreeable to accept that amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Question: &ldquo;That the Report of the Joint Committee on Standing Orders on Private Business be considered on Friday, 20th November,&rdquo; put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     POLICY OF THE MINISTER FOR EDUCATION. - (RESUMED DEBATE.) 
     Question again proposed (The President)&mdash;&ldquo;That the Dail approves of the policy of the Minister for Education.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I am sure Deputies listened with great interest to the very valuable information given by Deputy Johnson with regard to the system of education in operation in the city of New York.  I have no doubt that system reaches, as nearly as possible, perfection, and that, on the other hand, we can never attain anything like the same standard here.  There is no comparison between a poor country like ours, with a scattered population, and the great city of New York with its dense population and unlimited resources.  It is an open question, however, if the same standard obtains all over the United States.  I read a statement not long ago in an American periodical in which it was stated that the percentage of illiterates in the Expeditionary Force sent from the United States to the Great War was far greater amongst native born Americans than amongst   men of other nationalities.  That would go to show that the same standard of efficiency does not exist all over America.  While we cannot aim so high as New York, there is no reason why we could not considerably improve our system of education.  There is a general feeling that the system needs improvement, and I am sure when we hear a statement of policy from the Minister we will have proposals to that end. 
       One further thing in connection with primary education I would like to urge on the Minister's attention, and also on the attention of the Dail; that is, the teaching of rural science in primary schools.  I have had an opportunity of inspecting some of the gardens that are kept in connection with the schools, and I was delighted to see the work that was done and the splendid crops they were growing, mainly, I might say, as a result of the labours of the pupils under the direction of the teachers. These gardens are an example to the people of the localities in which they are situated.  The work trains the eyes and the hands of the pupils and gives them a bent towards efficiency in agriculture, whether they intend to be farmers or to work allotments or small gardens in towns. 
       It appears that suggestions have been made that farmers are out of sympathy with the cause of better education.  I absolutely repudiate that suggestion.  I can give instances that quite the contrary is the fact.  In the parish in which I live the schoolhouse fell into a dilapidated condition.  It was badly ventilated, was hardly large enough to accommodate the number of pupils attending, and finally was condemned, and rightly so.  It was necessary to erect a new school.  As many Deputies are aware, it is the rule of the Department of Education to advance two-thirds of the cost of new buildings.  That meant that one-third had to be made up in the district, which is a purely rural one. A sum of £1,800 was subscribed locally, which was the amount required.  That instance goes to show that the sympathy of the farmers is in favour of education and providing proper schoolhouses. 
     
     Some suggestions have been made as to the cause of the defects in our educational   system.  I think one of the chief causes is the irregular attendance of the children.  Several teachers have told me that it is practically impossible to teach properly when children attend two or three days one week and are then, sometimes, absent for weeks.  It is not only impossible to educate those who attend irregularly, but that practice obstructs the whole course of teaching in the school, by keeping back pupils who attend regularly and who should be advanced. I think the only remedy for that state of affairs is compulsion.  We must have compulsion in order to make careless and negligent parents do their duty. It is true that we had a Compulsory Education Act in operation, but it was only in isolated cases that it worked at all.  If such an Act were properly worked, if proper school attendance officers were appointed, and if there were local committees supervising the work of these officers there would be no reason why effective work could not be done.  In one place where a committee was acting in that way, and where there was a vigilant and active attendance officer, the attendance of the available children was brought up to over 90 per cent. 
     I think it was Deputy Heffernan suggested that another reason for the present defects was the change in the mentality of the pupils.  I think the mentality of the school-boy has been much the same all through the ages. We have Shakespeare's line about the school-boy creeping unwillingly to school.  I also recall lines that could not have been written by a quiet, docile boy avid for culture and learning. As well as I remember they are as follows: 
     &ldquo;I wish my master were a hare, 
     And all his books hounds were, 
     And I myself a jolly hunter 
     To wind the horn I would not spare.&rdquo; 
     I doubt if we have any present-day pupils who entertain such sentiments towards their respective teachers.  In conclusion, I would say that as far as Deputies on the Farmers' Benches are concerned we are prepared to support the Minister in any sensible and well   thought proposals which he or the Government may bring forward for the betterment of education in this country. 
     
      
       Is mean liom cupla focal a radh ar an rud so.  Ta moran rudai le gur maith an rud cabhru le polosai an Aire. 
       The resolution proposed deals only with the policy of the Minister for Education. The aim and object of the policy, I take it, underlie the actions of the Department.  The Minister has clearly and rightly explained that his objectives are to associate, as closely as possible, education with a cultural, economic and national advancement of the State.  Now, criticism here of that policy, so far as I can see, by some Deputies has been mainly directed towards a sort of nervous apprehension that seems to prevail that the atmosphere surrounding the education policy of the Department may be too strongly associated with Irish national aspirations and with the teaching of the Irish national language.  Some Deputies, at least, seem to insinuate that the more mercenary interests of this nation are likely to be found in conflict with this policy, or the aim and objects that underlie it, and unquestionably those interests must be given attention to.  The Minister must take good care that he, having control of the machinery, which is perhaps the most important weapon that we have in the State, uses it in such a way that the main and paramount consideration for all should prevail and always predominate over those mercenary and materialistic interests, and the Minister must see that the country is kept on the right road. 
       We are far behind in our national language, and it is the duty of the Minister to see that in all school programmes and in everything education stands for, that the Irish national language is kept in the same position it occupies in the Constitution of the State, and if this is done there is no likelihood that any criticism levelled at the Minister here will carry much effect in this House or in the country. 
     
     A great many things have been said   in this debate dealing more or less with sub-heads capable of being discussed later on.  School buildings have been mentioned, and amalgamation, which Deputy O'Connell suggests is necessary with regard to schools where there are male and female scholars, within the same building, operating under two distinct staffs.  I want also to refer to another thing that I think is not right, namely, the provision by the Department of Education for the teaching of Irish to teachers.  I think it is wrong. I feel there should be no necessity to expend money in paying those teachers to learn their national language.  I feel that another method should have been adopted, that those teachers should have got a notification from the Department of Education and should be given a certain length of time in which to qualify on a subject which they had not an opportunity to qualify on to the same extent as other subjects, and that in the event of their not qualifying they should stand in the future on a lower scale or pedestal than those who rose to the occasion of the nation's necessity. 
     
      
       Would you apply that all round to public servants? 
     
     
      
       This is a national requirement which is indispensable for the future of the nation. I believe that teachers are sufficiently reliable to be able to secure this.  I do not think you will serve the interests of Irish by the subsidy given for this purpose under those circumstances. 
       The next point is with regard to the time of the year in which holidays are given.  I think holidays are not given at the time of the year best in the interests of the children because, unquestionably, in the rural areas where schools are far apart the winter season is a difficult one to ask small children, poorly clad, to go long distances to school in inclement weather.  I think if the period of holidays were arranged for those children to attend school in the season of the year when it was easiest for them it would be better for education. 
     
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy like his own holidays at that time of the year? 
     
     
      
       There is a sacrifice, I admit, but those sacrifices are distributed all round in the interests of the general community.  I submit the interests of the children predominate over everything else and should be considered when it comes to a question as to what sort of weather the holidays should be taken in. 
       The third point I want to make is that we are going to have a compulsory Bill which will require to be very carefully thought out before it is introduced.  It is difficult in backward counties where schools are far apart to say that the child of six years would be bound to go a long distance in inclement weather.  That would be an absurdity. It is not so much on that I wish to dwell.  Unfortunately, in some of our counties the children have to be sent out on service before the school age expires. In large families they are not able to see that those children are attended to and that the rest of the family are provided for, thus they take advantage of the service of those children who have to go away to earn money to supplement the family income. That is unfortunate, but we cannot fail to understand it.  It is there and we must regard the facts.  I submit under those circumstances where children go away from home that in any compulsory Education Bill the onus of school attendance should be placed on the employer and removed from the parents.  I think that employer should only have the right to employ those children subject to the obligation of keeping them at school.  He should have that responsibility. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy approve of the law restricting the right of any person to employ children under these circumstances? 
     
     
      
       No, I do not approve of it, but I cannot see any way by which hardship, and intolerable hardship, will not be imposed upon parents of large families who are in needy circumstances unless this provision is allowed.  I do not see how it   can be done otherwise.  I do not say that it is a very desirable thing to do; it is a thing we all regret, but I do not see any rule by which any alleviation of this hardship can be arrived at under the terms of this compulsory Bill, except in the way I have suggested. 
     
     
      
       That is what the cotton spinners said a hundred years ago. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether we are entitled to measure things according to that standard.  We have facts here, and we have got to deal with these facts, although they are opposed to our ideas.  We have not the right to impose hardships upon people who are not able to bear them.  They have hardships enough without having any more placed upon them, and under these circumstances I would suggest that the Minister, when introducing this Bill, should consider this question, and see what could be done, because it is impossible to ensure that it would not be necessary for parents to take advantage of the services of their children before the leaving-school-age is reached. I see no other way of doing it, except by placing the onus on the employers, that they should only have the services of the child outside school hours, and in that case they would give a much lower wage.  I was very much gratified by the statements made by Deputy Johnson with regard to education in New York.  Those here who are more inclined to do things in a different way ought to be impressed by his statement in regard to what should be the aim and object of education, to bring the people up to a standard, which is, according to the Deputy's statement, one that is very much to be admired, and one that is, I think, the high-water mark for education departments in any country. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Education desires to reply on the general question.  I take it that that will conclude the debate on the general question.  We will then go into the Estimates under Committee rules. 
     
     
      
       The matter that   comes before the Dail for consideration now has been divided, I take it with your approval, sir, into two parts.  Primarily what arose was the discussion of the Education Estimate, and it was felt desirable that along with that discussion the general policy of the Ministry of Education should come under review. Deputies are afforded the opportunity of discussing in detail the administrative work of the Department and the provision made for the educational work of the country in detail, by and through the Department.  They are afforded that opportunity by means of a detailed discussion in Committee on the Estimates, and in the form in which this matter comes before them they are afforded also the opportunity of a general discussion on the educational policy of the Department. 
       As the Deputy who has just sat down remarked, we have not quite succeeded up to the present in keeping these two parts of the discussion distinct.  I make no complaint; I find no fault.  I do not think it is desirable in a matter of this kind to set hard and fast limits, and the Deputy himself, while he passed a criticism on the course of the discussion in general, evidently felt that it was opportune for him to anticipate.  He not only anticipated the course of discussion on the Estimates, which will follow in Committee, but he actually anticipated the course of discussion on a Bill which will come before you at an early date. 
       The motion before you is: &ldquo;That the Dail approves of the policy of the Minister for Education,&rdquo; not that it approves of the provisions made in detail in the Estimates, and I wish to deal, in what I have to say now, with the question of policy.  I interpret the word &ldquo;policy&rdquo; in the ordinary sense, as people commonly understand it&mdash; that is to say, the general and distinctive aim of this Department with regard to Irish education as a whole. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister include the plan and method of action to arrive at the aim? 
     
     
      
       The general framework of it, certainly, and I have, in my statement, given a brief description   of that general framework.  Deputy O'Connell led off by an interesting account of my own personality.  He described me as a philosopher living somewhere away in the clouds, and detached from the realities of education and the realities of life.  I wish I could live up to that beautiful legend.  There are occasions, and there have been recent occasions, when I could heartily wish that it was my lot to be detached from realities and actualities.  But the Deputy knows how far that description accords with my share of the realities, and how far it has been my lot to live in detachment and to philosophise in the clouds.  The Deputy did me the honour to say that he had read some articles I had written recently on the question of Irish educational policy, but he rather suggested that these were of such a high-flying description that their content and the inferences to be drawn from them were not within the reach of the ordinary man.  I venture to say again that that is very far from the actuality, and that the ordinary man who read these articles understood perfectly well what they meant and the kind of Irish educational aim which they described, understood it not only in general but to a very large extent in detail. 
       I have been twitted with vagueness, and among the criticisms which I have had the benefit of listening to I have come across two definitions of education. One of them was Deputy Good's, that the function of education was to prepare people for the battle of life. If I had said anything as vague as that I should certainly have deserved a good deal of the criticism that has been levelled against me.  I am quite sure that when that definition was forthcoming the question was arising in the minds of other Deputies whether the object of education was to prepare the young person for his own battle of life or for somebody else's battle of life. 
     
     Another definition with which we were provided was that the business of education was to enable young people to form a right judgment about everything. Now, if I had said anything nearly so vague as that, or so highly philosophical, I would deserve to be   placed on that high philosophical pedestal that has been provided for me so kindly by Deputy O'Connell.  But I said something very different, and what I said I am prepared to say at any public meeting in the country, and when I have said it I know that those who listen to me will not say that it is either vague or unintelligible.  I have declared my policy of education to be the conservation and development of Irish nationality.  It is not the aim of education generally that I am here to describe, but the policy of education adopted by an Irish Minister and an Irish Department for this country.  I have declared my policy of education to be the conservation and development of Irish nationality. 
     Deputy Good asked what I meant by nationality.  I thought I had explained that briefly.  I will explain it now.  By Irish nationality I mean Irish civilisation, the form and type of civilisation which is accordant to the genius of this people, to their traditions and to their outlook on the future.  And lest there should be any accusation of vagueness arising upon that, I should say, further, that their civilisation comprises in one all the human aspects of their common life, its economic aspect, its cultural aspect, its political aspect, its spiritual aspect, not excluding even its recreations and its amusements.  I am told that that aim is not a policy and is not intelligent.  I say that I am prepared to go before any crowd of Irishmen anywhere and to appeal to them as to whether that is or is not an intelligible policy. 
     The main fact that I have had to face is this, that my Department, when it came into existence, found itself in charge of a State system of education, found itself the interior of a State plan of education which had no such general aim or policy, which sought, and in its inception, deliberately sought, to educate the youth of Ireland as if Ireland was nothing to them, nothing to them but their breeding ground, which did not endeavour to interest them in the life and progress of the nation to which they belonged, which cared nothing&mdash; and I say that emphatically&mdash;for their economic welfare as a community, which aimed directly at cutting them   off from the cultural traditions of their own past, and at depriving them of any inspirations that they could derive from that source.  My policy has been, is, and will be, while I have that responsibility, to reverse all that and to put the very contrary in its place.  I have said that on the economic side that policy will have special regard to the economic policy instituted and carried on by the Departments of my colleagues, the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, and the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and I trust that that accord between education and economic development will be of a very intensive kind. 
     Let us take, for example, the rural district.  As we have been frequently reminded, the greater part of the economic life of this country is in the rural districts, and is connected with rural industry.  I propose that in a rural district the school, the teacher and the work of the pupils shall be characterised by an intense interest in the conditions and development of the district in which they live and of the community for which that school has been established, and that they shall not have their eyes on the ends of the earth.  As I have said in another place, the test of success for such a school, or for any school in Ireland, will not be for me, as it has been for many in the past, the successes of individual pupils who have gone away from that community and attached themselves elsewhere.  It would not be for me a success for a rural school in Ireland if it was to provide Prime Ministers for every country in the world and if at the same time it was not associated with the development and advancement&mdash;the improvement culturally, economically, spiritually and in every way that you can regard it&mdash; of the community of the district in which the school is situate.  The same applies, in its measure, to the secondary schools which draw from wider areas, and the same applies in my mind to the universities which work for the whole country. 
     The daily newspapers have sought, within the past few weeks, to focus our attention on Denmark and they have held up Denmark to us as an example.  I am prepared to take Denmark   as an example.   Mutatis mutandis.   I do not say that everything that is done in Denmark should be copied in Ireland.  I should rather say that I am prepared to take Denmark as an inspiration, and the general characteristic that I find applied to the education which has built up the economic success of Denmark&mdash;the general characteristic which I find applied to it by an Irish observer is, that it is intensely national.  Well, if I had never read that about Denmark my own instincts and my own experience as an Irishman would have told me that, apart altogether from cultural and spiritual aims, the right line for any person responsible for education in Ireland to take with regard to Irish education&mdash;the right line with the economic future of the country and its economic development in view&mdash;is to make Irish education intensely national.  I stand by that.  That is the key-note of my educational policy.  I could not be associated with any policy which was not dominated and vivified by that principle, and I should very much prefer, if any other policy were instituted in this country, not to be associated with it at all. 
     Now, I have said that the State plan of education and the State system of education to which this Department succeeded had no such aim, no such policy and no such spirit, but an aim, policy and spirit which were exactly contrary to that which I have advocated.  I could perhaps illustrate that best by one or two concrete examples.  I have here a semi-official statistical description, in a publication known as the Irish Parliamentary Gazetteer, of the state of the various parts of Ireland just at the time when what is known as the system of national education, that is to say, State-aided primary education, was established in Ireland nearly a century ago.  There are some surprising economic facts to be found in that semi-official description.  I will give one or two instances.  It states that at that time when the bulk of the people of Ireland were what is described as illiterate, and the benefits of this new plan of education were about to be conferred upon them, in the districts of Westport, Newport and Ballinrobe,   in the County of Mayo, there were 35,000 linen workers engaged in the linen industry in that small district. What did the national system of education do for the linen industry?  You have only got to go there now to see. The remains are to be found in the ruins of the vacant warehouses on the quays at Westport. 
     I will give another example.  I happen to have been born and reared within a few miles of a school that appears as No. 1 on the historic roll of the Commissioners of National Education. School No. 1 was situated in the upper part of Glenariff, in the County of Antrim, and that School No. 1 was, I think, actually set up under the patronage of one of the Commissioners of Education who himself was a native of the locality.  When that School No. 1 was established the Irish language was universally spoken by the people of that district.  I should not be surprised if it was spoken by the Commissioner himself. It certainly was by his father, who was a man of considerable celebrity in that part of the country, and, as a matter of fact, of considerable celebrity throughout Ireland, and who played a large part in the movement for the revival of Irish national culture.  It was a purely Irish-speaking district; it has ceased to be that completely; there may be a few old people alone there now who have a knowledge of Irish, but the benefits of the English language came in, and Glenariff has the same story to tell as the districts of Westport and Ballinrobe.  It has not developed one iota economically since National School No. 1 was established. 
     National School No. 1 did not do one thing for the benefit of the people and community of that district, except this: it provided some of those who resided in it with an easier means of escape from the life of that community and to establish themselves elsewhere. 
     My policy is to reverse all that.  I want to interest the teachers of Ireland, and the youth of Ireland, in all that belongs to the life of the community among whom they live and to whom they belong.  I want to interest them in their economic life and in their civic life and to do it in a more   thorough, and in a more penetrating way than by sticking either rural science or civics into the programme as what is called a subject.  My policy is founded upon faith and confidence in the future of this country and this nation, in its capacity for development, in its capacity for repairing the injuries of every kind&mdash;cultural, economic, civil or political&mdash;that it has suffered in the past century, since this system of so-called national education was established; and it is upon that policy that I invite your verdict and your judgment.  It is for that policy, stated in these terms, and not upon administrative details, that I ask Deputies to pass judgment.  I do not want to evade any issue.  Neither do I wish to allow the real issue to be clouded. 
     If Deputies desire to have an adverse pronouncement upon any portion of the administrative work of my Department, the course of our procedure will give them an opportunity of doing so. 
     
      
       May I ask the Minister if he will explain to us what is the method and what is the practical work he is carrying out to achieve the aim which he has hitherto described to us? 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Connell criticised the brevity of my statement in comparison with the fullness of the President's statement made a few months ago.  I really spoke to the Dail with the cognisance that the President's statement was before Deputies and was in their minds.  When I dealt with the same matter, and the same material, I dealt with it out of respect for the Dail and Deputies in a brief summary.  I did not attempt to cover as completely the same ground as was covered by the President's statement. I think it would be taking up time unduly if I were to repeat what was said in the statement of the President. I do supplement the President's statement by describing again, briefly, and in summary, the plan by which the opportunity would be created for every pupil to proceed through the entire scale of education from the most rudimentary to the highest stage.  That is undoubtedly, from the point of view   of administrative machinery, a part of the policy of my department. 
       It is what I might call the executive part of it, the interpretation of the policy in action.  If I can add anything to that in order to clarify things, in order to make it more clear to any Deputy here by what means I look to carrying the policy I have stated into effect, I shall be glad to do so.  I do claim that in the statement of policy I have given a fair and clear indication not only of the aim of the political policy with which I am associated, the political policy of my Department and myself, and of this Government, but I have also indicated broadly, yet clearly, the administrative lines, the working lines, upon which that policy is to be carried into effect, and as a matter of fact is at the present moment being carried into effect. 
       Let me say at this juncture that if any of the criticisms that have been made about my absence, or my being engaged upon other work, could be held to carry to Deputies or to the public the implication that my Department; and the officers of my Department, have not been working hard, progressively and successfully, in carrying that policy into effect, I resent and repudiate any such implication.  I do not like to take up your time with any considerations regarding myself.  I will not even ask you to come to a decision as to whether I am a philosopher in the clouds or a practical man. 
       I have had to be absent often from Dublin, absent from the Dail, absent at times from contact with the work of my Department, upon an occupation of which, as far as I am aware, I have had no competitors.  I have not heard of a single man in Ireland, or for that matter a woman, who has asked to have the burden that was placed upon me, placed upon him or upon here. 
     
     
      
       The job was not advertised. 
     
     
      
       Was it not? 
     
     
      
       As I say, I do not like to deal much with my own personalities; but during the last two years, while I have had considerable absences on the work, I have had no absence on   a holiday for myself.  There has not been a day during which I could be in contact with the work of my Department that I was not in contact with it; often even in my absence from Dublin I was in close contact with the work of my Department and with its officers. That is enough on that point.  I hope I am not wrong in saying that Deputy O'Connell, speaking, I take it, on behalf of the Labour Party, and Deputy Johnson, speaking later on behalf of the Labour Party, were carefully exploring for reasons which might justify them in voting against the motion: &ldquo;That the Dail approves of the policy of the Minister for Education.&rdquo; I am not going to mix up the policy of the Minister for Education with any administrative details which might be attached to that policy or to any other policy.  It is on the distinctive policy of this Department that I am going to ask you to vote, if this motion proceeds to a vote. I do not see what it has to do with this motion at all when Deputy Johnson suggests that the Government in general, and myself in particular, are engaged in some sort of a subtle conspiracy to lower the standard of living for workingmen in Ireland. 
     
     
      
       You have admitted it.  You stated you were working intensively in collaboration with the Department of Industry and Commerce to procure its purpose&mdash;to secure the fulfilment of its purpose. 
     
     
      
       If that is going to justify a vote against this motion, the public will know how to size it up.  A good many working men around about Dublin and other parts of the country know me just as well as they know Deputy Johnson, and I do not think Deputy Johnson or any other Deputy will convince them that I am, or the Minister for Industry and Commerce is, engaged in any plan to lower the standard of living for working men or any other class in this country. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear. 
     
     
      
       Twenty-nine shillings a week! 
     
     
     
      
       The most of what has been said in discussion here has really had reference to the estimates in detail, and I presume the Deputies who have brought forward criticisms will be quite in order in repeating the same criticisms when the estimates come under discussion again. That is the time when we will come down to brass tacks.  With regard to brass tacks, I read a certain pamphlet upon Irish educational policy with great care and great attention. I could find a good deal in it about &ldquo;tacks,&rdquo; but where to lay fingers on the brass I could not find at all. 
     
     
      
       Get it by the tax. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Connell said that in my opening statement I did not say a word in defence of my policy. 
     
     
      
       Or explanation. 
     
     
      
       Explanation? He does not understand it yet.  I am not on the defensive.  I think, from the descriptions of the work of my Department that have been given in various places both inside and outside of this Dail, it would be more properly described as having taken the offensive. When I am criticised, and when attacks come along, I am prepared to defend my policy and to repel the attacks. Take compulsory Irish, for example.  I have been accused of saying here or elsewhere&mdash;I do not know where I am supposed to have said it&mdash;that I do not believe in compulsion.  I never gave expression, I hope, to any such nonsense. I might as well be supposed to say that I do not believe in parental authority, or in governmental authority, or in school discipline, or, if you like, manual labour. 
     
     I do not know that anybody who ever reared a family could be got to say, honestly, that he did not believe in compulsion.  Taking it into theology, he might as well say that he did not believe in original sin.  I certainly never meant to convey that I didn't believe in compulsion.  But what I did say and what I did try to convey was   this: that there is a danger, and a very distinct danger, in carrying the long arm of the State into every street and every house and every townland and every nook of the country.  Where that can be avoided it ought to be avoided, because when you train people to rely upon a centralised Government to do this thing and that thing for them it is bad for the people. I heard from some Deputy yesterday that the State ought to do it, that you should do this and that thing for them. Then you will have a condition of things where you will produce more and more a disposition amongst the individual citizen and the local communities to do less and less for themselves and to depend upon the central action of the State.  That, according to my mind and according to my philosophy, whatever it may be according to the philosophies imported from the Continent, is a most unhealthy state of things. Therefore, I hope it will be understood that I did not make a statement or did not purpose to make a statement, crammed with statistics and details of programmes and matters of that kind. 
     I proposed to make a most broad and general statement, at the same time clear and intelligent, of the national policy of education, and it is upon that policy so stated, clearly and generally and, I think, not vaguely, that I ask your verdict.  I deprecate any avoidance of the issue.  I deprecate any attempt from any quarter, on a motion of this kind, to procure a hostile vote from a single member of this Dail on a question of detail, which is not a question of general policy, such, for instance, as to whether, in carrying out this policy, I propose to establish a Council of Education of the kind advocated by Deputy O'Connell. 
     
      
       That is the first statement of policy. 
     
     
      
       I wonder are we still exploring for an excuse, which will go out to the public, for a hostile vote? 
     
     
      
       Already discovered. 
     
     
      
       In that educational policy that I place before you, the Irish language is an important   element.  I have heard a number of things said here about the teaching of Irish and about its effects.  It is wonderful to me how rapidly some of these effects came round.  I do not know whether Deputy Good meant what I understood: that, because for the last couple of years Irish has been taught in a certain way in the infant class, the standard of applicants for admission to the technical schools has been lowered.  I do not know what exactly is the connection of cause and effect between the two. 
     
     
      
       I made it quite clear that there has been a depreciation in the standard of Irish education for the past 20 years and that depreciation has not been arrested by the policy adopted for the last two years, but rather aggravated. 
     
     
      
       I am glad to know that this alleged depreciation in the quality of Irish education precedes by at least eighteen years the particular work of my Department that is under criticism.  I read in a newspaper article that compulsory Irish has been responsible, among other things, for the falling off in the study of Greek and modern languages.  All I can say is that this is the most remarkable instance of intelligent anticipation on the part of our schools, of our teachers, and of educational people generally, in my experience, because people here who can speak with authority on the study of Greek know how far back the falling off in the study of the language dates, and they also know that it has not alone fallen off in Saorstat Eireann, but it has equally fallen off in the other part of Ireland and in Great Britain, where there is no compulsory Irish. The same applies to the argument put forward in regard to the falling off in the standard of teaching and learning of modern languages.  Since Tenterden Steeple brought about the Goodwin Sands no such marvels have happened in history as the terrible effects produced by the study of compulsory Irish. 
     
     With regard to the allegation about the lowering of the standard, I wonder how much of it is true.  I was assured within the past few weeks by the principal   of a very important and successful secondary school that never in his experience, covering about twenty years, had he got so good a quality of pupil coming into secondary school from the primary schools as he got during the past year.  They were all round, he said, of better quality.  The curious thing is that he said this to me in the prsence of the whole body of students who came in previous years and who listened, apparently with approval, to what he said with regard to the latest batch of students he received.  These students who had come to him like that from schools operating under the existing programme were, he told me, not alone proficient in the Irish language, but were more proficient all round.  I can conceive for myself that there is a propaganda movement in existence to create artificial dissatisfaction with this programme on the ground of the study of Irish, and I have had instances of it in the course of this discussion, not that I accuse any Deputy of being engaged in a movement of that kind, but it is active, very active, and I could produce the proofs of it outside. 
     The conditions under which Irish is taught have been alluded to by more than one Deputy&mdash;one on the Farmers' Benches, I think and one here alongside of me.  Let me read out to you some extracts from an official circular issued from my Department to its inspectors:&mdash;&ldquo;Regarding the note at the head of the Infants' Programme, it is recognised that the teaching of infants entirely through the medium of Irish will not be feasible in a large number of schools during the current school year.&rdquo;&ldquo;Regarding the note at the head of the programme in history and geography it is not expected that under present conditions it will be possible in a large number of schools to give instruction in the history and geography of Ireland through the medium of Irish in the present standard.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Would the Minister read the note at the head of the programme? 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;The work of the infant standard is to be entirely in Irish.&rdquo;  That is the note in brief. 
     
     
     
      
       Could the Minister say if the circular goes to the inspectors?  Does the programme go to the inspectors and teachers? 
     
     
      
       To both. 
     
     
      
       The teachers do not know the instructions given to the inspectors. 
     
     
      
       The circular is sent to both. 
     
     
      
       So far as I am aware, there is no such thing as secret instructions issued from my Department.  Further: &ldquo;These instructions indicate the desirability of using Irish as a medium of instruction so far as possible in accordance with the capability of the teachers in teaching the language.&rdquo;  Further: &ldquo;At the same time, a discretion must be allowed to the teacher in the choice of medium. He should not be urged to teach through Irish if he is not confident of his ability to do so effectively.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say who is to be the judge in that case? 
     
     
      
       The teacher is made the judge. 
     
     
      
       I wish that were so in practice. 
     
     
      
       Let us hope that we will reach our various ideals by practice in degrees.  &ldquo;The teacher should not be urged to teach through Irish if he is not confident of his ability to do so.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       If the teacher be confident of his ability the instruction is to be in Irish only in the infant classes? 
     
     
      
       Is there any mark against the teacher if he does not keep that instruction&mdash;is he marked down? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister help us to understand the position of the teacher?  Is the condition of the children's mentality in respect to Irish taken into account?  Have the children to be able to understand and receive the message according to these instructions? 
     
     
     
      
       Undoubtedly the capacity and mentality of the children are to be taken into account.  That is not exactly stated here, but I do not think there is a single inspector who would not understand that.  I am inclined to believe that the standard actually reached in primary schools at present is as high as it has ever been. It is difficult to test and compare one period with another, but I see no reason for believing to the contrary, and if complaints are made that it is not, well, every one of us knows that as people advance in life they are always discovering all the excellent things that existed 20, 30, 40 years ago, sometimes rightly, but sometimes it is a sort of imagination that develops with advancing years. 
       I do not think it would be possible for me to deal at present with the vast variety of questions, or virtually questions, that have been put to me in the course of this discussion.  I do not wish to contribute to anything that might be said in the way of emphasising details, details which might belong to any policy in contrast with the general aim of the policy that I have sought to describe.  I think it is fairest to the Dail, to the Ministry, and the people of the country, to have the policy in its main aims and main lines considered and pronounced upon as a thing apart.  I would consider whether it was a tactical aim, or an instinctive aim.  Any action that might be taken to procure a vote here which would appear to be a condemnation of that policy as generally stated, whereas as a matter of fact, it was only a condemnation of some particular administrative item or detail, I think would be most unfair, especially in view of the prominence that has been given to all these questions in the public mind outside. 
     
     Deputy Mulcahy put one question to me which is akin to what I have been discussing just now, that is, whether I was satisfied with University standards as they exist.  I am not.  I do not propose to go into that in detail, but I do think that it ought to be a matter of earnest consideration for all who are interested in education as to how far the great work of University education is being wasted in various particulars,   and how far we are relying rather on the number of students that resort to our Universities than on the quality of the students, and because there is no detaching the two, the quality of the work done by University professors. 
     
      
       Will the Minister give an instance of the wastage to which he refers? 
     
     
      
       That would draw me into a discussion on detail.  I was asked by Deputy Mulcahy to give an answer on general grounds.  I do not wish to go into details now, and the reason I made that statement is that it may lead to valuable and useful inquiry, and concentration on this matter, and I have a strong impression that it is not altogether unfounded. 
     
     
      
       I asked the question because I had no idea of what, generally, the Minister had in his mind. 
     
     
      
       I hope it is true that Deputy Thrift has no such experience as that to which I referred. If I thought the members of the Dail desired, and thought it proper, that I should deal at this stage with matters of the kind, I am prepared to discuss with them such questions as the improvement of school buildings and the amalgamation of schools, but these things, as I say, do not belong in any distinctive way to the distinctive policy which I put before them.  I think that they can be quite properly considered when we come to deal with the Estimates in detail.  Deputies will be then in a position to extract from me either what will be a satisfactory statement, or to censure me for what would be an unsatisfactory statement, but at this stage I desire, and think it right to ask, that their pronouncement shall be upon the general aim of the policy that I put before them, and the general educational framework which is associated with that aim in order to carry it into effect. 
     
     
      
       Would it be in order to ask the Minister if he proposes an alteration of the motion, and to use the words &ldquo;aim and purpose&rdquo; rather than &ldquo;policy&rdquo;? 
     
     
     
      
       If there is any ambiguity, and if the Deputy and the Dail think that a change of that kind would remove the ambiguity, I certainly want to get rid of all possible doubt in the matter. 
     
     
      
       I hesitate to make any alteration in it.  It is a very important matter.  It is a question of the policy of the Minister.  If I were to change the motion so that anything would be got from the Dail other than an expression of approval or disapproval of the Minister's policy it would be simply postponing a decision on the matter which we ought to get now.  I am prepared to stand or fall by the motion. 
     
     
      
       The difficulty is that the Minister in his statement has refrained from defining his policy, though he has given a statement as to his aim and purpose.  I am prepared to vote against the policy, while I am prepared to vote for the aim and purpose as outlined by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I think the word &ldquo;policy&rdquo; bears a meaning to which the whole public attach a definite signification, and it is by that meaning that I wish to stand.  Therefore, I think, that the wording of the resolution should not be altered. 
     
     
      
       I take it, it is proposed now to discuss the Estimates in detail under Committee rules.  I fail to see by what process we can discuss these Estimates unless we allow this motion to stand until the very end of the discussion.  Otherwise we would be in the position of having disposed of this motion, and having before us a discussion of indeterminate length without any motion.  I propose to let this motion stand until the discussion of the Estimates is concluded, and instead of going into Committee for an indefinite purpose, simply let the ordinary Committee rules apply to the discussion of the Estimates, the case being a very extraordinary one.  I take it we will begin with Estimate No. 41. 
     
     
     
      
       I think in view of all the circumstances it would be as well to adjourn now, and take the discussion on Tuesday. 
     
     
     
      
       The debate is adjourned until Tuesday. 
       The Dail adjourned at 2.35 p.m. 
     
   
 