 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EXHIBITION OF TOBACCONISTS' LICENCES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the Revenue Commissioners have received representations from the Dublin Tobacconists' Association asking them to enforce the law relating to the sale of tobacco and cigarettes, so as to compel the sellers of these articles to exhibit the sign or notice that they are licensed to deal in them. 
     
     
      
       The representations referred to were duly received by the Revenue Commissioners.  A notice to all licensed tobacco dealers in the Saorstat directing their attention to the legal requirements regarding the exhibition of signs was issued by the Commissioners in November, 1926.  The Secretary of the Dublin Tobacconists' Association was informed of the issue of this notice on 23rd November, 1926. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SALE OF TOBACCO IN GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that certain persons in Government Departments make it a practice to retail tobacco and cigarettes to other employees in these Departments, notwithstanding the fact that they are not licensed to do so; and, if so, whether he will take steps to have the practice discontinued. 
     
     
      
       I understand that co-operative clubs consisting of persons employed in some Government Departments purchase tobacco and cigarettes   on behalf of members.  I am advised that no licence is necessary in such cases, and in the circumstances see no reason to interfere. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PROMOTIONS IN CIVIL SERVICE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if it is his intention to resume the practice of making promotions from the lower to the higher grades of the Civil Service, having regard to the discontent which exists in consequence of the cessation of such promotions. 
     
     
      
       Vacancies in grades in the Civil Service above those to which staff is recruited directly by open competitive examination are normally filled by promotion from the lower grades of the service.  This practice continues and it is not proposed to alter it.  As regards other grades, no staff is at present being recruited for the executive and clerical classes, which, presumably, are those the Deputy has in mind, as owing to economies in reorganisation, the numbers of these classes are being reduced.  I may add, however, that these arrangements have not had the effect of entirely preventing the promotion of clerical officers, because junior executive posts are being converted, wherever possible, into staff posts, and these are being filled by promotion from the clerical grade. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BARROW DRAINAGE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether, in view of the grave unemployment existing in the Carlow district as a result of the termination of the Beet Factory season he will arrange to expedite the work of the Barrow drainage in and adjacent to Carlow; and if he will state when operations are likely to be begun about Graiguecullen. 
     
     
      
       It cannot yet be stated when work under the Barrow Drainage Scheme will begin in the neighbourhood of Carlow. 
     
     For the sake of economy it is necessary that engineering operations in the   different parts of the river shall be undertaken when staff and plant are most readily available, without regard to the state of employment in particular neighbourhoods.  Furthermore, I anticipate that the greater part of the work under this scheme in future will have to be carried out by machine tools, and will therefore not provide a great amount of employment. 
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary state whether any of the work is likely to take place during the coming summer in the Carlow area? 
     
     
      
       I could not state that. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary hasten the work in Carlow by pushing on with the work at the Kildare end of the river?  Then he could deal with the Carlow portion afterwards. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FLOODING AT ROOSKEY (ROSCOMMON). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether any further inspection by a land valuer as to the area affected by the flooding of the River Shannon at Rooskey, County Roscommon, has taken place since last year; and whether he can state when the inspection will be completed, and when a scheme to reduce the flooding complained of will be formulated? 
     
     
      
       The report of the land valuer respecting the flooding of lands at Rooskey by the Shannon has now been received, and is at present under consideration by the Commissioners of Public Works, who are not yet, however, in a position to make a definite announcement as to whether a scheme can be formulated for the reduction of flooding in the area referred to. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONGANTOIR LE hAGHAIDH OIFIG AN PHUIST (DUNFEANNCHAIDH). 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Puist agus Telegrafa ar frith fos le haghaidh Oifig an Phuist in Dunfeannchaidh i gCo.  Thir Chonaill congantoir ata oilte sa Ghaodhilg agus i gcursai telegrafa. 
     
     
     
      
       An assistant qualified in Irish has been provided for the Dunfanaghy sub-office in compliance with the condition attaching to the sub-postmaster's appointment. The assistant is not at present qualified in telegraphy, but the operating telegraph work of the office will be attended to by the incoming sub-postmaster, who is a competent telegraphist. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state whether the assistant was examined as regards her qualifications in the Irish language, and who were the examiners? 
     
     
      
       The assistant was examined for her qualifications in the Irish language and found properly qualified.  I cannot state at the moment by whom she was examined. 
     
     
      
       Does the Parliamentary Secretary claim that the assistant who has been appointed is a properly qualified speaker of Irish and is capable of speaking in the Irish language with people in the Dunfanaghy Post Office? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SHIPMENTS THROUGH SIX COUNTY PORTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state the number of (a) cattle, (b) sheep, and (c) pigs, consigned from the Free State for shipment through ports in the Six Counties in each of the years 1924 to 1927. 
     
     
      
       The numbers of cattle, sheep and pigs consigned from the Irish Free State to places outside Ireland that were exported through the Land Frontier Customs Stations in each of the years 1924, 1925, 1926 and 1927 were:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Cattle No. 
             Sheep No. 
             Pigs No. 
           
         
         
           
             1924 
             64,202 
             2,200 
             2,365 
           
           
             1925 
             53,112 
             1,831 
             871 
           
           
             1926 
             44,945 
             1,203 
             2,655 
           
           
             1927 
             43,963 
             2,042 
             2,455 
           
         
       
     
     
        It may be noted that these figures indicate no such growing diversion of traffic from Saorstat ports as was alleged in a recent debate.  The percentage of all stock exported from the Saorstat which passed into Northern Ireland in 1927 was 3, while in 1924 it was 3.9, 1925 4.7, and 1926 3.6.  I want to make the comment that the figures do not show the tendency the Deputy referred to in the course of the recent debate as to shipments from ports outside the Saorstat. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT IN WOOLLEN INDUSTRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he can state the number of persons at present unemployed in the woollen manufacturing industry in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       The number of persons registered as unemployed in the employment exchanges and branch employment offices at mid-March, the latest available date, was 192.  The number for previous months was:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Mid-January, 1928 
             480 
           
         
         
           
             2nd February, 1928 
             373 
           
         
       
     
     The decrease in March was almost wholly in the Cork area. 
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether the decrease was due to the exhaustion of benefit or to the fact that the men had been re-employed? 
     
     
      
       Re-employment. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE ANGLO-EGYPTIAN TREATY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs whether he has seen copies of the communications which passed between the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the British Government and Lord Lloyd, the British Government's representative at Cairo, respecting the projected Anglo-Egyptian Treaty, and particularly the despatch No. 6 in the British White Papers, dated November 24th, 1927, indicating in paragraph 2 that subject &ldquo;to the concurrence of His Majesty's Governments in the Dominions and India which, as had already been explained to Sarwat   Pasha, the British Government considered necessary,&rdquo; and in paragraph 9 indicating that, as the required concurrence had been obtained, they were prepared to accept the Draft Treaty then prepared; and to paragraph 2 in the despatch dated February 5th, 1928, repeating the statement about the Draft Treaty upon which Sarwat Pasha and Sir Austen Chamberlain had agreed, &ldquo;and to which the Dominion Governments had given their assent&rdquo;; and further, whether his attention has been called to the reply on behalf of the Secretary of State for the Dominions to a question in the British House of Commons on 5th April, 1928, stating that &ldquo;the Dominion Governments were kept informed of every stage in the negotiations with Egypt, and as soon as the text of a Treaty had been agreed with Sarwat Pasha its terms were communicated to the Dominion Governments by telegraph, and their concurrence was sought in the proposal to present it to the Egyptian Government, and the replies to this telegram made it clear that the policy of His Majesty's Government in Great Britain was satisfactory to all the Dominion Governments,&rdquo; and in view of the implications in these statements that the Government of the Irish Free State has concurred in and assented to the British policy involved in the proposed Treaty, he will lay on the Table copies of the communications relating to this subject which passed between the Executive Council and the British Government. 
     
     
      
       I have seen the documents referred to by the Deputy which were communicated to all the members of the Commonwealth. Only one communication was sent on behalf of the Executive Council to the British Government respecting this Treaty.  In that communication I stated on behalf of the Executive Council that they &ldquo;have learned with pleasure that His Majesty's Government in Great Britain and Egypt are negotiating with a view to establishing an alliance between the two countries and they hope that an agreement acceptable to both sides will be speedily reached.&rdquo; 
     
     
     
      
       Are we to take it that the policy of Great Britain in regard to Egypt is not approved definitely by the Saorstat Government? 
     
     
      
       I have nothing to add to the answer I gave to the British Government. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONVEYANCE OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state to what districts in Co. Cavan grants are being made towards the provision of suitable means of conveyance for children to and from school, and the annual amount of such grants. 
     
     
      
       Grants have been paid for some years in aid of two van services for conveyance of children to school in Co. Cavan, viz.:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Service 
             Direct Distance. 
             Average number conveyed. 
             Annual Grant. 
           
         
         
           
             (1)  Drumgoland district to Billis National School, Virginia 
             3 miles 
             16 
             £65 
           
           
             (2)  Redhills district to Killoughter National School, Belturbet 
             3? miles 
             15 
             £75 
           
         
       
     
     At present applications are under consideration for grants in aid of:&mdash; 
     (a)  A van service from Laragh and Lavey districts to Stradone National School; and 
     (b)  A boat service across the River Erne to convey children from Bunanumery and Portruan districts to Derryvona National School, situated about three miles north of Belturbet. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EVIL LITERATURE COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he can state when the proposals for legislation to give effect to the recommendations   of the Evil Literature Committee which have been promised, will be introduced. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the answer I gave on the 7th ultimo to Deputy Peadar Doyle, who, on that date, addressed to me a similar question.  I hope to be in a position to introduce the Bill at an early date. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister not think that there is an urgent need to deal with this matter? 
     
     
      
       There is no unavoidable delay, but the Deputy will understand that this is not a very easy Bill to draft.  It is very easy to draft a Bill dealing with the broad lines of the question, but there are niceties that require to be very carefully thought out. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand that the Bill is being prepared? 
     
     
      
       Yes. I think the Bill will be very shortly introduced. 
     
     
      
       Will the Bill be introduced prior to the summer recess? 
     
     
      
       I hope so. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY PENSIONS CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether a claim for a pension under the Army Pensions Act, 1923, has been received from John Hegarty, Carnalasson, Four Mile House, Roscommon; and when such a claim was received. 
     
     
      
       I do not appear to have received an application under the Army Pensions Act, 1923, from the person referred to by the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that this man wrote to the Department of Defence for forms on which to make his application and his letters were never answered? 
     
     
      
       Not that I am aware of.  I think he did write for a form in connection with the Act of 1924, but not in connection with the 1925 Act. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RECRUITING FOR BRITISH ARMY. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence  (a)  if he is aware, and if it is with the permission of the Government, that a foreign Power has at present representatives in the Saorstat for the purpose of recruiting young men for the British Army;  (b)  if he is aware that all expenses of recruits to and from the attesting stations in England are paid by the British Government; and  (c)  if he is aware that certain citizens of the Saorstat who attested and were rejected at these stations, have afterwards been admitted into the National Army? 
     
     
      
       The replies to the three parts of the question are in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that recruiting by the British Government is taking place in Fermoy, Mallow and Kanturk, and that they have secret agents appointed there, in one place a Church of England minister, and in the case of Mallow, an ex-British officer? 
     
     
      
       I shall be very much interested if the Deputy can give us information about the secret agents they have. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister take steps towards prosecution if the cases are brought before him? 
     
     
      
       I do not understand the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       The misunderstanding is mutual. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest that secrecy is not necessary? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that such a thing is taking place.  If the Deputies have information that they think will be of use, I shall be glad to have it. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister intentionally unaware of it? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public   Health if he will consider the increase of the old age pension of Edward Donohue, Curraghereen, Lavally, Tuam (aged 80 years), from 6/- to 10/-, in view of his altered circumstances. 
     
     
      
       No appeal has come up for adjudication in this case, and there is, therefore, no information in my Department concerning it.  If the pensioner is prepared to show that his present means would warrant an increase in pension it is open to him to make application to the local pensions officer, showing in what way his means have decreased. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the grounds on which the old age pension was refused to Mrs. Kate Connolly, Derrylassaune, Menlough, Ballinasloe. 
     
     
      
       It was determined on appeal on 22nd February, 1928, that this claimant was not entitled to any pension, as it was not clear on the evidence submitted that she had attained the statutory age. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BLIND PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state on what grounds John Riordan, Knockeenahone, Scartaglin, Kerry, was refused a blind pension. 
     
     
      
       It was determined on appeal on 3rd April, 1928, that this claimant was not entitled to a blind pension.  It did not appear, in view of the terms of the report of the Medical Inspector, who examined him on the 27th March, 1928, that he was blind within the meaning of the Blind Persons Act, 1920. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SOUTH CORK OFFICIAL'S SALARY 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether the salary of the Secretary to the South Cork Board of Public Assistance has been increased; and, if so, by what amount, and on whose recommendation. 
     
     
     
      
       In consequence of the introduction of the joint county scheme and the transfer of services in pursuance of the Local Government Act, 1925, the question of the salary of the Secretary was in abeyance for some time.  In accordance with decisions of the local authorities concerned, his total remuneration has now been fixed at £940 a year, which covers remuneration for acting as Superintendent Registrar. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether there was a sworn inquiry held into the question of this salary recently, and that a Local Government Inspector attended, and that the salary was fixed at £750 as an inclusive salary for this officer?  Is the Minister aware that representations were made by the Secretary against that finding, and that he was supported in that view by another paid official, Commissioner Monahan, of Cork, and is it on the recommendations or representations of Commissioner Monahan that the extra £190 a year has been put on the ratepayers of Cork City and County? 
     
     
      
       The decision has been taken after very careful consideration by the two local authorities concerned in the matter and by the Ministry. 
     
     
      
       The two local authorities concerned agreed to a salary of £750 a year and were no party to the increase. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will have to argue that with the local authorities. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RELIEF OF UMEMPLOYMENT (DUBLIN). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the number of persons at present employed on relief work in the City of Dublin; and if he will expedite the consideration of proposals which will give further immediate employment to the unemployed. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is 893. As regards the second part, I would refer the Deputy to the reply given to   him by the Minister for Finance on the matter on the 29th ultimo. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state whether this work at the present moment is being held up, and if there are any grants still at the disposal of the City Commissioners? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of any work being held up.  There are 893 men being employed, and that is pretty good evidence of the work not being held up. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that no men have been called to this relief work for the past month, and there was a promise that these men would get their turn? 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance showed that this work would continue for some time, but that it could not continue indefinitely. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOUSING IN KILKENNY AND CARLOW. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the number of houses built  (a)  in Carlow, and  (b)  in Kilkenny, in each year since 1922 as private undertakings or under the Housing Acts; the total cost of the houses built under the Housing Acts, and the total amount of Government grants or subsidies paid? 
     
     
      
       Se meid tithe ar fad a thog daoine priobhaideacha i gContae Cheatharlach fe Achtanna na dTithe 1924-6 na 7 gcinn.  Do tugadh Deontaisi Rialtais de £440 chun cabhruithe leis na tithe sin do thogail.  I gContae Chill Choinnigh, do thog daoine priobhaideacha 34 tithe agus do tugadh Deontaisi Rialtais de £2,425 chuige sin. 
       Se meid tithe ar fad a thog Udarasanna Aitiula i gContae Cheatharlach on mbliain 1922 fe Achtanna na dTithe na 12 cheann; do chosnuigh siad sin £7,894 10s. 1d., agus bhi Deontas Rialtais de £4,848 ar an tsuim sin: 
       I gContae Chill Choinnigh, do thog udarasanna aitiula 16 tithe; do chosnuigh siad £9,924 16s. 9d. agus bhi Deontas Rialtais de £6,650 ar an tsuim sin. 
     
     
     
      
       An bhfuil aon athru ar an mheid airgid ata le faghail chun na tighthe do thogail anois? 
     
     
      
       Nil. Ach is beag airgid ata fagtha chuige sin. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IRISH HUNTER STUD BOOK. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether his attention has been drawn to the fact that forms of application for the entry of horses in the Irish Hunter Stud Book at a fee of 5/- are being circulated; whether his Department are responsible for such forms, and, if not, whether he can give the name of the society or association issuing this book. 
     
     
      
       My attention has already been drawn to the matter mentioned by the Deputy.  The Department of Agriculture are not responsible for the issue of these forms or for the publication in question, and so far as they are aware, the book referred to is not issued under the auspices of any recognised horse-breeding society.  The Department have already warned Irish horsebreeders that the Stud Book in question is not recognised by the Department and that in their opinion the entry of an animal therein will not confer any benefit or advantage on the owner. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say what becomes of the fees collected? 
     
     
      
       I understand that the profits, so far as there are any, are appropriated to the use of the individual who issues the book. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUNDALK BAY FISHERY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state whether it is intended to open Dundalk Bay to local fishermen for ring-net fishing during the months of September, October and November, 1928. 
     
     
      
       No application has been received from fishermen resident on the coast of Dundalk Bay to alter the existing by-law relating to the method   of fishing commonly known as &ldquo;ringnetting&rdquo; in that bay.  The answer to the question is accordingly in the negative. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MORASS FERRY BRIDGE (DONEGAL). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he can state if the report of the Irish Land Commission's Inspector for Donegal, relative to the proposed construction of a bridge at Morass Ferry, County Donegal, has been considered, and, if so, to what decision the Irish Land Commission has come in the matter; (b) if he can state why a communication from Very Rev. Canon Gallagher, P.P., Tamney, County Donegal, relative to this matter was not acknowledged by the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       A report has been received on the question of the construction of a bridge at Morass Ferry, Co. Donegal.  Owing to the expenditure which this work would involve, the Land Commission do not propose undertaking it.  The inspection was made in response to the representations made by the Deputy and Canon Gallagher. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that the Congested Districts Board proposed to construct this bridge some years ago and that the estimated cost at that time was only £6,000?  In view of the fact that some farmers are becoming bankrupt owing to the fact that they have no means of going to markets with their produce, will the Parliamentary Secretary take steps to investigate this? 
     
     
      
       The construction of this bridge presents many engineering difficulties.  To begin with, the bridge is over 1,000 feet in width.  At low tide the water is eighteen feet in depth and at high tide thirty feet.  The bridging of this river is not a matter for the Land Commission so much as the Office of Public Works, and I think the initiative in this instance should come from the county council. 
     
     
      
       If the county council agree to contribute a portion, will the Parliamentary Secretary consider the giving of the remainder? 
     
     
     
      
       I have told the Deputy that this is really a matter for the Office of Public Works and not for the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DONEGAL RELIEF GRANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state (a) what amount of money has been expended in Co. Donegal by the Irish Land Commission out of the £150,000 relief grant; (b) whether the work on those schemes in Donegal which have been approved by the Irish Land Commission will be begun immediately; (c) whether it is the intention of the Irish Land Commission to have the £400 provisionally allocated to Inishowen out of that grant, expended on those schemes, situated in Urris, Clonmany, and Desertegney districts, which have been submitted to that Department for consideration. 
     
     
      
       The amount expended by the Land Commission in Co. Donegal out of the Relief Schemes Vote, 1927-28, to 31st March last is £4,400. Since that date no money is available for expenditure by the Land Commission out of the Relief Schemes Vote. 
       Such works in Inishowen as are necessary in connection with the improvement of estates purchased by the Land Commission will be undertaken by them. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that the schemes submitted and mentioned in this question were not inspected by the Land Commission inspector in Donegal along with the other schemes in the other parts of the constituency, and that there has been no money expended in that peninsula out of this relief grant? 
     
     
      
       I think some of the schemes in which the Deputy is interested will be undertaken by the Land Commission when they are carrying out improvements on certain estates which they are about to acquire in that particular area. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DERELICT FARMS (CO. KILDARE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that the   farm of Lipstown, Narraghmore, Co. Kildare, lately in the occupation of Mr. M. Valentine, and subject to a land annuity, is derelict, and if he will state what measures are being taken in regard to this holding. 
     
     
      
       This holding is the subject of a suit in the courts and I would be obliged if the Deputy would repeat his question next week when I hope to have further information. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that the Farm House of Halverstown, Kilcullen, County Kildare, lately in the occupation of Mr. Walker and subject to a land annuity, is stated to be in process of being pulled down and the material sold by the bank, and if he can state the attitude of the Land Commission towards these proceedings. 
     
     
      
       The holding referred to is subject to a Land Purchase Annuity which is paid to date and the Commissioners are informed is mortgaged to a bank which has a receiver managing it.  An inspector who visited the lands recently reports that as the walls of an out-office became cracked and overhanging and appeared to be in danger of falling, the bank had the roof removed last month to save the slates which were sold but the price realised was not sufficient to pay the cost of removal.  The walls have since fallen. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that it is stated that certain valuable belongings inside this house have been removed, such as mahogany doors? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of that.  The premises have been recently inspected and I am quite satisfied that no property of any great value has been removed. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. 
     
        Ordered: That consideration of the Financial Motions be not interrupted to-day at the time fixed for the taking of Private Deputies' business.&mdash;(The President.) 
     Ordered: That No. 4 of the Orders of the Day (Financial Motion by the Minister for Finance&mdash;No. 3) be discharged. 
   
   
     FORESTRY BILL, 1928&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce a 
       Bill entitled &ldquo;an Act to make further and better provision for promoting afforestation and for that purpose to amend the Forestry Act, 1919, to restrict the felling of trees, and to make other provisions connected therewith.&rdquo; 
       Leave granted: Second Stage ordered for Thursday, 3rd May. 
     
   
   
     LOCAL AUTHORITIES (OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES) BILL, 1928&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I move for leave to introduce a Bill entitled &ldquo;an Act to amend the Local Authorities (Officers and Employees) Act, 1926.&rdquo; 
       Leave granted: Second Stage ordered for 16th May. 
     
   
   
     REPORT OF GAELTEACHT COMMISSION. 
     
      
       I propose to take Deputy Fahy's motion regarding the Gaelteacht Commission Report on Wednesday, 2nd May, as the first opposed business, and to give all the day to it. 
       Ordered accordingly. 
     
   
   
     FINANCIAL MOTIONS. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance to consider certain financial motions. 
     
     
      
       The outstanding financial event of the year 1927-28 was the successful flotation of the Second National Loan.  When the first loan was about to be issued, in 1923, predictions of failure resounded on all sides.  The gloomiest views were heard from those who might be regarded as entitled to speak with authority.  But, when the time came, all classes of the community realised that they had a duty to make the loan a success, and it was largely over-subscribed.  Such numbers of small investors gave their assistance that, in spite of the fact that we had individual applications for blocks of stock as large as £300,000 and £250,000, the average allotment was only £300. Last autumn it began to be whispered that our second issue would have to be given to the public at a price lower than 95; but, in fact, we found ourselves in November, 1927, able to borrow all we required on more favourable terms than in 1923, and to borrow with less resort to public propaganda or individual appeal.  Our first intention was to issue the entire amount of the Second National Loan in the Saorstat, but later on we came to the conclusion that there would be a certain advantage in demonstrating that the credit of the State was good abroad as well as at home.  It was accordingly decided to obtain approximately foursevenths of the amount required from our own citizens and to look for the remainder elsewhere.  It was found that the amount to be borrowed abroad could be got more cheaply in New York than in London, and a dollar issue was consequently arranged.  Both in America and in the Saorstat the public response was all that could be desired, and it can be said that the success of our second issue was quite as striking and gratifying as that of the first.  In the next few years we shall require considerable capital sums for constructive undertakings.  Our credit is now such that we can borrow in the international money market on terms of which no country need be ashamed.  In the interests of national development, it is vital that this position be maintained. Investors at home and abroad have subscribed to our loans because our financial policy has satisfied them   that the Saorstat will pay its way; that it will so handle its budgetary problems that debt will be incurred only for legitimate purposes and that no type of currency inflation will take place.  We must continue so to regulate our taxation and expenditure as to maintain the confidence of onlookers in the stability of the State and in the probity of its Parliament and Government, for on that confidence our credit depends, and on our credit depends whether schemes of development can or cannot be economically carried out. Moreover, maintenance of the credit of the State is necessary for the security and expansion of private enterprise. 
       During the past financial year deposits in the Post Office Saving. Bank increased by £205,000, and the sum invested in Savings Certificates rose by £655,000.  At the 31st March last, the indebtedness of the State amounted to £22,486,230, without taking account of undischarged liability in respect of the Dail Eireann Loans or the sum due to the British in respect of compensation payments made after the Treaty.  The total is made up as follows:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             National Loan, 1923 
             8,975,800 
           
           
             Second National Loan 
             7,070,680 
           
           
             5 per Cent.  Compensation Stock 
             1,143,750 
           
           
             Free State Bills 
             750,000 
           
           
             Ways and Means Advances 
             500,000 
           
           
             Telephone Capital Advances 
             706,000 
           
           
             Miscellaneous Advances 
             319,000 
           
           
             Savings Certificates 
             3,021,000 
           
         
       
     
     In order, however, to ascertain the real weight of our National Debt, we must deduct from the aggregate of these items certain Exchequer assets, totalling £8,902,000, of which the following are the principal items:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             Exchequer Balance 
             2,377,000 
           
           
             Advances to the Unemployment Fund 
             1,176,000 
           
           
             Advances to the Shannon Fund 
             2,612,900 
           
           
             Advances to the Local Loans Fund 
             939,000 
           
           
             Advances to the Road Fund 
             240,000 
           
           
             Advances to National City Bank in connection with Guaranteed Trade Loans 
             300,000 
           
           
             Purchase of Creameries 
             536,000 
           
         
       
     
     
        When other smaller items are added, the figure for capital liabilities remaining, after making allowance for the assets indicated, may be put at £13,584,000.  This is the sum which is comparable with the sum of £12,400,000 given in last year's Budget statement. From the aggregate, however, we ought probably to exclude the amount of the advances for Telephone Capital, having regard to the fact that the telephones are very nearly a paying service.  This would bring the net figure for debt down to £12,878,000.  But that figure does not show the entire indebtedness of the State.  If we take account of the Dail Eireann External Loan, of the portion of the Internal Loan which has not yet been repaid, and of the debt to the British Government which is being liquidated by the annuity payable under the Damage to Property (Compensation) (Amendment) Act, 1926, we find the total dead-weight debt of the State is nearly £20,000,000.  This is a large sum, and must still increase if we continue our policy of borrowing to meet compensation charges and the cost of restoring damaged public buildings, as well as other items of a specially abnormal character.  A point has now been reached at which great care must be taken not to increase it unjustifiably. 
     During the year ending on the 31st March last, the flow of normal revenue exceeded anticipations by about £370,000.  Taxation yielded £181,000 more than the estimate, the excess being due to the fact that Death Duties brought in a much higher sum than in any year since the establishment of the Free State.  Income tax and super-tax produced £20,000 more than was expected, while the yield of Customs and Excise Duties was £70,000 short.  The receipts of normal non-tax revenue were about £189,000 more than the estimate. This was due, principally, to the fact That the fees collected by the Industrial and Commercial Property Registration Office in respect of patent trade-marks and designs yielded no less than £50,000, and to the fact that interest received on Exchequer advances was higher than had been anticipated.  The latter receipt was, of course, offset by increased interest on Exchequer borrowings. The Currency Act was not passed   before the dissolution of the Fourth Dail, and did not become law until near the end of the life of the Fifth Dail, so that the Currency Commission was not set up as soon as anticipated.  When it was established it was found the issue of new currency and bank notes required more time than had been foreseen, so no part of the £90,000 which it was hoped to receive from the Commission during 1927-28 was, in fact, realised. The gap was, however, filled by the receipt from the British of about £80,000 in settlement of an old claim in respect of revenue attributable to the Saorstat collected in 1922-23. 
     The income from the taxes on beer and spirits showed a further decline. Up till the 1st of January last, the yield of the excise duty on beer was somewhat in excess of the amount obtained in the first nine months of the preceding financial year.  In the last quarter, however, the amount obtained fell so sharply that at 31st March there was a deficiency compared with the preview year of £113,000.  The diminution of revenue in this case was probably due in part to a shortening of brewers' stocks; but, apart from the figures of tax yield, there are indications that in the year 1927-28 there was some further reduction in the consumption of beer.  The return from the duty on home-made spirits was £127,000 less than in the previous year.  We know from past experience that in a year in which a particularly active agitation in favour of a reduction of the liquor duties is carried on traders' stocks are cut down to a minimum and the duty paid into the Exchequer is reduced to an extent disproportionate to any decline in consumption. Consequently, we cannot assume that anything like 35,000 proof gallons less of spirits were drunk last year than the year before.  That consumption fell is, I think, certain, but the extent of the fall can only be conjectured.  Whatever it may have been, it is clear that there has not been a renewal of the very rapid decline which was going on three or four years ago.  Nevertheless, the position both in regard to spirits and beer is one which the Government cannot view without anxiety.  Even those who are most conscious of the benefit of the spread   of a spirit of temperance and habits of temperance through the country, must take note of the fact that the phenomenal decline in the consumption of alcoholic beverages which has taken place in recent years has caused economic dislocation affecting very substantial numbers of people.  If the decline were to continue to any great extent in the future, businesses and industries in a number of cases would collapse and much hardship would result.  Great pressure has been put on us during the past three years to propose to the Dail a reduction of the liquor duties, but we have felt unable to do so because the increased burden on necessities, or in the form of direct taxation, which would have resulted, did not appear to be justifiable in a period of depression.  A marked general improvement in economic conditions would lead to an increase in the consumption of beer and spirits even at present rates, while, on the other hand, the worsening of conditions which might result from a shifting of taxation to necessities could easily cause the decline in consumption to continue in spite of lighter taxation. This is specially true in regard to spirits where the need for relief seems most urgent.  We believed last year that the rate of consumption had become stabilised for the present and it is disappointing to find from the revenue returns that an appreciable fall seems still to be taking place. 
     The yield of the Customs duty on sugar confectionery was down by £23,000, from £108,000 to £85,000.  In 1924, the first year in which this duty was in operation, it produced £162,000. The fall in yield which has since taken place shows that the import of sugar confectionery, which includes jam, has fallen by nearly 50 per cent.  Several new factories have been set up and others have been extended.  It is estimated that about 1,700 people have found employment in the Saorstat as a result of the imposition of the tax. It is generally conceded that our jam and sweet factories have not only increased their output, but have in many cases improved the quality of their products.  No complaints of overcharging have been received.  The tax on confectionery has been the most   successful of all our protective duties. There was little variation in the return from any of the other protective taxes, except that on oatmeal, which fell from £15,700 to £7,800, showing that the duty will probably secure the entire Saorstat market for the home mills in the course of another year or so.  Though the yield of the duties on furniture, wearing apparel and boots and shoes has remained steady, progress has been made during the year by the manufacturers of these commodities and additional employment given. 
     The revenue from the tariff on soap was £43,000 last year, or only £1,000 less than in 1926-27, but it is estimated that in the present year the yield will not be more than £20,000.  A new soap factory recently erected will soon be in full working order, and will manufacture brands that have hitherto been imported.  In the last financial year, the betting duty was in operation for the whole period and produced £211,000, which was £39,000 less than had been hoped for. 
     As this is the first Budget to be submitted to the present Dail, it may be of interest to look back to 1924-25, the first normal financial year of the Saorstat. As Deputies are aware, the position in 1922-23 was that our revenue was collected by the British Government. The Customs boundary had not been established and, an the case of duties of Customs and Excise, we received the share that was agreed to be attributable to the Saorstat area of the general British revenue.  In April, 1923, we took over the collection of our own taxes and the Customs boundary was set up.  But the returns for the first financial year were exceptional in many respects.  For instance, our Exchequer, by virtue of what was known as the clean-cut, received a sum of over £1,000,000 in respect of duty on beer which had actually gone into consumption in England before the 1st April, 1923.  On the other hand, large stocks of certain dutiable goods were rushed into the Saorstat in the month immediately before the setting up of the tariff barrier.  The first period, therefore, the returns for which we can compare with the returns for last year, is the financial year 1924-25.  If we   look at the tax revenue for that year, exclusive of the motor vehicles duty, which is ear-marked for the Road Fund and is not applicable to general purposes, we find that it amounted to £22,745,000.  The sum collected last year was £19,730,000, or £3,015,000 less than in 1924-25.  From this it is apparent that the amount taken by the State from the taxpayer has in the past three years fallen by a little over £1,000,000 per annum.  In addition, it has to be remembered that during the period in question the Agricultural Grant was doubled, relieving local taxation to the extent of practically £600,000 a year. Therefore, the true position is that in the last three years the money taken annually from the taxpayer for State services has fallen by £3,600,000, or £1,200,000 per annum.  The unloading of the citizens' pockets was slowed up in two ways: in part by the action of the Government and in part by the taxpayers' own change of habits.  In the course of the three years to which I am referring, the duty on sugar was reduced from 23⁄4d. to 1d., the duties on tea, coffee and raw cocoa were abolished, the income tax was reduced from 5s. to 3s., the Corporation Profits tax modified so as to fall on about 60 firms instead of on 600, and telephone charges greatly reduced.  These reductions involved an annual loss of revenue of £3,100,000, while, as already stated, the Exchequer also lost £600,000 each year by doubling the Agricultural Grant, making £3,700,000 in all.  New protective duties were, however, imposed after 1924-25, of which the principal were the apparel tax, which produced £663,000 last year, and the furniture tax, which yielded £45,000.  These, with the betting tax and certain minor duties, took something less than £1,000,000 a year from the taxpayer, leaving a net relief of £2,700,000 as a result of changes in taxation.  The taxpayer, by reducing his consumption of beer and spirits, withheld a further £1,300,000 from the annual sum available for the maintenance of public services. The total loss to the Exchequer in the three years through tax changes and fall in yield would, therefore, have been altogether £4,000,000, but for the fact that Death Duties and the Tobacco   Duty jointly produced last year about £400,000 more than in 1924-25.  This reduced the Exchequer loss to the figure I have already given: £3,600,000. 
     In considering the proposals for increased taxation which will be submitted to them this afternoon, Deputies must bear in mind that, while the draw from the taxpayer was being so considerably reduced, new services were constantly being demanded and inaugurated.  These new services have had the effect of making it practically impossible to reduce normal, as distinct from abnormal and non-recurrent, expenditure. Furthermore, as the bill for war damage has been liquidated and other non-recurrent expenses paid by resort to borrowing, the burden of debt charges has grown substantially.  In the year 1924-25 the amount required for service of debt was £858,000.  Last year it was £1,229,000, and this year, quite apart from the annuity payable to the British Government, the service of debt will absorb £1,606,000.  Even when allowance is made for interest receivable in respect of the Exchequer balance and Exchequer advances, the amount that will have to be provided this year to meet interest and sinking fund will be £586,640 more than we needed in 1927-28. 
     Twelve months ago I intimated to the Dail that some difficulty might be experienced in avoiding the imposition of fresh taxation this year.  I hoped, however, that it would be just possible to escape it by securing a measure of retrenchment in the public services and by resorting to certain devices which would bring in extra revenue for one year without actually involving the imposition of new taxes.  I alluded in my last Budget statement to various indications that an improvement in economic conditions generally had begun.  I hoped then that matters would by now have so far mended that we could look forward to obtaining from our existing taxation a yield that would on the whole equal that of 1927-28. Finally I thought that the Tariff Commission might make recommendations that would incidentally give some revenue.  The position we have to face to-day is that the small reduction which might have been secured in the cost of   normal Supply Services was more than wiped out by the passage of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1928, which had the more or less cordial approval of all the members of the House.  The long-looked-for improvement in general economic conditions has indubitably begun.  I referred last year to the fact that, for the purpose of estimating the yield of income tax, the Revenue Commissioners compile before the beginning of each financial year a table showing the total profits made by two hundred representative firms in various branches of business in the twelve months ending on the preceding 31st December.  Last year the table indicated that, in the period to which it related, profits generally were down by only five per cent. as compared with the preceding year.  And it was thought that but for the effects of the British coal strike profits might have shown some increase.  The table prepared this year indicates that, so far as the two hundred sample firms are concerned, their profits in 1927 were higher than those of either of the two preceding years.  But though economic conditions have improved, the upward movement has been too slight to help the revenue position, for while 1927-28 was a better year than either of the two years which preceded it, it was worse than 1924-25, which it replaces in calculating the three years' average for income tax purposes.  In the present year, therefore, receipts from current income tax will be down, irrespective of the effect of last year's reduction of the rate. 
     A certain decline is anticipated in the yield of Customs Duties and, though the Tariff Commission has produced interesting and valuable reports, they have not tended greatly to replenish the Exchequer.  In order to ascertain what changes in taxation are required to give us a balanced budget, we must determine by how much the estimated revenue for the year 1928-9 falls short of that part of the estimated expenditure which must be defrayed out of income.  I propose, as in the last three years, to pick out of the estimates of expenditure those items which represent capital investment or recoverable outlay and such other items as might, because of their abnormal and non-recurrent character,   be properly met out of borrowed moneys.  By deducting the total thus obtained from the aggregate estimated expenditure on Supply and Central Fund Services, we shall find the amount that will have to be provided from the fruits of taxation or other normal sources of revenue during the present financial year.  I propose that compensation charges as well as the major part of the cost of restoring public buildings shall again be treated as abnormal and the sums involved obtained by borrowing.  The amounts required for the provision of new capital for the Local Loans Fund, for loans to creameries and advances to Agricultural Credit Societies, will also be borrowed, as will the sum which it is anticipated will be disbursed during the present year in re-payment of the principal of the Dail Eireann Internal Loan, together with accumulated interest.  The Estimate for Army Pensions contains substantial provision for the payment of arrears of pensions and allowances principally of those granted under the Act of 1927, and the amount required will be appreciably down after the 31st March next.  It is proposed, accordingly, to regard part of the estimate as representing an abnormal outlay, which need not be met out of the taxation of the current year. 
     With reference to that part of the cost of the Army which is in excess of £1,500,000, I have decided, after considerable hesitation, that I can again recommend to the Dail that it be defrayed out of borrowed money.  I am aware that it will be argued by many people, that although such a course was justifiable last year, the fact that all members of the Dail have now taken their seats, removes all excuse for finding any part of the expense of maintaining the Army by incurring debt.  I think, however, that when it is borne in mind that the task of transforming a standing Army into a force that will consist largely of territorial or militia units is one which presents greater difficulties here than in a country not recently torn by civil war, and when it is remembered that the estimated cost has come down by £380,000 in the past twelve months, there are few who will not agree that   a proportion of the cost amounting to about one-sixth may for this year be regarded as abnormal and treated in the same way as, for instance, the whole of the cost of compensation is treated.  At the same time, I am clearly of opinion that after this year it will not be possible to make any case for defraying any part of the Army charge by borrowing.  Next year, whatever the cost of the Army may be, the whole of the amount required will have to be met out of revenue. 
     In making my calculations for the Budget proposals for 1927-28, I treated as representing abnormal expenditure a sum of £145,000 provided in the estimates for drainage works.  The corresponding figure appearing in the estimates for the current year is £110,000.  I have come to the conclusion that this item must be treated as normal expenditure.  No Exchequer asset is created by the outlay.  In so far as drainage schemes are economic, the money required for their execution is advanced out of the Local Loans Fund. Exchequer grants are given only towards meeting the difference between the cost of carrying out schemes and the value of the improvements effected. The expenditure expected to be incurred in connection with drainage this year is not, therefore, of the kind that could ordinarily be regarded as justifying borrowing.  Nor is the amount proposed to be spent so exceptionally high that the burden of providing it ought to be spread over several years.  In fact, it cannot be anticipated that for a considerable time to come it will be possible to put the annual estimate for drainage below this year's figure.  In all the circumstances, I think there is no alternative to finding the amount required for drainage out of revenue.  In connection with this matter, I should like to remind Deputies that it is incumbent upon us to be more careful than ever to see that our financial policy is not open to criticism.  The fact that a substantial block of our second loan was issued and is held abroad means that the basis of our Budget proposals will be subject to critical examination and comment of a kind of which we have heretofore had no experience.  If   our methods were to show any slackness or any tendency to shirk the imposition of the taxation necessitated by our scale of expenditure, the effect on the credit of the State would be speedy and serious. 
     The estimate of expenditure for the year 1928-29 on Central Fund Services is £4,314,981.  That figure given in the volume of estimates for the Supply Services is £22,433,019, but the figure we must take for the purpose of Budget calculations is that given in the White Paper, namely, £22,583,019, which takes account of the additional £150,000 that will be paid out in consequence of the passage of the Old Age Pensions Act. The aggregate estimate of expenditure for the year is, therefore, £26,898,000. For the purpose of arriving at the amount which must be defrayed out of taxation, or other normal revenue, the following items may be deducted from the total;&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             1.  Vote 8.  Local Loans Fund, provision in respect of new capital 
             142,000 
           
           
             2.  Vote 11.  Public Works and Building, £374,000 out of a total provision of £581,550 for sites, new works, alterations and additions, and £10,000, the total provision in respect of compensation for premises commandeered by the Army 
             384,000 
           
           
             3.  Vote 14.  Property Losses Compensation, the entire provision 
             546,780 
           
           
             4.  Vote 52.  Department of Agriculture.  Sub-heads F 5 and F 6, £32,000, provision for capital grants to Universities.  Sub-head M 4, £3,000, being the amount by which it is anticipated loans for agricultural purposes will exceed repayments. Sub-head M 5, Loans to Cooperative Societies, £35,000, the whole provision 
             70,000 
           
           
             5.  Vote 53.  Forestry Service, £25,000 out of a total of £52,000 provided for acquisition of land and cultural operations 
             25,000 
           
           
             6.  Vote 54.  Land Commission, Sub-head I, Improvement of Estates, £223,200, being  that part of a total provision, £323,200, which may be regarded as abnormal 
             223,200 
           
           
             7.  Vote 55.  Advances to Agricultural Societies, £20,000, the total provision 
             20,000 
           
           
             8.  Vote 64.  The Army, £304,433, being the estimated expenditure in excess of £1,500,000 
             304,433 
           
           
             9.  Vote 65.  Army Pensions, £75,000, the part of the estimated expenditure on Army Pensions which may be regarded as abnormal 
             75,000 
           
           
             10.  Central Fund Services, £219,924, provision for repayment with interest of Dail Eireann Internal Loan and £225,000 for the purchase of shares in the Agricultural Credit Corporation 
             444,924 
           
         
       
     
     The total figure made up under these ten heads is £2,235,337.  If we deduct this amount from the aggregate estimate of expenditure, we get a net estimated sum of £24,662,663, to be spent on purposes for which borrowing ought not to take place.  But it is safe to assume that actual expenditure will not reach the total of the estimate.  As I have pointed out in previous years, the estimates are prepared from fifteen to eighteen months before the end of the year to which they relate.  They comprise 71 estimates, divided into more than 550 separate sub-heads, every one of which is supposed to contain sufficient provision for the object with which it deals.  The consequence is that although certain votes will in every year prove insufficient and supplementary estimates will have to be introduced, the total expenditure will nevertheless be found in practice to be appreciably less than the total of the estimates taken together.  In some countries, this fact is not taken into account in framing budget proposals and any surplus that arises in consequence of over-estimation goes to the redemption of debt.  In the case of the Saorstat, the terms on which Compensation Stock and the National Loans were issued, necessitate the making of such ample provision for redemption, that it is unnecessary to   aim at supplementing it.  Last year, I put the figure for over-estimation in respect of normal and recurrent expenditure at £630,000.  This year it cannot be put higher than £600,000.  In view of the demand for further expenditure that will arise in other directions, it will not be easy to realise even this amount.  If we deduct £600,000 from the figure already given, we get an estimated sum of £24,062,663, which will all be spent during the year and which must all be found by methods other than borrowing. 
     We shall now consider what income will be available on the present basis of taxation towards defraying normal and recurrent expenditure on the scale indicated.  In the White Paper it is estimated that taxation at existing rates will give us £19,650,000 in the present year, while non-tax revenue will amount to £3,513,860, making a total of £23,163,860.  Amongst the items included under the heading &ldquo;Miscellaneous non-tax revenue&rdquo; is a sum of £500,000, estimated to be the profit which will accrue to the Exchequer from the forthcoming issue of token coinage.  This time last year we hoped that the issue would be made in the latter part of the financial year 1927-28, and that portion of the profit, amounting to £300,000, would come into the Exchequer before the 31st March last.  Difficulties of various kinds delayed the issue and no receipt was obtained.  That, however, did not affect the Budget position, as it had been decided to treat the whole £300,000 as an abnormal receipt, which should be deducted from the aggregate estimate of revenue, in the same way as various abnormal charges had been deducted from the total estimate of expenditure.  My proposal this year is that half the estimated profit from token coinage be treated as normal revenue and the other half as abnormal. I think it justifiable to do this. because the Currency Commission, which this year will only provide a contribution sufficient to compensate the Exchequer for loss of stamp duty on ordinary bank notes, will next year give us an additional £250,000.  Thus, although the part of the profit from token coinage which I propose to treat as normal revenue will be non-recur   rent, it will be replaced next year by a recurrent receipt of equal amount from a related source.  Let us, therefore, deduct only £250,000 from the total of tax and non-tax revenue shown in the White Paper.  The estimated normal revenue is now shown to be £22,913,860, and if this figure is compared with the net estimated normal expenditure we find that the deficiency to be made good by some method other than borrowing amounts to £1,148,803. Last year the estimate of expenditure that had to be met out of normal revenue amounted, after making allowance for an additional sum of £150,000 for increased debt charges, to £23,331,103.  The comparable figure for this year is £24,062,663, or an increase of £731,560.  But if the amount to be paid to the Road Fund in each of the two years were left out of account, it would be found that expenditure payable out of revenue, not ear-marked for any specific purpose, had increased by an additional £200,000 or by £931,560 in all.  Of the increase, £436,640 is accounted for by the fact that additional provision had to be made for interest and sinking fund.  £250,000 of the increase is due to the fact that the annuity under the Damage to Property (Compensation) (Amendment) Act becomes payable this year, and, while there is a slight fall of £7,502 in other Central Fund Charges, the increase in the estimates for normal supply services amounts to £252,422. Of the latter figure, £110,000 may be accounted for by the fact that I have this year treated Exchequer contributions to drainage works as normal expenditure. 
     Hence, it will be seen that but for the increased charge imposed by the Old Age Pensions Amendment Act, the net estimate of normal recurrent expenditure on supply services would have been very slightly lower than last year if precisely similar deductions had been made from the gross total.  The estimate for normal revenue for the present financial year is less than that on which last year's Finance Bill was based by £435,340, or, if we eliminate the marginal sum which was regarded as surplus, by £417,243.  If the revenue which is earmarked for the Road Fund   were excluded from the estimates of both years, the present year's estimated revenue would fall short of the estimate used in last year's Budget calculations by £217,243. 
     Leaving the Road Fund, therefore, out of account, the position is that in budgeting for the coming year we have to face an increased expenditure on recurrent and normal items of £931,560, of which more than £680,000 is due to the increased provision for debt charges, and that we have an estimated income which is £217,243 less than the revenue which was anticipated this time last year.  In connection with these figures it must be borne in mind that the increase of £436,000 in ordinary debt charges is not all a dead burden on the taxpayer. The interest-receipts included in the estimated revenue for the current year exceed the amount anticipated twelve months ago for the year 1927-28 by £190,000.  Nevertheless, all fresh borrowing imposes a comparatively heavy charge, because, while interest may be paid on certain Exchequer advances, sinking fund has all to be got out of taxation. 
     It has generally happened heretofore that in framing a budget, I have had to consider which of the many concessions claimed by taxpayers it would be most useful to grant.  While it is proposed this year to make one or two small adjustments that have been sought by different interests and will involve little loss of revenue, the task of finding £1,149,000 makes it impossible to consider any of the big claims. Our intention is to do as little as possible in the way of imposing new taxes or increasing old ones.  We are satisfied that a comparatively slight acceleration of the economic improvement which has begun would result in its being possible to foresee a better yield from the various taxes in the year 1929-30.  If the yield began to rise, the balancing of next year's Budget would be eased considerably. In the belief, therefore, that there is every possibility that this is the worst year which the State will have to face from the point of view of tax-yield, and with a view to minimising as far as possible the check which might be put on economic recovery by a great number of new charges, we propose to   get a substantial part of the extra income required for the year by a resort to expedients which will give us revenue for one year only.  We intend to speed up the collection of the abnormal arrears of income tax. There is still outstanding a sum of about £500,000 relating to years for which the collection ought long ago to have been closed.  The result is that Inspectors of Taxes are prevented from giving the attention that it demands to current work and headquarters officers have found it utterly impossible to take up the urgent task of trying to devise an income tax code that would be simpler and more suited to the needs and conditions of this country than that which we inherited. Even if additional money were not wanted, it would be desirable to make a push to dispose finally of the great, tangled mass of arrears which has heretofore handicapped revenue officers and has caused, and is still causing, loss of current revenue.  The difficulty of dealing with the problem arose partly from shortage of qualified staff. It takes four years to train an Inspector of Taxes.  At the change of Government we were not able to induce a sufficient number of Irishmen in the British service to transfer to the Saorstat, with the result, until two years ago, we were only able to carry on the collection of income tax in a reasonably satisfactory manner through the courtesy of the British Government in lending us the services of a group of experienced inspectors. When English inspectors were withdrawn it was found possible, in some instances, to promote tax-officers to their places, but the staff was still left lamentably short.  We have now reached the point when several of the assistant inspectors, who were recruited by competitive examination held in 1923, are ready to be commissioned as inspectors.  The Revenue Commissioners are satisfied that, with certain other facilities which we are arranging to give them in the matter of staff, they will be able so to operate on the abnormal arrears that an additional £250,000 will be brought into the Exchequer this year, leaving something less than that sum still outstanding.  I hope that taxpayers will realise that what is proposed is for their own good,   and that there will be fewer attempts by taxpayers to postpone unreasonably the payment of sums due by them to the Exchequer. 
     A good deal of misapprehension exists as regards the assessment and collection of income tax.  The Minister for Finance and the Revenue Commissioners have no functions as regards the amounts of assessments.  The law provides that assessments shall be made by Inspectors of Taxes in the first instance. Taxpayers have a right to appeal to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax against any such assessments. The Special Commissioners are not subject to the Minister, or to the Revenue Commissioners, in regard to their decisions.  If taxpayers are not satisfied with the result of appeals to the Special Commissioners they have the further right of appeal to the Circuit Judges and, on points of law, to the High Court. 
     When an assessment becomes final and conclusive as the result of appeals, or in the absence of appeal, it is the duty of the Revenue Commissioners to see that the tax is collected within a reasonable time.  In recent years a practice has arisen which places diffities in the way of collection.  Deputies and Ministers are appealed to to intervene and prevent the Revenue Commissioners from carrying out the functions imposed on them by law.  I would suggest to Deputies that, in future, they should not intervene in such cases except to inform their correspondents that the collection of income tax has been placed under the control of the Revenue Commissioners, and that any complaints or applications for special treatment should be addressed to that body, by whom, I need not say, they will be favourably considered. 
     In making these remarks I am referring only to taxpayers who do not carry out their obligations.  A tribute must be paid to a great number of taxpayers who meet their liabilities promptly and with the minimum trouble and cost.  It is unfair to the prompt taxpayers to allow the careless and indifferent ones to get special advantages. The extra expense incurred in dealing with defaulting taxpayers has become a serious problem. 
     
        Deputies may be aware that in a neighbouring country income tax chargeable under Schedule A is now payable in one instalment.  The admiration in which the laws of that country are held may vary considerably from one Deputy to another but I feel that in this particular respect they are worthy of the flattery of imitation.  The principle of two instalments for Schedule A was only introduced in 1918, when income tax was levied at the rate of 6/- in the £.  I do not think collection in a single instalment will involve any great hardship now that the rate of tax has fallen to 3/-.  It will bring the treatment of investment income derived from real property into line with that of other investment income; it will lighten official labour substantially and, last but not least, it will bring in an extra receipt of £150,000 this year, to be followed by £50,000 more next year. 
     At the present time, brewers in the Saorstat are allowed three months credit by the Revenue authorities, so that duty is not paid until three months after the beer on which it is charged has been brewed.  In Great Britain and Northern Ireland only one month's credit is allowed.  We propose to shorten the period here to two months. In the case of some brewers, the payment of an extra month's duty in the present year may be felt to involve some measure of hardship, but in other cases the additional payment will cause no embarrassment.  The charge will produce £300,000 for the Exchequer this year. 
     By means of these expedients a total additional revenue of £700,000 will be obtained.  There will still remain a deficiency of £449,000, and, to this extent, fresh taxation must be imposed. Such a considerable sum can only be obtained by a very sharp increase in direct taxation or by an import tax on articles of general consumption. Various courses have suggested themselves and have been considered.  An increase of 6d. in the income tax would theoretically bring in this year about £250,000, and 1/- would theoretically bring in £500,000 or a little more.  An additional tax of 8d. per lb. on tobacco would yield   £210,000.  A tax of 1d. per gallon on paraffin and petrol would produce £125,000.  By increasing the duty on sugar from 1d. to 11⁄4d. per lb. we could obtain £200,000 between additional revenue and reduction of the cash subsidy payable to the Carlow factory.  By extending the existing McKenna duty on motor vehicles to include commercial vehicles and tyres we could get £200,000.  A tax of 2d. per lb. on tea would give £190,000. By fixing the minimum charge for ordinary telegrams at 1/6 we could get £70,000 in a full year. 
     We rejected the idea of raising the income tax.  An increase of 1/- would not be practicable unless we were prepared to abolish the corporation profits tax.  That particular duty disappeared some time ago in England, but we thought it desirable to retain it until we could devise a better means of getting an equivalent of death duties in respect of property owned by foreign companies here.  Corporation profits tax bore very hardly, however, on a firm like Messrs. Jacob, for instance, so long as our income tax rate was equal to the British rate. Such a firm saw that by manufacturing here they became chargeable with what was, for all practical purposes, a higher rate of income tax than if they had shifted their work to the other side.  If the corporation profits tax were abolished, even an increase of 1/- in the income tax rate would not go anywhere near providing the sum required this year.  If the income tax were raised by 6d., and the corporation profits tax retained, the position would be no better, because if the income tax rate were raised at all it would be quite impossible to obtain the additional £250,000 from arrears to which I have referred.  Furthermore, if the rate of income tax were raised, the collection of Schedule A in one instalment would inflict definite hardship in the first year.  In short, a 6d. increase in income tax would give very little net additional revenue in the first year, would stop the growth of business confidence and check the tendency of well-disposed investment-holders to settle in the Saorstat.  A tax of 8d. per lb. on tobacco would bring our rate up to the British maximum   rate, but, as we have no colonial preference, the average rate paid here would be higher than in Great Britain. The present duty on tobacco is very high, and it is believed that the yield has been so well maintained only because of the increase of smoking amongst women&mdash;the Parliamentary Secretary suggests I should say &ldquo;ladies.&rdquo;  There is, in fact, already a slight tendency for the return to shrink, and it is probable that any increase in the duty while economic conditions are as at present would lessen consumption and fail to give a revenue return proportionate to the hardship that would be felt.  The extension of the McKenna duty on motors to all vehicles and tyres we consider a suitable means of raising part of the extra revenue that is required. 
     The great and rapid extension of motor transport, both for goods and passengers, is making it constantly more difficult for railway services to be maintained at rates that are at all reasonable.  Yet, for the carriage of coal, live stock fertilizers and other heavy goods, railway transport at reasonable rates cannot be dispensed with.  If the charging of Customs duties on lorries and buses causes the growth of motor traffic to slow down, no harm will be done.  There is no danger that the extension of the duty proposed will cause any abandonment of motor transport.  It is a tax which can very well be borne and which will be convenient to collect.  So far as the tax on tyres is concerned, it will not be a very heavy impost on the private owner. 
     We did not consider that it would be desirable to impose a tax on tea or a tax on petrol and paraffin.  These commodities at present enter duty free and if taxes were imposed on them the result would be that the extra charge upon the public would substantially exceed the amount of income reaching the Exchequer.  On the other hand, sugar is already taxed and the expense of compliance with Customs formalities is already being borne.  If the duty were increased by 1⁄4d. per lb., there is no reason why anything more than the amount of the additional tax should be passed on to the consumer.  On the other hand, the cost of collecting duty   at 11⁄4d. per lb. will not be greater than the cost of collecting duty at 1d. per lb.  No additional staff would be required. We propose to increase the duty on sugar by 1⁄4d. per lb. 
     When I mentioned that a duty on paraffin and petrol of 1d. per gallon would produce £125,000, I should have stated that nearly half of that would come from paraffin and the remainder from petrol. 
     At the present time, the maintenance of the telegraph service involves a substantial annual loss, and there is no prospect of its becoming self-supporting. On the contrary, as the telephone comes into more general use, it is inevitable that the use of the telegraphs will decline.  To a certain extent, falling traffic will make possible reductions of staff, but, on the whole, the tendency will be for the difference between income and expenditure to widen.  The service must be retained, and the only way to reduce the deficit and prevent the burden on the Exchequer from growing is by increasing the tariff.  We propose to raise the minimum rate for ordinary telegrams to 1/6 each. Even when that has been done, each message sent will still involve a contribution of, I think, about 6d. from the Exchequer.  We cannot make a rigid rule that postal services shall all pay for themselves, but if we are to go near getting rid, within reasonable time, of the loss on the Post Office, which at present, after allowance is made for services rendered by it to other Government Departments, is somewhere about £400,000 per annum.  We must try to obtain a better return from those branches in which there is the greatest loss.  A great proportion of the telegrams handled are of a sporting nature or are messages of condolence or congratulation, and not such as can very strongly claim a contribution from the ordinary taxpayer towards the cost of their transmission.  Few people, except those interested in sporting events, send telegrams regularly or in large numbers.  On the whole, the increase proposed, which is less than might reasonably be justified, is not likely to affect appreciably the course of business in the country.  It will give us £66,000 this year. 
     The two changes in taxation to which   I have alluded and the raising of the charge for telegrams will produce £466,000 and enable us to balance the Budget and leave a small balance of £17,000. 
     The other proposals which I have still to mention will make little change in the revenue figures for this year. Deputies will remember that in April, 1926, we concluded an agreement with the British Government whereby the Revenue authorities of the Saorstat and Great Britain were enabled to give relief on the residence basis from double income tax and double super-tax. The agreement freed residents in the Saorstat from liability to British income tax and super-tax and residents in Great Britain from liability to Saorstat tax.  That scheme has been found to work satisfactorily and has very considerably reduced the difficulties experienced by taxpayers in obtaining relief to which they were entitled.  Last year, however, the British Parliament passed legislation abolishing super-tax and instituting a new tax called a sur-tax.  It is, consequently, necessary to make an alteration in the Double Taxation Relief Agreement of 1926.  That agreement deals only with relief from income tax and super-tax and its provisions would be inapplicable to sur-tax.  The new agreement will be signed to-day and laid before the Dail to-morrow.  On consideration of the alterations that it would be necessary to make in the old agreement, we came to the conclusion that in order to simplify the drafting it would be desirable if we adopted the name sur-tax.  We have also decided, at the same time, to take advantage of the opportunity of altering the basis of assessment of the tax to the income of the year of assessment instead of the income of the preceding year.  The sur-tax for any year, however, will not be payable until the 1st of January of the following year. 
     Super-tax as at present levied has the disadvantage that it is not assessable until the year following the first year in which the taxpayer's income (as computed for income tax purposes) reaches the super-tax point, and there is a loss of one year's super-tax in the case of every taxpayer.  Thus, if a   man's income liable to tax exceeds two thousand pounds for the first time in 1929-30 and continues to exceed it every year until the 31st March, 1932, when he dies, he has had an income within the super-tax range for the three years prior to his death, but we get only two years' super-tax.  We shall get three years' sur-tax.  Whilst, therefore, there is no gain to the Exchequer within the current financial year, there will be a very definite gain over a series of years.  An average of £25,000 per annum might be obtained. The new system will be more logical and equitable than the old. 
     An application was lodged with the Tariff Commission some time ago by the Irish Glass Bottle Company for an exemption from the tariff on certain classes of bottles which they could not economically manufacture and for which applications were constantly being made to them by traders.  Subsequently a joint deputation of representatives of the bottle factory and of the bottle users waited on me and urged that I should agree, without the trouble and delay of a hearing by the Tariff Commission, to restrict the tax to glass jam jars and to bottles of the kind ordinarily used for bottling beer, wine, spirits and mineral waters, not including any bottle of a capacity of less than five fluid ounces, and that until such time as the Irish Glass Bottle Company should be in a position to offer for sale white glass bottles of the kind specified, the Revenue Commissioners should be authorised to allow the importation on licence issued by them of reasonable quantities of such bottles.  As the modification of the duty requested was desired by all interested parties and approved by the Department of Industry and Commerce, I agreed to recomment it to the Dail.  In effect, it means that the protective duty will, for some time at any rate, apply only to jam jars and to dark-coloured wine, beer, spirit and mineral bottles.  All the great range of medicine bottles, in connection with which there has been so much complaint, will be exempt.  The loss to the Exchequer will be about £12,000. 
     The Inter-Departmental Committee which I appointed last June to explore thoroughly, from the financial and   other points of view, the present position of Irish racing has recently presented a report.  It appears that practically all the racecourse companies and race committees in the Saorstat are now in a precarious financial position and that in 1927, with two exceptions, they incurred losses on the year's working.  The Committee were of opinion, and I concur, that Irish racing has reached such a stage that it can no longer support the burden of the Entertainment Duty, particularly since the imposition of the Betting Tax.  The yield of Entertainment Duty in respect of payment for admission to race courses has fallen from £21,000 in 1924-25 to £10,700 in 1927-28.  I propose that the duty be now remitted. The loss of revenue will be about £9,000. 
     It is proposed to alter certain existing provisions of the law governing the aggregation of estates for the levying of estate duty.  At present, settled property passing on a death under a disposition made by a person who died before the commencement of the Finance Act of 1894 is exempt from aggregation and, being treated as a separate estate, pays duty at a lower rate than if lumped with the other property passing on the same death.  For example, A who died in 1893 by settlement dated 1892, settled property valued £1,500 on himself for life, falling, after his death, to his wife B and, after her death, to the children of the marriage. 
     B's unsettled property at her death was worth £9,000.  If B died on the 1st March last the rate of estate duty would be 3 per cent. on the settled property and 3 per cent. on the unsettled property, both being treated as separate estates for the purpose of aggregation.  If, however, B has survived and dies subsequent to the passing of this year's Finance Act, the settled and unsettled estates will be lumped together, and estate duty will be payable at 5 per cent. on the aggregate of £10,500.  It is considered that, taking one year with another, there will be a net gain to the Exchequer of £15,000 per annum for the next eight or ten years as a result of the proposed legislation.  On the other hand, if the change is not made, there will be an   actual loss of £10,000 per annum on double taxation relief owing to the British rates being higher than ours. In the first year the positive gain will be about £6,000, and the loss counteracted £4,000.  The principle on which relief from double taxation is given in respect of estate duty is that the country of domicile charges on the whole estate, and the other country on the assets situated in its territory. The country of domicile gives relief to the full extent of the tax charged by the other country.  Consequently, in the case of the estate of a person dying domiciled here, if we continued to give exemption from aggregation while the British did not, it might happen that they would charge as much duty on part of the estate as we would charge on the whole estate, and we should have to give relief to the extent of the whole of our tax. 
     In last year's Budget statement, I announced that we intended to take steps to secure that death duties on shares held by Saorstat citizens in British companies doing business here would all come into our Exchequer. The present position is that if a company, the shareholders in which are wholly or mainly Irish, has the greater part of its property here, but is registered in Great Britain, the death duties payable in respect of the shares in that company go very largely into the British Exchequer.  Indeed, if a Saorstat citizen died leaving an estate consisting entirely of shares in such a company, we should get no estate duty at all.  The shares, being shares in a British company, would constitute property situated in Great Britain and would be liable to British tax.  The same shares, being the estate of a person domiciled here, would also be liable to Saorstat tax, but we should be obliged to give relief to the extent of the British charge, so that no duty would come into the Saorstat Exchequer. If, on the other hand, such a company established a Colonial Register here, the position would be different.  The shares of a Saorstat citizen entered on the local register would be property situate here, and would be liable to Saorstat tax alone. It was intended last year to pass legislation compelling British companies   doing business here to establish Colonial Registers in the Saorstat. Although a great deal of time was devoted to the matter, it was found impossible to devise legislation of a direct kind that would effect the purpose. Accordingly, it is proposed to deal with the matter by way of an increase in the corporation profits tax. 
     The rate will be raised from five per cent. to seven and a half per cent. in the case of foreign companies, but the higher rate will not be chargeable in the case of companies which have or establish Colonial Registers here or have no Saorstat shareholders.  The increased rate is not likely to give us any additional corporation profits tax, because Colonial Registers will, no doubt, be established, but it will in subsequent years bring us in perhaps an average of £30,000 per annum extra in death duties.  I might mention that one case came under notice within the past few years in which, if a particular firm had had a Colonial Register here, additional death duty to an amount running well into six figures would have been obtained from the Exchequer. 
     A number of minor alterations in the law will be made by sections in the Finance Bill.  As they are of no financial importance I need not specify them now.  I shall conclude by saying a few words with reference to the prospect of avoiding further increases in taxation in the future.  Hitherto we have had, year by year, a decreased draw on the taxpayer, and at the same time a continual increase in the number and extent of the services provided by the State.  This was possible because we inherited at the change of Government taxation on a very high scale, which was used in the first few years of the Saorstat's existence to defray part of the abnormal expenses due to disturbed conditions.  As these expenses decreased, or began to be met wholly out of borrowed moneys, it was possible to take smaller contributions from the taxpayer and yet provide him with additional services.  That stage has now been passed.  The adoption of any new service of importance will definitely entail increased taxation.  Every little group of new services of the minor kind will also mean increased taxation.   In future, reductions of taxation will be possible only if a great economic recovery swells the yield of revenue, or if alterations of policy are approved which make possible very substantial economies. 
     Small economics such as do not depend on policy cannot be expected to do more in the aggregate than to supply the funds for those new services that will be necessary even with the most rigid economy.  It cannot be emphasised too strongly that retrenchment which will be worth anything depends on policy and, above all, on refusal to enter on new fields of expenditure. Economies of the kind that would enable taxation to be reduced cannot be effected by what are called popular methods.  If, for instance, every civil servant whose basic salary is over £831 10s., or, with bonus, £1,000 per annum, were brought down to that figure, the nominal saving effected would only be £31,000, or £28,000 if allowance is made for loss of income tax.  No one, however, who has really given thought to the matter can doubt that a measure of this kind would produce such unsettlement and discouragement as to reduce efficiency and result in money being lost instead of being saved.  A policy of retrenchment that will enable taxation to be reduced involves refusal to undertake or extend activities for which there is a genuine demand&mdash;activities that ought to be undertaken if agriculture and industry could afford them.  I am not arguing that lower taxation is necessarily the goal that should always be aimed at.  Increased taxation well spent may often give better results. But all State services have to be paid for out of production&mdash;out of agriculture and industry.  If production is overburdened, State services, even of the most desirable kind, will hinder rather than hasten progress and will, in the long run, reduce the amenities of life which they are intended to increase.  There is tremendous pressure from the country for more State activity, but up to the present very many people have failed to realise that what they have really been asking for is higher taxation.  There has been an airy idea abroad that if the number of buttons on the tunies of   the Civic Guard were reduced from five to four there would be lashings of money for everything.  We are now up against hard facts in a way that we have not been heretofore.  I have no doubt that demands for new services will continue, but I should hope they will be less insistent than heretofore and more discriminating.  If people will get the habit of thinking of expenditure and taxation together, instead of separately, political discussion will become more fruitful and the task of Deputies and Ministers will be made easier. 
     Next year some further increase in debt charges will inevitably take place, and some of the items of income on which we are relying to fill the gap this year will not be available.  It looks as if current income tax might yield something more next year than in 1928-29, but it will not be possible to collect as large an amount of arrears as this year.  It will, therefore, require great and sustained efforts to obtain the economies that will make it unnecessary to impose further new taxation next year.  Even if we are successful in avoiding increases for the year 1929-30, the position will then be that the abnormal arrears of income tax will have been completely exhausted, and that retrenchment on a considerable scale, coupled with an improvement in the yield of taxation, will be required to avoid the necessity of new imposts in the following year. The other side of the picture is that trade is now definitely, if slowly, improving, and there is every reason to believe that if we can only keep a rein on public expenditure, while continuing, with undiminished vigour, State activity of a productive kind, the rate of improvement may be definitely speeded up. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
   
   
     No. 1&mdash;INCOME TAX. 
     
      
       I move: 
       (1)  That income tax shall be charged for the year beginning on the 6th day of April, 1928, at the rate of three shillings in the pound. 
     
     (2)  That super-tax shall be charged for the year beginning on the 6th day of April, 1928, at the   same rates as those at which it was charged for the year beginning on the 6th day of April, 1927. 
     (3)  That the several statutory and other provisions which were in force during the year beginning on the 6th day of April, 1927, in relation to income tax and super-tax shall have effect in relation to the income tax and super-tax to be charged as aforesaid for the year beginning on the 6th day of April, 1928. 
     (4)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this Resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     
      
       I understand that, by regulations in connection with this particular matter, we are prevented at this stage from dealing with the Budget Statement as a whole.  I must say that one of the most disappointing things in the Budget Statement to me was the fact that no attempt was made to give relief to those with small incomes, no attempt whatever to differentiate in favour of giving extra relief to those with large families and small incomes.  The necessity for providing not merely for the same rate of expenditure as last year but for another £1,400,000 is a sad one.  We had hoped that the whole question of economy and retrenchment would have been tackled by the Minister in view of present conditions in a way that would enable him to diminish the amount required for the ordinary services of Government.  I would like to have our position in that matter made perfectly clear.  We are not against increases for social services. We are not against that, provided they relate to the benefit of the community. We are not against taxation for capital purposes but we certainly are against continuing the present high rate of expenditure on what I may call services for the machinery of government.  We believe that it would have been possible for the Minister in view of present conditions to consider a rearrangement of the present Civil Service. 
     
     In many cases, it has been admitted that we are the inheritors of a system and it has also been said by Ministers opposite that a great deal of the extra   expense is due to the fact that the conditions for the last four or five years did not give them an opportunity of going into details of administration and the regulation of services.  We have been referred to a neighbouring country in the Minister's statement.  In that neighbouring country, they have been able to reduce the number of civil servants required in the last year by a considerable fraction of the whole and they envisage a programme of further reductions for the next four or five years.  There is nothing to indicate, in the Minister's statement, that any such scheme is contemplated by the present Executive.  In fact, I think it is clear to the country as a whole that no relief of taxation can be expected from the present Executive.  I, for one, am convinced that a very different type of Budget would have been produced if there was an election pending, as there was last year when the Budget was brought in and when we were told that we were going to have a free breakfast table.  As regards income tax&mdash;we will have to keep strictly to that in this resolution but I hope to have an opportunity of dealing with wider matters on the general resolution&mdash;the fault I have to find is that there is no relief on small incomes or in favour of people with large families.  On that account, we are opposed to the flat rate of 3/- in the £, taking with it, I assume, the same rate of easement as in the preceding Act. 
     
      
       I may say at the outset that the Budget statement is particularly tame.  It does not create any great reforms.  Nothing has been done to face in a positive way the economic problems of the country.  We shall, however, have an opportunity of dealing with that matter later.  On the question of income tax, I wish to join with Deputy de Valera in expressing disappointment that nothing has been done to meet the case of the small income taxpayer, or the man who struggles to give an education to his children.  Year after year, since the Free State came into existence the Labour Party, and I especially, have pleaded for an easing of the load on the small taxpayer, especially on the parent who tries to give a higher education to his children.  The present relief to a man   who is paying for his sons in college is worth very little indeed.  In the same way we pressed for relief that was given last year in Great Britain and Northern Ireland in respect of earned income.  The proportion of earned income allowed off here is only one-tenth as compared with one-sixth in Great Britain.  We hear it said sometimes: &ldquo;Your rate of income tax is lower in the Free State than in Great Britain and Northern Ireland.&rdquo;  I think, however, the fact is not sufficiently adverted to that that relief which is indicated by a difference of a shilling applies to people with salaries of £700 or £800 or over.  To a man with a salary of £500 or under who has three children to maintain there is, in fact, no difference.  Before the present British Budget was introduced, I believe that a man who had three children and who paid income tax at the Saorstat rate was paying practically the same amount of income tax as the man with three children in Northern Ireland although the rate there was 4/- in the £. The difference in the amount which he paid would be only a few pounds. 
     
     As a result of yesterday's proposals in Great Britain a man with a salary of £500 and three children will pay only £3 5s. 0d. actual tax as against £10 0s. 0d. paid by a man similarly circumstanced in the Saorstat.  I think that the incidence of this tax is all against the small man, and I think it is wrong. I think if it were proposed to be just and equitable, that that should not be the case, but if it were necessary to get in the same amount of revenue from income tax as is got by this method, then relief should be given to the smaller man, even if it had been necessary to put a higher rate on persons with an income of over £1,000 a year. We have pleaded year after year for this relief.  It seemed from a statement a year or two ago that one could gather some hope that in the case of a parent educating his children there would be some relief, and we are disappointed that that hope has not been realised. Instead of giving relief to the smaller man his burden is increased in the matter of this farthing per lb. tax on sugar with which we will deal later.  On behalf of those with small salaries I must   express disappointment with the proposals with regard to income tax&mdash;very great disappointment indeed. 
     
      
       I am concerned with the fact that it is necessary, apparently, having regard to the standard rate of expenditure which the Government have decided to continue, that they should keep on, in order merely to balance their Budget, an impost of income tax which is definitely discouraging to the revival and the development of Irish industry.  I am very greatly concerned with the fact that there is no suggestion on the part, apparently, of the Minister for Finance that there is any difference whatever, from the point of view of this State, between capital invested and income earned in the employment of labour and the development of industry in this country and capital invested and income earned in the employment of labour in other countries.  I have no objection whatever, in present conditions, to any income tax less than that of surrounding States, which may compete for our capital, or Irish money which is invested abroad, which develops the industry of another people, develops the amenities and maintains the lives of the poorer people in other lands, but I am hostile entirely to a system of Government, to a standard of expenditure, to an outlook upon Government which, having regard to the narrowness of the resources of this country and the greatness of its wants, finds it necessary to take from production an amount that requires them to scavenge in every possible corner, to do the things which I know they would not desire to do, even to impose taxation which is a direct detriment to the development of industry here. 
     
     Some years ago, when income tax was higher both in this country and in another, when it was so high that it became a tax of a different nature to ordinary income tax, when it became an impost which drove people to expedients to avoid it which they would not use in regard to ordinary and normal taxation, when it was producing all sorts of complications and difficulties in the ordinary business life of this community and another, there was a great psychological opportunity to do a great big thing, to do it greatly and   to produce a great result.  That opportunity was allowed to pass, and the intervening years have not been marked by that policy in relation to expenditure, by that recognition of the narrowness of our resources, by a recognition of the consequences of the narrowness of our resources, by that reduction in expenditure which would have enabled us now to have thrown off this incubus upon initiative, upon enterprise and upon development.  If we were in a position&mdash;when we come to discuss the Estimates we hope to show that by a different method we might put ourselves in that position&mdash;considerably to reduce the amount of money in proportion to the total amount which we are taking from production for the mere purpose of maintaining the State, I believe that the people who would benefit most immediately from it, the people who most anxiously ought to desire it, are the poorest people of the country.  I made certain investigations at a previous time.  We took typical trades in different parts of the country and took out, as against the income tax paid by those trades, the amount of money which was distributed.  If any one of you will take the trouble to do that, or will ask some chartered accountant to give you some typical cases, or take some typical cases you know yourself, and take the amount the Free State gets from those enterprises compared with the amount which, in a productive business, they are compelled to distribute amongst the general community in taxes, rates and wages, you will find that there is an overwhelming case from the point of view of those who do not think that they pay income tax for the relief of those who do.  I am stating, probably, what in the ordinary sense is an unpopular doctrine.  I state it because I believe that, being understood, it can become the most popular doctrine.  I mean &ldquo;popular&rdquo; in the sense of a thing upheld, maintained and fought for by the poorest people in this country.  When I say I want to see considerable incomes earned in this country by men, I mean I want to see that they get them when they earn them, because I know, in the process of getting them, in the process of making incomes out of productive work, they   must necessarily distribute for the general benefit of the community an amount much more considerable than they would save in income tax. 
     There is this other respect in which the thing is important in relation to the differentiation between income tax imposed upon home investments and income tax imposed upon outside investments. It is the only machinery I personally have yet been able to find, apart from the machinery of awakened national soul and consciousness, by which we can face the obvious dangers and defects of fiscal expedients in the matter of the development of industry. Take, for example, a country in which there is, say, a three shilling income tax.  That is equivalent to fifteen per cent. 
     Take the case of a firm which comes over here and buys out one of our own firms.  Take the case of two parallel industries, one owned in this country by Irish capital and another owned by foreign capital, and assume for a moment what you may regard as controversial, that it is desirable that our industries here should, in order that they may develop, be owned by ourselves. Take the case when they come to distribute a dividend.  Of £100 dividend distributed in this country, if there is no income tax upon that dividend, the value is £100.  If it is subject to income tax, it is paid at £85.  Well, now, that is the position of the national upon the other side.  He may get his £100 of dividend here, but when he goes back to his own Government his own Government will take the balance, and the result is that his dividend is worth to him £85.  It is worth to a national in this country in relation to an industry here £100.  In other words, we can buy back in this country, under that system, for £85 the capital which we could not otherwise buy for £100. There is a tendency, under that system. in the first place, to give an inducement to Irish capital to find investment in this country.  There is, in addition, machinery by which it is more profitable for Irishmen to own the capital of industry in this country than it is profitable for a foreigner, and, therefore, the tendency is to come back.  Broadly   speaking, my objection to an income tax of 3/-, or any other amount at present, in face of the actual difficulties of this country, is because it is a tax upon initiative and incentive.  Any one of you who has tried&mdash;and some of us have tried&mdash;to induce Irish capital at the moment to get into Irish enterprise of any sort or kind will know what a hopeless task it is.  There are good reasons, of one kind or another, which make it difficult to do so, and unless we can find some very definite inducement to do that, we are simply going to find that our capital is still going to pour out to the ends of the earth, and that the ownership of all our industries and means of production are going to be in the hands of somebody else.  I suggest that when the Minister comes to consider this matter, the difficulty is the change which has been made on the other side in the Budget.  The tax on the other side is for ordinary incomes, lower than the income tax here.  Of the two changes I would suggest, the first is: if any alleviation in this matter can be found, I believe it can only be found by a reduction in expenditure. If they can find some method of reducing their expenditure&mdash;and I think they can&mdash;and if they find they are in a position to make any relief, the relief should be made in the direction of giving larger exemptions to the lower rates of income, larger allowances for the maintenance of children, and in the differentiation between the burden on income earned in the investment of capital, in the maintenance of labour in this country, as distinct from money invested abroad. 
     
      
       This matter will be discussed more fully on Report, when Deputies will have the figures that I read and the proposals that I made in their hands for some time and will have had an opportunity of considering them.  With reference to the suggestions that have been made about income tax, I am, to some extent at any rate, familiar with the proposal that Deputy Flinn has made and with the arguments that he has used.  The difficulty that arises in the matter is simply that of the amount of actual State revenue that would be sacrificed.  That would be very great.  I would like to   point out just one other thing in connection with it.  People decline, refuse, or hold back from investing in Irish enterprises not so much because £15 out of £100 profit is taken by the State, but for reasons which I need not elaborate, namely, that they fear that they will not get a profit.  There is a lack of confidence in Irish industries, and it is doubtful to what extent that lack of confidence would be overcome by the hopes that people would have of ultimately making greater profits, if they made any, through there being no collection of tax.  Meanwhile, if tax were not collected it comes down again to the question of expenditure.  If expenditure were not greatly reduced then substantial increases of other sorts would have to be resorted to.  I feel a great deal of sympathy with the plea that Deputy O'Connell and Deputy de Valera put forward, but again it is a question of what can be done. We cannot decide that we will fix a scale of income tax to give us a certain amount and that we will take a much greater part than we are taking at present off the rich and let those who are poorer be called upon to a smaller extent, because we get a great deal of income tax from people who could leave the country.  I have always said that there are from 150 to 160 millions of capital invested abroad.  That is so, but the capital is not State owned.  A very large proportion of it is owned by individuals, and if they left the country the ownership of the capital would   leave the country, and very substantial sums of State revenue and of national income could easily be lost by that type of policy, aimed at extracting greater sums from the very rich and comparatively rich for the relief of those who are comparatively very poor. We could hardly have an income tax scale with the same balance as in England, because there is a multitude of great incomes in England.  They can get the bulk of their income tax from the very large incomes; at an equal rate to ours they can get four or five times the amount of revenue in income tax that we can get.  I have not the figures at hand, but I remember some years ago that almost the same rate of income tax gave a return of £5 per head in England and £1 2s. 6d. per head of the population here.  They get a far greater part of their income tax from the very rich than we do.  Consequently, without yielding too great a proportion of their income tax, they can give concessions that we could not give.  While it is very desirable that the smaller income tax payers should be relieved, I would not like to leave the tax on those whose incomes are still lower and below the income tax scale.  I am sure we will have amendments down when this resolution comes up on Report and we can debate the matter at greater length on these amendments.  I do not think we should try to debate it fully now. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 81; Nil, 47. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Michael Brennan. Henry Broderick. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. Archie J. Cassidy. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig.
 Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Timothy Joseph Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. 
             John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. James Everett. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Clare).
 Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Vincent Rice. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Daniel Bourke. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Daniel Buckley. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Dan Corkery. Martin John Corry. Fred. Hugh Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Samuel Holt. Stephen Jordan. 
             Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle.  Nil: Deputies Allen and G. Boland. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     No. 2&mdash;SUR-TAX. 
     
      
       Resolution No. 2 has been circulated to the Deputies.  I want to draw attention to a mistake in page 2, paragraph 2, of the resolution, where the words in the margin, &ldquo;three shillings,&rdquo; should read &ldquo;two shillings and threepence.&rdquo;  The resolution will then read: 
       No. 2&mdash;SUR-TAX. 
       (1)  That in addition to the income tax charged at the rate prescribed for any year there shall be charged. levied and paid for that year, in respect of the income of any individual, the total of which from all sources exceeds two thousand pounds, an additional duty of income tax (in this resolution referred to as sur-tax) at the rate or rates prescribed by the Oireachtas for that year. 
     
     (2)  That sur-tax shall be due and payable on or before the 1st day of January next after the end of the year of assessment, except that sur-tax or any part of sur-tax included in an assessment which is signed and allowed on or after the said 1st day of January, shall be deemed to be due and payable on the day next   after the day on which the assessment is signed and allowed. 
     (3)  That sur-tax shall be charged for the year beginning on the 6th day of April, 1928, at the following rates: 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             In respect of the first two thousand pounds of the income 
             Nil 
           
         
         
           
             In respect of the excess over two thousand pounds&mdash; For every pound of the first five hundred pounds of the excess 
             Ninepence 
           
           
             For every pound of the next five hundred pounds of the excess 
             One shilling 
           
           
             For every pound of the next one thousand pounds of the excess 
             One shilling and sixpence 
           
           
             For every pound of the next one thousand pounds of the excess 
             Two shillings and threepence 
           
           
             For every pound of the next one thousand pounds of the excess 
             Three shillings 
           
           
             For every pound of the next two thousand pounds of the excess 
             Three shillings and sixpence 
           
           
             For every pound of the next two thousand pounds of the excess 
             Four shillings 
           
           
             For every pound of the remainder of the excess 
             Four shillings and sixpence 
           
         
       
     
     Resolution, as altered, proposed. 
     
      
       I presume it will be clearly understood from the Minister's statement that this sur-tax is simply a substitution for the existing super-tax: that it is not a new tax and, as far as I am aware, there are no changes in the existing taxes.  It is simply a   change in the name from super-tax to sur-tax.  That is a point that ought to be made quite clear. 
     
     
      
       There is a little difference. A super-tax, as the Deputies will read in my statement, is an assessment on the income of the preceding year.  A sur-tax will be an assessment on the income of the year to which it relates.  I pointed out that the position will be that each person in receipt of a sufficient income to have been paying super-tax will now pay a sur-tax.  He will pay a sur-tax for one more year either during his life or during his residence in the country.  As super-tax is based on income derived from the preceding year, the first year in which a person has an income of, say, £2,000 a year he pays no super-tax because his income in the preceding year was less than £2,000 a year.  Now, as we are shifting the basis of the assessment to the income of the actual year to which the assessment relates, he will pay from the first year in which he has that income. 
     
     
      
       The suggestion is that one will yield more than the other? 
     
     
      
       It will. 
     
     
      
       We are not going to oppose this tax except to say that we feel about it in the same way as we felt in respect of Resolution No. 1. The criticism made against the previous tax in Resolution No. 1 was that no attempt is made to differentiate between incomes that are derived from productive enterprises here at home and the incomes that are derived from investments abroad. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 3&mdash;INCOME TAX. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       That sub-section (2) of Section 157 (which relates to the date when income tax is due) of the Income Tax Act, 1918, shall cease to have effect so far as it relates to tax chargeable under Schedule A, other than any tax so chargeable in respect of income which is, or is to be treated as earned income. 
     
     
        This motion is to provide that property taxes shall be payable in one instalment by the person who pays the property tax.  The property tax for a particular year is paid at present in this way: half the amount is payable on the 1st of January of that financial year, and the remaining half is payable on the 1st of July following, which is in the next year.  The income tax on all other investment income is payable in one instalment.  As I explained in my statement, this change in regard to property tax was made when the income tax was 6/- in the £1.  As a rule, the tax has been deducted from the rent by the tenant, and when the tax reached 6/- in the £1 it became impossible to deduct that amount from a quarter's rent.  Consequently, the change to two instalments had to be made.  This will bring us back to the position where, roughly, the tax on earned income is payable in two instalments and the tax on invested income is payable in one instalment.  It will bring forward a tax relating to this particular year, to the 1st of January next from the 1st July twelve months. Heretofore, as a matter of fact, half of it had not been payable until three months had elapsed in the following year.  It will now be payable in the year in which it falls due. 
     
      
       To whatever extent this would seem objectionable to anybody who has to provide that money in a hurry, it would apply and be rather inimical to, say, new schemes of housing.  I mean to say that to some extent it would be a hardship on people who invest money now in new housing schemes.  Possibly the Minister may be able to meet that point if there was any big hardship involved in relation to any big schemes.  That is the only suggestion I can think of at the moment. It may theoretically seem easy to Ministers for Finance, but it is not always exactly easy for ordinary human beings to find £100 on the 1st January as to find £50 then and £50 on the 1st July. To the extent that it is a hindrance to money being invested in housing, I think the matter should be reconsidered. 
     
     
      
       That is a matter that   could be considered, but the Deputy will realise that while, perhaps, there might be some difficulty on the part of people raising the money, the actual burden is simply represented by half a year's interest on half the tax payable, because it simply means that some person has to provide money in January which he would have provided in July. He loses 5 per cent. on that money during that period.  If it was felt there should be some modification made, it could be considered. 
     
     
      
       I ask that the matter be considered. 
     
     
      
       Has the Deputy calculated the amount which would be involved over £100 on the 1st January? 
     
     
      
       I am not at all sure that it would be a big matter. 
     
     
      
       The whole point is what you multiply it by.  Suppose a man owned 100 houses.  He would have to meet all this in the one payment.  We are all anxious that housing should be made the subject of an investment; we are anxious that it should be popularised. I quite agree with Deputy Flinn that matters of this kind rather tend in the opposite direction and, therefore, I would urge that attention might be given to the admirable suggestion made by Deputy Flinn. 
     
     
      
       We are quite prepared to consider any suggestion, but I would like to point out that this particular sort of income is really much more lightly taxed as a general rule than any other income at the present time.  Perhaps if we investigated it too much we might alter the conditions. 
     
     
      
       It is not a popular form of investment. 
     
     
      
       I believe that all the difficulties in housing are cumulative. There are a whole lot, and if there is one subject on which there is universal accord it is that every possible difficulty as it arises in relation to housing should have very special treatment. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
       Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 4&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That a customs duty of an amount equal to thirty-three and one-third per cent. of the value of the article shall be charged, levied and paid on all motor cars and component parts and accessories of motor cars imported into Saorstat Eireann on or after the 26th day of April, 1928. 
       (2)  That in this resolution the expression &ldquo;motor cars&rdquo; includes motor tractors, motor bicycles, and motor tricycles and also includes vehicles designed solely or primarily for traction by or attachment to motor cars, motor tractors, motor bicycles, or motor tricycles. 
       (3)  That the value of any article for the purposes of this resolution shall be taken to be the price which an importer would give for the article if the article were delivered, freight and insurance paid in bond at the place of importation, and duty shall be paid on that value as fixed by the Revenue Commissioners. 
       (4)  That if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners that the duty mentioned in this resolution has been duly paid in respect of any article and that such article has not been used in Saorstat Eireann, a drawback equal to the amount of the duty so paid shall be allowed on such article if it is exported as merchandise. 
       (5)  That Section 6 of the Customs and Inland Revenue Act, 1879, shall not apply to articles liable to the duty mentioned in this resolution and any such article re-imported into Saorstat Eireann after exportation therefrom shall be exempt from such duty if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners either that the article had not been imported previously to exportation or that no drawback of duty was allowed on exportation or that any drawback so allowed has been repaid to the Revenue Commissioners. 
       Articles which have been imported and exported by way of transit only under bond shall not be deemed to have been imported or exported for the purposes of this paragraph. 
     
     
        (6)  That where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners that a motor car is constructed and adapted for propulsion or traction along rail tracks and is intended to be or has been and is being used exclusively for such propulsion or traction or that an article is a component part or accessory or is intended to be or has been and is being exclusively used as a component part or accessory of any such motor car as aforesaid, the Revenue Commissioners shall, subject to such conditions (if any) as they think fit to impose, allow such motor car or article (as the case may be) to be imported without payment of the duty mentioned in this resolution or, where such duty has been paid on importation, shall repay such duty. 
     (7)  That where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners that an article is of a kind mainly used as a component part or an accessory of a motor car but is imported for use for some other purpose, the Revenue Commissioners shall, subject to such conditions (if any) as they think fit to impose, allow such article to be imported without payment of the duty mentioned in this resolution or, where such duty has been paid on importation, shall repay such duty. 
     (8)  That the Minister for Finance may by order exempt from the duty mentioned in this resolution any specified article liable to such duty if he is satisfied that, having regard to the small value of the article, it is inexpedient that the duty should be charged. 
     Orders made under this sub-section (5) of Section 13 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, and in force on the 25th day of April, 1928, may be revoked or amended by an order made under this paragraph and, until so revoked and subject to any such amendment, shall apply to the duty mentioned in this resolution and continue in force accordingly. 
     (9)  That the Minister for Finance may make regulations providing for the total or partial exemption for a limited period from the duty mentioned in this resolution of motor   cars brought into Saorstat Eireann by persons making only a temporary stay therein. 
     Regulations made under sub-section (6) of Section 13 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, and in force on the 25th day of April, 1928, may be revoked or amended by regulations made under this paragraph and, until so revoked and subject to any such amendment, shall apply to the duty mentioned in this resolution and to motor cars liable to that duty and shall continue in force accordingly. 
     (10)  That the provisions of Section 8 of the Finance Act, 1919, shall apply to the duty mentioned in this resolution with the substitution of the expression &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; for the expression &ldquo;Great Britain and Ireland.&rdquo; 
     (11)  That the new import duties which were first imposed by Section 12 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, and were continued up to the 1st day of May, 1928, by Section 12 of the Finance Act, 1927 (No. 18 of 1927) shall not be charged or levied on any article chargeable with the duty mentioned in this resolution. 
     (12)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     It is a very lengthy resolution.  It is a resolution extending to all vehicles which have been exempt from the McKenna duties.  It covers vehicles and tyres.  Heretofore commercial vehicles were exempt.  Tyres on all vehicles have been also exempt.  By this resolution it is proposed to extend the tax to cover the whole value of all the motor vehicles imported.  It is, as I stated, anticipated that the yield of the tax will be approximately £200,000. About £110,000 of that will come from the extension of the tax to all classes of vehicles; about £90,000 will come from the extension of the duty to tyres. 
     
      
       In view of the fact that it affords a certain amount of protection to manufacturers of bodies for commercial vehicles, we believe the   duty is fairly equitable.  Considering the amount of expenditure which the State has to bear in relation to the upkeep of the roads, we feel it would have been better if the Minister for Finance had coupled with this tax the cognate one of a tax upon petrol or paraffin.  I do not know whether I am in order in raising the matter, but I certainly think that a tax of that description would in all the circumstances be much more acceptable to the community as a whole than a tax which is virtually a tax on a necessity of living &mdash;an increase in the tax on sugar. Beyond that I do not think we on this side would be inclined to criticise or oppose this particular duty.  It is an extension of the principle of protection to a certain extent, and upon those lines we are inclined to accept it. 
     
     
      
       I desire to protest against the tax on tyres.  I think that motorists in this country are paying ample already for the pleasure of motoring&mdash;not that it is always pleasure, because it is a well-known fact that, even with the recent improvement in roads, motoring is yet a penance in many parts of the country.  A great many members of this House, I think, will bear me out when I say that an enormous amount of the motoring done is not joy-riding.  If the Minister had put an extra tax on petrol, and put the yield to the improvement of the roads, then I would not have anything to say about that; or if the tax from the tyres should go to the Road Fund, I do not think that the ordinary motorist could very well object.  As far as I can see, there is no mention or suggestion that such is going to be done, and that any of the money from the tax on tyres will be devoted to road improvement.  The Minister has, for the moment, forgotten the difficulty that those of us who live along the Border will be placed in. There is a tax on petrol on the other side, and there is no tax on petrol on our side.  Every time we cross the Border we shall have more regulations than ever we had before&mdash;and goodness knows we have had enough before.  I think the atmosphere of the House seems to be against me in this.  Some of the Deputies will probably look on it as a means of revenue; others will look on it as a matter of principle.  I   look upon it from the point of view of the convenience of the ordinary public, and, as such, I protest against it. 
     
     
      
       I am in complete agreement with Deputy Myles in his remarks concerning the tax on petrol or the tax upon tyres&mdash;that is, the utilisation of the tax upon petrol for revenue purposes.  If a tax on petrol, in order to enable a reduction to be made in the horse power tax on motor cars, were to be considered motorists generally would favour such an alteration in the system of taxation for road purposes.  A tax on tyres for the benefit of the road fund is probably justifiable, and a tax on tyres for another purpose can be justified.  A customs duty on imported motor cars can be justified for another purpose.  But we do not agree that a tariff on imported tyres for the purpose of raising revenue is justifiable.  We think that when tariffs on imports of this nature are being imposed they should be imposed for the specific purpose of promoting the development of the industries concerned.  There is no reason why motor tyres could not be made here.  It is common knowledge that the Dunlop Company might have started in this country some years ago if petty objections were not raised. 
     
     
      
       They did start in this country and manufactured here. 
     
     
      
       You were too sensitive to allow them to remain. 
     
     
      
       It has also been stated that the Dunlop Company have had in contemplation during the last few years the advisability of opening a factory here, and if the imposition of this duty upon imported tyres has that result it will have justified itself, even if it does not bring one penny into the Treasury.  In connection with the duty on imported motor cars and parts, it is quite obvious that the Minister merely considered the amount he was going to get into the Treasury, and not the effect it was going to have upon industry here.  There are probably well over 100 different makes of motors at present being used, and the amount of money that leaves the country for the various parts necessary to repair these   cars must be very considerable.  Looking at it from a national point of view, it is exceedingly wasteful.  If the Government were to consider the advisability of restricting the number of makes of cars in use in the country we think that a considerable national gain would be achieved, and then this tax upon imported cars and parts might result in a number of these particular makes being constructed here. I would also like to know what reason is behind the fixing of the rates of import duty upon parts on the same level as the duty upon cars.  If the tax on parts was lower than the tax on cars there would be an inducement given to import parts separately and build cars here, thus giving some employment, but while the tax remains on the same level there is no such inducement.  As a protective tariff the duty imposed is inadequate and that justifies me.  I think, in saying that it is not being imposed as a protective tariff but as a revenue-raising device.  If it is hoped, as a result of this, that any construction of motor cars will take place here a 33? per cent. tariff is not sufficient. We have to bear in mind that probably two-thirds of our imports come from Great Britain under the Imperial preference rate, which brings the duty down to about 22 per cent. ad valorem. Nothing less than a forty or fifty per cent. duty would give the necessary filip to the construction of motor cars here.  There is no reason why motor cars cannot be constructed here. 
       We think that a duty of this kind as a revenue-raising device should not be supported by the House, but that a tariff for the purpose of promoting industry should be supported.  As the effect of this duty will, however, be to act in some way as a protective duty, we do not intend to oppose it.  At the same time, I should like the Government to take into consideration the whole question of the import duty on motor cars and parts with a view to the modification and alteration, so as to ensure, at any rate, the building of cars here and, if possible, the complete construction of them. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say what is the meaning of sub-section (10) of this resolution? 
     
     
     
      
       I spoke four or five years ago on the same lines as Deputy Lemass has spoken now.  I said then that I thought it was a great mistake to impose an import duty on motor cars merely as a revenue tax&mdash;that there was no prospect even at that time of any cars being made here.  I thought it would be disastrous for traffic in the country and would prevent people coming here, particularly during the summer months.  I also said that I would prefer very much to have the horse-power tax removed and a tax put upon petrol.  Many people own motors who only use them once or twice in the week and they are expected to pay the same amount as the person using a car constantly.  I do not think that is fair, and the Minister should have taken it into account. 
       Some taxi drivers have been speaking to me about the tax on their cars. One man tells me that his annual tax is £16.  He is not able to pay that tax in one sum and when he pays by the quarter 20 per cent. is added on, so that his tax amounts to £19 4s. 0d.  He complains that the amount of money he is able to make now is very little compared with what he was able to make before the buses came on the roads, with their cheap fares.  The Minister stated that this will not be very much on the private users of cars. It will be a considerable amount.  Fifteen pound tyres will now cost £18 and £20 tyres £24, so that there will be a considerable increase. 
     
     Deputy Myles alluded to another point that struck me as very likely to cause a considerable amount of friction and confusion.  In connection with the tax on petrol over the Border, the question will arise whether people will be allowed to take 10 or 12 gallons of petrol in their tanks when going into Northern Ireland or whether the quantity they are taking will be measured. I foresee a great deal of difficulty in connection with that matter.  It would be very much fairer to have a petrol tax imposed instead of the present horse-power tax.  I would not like to have to pay as high a petrol tax as has been imposed in Great Britain, but I would be prepared to pay a tax that would produce an amount equal to or a little more than the annual tax for   horse-power.  The Minister should consider that matter.  A tax on petrol would be much fairer.  I feel so strongly about this that I intend to vote against it because I do not think that it will do anything but bring in a little revenue.  I know the motor industry is not in a flourishing condition at present, and to add to their troubles will leave them practically unable to carry on.  I am totally opposed to the 33? per cent. being put upon tyres. 
     
      
       I think, for once, we may say that the Minister for Finance has hardly taken a broad enough outlook upon this question.  The motor trade has come to stay, and it is for the Dail to facilitate that trade for the benefit of the country.  Many of us have reason to know that the motor trade is in a very bad condition, and has been for a number of years past, and there will be keen disappointment when these proposals are made public.  The motor trade was hoping that some relief might be given and that some more equitable basis on which to raise revenue and to protect the industry might have been found.  A tax on petrol instead of the horse-power tax would have helped the trade and would do away with the old basis for the taxation of motor cars. We could still have protection for those manufactures in the State by remitting the tax altogether on them and charging a nominal tax on imported cars by way of road taxation.  I join in the protest against this fresh imposition upon an industry that cannot afford it, and that will send us back, as far as travelling facilities are concerned, to the dark ages. 
     
     
      
       I join with Deputies in making a protest against this tax on behalf of those men who have to live by this industry.  I am a private user of a motor car, and, of course, it will hit me also, but the men who have to make a living out of the hire of motor cars have been very hard hit as a result of the increased horse-power tax.  There must be thousands of cars lying disused in the garages of the country belonging to people who can very ill afford it.  Some effort ought to be made to give these people relief and to give the hackney owner a chance   of putting on the road the old cars in his possession, of a very high horse-power, at some flat rate.  I was in a garage lately of a man who has not very much worldly means.  He has a very good car, and he could get a very good price for it but for the enormous tax.  That car was about seven or eight years old, and I think it is only fair that the man should be allowed to put that car on the road at a lower tax. But now he has to pay an increased price for the tyres he uses, and surely some effort should be made to give him some relief in another direction.  I think these men are suffering great hardship. 
     
     
      
       I want to intervene on one point.  Some Deputies seem to have the impression that the imposition of a petrol tax here would ease the difficulty at the boundary.  It would not ease the difficulty at the boundary at all, but it would increase it. 
     
     
      
       This tyre tax will increase the difficulties tenfold at the boundary of Northern Ireland.  At the present time, with an English car I have had to pay a deposit upon foreign tyres going into Northern Ireland. Now, I suppose, when we get the new regulations, I shall have to pay a deposit coming back into the Free State. I think the tax on tyres will be much worse than that on petrol. 
     
     
      
       No, it will not.  I want to point out that Deputies seem to think that if we impose the tax on petrol because there was a British tax there would be no difficulties in regard to petrol.  The difficulty in regard to petrol would be much greater because there would be two-way difficulties instead of one-way and there would be two taxes. 
     
     
      
       It is not clear to me whether this resolution applies to electrical vehicles; that is to vehicles whose motor power is electricity? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Then &ldquo;motor vehicles&rdquo; include electrical vehicles.  Apparently the tax upon commercial vehicles is a popular tax with the Dail, but it is going to be felt by a good many important interests in the country.  We all know that the co-operative societies are   large users of commercial vehicles and have several of these vehicles on the road every day.  They are going to feel the thirty-three-and-a-third tax considerably. A great many traders living in remote places from railway stations are going to feel it, and I should not be surprised if it would mean a slight increase in the cost of goods in a great many places. 
     
     I cannot find fault with the tax on tyres, I am afraid, because I was responsible for suggesting it to the Finance Department, some three years ago, and I could not now very well condemn it.  But at that time a bargain was proposed of which it was part.  A tax was to be put on tyres in return for the remission of the tax on spare parts.  The tax on spare parts is kept on and the tyre tax is now imposed. That looks like taking too much out of the offer.  One thing arises out of that.  Now that commercial vehicles are taxed, it is to be hoped that the Revenue Commissioners will make much better regulations with regard to the clearing of parts at the North Wall and other ports.  It would be very hard to convince me that the tax on parts is a thing that pays for itself.  Knowing what traders have to go through, and the little difficulties that are raised, the forms to be filled in, and all that sort of thing, I cannot see how the revenue received from the tax is able to pay for the officials, and, certainly, if anyone puts any value upon the time of businessmen it must be one of the most costly taxes ever imposed.  Now that commercial vehicles are going to come under the tax, the holding up of a lorry for a week or so may mean a very serious thing to a great many people who live at a distance from railway stations, and it is hoped that the Revenue Commissioners will make better efforts to clear these things expeditiously.  I think there was room for more imagination in connection with this whole matter of the importation of commercial vehicles and their use of the roads. Every motorist in Ireland would have welcomed a differentiation in favour of pneumatic tyres against solid tyres.  It is rather singular the Minister has left that out.  It would have meant a great saving to the roads and would not have been objected to by anybody.   In the British Budget yesterday, I think they decided to give preference to pneumatic tyres.  I hope an opportunity will occur on the Finance Bill to introduce that differentiation but, in view of the present state of the Road Fund, and the poor outlook there seems to be for that fund at the moment&mdash; although I have no definite knowledge, the outlook for that fund is anything but rosy and I think it is going to be insignificant in the coming years&mdash;I think it would be well worth while to consider whether the roads would not be saved a great deal of damage by practically insisting on the use of pneumatic tyres. 
     I think it is a pity that electrical vehicles should be included in this tax. Surely if the Shannon scheme is going to be the epoch-making thing which we all expect it to be why should we not raise the slogan: &ldquo;Prepare for electrical vehicles.&rdquo;  The use of these vehicles is extending very rapidly in America and to a smaller degree in England.  Why should the Government not advertise their use here by turning the minds of the people in that direction? There would not be very many. It would not mean a loss of revenue and it would draw attention to the utility of these vehicles.  It is very desirable that the minds of those who are interested in transport should be turned in that direction as quickly as possible.  It is not a good thing that so much of the transport of the country should have as its basis a commodity produced in Persia, Mexico, and different countries far from here, some of which at the moment do not appear to be very civilised.  That does not look a very stable basis for transport, yet, notwithstanding the fact that the Shannon scheme is nearing completion, we are satisfied to allow that tendency to divert in one way instead of turning it in the other direction.  It may be that I am talking rather in advance of the times and that electrical vehicles are not a very practical proposition at the moment but, as I say, their use is extending very rapidly in America and many of our roads are now so good that I believe that if encouragement were given to the use of these vehicles, both by a remission of   import duty and, particularly, a favourable tax, we would have them coming in here in sufficient numbers to draw the attention of the people to them.  The tax on tyres is, of course, going to be felt considerably by the motoring community, who, I think, should have got some quid pro quo.  When the Financial Bill comes along I hope we will have a discussion on the tax on spare parts and that we shall be able to form a fair opinion as to whether that tax should not be sacrificed in return for the tax on tyres which has the merit of being a clean tax, a tax very easily collected and one which will not involve very considerable expense.  I am sure that a strong case could be made for that and that the tax on spare parts which is expensive to collect and which is such a worry to those concerned could be very well dropped. 
     
      
       Some time ago I asked the Minister for Finance whether he was aware that persons who had motors for hire in the country were badly hit owing to the competition of motor buses, and should get some relief. Now, however, they are to be further penalised, and I hope that in the Finance Bill something will be done to relieve them.  There is no shadow of doubt about it that these people are not doing fifty per cent. of the trade which they were doing before the buses came along.  They will have to go out of business, because the buses can take persons for a shilling where in the case of those to whom I refer it would cost 3/-.  I trust that this matter will, after consideration, be rectified, as undoubtedly a large number of these people will be severely penalised owing to the increased price of tyres.  I am in hopes that the prices may not be raised, as I believe that the Dunlop Company will probably come in and manufacture tyres here.  The grievance to which I refer is a genuine one, and unless something is done for these people they will have to throw their cars on the scrap-heap and will not take out further licences. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if this duty includes motor tractors for agricultural purposes,   simply and purely for use on the land, as distinct from haulage purposes? 
     
     
      
       Do I understand that we must get through these fifteen resolutions to-night? 
     
     
      
       I do not know what discussion will arise on the other resolutions, but this is the only one which I found gave Deputies an opportunity for talking about motor cars generally and dealing with suggestions about a petrol tax.  I take it that it is not the intention to go very widely into that subject this evening. The whole scheme on these resolutions is that there should be merely the kind of criticism we have just heard from Deputies who have spoken, and the kind of explanation which the Minister has given, because other occasions will arise&mdash;for example, on the Road Fund &mdash;to refer to a tax on petrol.  I think we can get through this particular resolution this evening, though I am not sure whether the other resolutions offer the same scope for discussion.  When Deputy MacEntee referred to the question of petrol, I did not intervene, as no other opportunity would arise this evening for dealing with that matter. The position depends on what the Minister wants to get through. 
     
     
      
       We ought to get through this resolution and that dealing with sugar, at any rate.  It is really more satisfactory not to have a long discussion on the resolution which is before the House, as we can have the real discussion on the Report Stage. 
     
     
      
       And in the intervening period between this debate and the debate on Report there is the general resolution which enables the general questions to be debated. 
     
     
      
       I am going to ask only one or two questions which I think could be quickly answered.  I see in the first paragraph of the resolution that it refers to customs duties on motor cars and component parts, but I cannot see anything in the resolution exempting motor cars from, say, another part of the Commonwealth of Nations known as the British Empire.  Does that mean that Imperial preference is dropped? 
     
     
      
       No.  Deputy Esmonde   was looking for it, and found it without being sure about it.  It is in paragraph 10. 
     
     
      
       That means that Imperial preference remains? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps it might be convenient now to give some information with reference to some matters that have been discussed in the Press for the last week or two on the subject of motors and tariffs and the visit of Mr. Ford to England.  We have not had any official statement from the Ministry with regard to that matter. Perhaps if the Minister has any information to give to the House this might be a convenient opportunity to give it, if the Ceann Comhairle has no objection.  I see in the &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; of to-day a statement that a certain offer has been made by Mr. Ford.  Of course you need not take me as saying that I believe everything I see in the &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; or in the &ldquo;Independent,&rdquo; or in any other paper, but as the statement is there I suppose it is made with some authority.  Perhaps the Minister might find it convenient to tell us whether it is true.  The statement was to the effect that there was an offer made, and that in the event of such an offer being met and agreed to by the Department of Finance, a factory with a capacity of employing 6,000 hands would be set up in Cork or the present Cork factory would be extended.  The Minister might say whether he has read that statement or whether an offer has been made.  If he has any information that he could give the House I would be glad to hear it. 
     
     
      
       There seems to be a larger question lying behind this than appears on the surface.  I quite agree that an extensive debate at this stage would be undesirable, and I am quite sure that our feeling is that this resolution should get through to-day. That is a question of arrangement.  The point I have in my mind is this: I always get back to the fact that everything has to come out of something, and the damage that is being done and the cost entailed by the maintenance of roads has to be met out of somewhere.   Whether the Road Fund is going to bear it or in what particular way it is going to be met, it has eventually to be paid.  I think in considering this question of tyres, and in considering the duty upon commercial vehicles, it would be worth while for the Minister to obtain from the Local Government Department some figures which I think are available as to the actual destruction. I have seen a road which, after a definite period of six weeks, has been damaged by a particularly-tyred and unsprung commercial vehicle to an extent which it would be almost impossible for any tax to pay.  While, in general, one rather objects to putting a tax on commercial vehicles, because after all it is simply adding to the cost of transport, it is so obvious at the present time that a good many of the commercial vehicles using the roads are doing damage to an extent which is not by any means being met, not even approximately, by any tax imposed, or which is likely to be imposed, on them in the ordinary way, I think the Minister might very well take into account in this matter the differences of tyreing. Where you see a big solid tyre you know that it is going to carry a big weight.  If it is a big solid tyre, and it is going to carry that weight, the damage to the road is going to be enormous.  That does not apply in any way in the same degree to the case of smaller light cars.  I would have no difficulty in producing to the House county surveyors who would prove that cars under a certain weight, when driven carefully, actually improve a road rather than damage it.  While a tax on these cars might be regarded as a luxury tax it is not a tax in the same sense to repair damage as it would be in the case of heavy commercial vehicles. 
     
     The other question I would like to raise has been referred to by Deputy O'Kelly.  It is a fact that this whole matter concerns a great enterprise which is only in its very beginning in the South of Ireland.  If I were asked to consider, say, a loss of £250,000 in relation to existing works or even in the case of existing works, as is suggested in relation to the 6,000 employees, my attitude would be open-minded, but I   look upon the Ford possibility in Cork as one of the biggest possibilities I could possibly envisage for Ireland.  I think you may be sure that in dealing with the works there you are dealing with the roots of a very big thing.  I personally have no doubt that this House in dealing with Mr. Ford is dealing with a Corkman and an Irishman, and with a man who really does appreciate and is glad to perform a real service under that name.  I feel that I am neither opposing the resolution nor supporting it at the moment.  I am merely suggesting in relation to this whole resolution that every possible consideration should be given not merely to the visible possibilities but to the very much larger possibilities that lie behind.  I believe that if the enterprise there were developed to the level which we think possible, it would be only a beginning. 
     My suggestion is that you are not dealing with something in which you should make a hard bargain, that there is a difference between consent and agreement and, if I might say so, the glad hand, and that the activities of Ford at Cork should be welcomed.  My information is, without going into the matter very deeply, that we have the possibilities there if the facilities are given, if they can be given with due regard to the necessities of the State. I can imagine a bargain being put up or a suggestion being made which would involve the State in doing something which the Government would not be prepared to do.  If on any reasonable terms, within the possibilities of the State, the Ford industry could be developed and encouraged I think the immediate results which we will get are very small compared with the results that you will eventually get.  I think in making that suggestion I am speaking not merely for the representatives of Cork in my own Party but I am speaking for the representatives of all parties from Cork. 
     
      
       I find myself in agreement with my colleagues in regard to the statements that a tax on tyres is not equitable to users of motor cars. The Minister states that by a tax on petrol he would get the same revenue as by the tax on tyres. 
     
     
     
      
       No; by a tax on petrol and paraffin. 
     
     
      
       This, to people who live convenient to the Border, will cause an amount of trouble.  We have a lot of bother at present, and apparently only those people who live convenient to the Border and have to go across it continually discover the trouble. People living away from it have no idea of the inconvenience we have to put up with, so I think we should try and get into close touch so that we would be running on the one line.  I agree to a great extent with what Deputy Flinn said about damage done by a small car in comparison with the damage done by another vehicle.  The two-ton van would be using about the same tyre as the 14-horse-power English car would use.  It would be about the same cost.  I do not say the same size.  There would be no comparison in the damage to the road which the commercial vehicle would do in comparison with the 14-horse-power car.  It would not cost as much as the two-ton lorry.  I think it is hardly fair to tax them the same, and I think some distinction should be made.  Deputy Flinn went a long way to talk of what was done in Cork and the Ford factory. I would like to hear some reason from him or somebody else as to how it comes that we are paying £130 for a Ford car in Belfast and £150 in Cork. There is some reason for it, and it should not be so.  They should be equally priced, and I hope if the Dunlop people come here that we will not have to pay a higher price here than elsewhere. 
     
     
      
       I will deal first with the point raised by Deputy O'Kelly and Deputy Flinn with reference to the Ford position.  I do not want to talk very much about it, and I do not think it would help matters, but first of all no such offer as has been referred to by the Deputy was made.  Secondly, the whole question of what can be done to encourage the Ford works in Cork to extend is under the active consideration of the Cabinet at the moment.  If anything were to be decided on as a result of that this particular resolution would not prejudice it.  As a matter   of fact, if we were to have to do what is suggested and what, as a matter of fact, was considered three or four years ago in the interests of the Ford industry, that is; forming for the purposes of motor-car taxation a customs union with Great Britain and dividing the revenue on some basis, it would be necessary to pass this resolution and put our taxation on a parity with British taxation.  It was not for that purpose that this resolution was framed.  As a matter of fact, the consideration of this particular matter was begun, but it does not prejudice anything which it may be felt desirable to do in reference to the Ford position. I do not think it is necessary for me to say anything more than that. 
       Deputy Matthews asked if motor tractors were included.  They are included in the resolution.  When we come to the Bill, in the sections of which the provisions of the resolution will all be elaborated and modified, we will have to consider the question of these tractors specially.  So far as ordinary owners of hackneys being able to compete with buses are concerned, I do not think we can do anything about it or, as a matter of fact, that it would be desirable to do something to compel people permanently to have to pay 3/- for something which they can get for 1/-.  But this tax, by reason of the price of buses to those who are operating the bus service, may incidentally do something. 
       Deputy Moore referred to the question of the encouragement of electric vehicles.  It is a matter to which I have not given consideration, but I rather think it is well worth it.  It may be that there is not much prospect of the demand for the Shannon power being increased by any increase that may take place in the number of electrically driven vehicles, and it may be that a substantial demand could arise.  That matter may be further considered. 
     
     Deputy Moore also referred to the outlook for the Road Fund.  We have not made any proposals in this Budget with regard to taxation which feeds the Road Fund for this reason.  We have been giving it consideration and had an Inter-Departmental Committee reviewing the whole matter, and the   investigations are not complete.  At present, the year for motor taxation begins on the 1st January, and even if we made changes now with regard to, say, horse-power taxation, they would not become effective until the 1st January next, and we felt it was better to allow the Committee to complete the investigation it is carrying on and make proposals in regard to the Motor Fund taxation later on in the year. We realise that what Deputy Moore says is quite correct; the prospects for the revenue of the Road Fund do not seem as good as they would need to be. 
     Deputy Lemass suggested that there are too many different types of motor cars in use and that it would be an economy to the State and that it might possibly lead to Ford's not being the only car manufactured here if we could reduce the number of types down to some small number.  I do not know whether the Deputy mentioned five or six.  I think that is right.  I think that is true, but first, if we did that we would be undertaking something which perhaps a small country would have to undertake.  Perhaps in this country if we want to have industrial development we will have to have more standardisation than is needed in big countries.  But it is a new line of State activity and a fairly difficult line, because it is hard to do anything like that without inflicting grave injuries on individuals.  Vested interests have been acquired; people have taken to a certain means of livelihood and are making their living in an ordinary legitimate way by that means, and it is extremely difficult to enforce the use of a small number of standards.  I think it is a matter which, if it were considered as it may be, should be treated and dealt with entirely as a non-political matter, because I think it can only be carried through if dealt with in that way.  I think it would be well worth making the effort to do it. For that reason, because I have felt some such thing is true.  I was glad to hear Deputy Lemass make the particular remarks he made with regard to it. 
     Deputy Moore talked about the delays in clearing goods through the Customs.  There used to be a great many complaints about that, and perhaps   in the early days of the Saorstat there was some foundation for it before the Customs barrier, and before the people were accustomed to new conditions. Some two or three years ago a committee was appointed, with a member of the Dail as chairman and two representatives of the motor traders and certain other people, and the gist of their report was that there were practically no grounds for complaint.  I have not personally heard any complaints recently, and if there are grounds for complaint I certainly am not aware of them.  There is no doubt that no complexity will be added to the situation by this tax, because it was as difficult a matter to pass through a free vehicle as a taxed vehicle, perhaps more difficult if anything.  The tax on tyres does hit the private individual, but it hits him less than a 4d. a gallon tax on petrol, plus the horse-power tax, which would be the position across the Border.  The position across the Border will be&mdash;and I suppose Deputy Myles, who lives close to the Border, will appreciate it&mdash;that people will have to pay the horse-power tax plus the 4d. tax on petrol.  I have no hesitation in saying that the tax on tyres will cost the individual less than the 4d. tax on petrol.  I do not want to go into this whole question of horse-power tax.  To get the revenue for the Road Fund that is got from the horse-power tax would require something like 1/3 a gallon on petrol, or something over 1/- anyhow. It might be good, when this Committee that has been considering the Road Fund reports, to try a petrol tax.  I do not think we could try a petrol tax in this country when the tax is high, because it is impossible to tax petrol without taxing paraffin.  I thought that there would not have been the same incentive to evasion for the fourpenny tax.  If the tax ran up high it would be impossible to administer the petrol tax without having a paraffin tax, because it is possible to bring in a grade of spirit that would not be classified as petrol and that would be free of tax, which could be used instead of petrol by adding to it a small quantity of a highly volatile spirit. 
     
      
       Is not the petrol tax in the Saorstat already 2d. a gallon more than in the North? 
     
     
     
      
       No.  I presume that means that if the 4d. tax were put on here it would add about 8d. to the price. 
     
     
      
       The price is higher here. 
     
     
      
       We are not taxed. 
     
     
      
       Yes, but it is 2d. a gallon higher.  Yesterday we were 2d. dearer. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy think it would be cheaper if we put on a fourpenny tax?  I do not know what difficulties the Deputy anticipates at the boundary, as the result of the tax on tyres.  I do not believe that there will be any difficulty. 
     
     
      
       It depends on the regulations. 
     
     
      
       There have to be certain formalities, and that will continue to be the case.  Take the case of the Deputy who was using non-British-made tyres.  There will be absolutely no change there.  I do not think any substantial difficulties will arise.  In reply to Deputy MacEntee, who referred to what was done in England as being preferable to a tax on necessities, the 4d. a gallon tax is also a tax on a necessity.  It is a tax on paraffin.  If we imposed a similar tax we would get almost half of the revenue from paraffin and that would be a very definite tax on a necessity.  That would be a hardship on people in the country. 
     
     
      
       Could you not exempt paraffin for domestic uses? 
     
     
      
       That would not be possible. 
     
     
      
       I was wondering if commercial vehicles are not taxed at present. 
     
     
      
       Except as to the bodies. 
     
     
      
       The chassis is taxed. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister if solid tyres are being taxed. 
     
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand that the whole question of the incidence of motor taxation in the Free State will come up for consideration at a later period, because I want to stress, in that connection, that it is absurd that a car weighing 35 cwt. and costing, say, £700 should be taxed at the rate of £15 per annum, while another car costing £360 and weighing 24 cwt. should be paying a tax of £28 per annum, simply because of the existing basis of taxation? 
     
     
      
       You will have an opportunity of discussing that later. 
     
     
      
       I want to have an assurance that the matter will be gone into later. 
     
     
      
       That will be dealt with later.  As I stated, the taxation for the Road Fund is under active consideration at the moment. 
     
   
   
     No. 5.&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(1)  That a customs duty of an amount equal to thirty-three and one-third per cent. of the value of the article shall be charged, levied and paid on all empty glass bottles and empty glass jars of the kind hereinafter mentioned of a capacity of not less than five fluid ounces and imported into Saorstat Eireann on or after the 26th day of April, 1928, that is to say:&mdash; 
       (a)  all empty bottles of a kind ordinarily used for bottling table waters as defined by sub-section (2)  of Section 7 of the Finance Act, 1916, spirits (excluding perfumed spirits and medicinal spirits), wine, beer or cider, and 
       (b)  all empty glass jars of a kind ordinarily used for containing jams, marmalades, or jellies. 
     
     (2)  That, if it appears to the satisfaction of the Minister for Finance, in consultation with the Minister for Industry and Commerce, that bottles and jars of the kinds specified in paragraph (1) of this resolution   made of white glass and suitable for the requirements of traders in Saorstat Eireann are not manufactured in Saorstat Eireann the Revenue Commissioners may, by licence, authorise, subject to such conditions as they shall think fit to prescribe and as shall appear in the licence, the importation without payment of duty of empty glass bottles and jars of the kinds specified in the said paragraph (1) which, in the opinion of the Commissioners, are made of white glass.&rdquo; 
     No. 5 is a resolution with reference to glass bottles.  When the tax on bottles was first imposed it was imposed so as to apply only to dark coloured bottles, and for the first year in which it was in operation only what are called black bottles were taxed. Then the people who were in control of the factory represented to us that they could make all classes of bottles.  We felt it was very desirable that the scope and basis of the industry should extend. At that time we had not the machinery of the Tariff Commission.  All sorts of investigation that might lead to taxation were conducted privately, so that the full details might not leak out and large quantities of goods be brought in. The result was that we believed that the factory here could make all classes of bottles and could make them economically.  It has since been found that really the range of bottles that can be made by the factory here is comparatively limited, and those who have been running the factory have represented to us that because there is a tariff they feel called upon to attempt to supply bottles which it would be better for them if they did not make at all.  It means an upset to their business and it means taking people off other work and that though they charge the full thirty-three and a third more than imported bottles can be got at, still it is an uneconomic proposition for them.  At first we declined to touch the matter without investigation by the Tariff Commission.  Then the owners of the factory came to us and represented that there was a matter here about which there could be no difference of opinion and that they were desirous of having something done in this Budget,   that an investigation by the Tariff Commission would be taking the Tariff Commission off work that would be more useful for them to be doing, and that a considerable amount of delay would result.  On that representation I agreed to introduce a motion in the Dail.  The meaning of it is, as I have stated, that glass jars will be taxed, that dark-coloured bottles of the wine, spirit and mineral-water type will be taxed, that white-coloured bottles of the same type will be liable to tax, but that it will be left to the Revenue Commissioners at the same time to allow in a reasonable quantity of bottles free of duty.  It means that if the factory is in a position in six months, fifteen months, two years, or any particular time, to supply bottles of this kind made of white glass it will be the duty of the Revenue Commissioners to cease to issue any further licences and to charge the duty that has been laid down for the white-glass bottles.  There is no doubt at all that this particular tax has been rather unfortunate. 
     As a matter of fact, it was our experience in connection with this particular bottle tax that caused me at any rate to be keen on setting up the Tariff Commission so as to have an investigation of all the facts relating to any case where a tariff was desired.  Medicine bottles in large variety have not been obtainable from this factory.  People carrying on certain sorts of bottling have been unable to carry it on because they could not get the type of bottle that was needed popularly from this factory.  Generally speaking, the position was that we made the scope of the tariff wider than we ought to have made it, and that we did not really help the factory by making it so wide.  We did not really help it and we did impose a degree of hardship on people connected with trades and industries using bottles.  I think it is really highly desirable in the present circumstances to reduce the scope of the duty in the way we propose to reduce it. 
     
      
       With the first part of the resolution we are largely in agreement. With regard to the second part I think it is a matter, without actually taking a vote at this particular stage, that we should have an opportunity of   discussing very much more fully later on, and I presume we will be able to do that on the Report Stage.  What strikes me is that this amendment is being made on the suggestion of the Irish Glass Bottle Company, and I feel that the Minister has not at all considered that that particular concern is not the only interest involved in this matter. The class of bottles I think it is proposed to exempt are bottles, the demand for which in this country is so small that a factory would never be able to turn them out by machinery on a competitive basis.  They are the types of bottles that are made by hand.  There exists in Ringsend and Irishtown the Irish Glass Bottle Makers' Protection Association and some time ago they approached myself and other Deputies representing the constituency and they suggested that they were in a position to make these bottles by hand.  They said they put before the Minister for Industry and Commerce and, I suppose, the Minister for Finance, pretty full proposals in this matter, stating the capital cost involved, the production which they were prepared to guarantee, and the types of bottles they were prepared to manufacture.  They said that every one of these bottles were manufactured previously in this country. 
     
     What would be the result if we passed this resolution?  According to the Minister's speech it will mean that all bottles can come in here duty free until such time as the Irish Glass Bottle Company are in a position to manufacture these particular bottles.  I feel the relations between the Irish Glass Bottle Company and the bottle-makers in Ringsend are such that the Glass Bottle Company would prefer to see the remaining representatives of this industry crushed out rather than avail of their services to enable the Company to put on the market the type of bottle referred to in the resolution.  At any rate, I am afraid the Company is not concerned to keep alive the hand-made bottle industry.  I make that statement with a good deal of reserve, and it is only the result of my own investigations. I feel the Company is concerned to justify itself as a machine factory, and it is not concerned to keep alive the hand-made bottle industries. As against that you have the definite   statement of the bottle-makers who were engaged in the industry up to a very recent date.  It is not such a long time since one of the bottle-making works in Ringsend closed down.  That firm was working up to the time prohibition was introduced in America, and it was because there was no further demand from America for the type of bottle they produced that the works closed down.  If the industry is started again it must have a protective tariff. The bottles which can be made by hand are used here in such small quantities that it would not be profitable to make them by machinery.  The Glass Bottle Company would not attempt to make them by machinery. 
     If we accepted the Minister's suggestion now we should like to have a guarantee from him in regard to the Glass Bottle Company, which is going to be handed a virtual monopoly&mdash; and it is a question we should seriously consider as to whether that would be advisable or not.  But if one can judge the Minister's intention, it would appear that he would like the Glass Bottle Company to have a monopoly of the glass bottle manufacture in this country.  That may not be desirable; I think it is not, but if they are going to have a monopoly, then, before we accept the resolution, we ought to have a guarantee from the Minister that everything possible will be done to preserve the hand bottle-making industry in Irishtown and Ringsend. 
     
      
       There are some points that I would like to draw attention to. I am very glad, in the first place, that the Government has accepted the idea of licensing all imports.  I think it is not so very long ago that the idea of regulating the importation of any article by licence to correspond with the amount produced at home was rejected by the Government and criticised by them.  Now, however, that they have adopted the Fianna Fail policy on the matter, we hope that they will see fit to extend it to other industries. 
     
     A very serious criticism of the Government's action arises from the fact that while they have refused consistently to consider imposing protective tariffs on any imported articles   without full and adequate consideration by the Tariff Commission, they can be induced, apparently, to take off a tariff without recourse to the Tariff Commission.  That, in itself, is an indication of what, I think, we had occasion to draw attention to before&mdash;to the fact that the Government's attitude appears to be definitely anti-protectionist. They took the view that where a tariff is to be imposed they should put as many difficulties in the way as possible and only if the applicants for the tariff succeeded in surmounting these difficulties will what they ask be given.  But when it is a case of taking off a tariff, all these difficulties can be removed and an arrangement can be arrived at between Ministers and individuals without recourse to the Tariff Commission to secure what the individuals require. 
     I would like, also, to supplement Deputy MacEntee's remarks.  The fact that these bottles are not being made in this country can, I think, be shown to be largely the fault of the Irish Glass Bottle Company.  I am aware the glass bottle makers of Ringsend were prepared to take over the Irishtown factory and operate it for the purpose of making there by hand the bottles which the Irish Glass Bottle Company were unable to produce. The factory, however, is the property of the Irish Glass Bottle Company, and the price they were asking for the place was far in excess of what even an individual like myself, who has no particular knowledge of these matters, would believe to be justifiable.  Any person who knows the factory is aware that it is no better than a heap of ruins, yet a ridiculous price was asked by the Irish Glass Bottle Company largely to prevent the premises being secured for the purpose of making bottles. 
     As regards the principle of the Resolution, that the tariff on imported bottles should be regulated to correspond with the volume of home production, we have no objection, but the wording of the Resolution implies that these bottles now proposed to be exempted must actually be manufactured in the   country before the duty can be reimposed. If it could be brought to the notice of the Ministry, for example, that by the re-imposition of the duty the manufacture of these bottles would be made possible, we think a provision should be included, altering the terms of the Resolution to read: &ldquo;suitable for the requirements of traders in Saorstat Eireann are not manufactured or about to be manufactured.&rdquo; Some such provision should be included so as to make it possible to reimpose the duty if it becomes obvious that the manufacture of the bottles in the Saorstat is again a feasible proposition. However, we will, no doubt, have an opportunity of discussing the whole position in relation to the manufacture of glass bottles here on another occasion.  I merely want to say that I think that the facility which the Government have given to the remission of the duty in this case might also have been given to the other applicants that want duties imposed upon particular articles in which they were interested. We will have an opportunity of criticising the Budget later on in detail. I do not want to go into it more fully now.  One of our criticisms is not so much what is in the Budget as what is not in it in relation to protection for Irish industry. 
     
      
       I should like to know from the Minister whether the jars or bottles used for exporting honey from this country will be exempt from duty? I understand that such bottles have to be imported.  Representations have already been made to the Minister about this matter.  I would like to know whether these bottles or jars would be exempt from taxation by this resolution? 
     
     
      
       I believe that the articles for honey would not be regarded as jam jars&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       And that they would not be exempt? 
     
     
      
       They would be exempt and would not be dutiable. 
     
     
      
       We have gone into this matter with the men who made the bottles by hand and they certainly put   up a very strong case.  The explanation they gave as to why the machine cannot produce certain bottles economically is that when the furnace is started it must continue to produce until the linings are completely worn out.  The machine-fed moulds are very expensive&mdash;£10 each.  It would not pay the Company to change from one form of bottle to another, whereas with the hand-made method they can, at a moment's notice, change the type of bottle, and in that way they can turn out almost any particular class or type of bottle.  I have before me a list of 23 different kinds of bottle that they can produce.  The other people cannot take orders for these bottles for the reason that they could not change over from one form to the other.  I would appeal to the Minister to investigate this subject, because it is one that affects the people of Ringsend very much.  They have been making bottles for a considerable time, and now these bottles have been imported into the country.  If something could be done in this way it would relieve unemployment in Ringsend very much.  An eight-hole furnace gives employment to five men per hole.  This would certainly be a matter that would be well worth investigation, and I hope the Minister will look into it, and so relieve the distress resulting from unemployment in Ringsend. 
     
     
      
       This is a matter which the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who has been in touch with it, would be better able to discuss than I am.  He is better informed on this matter.  I do notice, however, that a tariff has been on for a considerable time and that no bottles of this kind have been produced.  It is rather suggested that the Bottle Company simply want to wipe out the hand bottle makers altogether.  I do not think there is any foundation for that.  The Company, as a matter of fact, is in the hands of Receivers at the present time.  The idea of the Receivers is simply to do anything they can to make some money for the Company and if they could be convinced that there was money for the Company in any sort of bottle-making that they could carry on, my belief is that they would undertake it.  Certainly,   that is what I have gathered from them and I see no reason to doubt it.  The people there in charge of the Company now are not the people who were there when the tariff was put on.  They are new people.  There might have been some reason for suspecting the people who were responsible for putting in the machinery wanting to justify the machinery and that sort of thing and saying that the old system of hand-making was obsolete.  But the people in charge of the bottle factory now have nothing to do with the people who put in the machinery and there is no reason why they should prefer using the machinery exclusively to using it in conjunction with hand manufacture.  Deputy MacEntee accepted the allegations of the glass bottle hand makers with some reserve.  I think he was right in that. I also accept with reserve the counter allegations that there were all sorts of sabotage amongst the workers.  I know that feeling was not particularly good there.  If there had not been any change in the ownership, I would not be inclined to take the word of the management against the hand workers just as I would not be particularly inclined to take the word of the hand workers against the management.  But I am more inclined to take, as being absolutely impartial, the words of the new people who are now in control of the factory.  Deputy MacEntee said something about a monoply in the glass bottle industry being undesirable.  I am afraid that there is no way out of something like a monopoly.  There is no room for more than one factory being carried on usefully at the moment&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       By machinery? 
     
     
      
       Yes, modern machinery. I am never in favour of getting back to non-machine methods whatever people may say as to their artistic value. The superior quality of the goods is got more cheaply by the machine processes, as a rule.  I do not want to go back on the advantages of using machinery. On the whole, I feel nothing can happen from maintaining the duties except maintaining the inconveniences that are felt by the bottle owners and the hardships and losses   that were inflicted.  Consequently, while I do recognise that Deputy Lemass to some extent scores a point in saying we took off this duty without letting the applications go before the Tariff Commission, I wish to say that if the people in charge of the industry had any objection we would not, no matter what representations had been made to us, have agreed to alter the duty without its having gone before the Tariff Commission. 
       Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 6.&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That there shall be charged, levied, and paid on every bottle or jar of the capacity of five fluid ounces or more imported into Saorstat Eireann on or after the 26th day of April, 1928, and containing at the time of importation any dutiable commodity, a duty of customs at the rate of sixpence for every dozen or part of a dozen such bottles or jars. 
       (2)  That Section 20 of the Finance Act, 1925 (No. 28 of 1925) shall be repealed as on and from the 26th day of April, 1928. 
       (3)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     
     The tax referred to in the previous resolution is a tax on empty bottles. Complaints were made that it was unfair to have a tax on empty bottles and to have no tax on full bottles, because as a matter of fact the result of that was that in certain cases the bottles and contents were being both imported where previously perhaps only the bottles would have been imported and filled here.  We, therefore, imposed a duty on bottles containing dutiable commodities.  We did not feel able, because of the number of articles that were involved, and the trouble that would have been caused, to impose it on all full bottles, but we imposed it on bottles containing dutiable ingredients. We imposed it in two steps &mdash;on bottles over five fluid ounces and on bottles under five fluid ounces.  We   now propose to exempt from duty empty bottles under five fluid ounces. Consequently, we will repeal the old duty, and impose a new duty simply on bottles that are of or over five fluid ounces. 
     
      
       It is proposed to levy a duty on bottles containing a dutiable commodity, and also on empty bottles over five fluid ounces.  I take it, then, that bottles over five fluid ounces containing a non-dutiable commodity are to be permitted in free of tax. 
     
     
      
       That has been the position. 
     
     
      
       So that a person desiring to import bottles into this country, by the simple device of filling them with water, can get them in duty free? 
     
     
      
       The Revenue Commissioners felt that they could, under some section of the customs laws, regard that as a trick and still charge duty on them if they were filled with water.  Suppose they were filled with some other commodity that was almost as cheap as water, the position was that the task of filling and corking them and the extra freight and trouble would be such that it would not be worth while. 
       Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 7&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That the new import duties which were first imposed by Section 12 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, and were (with the exception of the duty on records and other means of reproducing music and the duty on blank film on which no picture has been impressed) continued up to the 1st day of May, 1928, by Section 12 of the Finance Act, 1927 (No 18 of 1927) shall, with the exceptions aforesaid and with the further exception of the duty on motor cars (including motor bicycles and motor tricycles) and accessories and component parts thereof other than tyres, continue to be charged, levied, and paid on and from the said 1st day of May, 1928, up to the 1st day of May, 1929. 
     
     
        (2)  That whenever the Revenue Commissioners are satisfied that any cinematograph film imported into Saorstat Eireann is of an educational character they shall, subject to compliance with such conditions as they think fit to impose, exempt such film from the payment of the duty on cinematograph films included in the duties mentioned in this resolution. 
     (3)  That the provisions of Section 8 of the Finance Act, 1919, shall apply to the duty mentioned in this resolution with the substitution of the expression &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; for the expression &ldquo;Great Britain and Ireland.&rdquo; 
     (4)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     This is a resolution which we have each year continuing what we call the McKenna duties, with the exception of the duty on motor cars, which we have dealt with in a separate resolution because we were extending the scope of it.  These particular duties are on cinematograph films, clocks, watches and musical instruments.  The yield of the duty on films in the year 1927-28 was £17,450; on clocks and watches, £14,540; and on musical instruments, £25,590. 
     Resolution agreed to. 
   
   
     No. 8.&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That the additional duties on dried fruits which were first imposed by Section 8 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1915, and were continued up to the 1st day of August, 1928, by Section 13 of the Finance Act, 1927 (No. 18 of 1927) shall continue to be charged, levied and paid on and from the said 1st day of August, 1928, up to the 1st day of August, 1929. 
       (2)  That the provisions of Section 8 of the Finance Act, 1919, shall apply to the duties mentioned in this resolution with the substitution of the expression &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; for the expression &ldquo;Great Britain and Ireland.&rdquo; 
     
     
        (3)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     This is another resolution which is moved annually.  There was originally a main duty of 7/- per cwt. on dried fruits.  It was a permanent duty in operation since 1876.  By the Finance Act (No. 2) in 1915 a new duty of 3/6 per cwt was imposed.  That duty, called the additional duty, was not made permanent, but came up for renewal each year.  We have allowed it to remain as an annual tax and brought it up each year.  In the past financial year the yield was approximately £33,740. 
     Resolution agreed to. 
   
   
     No. 9&mdash;CUSTOMS AND EXCISE. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That in lieu of the present customs duties, drawbacks, and allowance in respect of sugar, molasses, glucose, and saccharin there shall be charged, levied, and paid as on and from the 26th day of April, 1928, the duties specified in the second column of Part I. of the First Schedule to this resolution, and there shall be paid and allowed the drawbacks and allowance set out in Part II. of the said Schedule, but subject both as respects duties and as respects drawbacks and allowance to the provisions, so far as they are applicable, set out in Part III. of the First Schedule to the Finance Act, 1925 (No. 28 of 1925). 
     
     (2)  That in lieu of the present excise duties, drawbacks, and allowance in respect of sugar, molasses, glucose, and saccharin there shall. as on and from the 26th day of April, 1928, be charged, levied, and paid the duties specified in the third column of Part I. of the First Schedule to this resolution, and there shall be paid and allowed the drawbacks and allowance set out in Part II. of the said Schedule, but subject both as respects duties and as respects drawbacks and allowance to the provisions, so far as they are applicable, set out in Part III. of the   First Schedule to the Finance Act, 1925 (No. 28 of 1925). 
     (3)  The duty imposed by this section shall not be charged or levied in respect of sugar or molasses made from beet grown in Saorstat Eireann, and the provisions of Section 6 (except sub-section (1) thereof) of the Finance Act, 1922, shall apply and have effect subject to the following modifications, that is to say: 
     (a)  the word &ldquo;non-dutiable&rdquo;  shall mean &ldquo;exempted by this paragraph from the duty imposed by this resolution,&rdquo; and 
     (b)  the expression &ldquo;Saorstat Eireann&rdquo; shall be substituted for the expression &ldquo;Great Britain or Ireland.&rdquo; 
     (4)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     FIRST SCHEDULE. 
     SUGAR, MOLASSES, GLUCOSE, SACCHARIN: RATES, DUTIES, DRAWBACKS AND ALLOWANCE. 
     PART I. 
     DUTIES 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Articles 
             Customs Duty 
             Excise Duty 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             s. 
             d. 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             Sugar which, when tested by the polariscope, indicates a polarisation exceeding ninety-eight degrees 
             the cwt. 
             11 
             8  
             11 
             8  
           
           
             Sugar of a polarisation not exceeding seventy-six degrees 
             the cwt. 
             5 
             7  
             5 
             7  
           
           
             Sugar of a polarisation: 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Exceeding 
             76 and not exceeding 
             77 the cwt. 
             
             
             7 
             9.4 
             5 
             9.4 
           
           
             ,, 
             77,,,,,, 
             78,,,, 
             
             
             7 
             11.6 
             5 
             11.6 
           
           
             ,, 
             78,,,,,, 
             79,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             1.9 
             8 
             1.9 
           
           
             ,, 
             79,,,,,, 
             80,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             4.1 
             8 
             4.1 
           
           
             ,, 
             80,,,,,, 
             81,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             6.4 
             8 
             6.4 
           
           
             ,, 
             81,,,,,, 
             82,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             8.6 
             8 
             8.6 
           
           
             ,, 
             82,,,,,, 
             83,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             10.8 
             8 
             10.8 
           
           
             ,, 
             83,,,,,, 
             84,,,, 
             
             
             7 
             1.4 
             7 
             1.4 
           
           
             ,, 
             84,,,,,, 
             85,,,, 
             
             
             7 
             3.9 
             7 
             3.9 
           
           
             ,, 
             85,,,,,, 
             86,,,, 
             
             
             7 
             6.4 
             7 
             6.4 
           
           
             ,, 
             86,,,,,, 
             87,,,, 
             
             
             7 
             8.9 
             7 
             8.9 
           
           
             ,, 
             87,,,,,, 
             88,,,, 
             
             
             7 
             11.7 
             7 
             11.7 
           
           
             ,, 
             88,,,,,, 
             89,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             2.5 
             8 
             2.5 
           
           
             ,, 
             89,,,,,, 
             90,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             5.9 
             8 
             5.9 
           
           
             ,, 
             90,,,,,, 
             91,,,, 
             
             
             8 
             9.2 
             8 
             9.2 
           
           
             ,, 
             91,,,,,, 
             92,,,, 
             
             
             9 
             0.6 
             9 
             0.6 
           
           
             ,, 
             92,,,,,, 
             93,,,, 
             
             
             9 
             4.0 
             9 
             4.0 
           
           
             ,, 
             93,,,,,, 
             94,,,, 
             
             
             9 
             7.3 
             9 
             7.3 
           
           
             ,, 
             94,,,,,, 
             95,,,, 
             
             
             9 
             10.7 
             9 
             10.7 
           
           
             ,, 
             95,,,,,, 
             96,,,, 
             
             
             10 
             2.0 
             10 
             2.0 
           
           
             ,, 
             96,,,,,, 
             97,,,, 
             
             
             10 
             5.4 
             10 
             5.4 
           
           
             ,, 
             97,,,,,, 
             98,,,, 
             
             
             10 
             8.8 
             10 
             8.8 
           
           
             
               
               Molasses (except when cleared for use by a licensed distiller in the manufacture of spirits) and invert sugar and all other sugar and extracts from sugar which cannot be completely tested by the polariscope and on which duty is not specially charged by reference to the other provisions of this Part of this Schedule:&mdash; If containing 70 per cent or more of sweetening matter 
             the cwt. 
             7 
             7 
             7 
             5 
           
           
             If containing 70 per cent or more of sweetening matter 
             the cwt. 
             7 
             7 
             7 
             5 
           
           
             If containing less than 70 per cent. and more than 50 per cent. of sweetening matter 
             the cwt. 
             7 
             4 
             5 
             4 
           
           
             If containing more than 50 per cent of sweetening matter 
             the cwt. 
             4 
             7 
             4 
             7 
           
           
             The amount of sweetening matter to be taken to be the total amount of cane, invert and other sugar contained in the article as determined by analysis in manner directed by the Revenue Commissioners. 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Glucose: 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             Solid 
             
             
             
             
             the cwt. 
             7 
             5 
             7 
             5 
           
           
             Liquid 
             
             
             
             
             the cwt. 
             7 
             4 
             5 
             4 
           
           
             Saccharin (including substances of a like nature or use) 
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
           
             
             
             the oz. 
             3 
             9 
             5 
             9 
           
         
       
     
     PART II. 
     DRAWBACKS AND ALLOWANCE. 
     A.&mdash;CUSTOMS DRAWBACKS. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Nature of Drawback. 
             Amount or Rate of Drawback. 
           
         
         
           
             (1)  Drawback on the export or on the shipment or deposit in a bonded warehouse, for use as ship's stores, of duty-paid sugar or molasses (including sugar or molasses produced from duty-paid sugar or molasses) and which has passed a refinery in Saorstat Eireann. 
             In the case of molasses produced in bond an amount equal to the duty paid and in any other case an amount equal to the duty which would be chargeable on the importation of the like article. 
           
           
             (2)  Drawback on the deposit in a bonded warehouse for export of beer in the brewing of which duty-paid sugar or glucose has been used. 
             An amount equal to the duty paid in respect of the sugar or glucose. 
           
           
             (3)  Drawback on the export, or on the shipment, or deposit in a bonded warehouse for use as ship's stores of goods (other than beer) in the manufacture or preparation of which in Saorstat Eireann any duty-paid sugar, molasses, glucose or saccharin has been used. 
             An amount equal to the duty chargeable in respect of that quantity of the sugar, molasses, glucose or saccharin which appears to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners to have been used in the manufacture or preparation of the goods, or, in the case of residual products, to be contained in the goods. 
           
           
             (4)  Drawback to be allowed to a refiner on molasses produced in Saorstat Eireann from sugar, on which the import duty has been paid at the current rate and delivered to a licensed distiller for use in the manufacture of spirits ............ the cwt. 
             s.2 
             d. 7 
           
         
       
     
     
       
        B.&mdash;EXCISE DRAWBACKS. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Nature of Drawback. 
             Amount of Rate of Drawback. 
           
         
         
           
             (1)  Drawback on the export, or on the shipment, or deposit in a bonded warehouse for use as ship's stores of duty-paid sugar, molasses, glucose or saccharin. 
             An amount equal to the duty paid. 
           
           
             (2)  Drawback on the deposit in a bonded warehouse for export of beer in the brewing of which duty-paid sugar or glucose has been used. 
             An amount equal to the duty paid in respect of the sugar or glucose. 
           
           
             (3)  Drawback on the export, or on  the shipment, or deposit in a bonded warehouse for use as ship's stores of goods (other than beer) in the manufacture or preparation of which in Saorstat Eireann any duty-paid sugar, molasses, glucose or saccharin has been used. 
             An amount equal to the duty paid in respect of that quantity of the sugar, molasses, glucose or saccharin which appears to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners to have been used in the manufacture or preparation of the goods. 
           
           
             (4)  Drawback to be allowed to a refiner on molasses produced in Saorstat Eireann from duty-paid sugar and delivered to a licensed distiller for use in the manufacture of spirits  the cwt. 
             2s. 7d. 
           
           
             (5)  Drawback on the deposit of duty-paid glucose in a warehouse approved by the Revenue Commissioners under Section 2 of the Manufactured Tobacco Act, 1863, for the manufacture of cavendish and negrohead tobacco. 
             An amount equal to the drawback which would have been payable on the export of the glucose. 
           
         
       
     
     C.&mdash;ALLOWANCES TO REFINERS ON MOLASSES PRODUCED IN SAORSTAT EIREANN AND USED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF FOOD FOR STOCK. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Nature of allowance. 
             Rate of Allowance. 
           
         
         
           
             Allowance on molasses produced from sugar on which duty has been paid on importation or on which the excise duty has been paid the cwt 
             s.2 
             d. 7 
           
         
       
     
     This is the sugar duty, and the effect of it is to raise the total tax on sugar from one penny to 11⁄4d. per lb.  As I have already said, that will bring in an increased revenue of about £200,000. We will not actually get that sum into the Exchequer, but as the subsidy to the Carlow Beet Sugar Factory is made up partly of actual cash and partly of remitted excise duty, we will pay the Carlow factory a farthing in the pound subsidy less on any sugar they produce in the present year.  The result is that the Exchequer will benefit to the extent of £200,000.  The yield of one farthing in the pound is £200,000, and that   amount will be obtained either by a saving on the subsidy paid out or by actual payment into the Exchequer. 
     I have dealt to some extent with the reason why this particular tax was imposed. For three or four years sugar has been charged here at a lower rate than in a neighbouring country.  We reduced the sugar duty from 23⁄4d. to 1d. The reduction made in the neighbouring country was only to 11⁄4d.  It is felt that it is more satisfactory, if revenue has to be obtained, to obtain it by an increase of an existing duty rather than by a new duty.  If you increase an existing duty by a small amount there is every possibility that you can obtain the sum which you set out to obtain without having any addition paid by the consumer which does not reach the Exchequer.  On the other hand, if we were to impose any new tax there is no doubt that more than the amount the Exchequer would receive would be taken from the consumer.  If we put a tax of 2d. on tea&mdash;although tea perhaps is a bad example, because what happens as a rule in the tea trade is that the prices remain constant and the quality is changed&mdash;but if we assume that the effect is the same, what would happen is that perhaps 3d. would be charged to the consumer to supply the Exchequer with 2d.  If we put, say, 2d. per gallon on petrol and paraffin, something more than that would be charged to the consumer&mdash;perhaps 21⁄2d.  As a matter of fact, in the case of paraffin, which is bought in quarts, it might amount even to more, and that extra 2d. might mean the addition of 1d. per quart.  So that we came to the conclusion that as a sum of £200,000 was required it was better to obtain it by a small increase of this sort on an existing tax, rather than by levying a tax on some article not at present dutiable. 
     
      
       I take the first possible opportunity of protesting against this increase in the sugar tax. In the interests of the poorest taxpayers, and in order to equalise the incidence of taxation generally, we rather expected that even the existing tax on sugar would be removed.  We certainly must protest against what we can only regard as a reactionary policy on the part of the Government in   putting on this extra farthing.  In practice it will mean, just as the Minister remarked about tea or petrol, more than one farthing in the pound to the consumer.  Especially will that be the case where sugar is bought, as it must be bought by the very poor, by the pound.  I am quite certain that in practice the consumer will be charged more than the farthing extra per pound.  If anybody will get any advantage in that respect it will be the person who can afford to buy in large quantities. 
       There will be another opportunity of testing the feeling of the House by a division on this particular increase.  I take it that this includes not only the farthing, but the penny tax that was on sugar already, so that a vote against this particular resolution would not indicate exactly what I am anxious to secure, namely, that this farthing should not be put on.  If the Minister found that he had to get £200,000 he should have searched around for some other way of raising it besides this particular one.  If he were forced to do it I would prefer that he should put it on tea rather than sugar.  That may seem strange, but it is my own personal opinion, as sugar is such an important article of food and enters into so many articles of our daily food. This is only another instance of what I referred to in my earlier remarks, that in its incidence taxation generally falls more heavily on the poorer taxpayer than on the person who is better able to afford it.  For that reason, and for the reason that it indicates a reactionary attitude on the part of the Government, I protest against this proposal. 
     
     
      
       As I indicated in my first statement this afternoon, we also are opposed to this tax, and our reasons are precisely the reasons indicated by Deputy O'Connell.  We think that this extra burden of £200,000 by way of taxation ought not to be imposed upon the poorest section of the community.  It is quite obvious that it is going to fall upon the poorest section and will affect particularly the poor people with large families.  It is also true, as stated&mdash;I think everybody will agree with it&mdash;that it means more than a farthing in the lb.  Again it is   the poor that will feel that, because they have to buy in small quantities. Those who buy in large quantities will probably be able to see that the retailer will not add a halfpenny, but to the poor people it practically means a halfpenny in the lb. 
       We are also very glad to find ourselves in agreement with the Labour Party in the idea that if extra taxation has to be imposed there are other directions to which one could look for it. In considering this whole question of taxation even we are able to see, without having the time and the machinery which the Minister for Finance has for examining these matters, directions in which there could be an increase of taxation without affecting the general economic conditions of the country. We believe, for example, that motors could be taxed.  The sum required is a pretty large sum.  The yield of the motor taxes here at present is going to be pretty large, even though we only intend them as a customs duty, or as a tariff, at present, in the hope that the Irish motor industry will be built up. But we believe that if we had even to put a tax on petrol to supply the deficiency it would be very much better than putting a tax on the poorest section of the community.  We also think that, for example, there ought not to be remissions upon racing or anything of that kind, at the same time as we put this increased burden upon the poor.  The moment one thinks at all of it the reasons against it are apparent to everybody, and I do not think it necessary to stress them now. 
     
     
      
       As Deputy de Valera has said, there are numerous other channels from which additional revenue could be obtained if it was necessary for the Government to secure this £200,000 extra for the coming year.  I do not want to initiate a discussion at this stage on other matters not directly concerned with this resolution; but I would like to point out that, without increasing taxation, it should have been possible for the Government to secure this £200,000 in another way.  Most Deputies will have read in this morning's paper, for example, that in Great   Britain they have embarked upon a policy of the reduction of the number of civil servants and that they hope, in a period of five years, to reduce the number of civil servants by 18 per cent.  I do not want to go into the matter in detail now, but I would like to point out to the House that there are approximately 60,000 civil servants in Great Britain, for 20,000 civil servants in the Free State.  In other words, the Civil Service here is one-third of that in Great Britain, even though our population is only one-fourteenth of that in Great Britain. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Deputy is dealing with comparable figures. 
     
     
      
       I am dealing with the figures given in the Press in the report of Mr. Churchill's Budget speech last night, in which he said they were going to reduce the Civil Service by 18 per cent.&mdash;a reduction of eleven thousand. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said that there were one-third as many civil servants here as there are in Great Britain.  I do not think the figures are comparable. 
     
     
      
       The number, 20,000 civil servants in the Free State, was the number given in reply to an answer to a question. 
     
     
      
       So far as Great Britain is concerned, the Deputy is not giving comparable figures. 
     
     
      
       That may be, but when we cannot get information of a more accurate nature we must use the information we have.  The information supplied was that we have 20,000 civil servants here, and the British say they have 60,000. 
     
     
      
       By far the greater proportion of our 20,000 are postmen, and I should imagine that postmen are not included in the British figure at all. 
     
     
      
       That is so, but even assuming that the number here is not one-third, but one-sixth or one-tenth, even then I should say the number is excessive.  Our population, as we know, is only one-twentieth or one-fourteenth   of the population of Great Britain, and our revenue is only one-thirtieth, and I think the Minister has discovered that our taxable capacity is only one-seventy-fifth.  If we find that the British Government considers the number of civil servants is excessive, or so excessive that the actual proportion is to be reduced by 18 per cent., I think it would be found here, even by the &ldquo;Axe&rdquo; Committee, of which Deputy Heffernan is Chairman &mdash;a Committee in which nobody believes and in which even Deputy Heffernan himself does not believe&mdash; that a similar reduction of at least 18 per cent., if not more, should be possible.  If that was carried out, by far the major portion of this £200,000 would be secured. 
     
     
      
       What about a reduction in the number of T.D.'s? 
     
     
      
       That is a suggestion which, if made by any Deputy, would have the support of the Fianna Fail Party.  We will reduce the number of T.D.'s if Deputy Hennessy will include the abolition of the Seanad.  Let us take both organs of administration and find out what economies are possible. We will find that we could get this £200,000 without putting an extra farthing per pound on sugar.  That is the point that I want to make.  It was not necessary to impose this fresh taxation, which will fall on the poor. If the Government wanted that money urgently they could have got it without this additional impost by practising economy in the direction which I have indicated, and also in the direction which Deputy Dr. Hennessy has mentioned. 
     
     
      
       I wonder does the Minister realise the food value of sugar, especially for children?  For others besides children it is not only a food, but a stimulant and a substitute for alcohol.  In some aspects it is, in fact, as valuable, if not more valuable, than bread; but what an outcry there would be if there was a tax on bread! The tax apparently is put on sugar because we have adopted the English attitude and because we want to conform with the English tax of 11⁄4d., and there is no outcry; but if   people realised the food value of sugar there would be an outcry against a tax which will hit the poor, especially at a time when there is great unemployment. 
     
     
      
       One of the surprises in the Budget has been this tax of a farthing per pound on sugar.  This tax as Deputy Lemass has mentioned, is not going to affect the wealthy classes, but it will affect the poor, the unemployed, and the underpaid employee. Instead of the Government introducing something which would be of advantage to the small farmer, who is in a state of poverty, and which would help the unemployed, we find them attacking the most helpless class, the poorer class, and we also find them attacking the very breakfast table of the poor. It has been mentioned that sugar is a valuable food asset, but this tax means that the poor will have to purchase less sugar.  I agree with Deputy Lemass when he said that there are other ways in which the Government could have increased their revenue.  Take, for instance, the travelling expenses of Deputies.  If the Government were sincere in trying to effect economy they could give Deputies third-class instead of first-class travelling vouchers. The Minister also referred to the fact that they intended to take off the entertainment tax in connection with racecourses.  This means that they are going to allow people to frequent racecourses, but who is going to help them to pay for it?  It means that the poor man is called on to do so.  I think that this additional tax, so far as the unemployed, the poorer classes and the underpaid employee are concerned, is most unfair, and we on these Benches are going to oppose it as strongly as possible. 
     
     
      
       In introducing this farthing tax per pound on sugar the Minister said that he saw no reason why anything more should be charged to the consumer.  Is that a pious wish or can the Minister guarantee that the consumer will not be charged anything in excess of that farthing of which the Government is in such need to augment its sources of revenue?  It may be a case of softening the blow by expressing the hope that traders will not charge it.   The fact that this additional tax of a farthing per pound means a sum of £200,000 as revenue shows how much sugar is used by the people.  The trader will have to pay a certain amount to the importer, the importer will have to pay a certain amount to the Customs authorities, and as I suppose the consumer will have to pay the trader I can see a poor man paying a halfpenny a pound more for sugar, notwithstanding the fact that we are told it will only be a farthing extra. I would like the Minister to explain his statement that the consumer will not have to pay more than a farthing.  Is that a pious expression or can he guarantee that nothing further will have to be paid? 
     
     
      
       I wish to protest very strongly against the sugar tax.  In other years the excuse was given that heavy taxation was necessary owing to the large number of representatives of the people who were outside this assembly and who were a danger while they were outside.  On that account it was said that taxation had to be raised to keep up the Army and Civic Guard.  Now, however, there is no occasion for that and we naturally expected to see large reductions in taxation, but instead of that the Minister is looking for more money from people who, according to him, should not be paid more than 27/- a week, people who he says are bound to rear families on that wage.  I could suggest a few ways by which the money could be found if the Minister really required it but I do not believe that he does.  I suggest that he start with those who are paid more than 27/- a week&mdash; that he start with his own front line trench.  I find that officials with £1,700 a year are getting a war bonus of £211, while a man with 27/- a week has to pay a farthing extra for his sugar.  I expected to hear something in this Budget towards giving relief to farmers who are unable to pay their way, some relief on the rates which have gone up 300 per cent. owing to all the promises given by the Government regarding salaries and bonuses of officials.  I gave an instance to-day of a high salaried official, an inspector who went to Cork and fixed an inclusive salary of £750   which on the representation of that official and the paid Commissioner was increased by £190.  That money has now to be found by increasing the cost of sugar to the poor.  If that is to be the policy of the Government I wish something would take them out of it. 
     
     
      
       I would like the Minister to state whether he has considered the effect of the imposition of this farthing in the pound on the sliding scale on the cost of living bonus.  Is it going to mean an increase in the cost of Civil Service salaries?  Probably he has not allowed for that. 
     
     
      
       I have not allowed for that, and I hope it will not have that effect.  I think that perhaps I should not reply to Deputy de Valera's question about the remission on racing until we come to that.  I could just say in one word that I believe very soon we would have got very little tax as a result of it, and we would, perhaps, have lost the betting duty.  Deputy Lemass, and I think Deputy Hennessy collaborated with him, suggested a means by which expenditure could be reduced, but we could not take any such proposal as a reduction of the number of Deputies or the abolition of the Seanad into account in framing this Budget.  I should say, even if everybody were to agree that that should happen, there is no possibility that it would happen this year.  On the general question of economy, I think we can discuss that question better on the general resolution, but I would emphasise what I did say in the main statement. You cannot reduce the number of officials unless the duties that we want discharged are also reduced. There is a theory that all sorts of people spend their days with their feet on the mantelpiece and draw salaries for it. 
     
     
      
       Picking out winners. 
     
     
      
       That is not so.  I do not say that when you have a big machine you can have the position where every man is working hard, or I would not say that such a thing would not be possible, but I do say that the main body of officials work hard and do their duty well and that you cannot get the work that is put on the machine   done with a lesser number.  We might eliminate some of the work, but when we come to consider that we are up against difficulties.  There is no member who has been in this House too short a time not to realise that there are continual demands from every side of the House to have more things done. We have got to strike a balance, and I think the fact that it is no longer possible to increase services and at the same time reduce taxation, brings us up to a point where it will be, perhaps, easier for us to consider how that balance is to be struck and how much we want done if it means increasing taxation. However, that is a matter we could not discuss on this resolution. 
     
     Deputy Briscoe asked whether I could give any assurance that not more than a farthing per pound would be passed on to the consumer.  The Deputy is, no doubt, well aware that it frequently happens, when there is a small increase in the price of a commodity, that traders do not pass on the amount of the increase.  When you have a big increase the big increase is and always   must be passed on.  If you have a new tax which involves trouble to the importer, and perhaps delays in the provision of bonded accommodation, you undoubtedly have more than the tax passed along.  It was with reference to the fact that certainly a great deal more than twopence would be charged to the consumer, if we put a tax of twopence on tea, that we decided in favour of a farthing tax on sugar.  Sugar has a food value, as Deputy Little pointed out.  Tea has not the same food value, yet a large number of the people make it as much a necessity as sugar. It may not be as valuable as food, but it is as much a necessity, and the tax on tea would have been no less a hardship. At any rate this tax on sugar that is proposed is doing very little more than paying the cost that arises from a measure which gives a great deal of relief to the very poorest of the people. 
     Question put. 
     The Committee divided. Ta, 74; Nil, 59. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. James Crowley. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter De Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). 
             Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Daniel O'Leary. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Vincent Rice. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     
       
        Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Richard Anthony. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Daniel Bourke. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Henry Broderick. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Archie J. Cassidy. Michael Clery. James Coburn. James Colbert. Hugh Colohan. Eamon Cooney. Dan Corkery. Martin John Corry. Fred Hugh Crowley. William Davin. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. James Everett. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. 
             Sean Hayes. Patrick Hogan (Clare). Samuel Holt. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Timothy Joseph Murphy. Thomas J. O'Connell. Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and Doyle.  Nil: Deputies Dolan and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     No. 10&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That in lieu of the duties of customs chargeable under Section 21 of the Finance Act, 1925 (No. 28 of 1925) there shall be charged, levied, and paid on all articles (other than sugar confectionery, cocoa preparations, beer, table waters, herb beer, cider, perry, wine, tobacco, spirits and any article on which a duty is imposed by Section 26 of the said Finance Act, 1925), imported into Saorstat Eireann on or after the 26th day of April, 1928, and made from or containing sugar or other sweetening matter, the following duties of customs, that is to say: 
       (a)  if the articles are prescribed in the official import lists to be entered on importation by weight, a duty at the rate of one penny and one farthing in the pound; 
       (b)  if the articles are prescribed in the official import lists to be entered on importation by measure, a duty at the rate of one shilling on the gallon. 
       (2)  That the duty mentioned in this resolution shall be in addition to any duty chargeable in respect of any spirits or saccharin used in the manufacture or preparation of the article, but in lieu of any duty which might otherwise be chargeable on any other ingredient used in the manufacture or preparation of the article. 
       (3)  That the provisions of Section 8 of the Finance Act, 1919, shall not apply to the duty mentioned in this resolution. 
       (4)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     
     No. 10 is a corollary of the last resolution. Heretofore a duty of a penny per lb. or 10d. per gallon was imposed on preparations containing sugar which were not within the definition of sugar confectionery or cocoa preparations.  It is proposed to raise that duty on these preparations containing sugar in a way corresponding to the increase of the sugar duty itself.  The flat tax on those articles was imposed two or three years ago in substitution of a duty previously   in existence on the sugar content, and it was found that the duty on the sugar content was difficult to decrease.  It meant an enormous number of samples being sent to the State Laboratory for analysis, and it was considered that when the sugar duty was not so very high it was better to charge as if the articles were all sugar. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
   
   
     No. 11.&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That where a manufacturer in Saorstat Eireann of goods, in the manufacture or preparation for sale of which varnish made with spirit (in this resolution referred to as spirit varnish) is used, shows to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners 
       (a)  that a spirit varnish made in Saorstat Eireann and reasonably efficient for the purposes of such manufacturer is not obtainable, and 
       (b)  that a substantial proportion of the said goods is exported, the Revenue Commissioners may, subject to the provisions of this resolution and to compliance with such conditions as they think fit for the security of the revenue from time to time to prescribe, allow the importation by such manufacturer without payment of spirit duty of such quantity of spirit varnish as they consider reasonable for the said purposes of such manufacturers. 
       (2)  That no spirit varnish shall be imported under this resolution without payment of spirit duty unless the Revenue Commissioners are satisfied that such varnish is made with spirit which has before use in the manufacture of such varnish been sufficiently denatured to render such spirit impotable. 
     
     (3)  That no continuing authority for the importation of spirit varnish without payment of spirit duty shall be granted under this resolution by the Revenue Commissioners for any period exceeding three years, but any such continuing authority may, so long as the Revenue Commissioners are satisfied that the conditions prescribed by them under this   resolution continue to be fulfilled, be renewed from time to time for periods not exceeding three years. 
     (4)  That any such continuing authority as aforesaid or any renewal thereof may be withdrawn by the Revenue Commissioners at any time. 
     (5)  That if any person acts in contravention of any of the conditions prescribed by the Revenue Commissioners under this resolution he shall for each offence incur a penalty of fifty pounds, and any varnish in respect of which such contravention has taken place shall be forfeited. 
     (6)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     Number 11 is for the admission, free of duty, of certain spirit varnish.  It is really a concession that is being given in the interests of a particular firm. With the setting up of the Free State varnish containing spirit became liable to the spirit duty.  So far as the ordinary grades of varnish were concerned we set about and made them in the country but for the purpose of varnishing biscuit tins Messrs. Jacobs found that they could not obtain any varnish made in the country that suited their requirements.  When they first protested, the view I took was that they would have to try some more and I refused in that year to give them any concession.  Experience has shown that it is actually impossible to get made here quick-drying varnish of the type they want.  The varnish that they have been able to get when put on these biscuit tins does not dry quickly enough. The tins consequently stick to their conveyers when taken from one part of the factory to another and trouble occurs also when girls handle them; owing to the varnish not being dry it sometimes happened that the biscuits get soiled.  It involves very little in the way of duty and is a handicap on a firm which is doing a big export trade and I thought it would be desirable that we should allow that as the varnish cannot be made in the country as we know now after four or five years' experience. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister satisfied himself that it is not possible to have that varnish produced in this country?  It seems to me&mdash;I have not had the opportunity of reading this as carefully as I would like but I do not think there is any question of licence, and to meet the position it seems to me that it would be very much better, during the time when experiments could be made in the production, that varnish should be allowed in for the sake of that firm on licence only. 
     
     
      
       This makes it discretionary. It gives a discretion to the Revenue Commissioners to admit.  As a matter of fact, if we find that it can be made in the country we would refuse any permission to admit, but we have insisted on this firm for four years now using varnish made here.  I went to the factory myself and was shown the process and am entirely satisfied that the varnish they have had to use was not entirely suitable.  I was certainly very reluctant to make a concession in the general front of the duty and did not do it until the matter had been tried out for several years. 
     
     
      
       This is simply a remission of the present tax.  Is it to continue definitely?  Will you have to introduce a new resolution to reimpose it? 
     
     
      
       No. I think the Revenue Commissioners could refuse to permit it. 
     
     
      
       In other words, the effect is really the same as if it were under licence. 
     
     
      
       Practically. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the licence could be withdrawn if at any time the varnish could be made in this country to meet the requirements of the factory.  I also had an opportunity of inspecting the conditions under which the firm are working, and they are working under a handicap with the varnish they are using at present. After I had an opportunity of examining the conditions, I got in touch with some firms in this country that are interested in this business, and I am aware that some of them are working at present on experiments in the hope   that they will be able to produce varnish that will meet the requirements of the firm.  If they succeed, I presume the licence given under this resolution can be withdrawn, so as to ensure that the firm would have to get it here. 
     
     
      
       Quite. 
     
     
      
       This matter has been under the consideration of Deputies in various parts of the House and has been put before the Minister by them.  They are satisfied that the varnish is unsuitable for the firm's requirements. Messrs. Jacob's tins reach China and the West Indies in a rusted condition.  They are spoiled very much because of having to use varnish at present which is not suitable. 
     
     
      
       As far as I can see, this concession that the Minister is giving in this motion is merely giving effect to a promise he made to a deputation which met and discussed this matter at very great length in Government Buildings some time ago.  Deputy Kerlin, I understood, was representing the Fianna Fail Party on the deputation. We approached the Minister with a view to urging him to give this concession. I understood that Deputy Kerlin was speaking on behalf of Deputy Lemass on that particular occasion. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 12.&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That the duty of Customs imposed by Section 16 of the Finance Act, 1925 (No. 28 of 1925) shall not be charged or levied on the following articles imported into Saorstat Eireann on or after the 26th day of April, 1928, that is to say, hoods and shapes for the manufacture of hats which require for the purpose of such manufacture to be blocked, shaped, or cut, and in respect of which it appears to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners that the process of blocking, shaping, or cutting represents a substantial portion of the process of manufacture. 
     
     (2)  That paragraph (e) of sub-section (2) of the said Section 16 of   the Finance Act, 1925 (No. 28 of 1925) shall cease to have effect on and after the 26th day of April, 1928. 
     (3)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     This is practically a definition resolution. Under the terms of the apparel tax unblocked hats and shapes are free of duty, but it appears that there are comparatively few hat shapes known that are completely unblocked. There is some little shaping given to them.  It was not intended that those hats should be taxed, and it is for the purpose of enabling the Revenue Commissioners to exempt hats that are partly blocked provided they are being imported for the manufacture of hats.  It is really to admit a type of hood or shape which was intended to be admitted.  We thought that goods which were not in the really shaped process could be admitted free, but it was found under the terms of the apparel duty that they could not.  No hat that has not a substantial amount of work still to be done on it will be admitted free.  This will, as a matter of fact, increase the manufacture of hats here. 
     
      
       These are practically semi-raw materials. 
     
     
      
       Are we to understand that these semi-blocked shapes were taxed before this? 
     
     
      
       They were. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 13.&mdash;CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     (1)  That Section 6 of the Customs and Inland Revenue Act, 1879, as adapted under the Adaptation of Enactments Act, 1922 (No. 2 of 1922) shall, on and after the 26th day of April, 1928, have effect in relation to plain spirits distilled in the Irish Free State re-imported from Great Britain or Northern Ireland as if the words &ldquo;the same shall be brought back within five years from the time of the   exportation thereof, and&rdquo; were omitted therefrom. 
     (2)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
     This is for the purpose of allowing spirits distilled in the Free State to be imported after the expiration of five years from the date of exportation on the same conditions that they had been exempted prior to that.  A substantial trade is carried on by Saorstat distillers with Northern Ireland, and in some cases the spirit is bonded there until it comes to maturity.  Unless this resolution were passed Customs duty at the full rate would have to be enforced on its re-importation and this return trade across the Border would be unquestionably interfered with.  There is grave reason to fear that the taking of Saorstat spirits into Northern Ireland would be jeopardised.  There is trade of a smaller character with Great Britain, and the concession should apply to that country also. 
     There is a difference of 2/6 in the gallon.  If we are in any way to increase the difficulties of people who buy Saorstat manufactured spirit and take it to Northern Ireland, it would be an injury to the trade because it would undoubtedly increase the difficulties of disposing of it there. 
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister in the case where these spirits are distilled in the Saorstat, put into bond in a house in Northern Ireland and afterwards bottled and re-imported to the Saorstat, how are the Customs authorities to distinguish between that and any other whiskey?  How are they to know that it was the whiskey originally sent from the Saorstat? 
     
     
      
       They would have to accept the certificate of the Customs authorities of the Saorstat.  As a matter of fact, the certificates of our Customs are accepted for many purposes by the British Customs authorities.  For instance, to illustrate it, going back to the case of Jacob's biscuits, our certificates are accepted by the people at the other side.  We pay drawbacks and   our drawback certificates are accepted. The drawback certificates are mutually accepted by the two parties. 
       Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 14.&mdash;EXCISE. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (1)  That on and after the 1st day of May, 1928, entertainments duty within the meaning of section 1 of the Finance (New Duties) Act, 1916, shall not be charged or levied on payments for admission to any entertainments as respects which it is proved to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners that the entertainment consists solely of one or more horse races, and that the holding of the entertainment has been authorised either by the Turf Club or by the Irish National Hunt Steeplechase Committee. 
       (2)  It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that this resolution shall have statutory effect under the provisions of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1927 (No. 7 of 1927). 
       This is an exemption from the entertainment duty on horse-racing.  I put it to Deputy de Valera that this tax would almost disappear.  We got £21,000 in 1924-25 from this tax.  We got £10,700 last year.  We get some figure less than £10,700 this year.  The Revenue Commissioners put it at £9,000, but regard that as a rather optimistic estimate.  There is no doubt that an enormous number of race meetings will collapse if some aid is not given to them.  I have been only twice at race meetings in my life, and I am not interested in race meetings at all. I am not inclined to give concessions merely for the purpose of sporting events, but everybody interested in horse-racing holds that, without racing, the horse-breeding industry will rapidly and seriously decline and a very serious loss will ensue.  The horse-racing industry is an important one.  In giving this concession to horse-racing we are supporting an important industry. 
     
     
      
       I am giving expression   to my own views only in this particular matter, but it seems to me that the Minister's arguments do not hold.  It does not follow because there is a diminution from this tax that the diminution is due to the imposition of this tax at all.  It would take a good deal of convincing before I would believe that the decline in horse-racing is due to this entertainment tax.  I do not believe that this concession is going to help the horse-breeding industry in the slightest.  We know that the people who can afford to pay £1 to enter an enclosure at a race meeting can afford to pay the extra tax.  I think this resolution is wrong in principle. It is wrong that there should be a reduction or a remission of an exemption of this tax at the same time that you have an increase in the tax on sugar.  I think that the two things in the one Budget are ridiculous and I, for one, am very much against this resolution. 
     
     
      
       I am rather interested in this, but I have an open mind on it. I have made an attempt to get from those who hold the idea that horse breeding and everything else depend upon horse-racing some facts and figures which would enable me to form a judgment on the matter.  People who are interested in racecourses come with a very hectic tale on this subject, but when I did ask them to give me some figures which would enable me to form a judgment on the matter.  I was not able to get these figures from them. Between now and the time when we come to deal with this matter on the Report Stage I hope that some evidence will be made available for the Dail. 
     
     
      
       I only want to ask the Minister one question.  The Minister, as far as I can see, has been in consultation with the Turf Club people and with the people in connection with the rececourses who are to benefit by having this entertainment tax removed. Has the Minister received any assurance from these people which would lead him to believe that the removal of this tax will mean a reduction in the price of admission to the racecourses?  I would wish to have an assurance on this point. 
     
     
     
      
       There is no doubt at all that since the introduction of the betting tax racing has gone down tremendously in Ireland.  A great many things have been pressing on racing.  The different taxes involved in the Betting Act, for one thing, and the entertainment tax on those attending race-meetings are matters that affect very large numbers of the people.  Racing is a matter itself that affects a very large numbers of people. It gives employment all over the country, both for racing purposes and for breeding and many other things. There is no doubt that since the tax has been introduced, the attendance at race-meetings has fallen off tremendously. A number of race-meetings have closed down entirely.  There are only two race-meetings at present that are able to pay their way at all.  This is a serious matter for the country.  It is probable that if something is not done racing will come to a dead stop in the country.  The result would be that thousands of people would be thrown out of employment.  This exemption is a small matter; still it is something, and racing people will look upon it as some help.  There are many other things that ought to be done to ease the pressure on racing and to help an industry which concerns such a very large number of people in this country and which gives employment to so many.  This concession will be welcomed as a help.  It will prevent the remainder of the race-meetings from being closed down altogether. 
     
     
      
       My idea is that successful race-meetings are necessary for the success of a great industry like horse-breeding in Ireland, and anything that will interfere with the success of horse-breeding, whether it is the imposition of a tax on those attending the meeting or a tax on betting, will ultimately injure horse-breeding. For that reason, I think the Minister is acting wisely in remitting this tax. 
     
     
      
       I agree with Deputy de Valera that the decline in horse-racing is not solely due to the entertainment tax.  One important factor has been the policy adopted by the racing executives of maintaining high charges of admission to the courses. 
     
     
        Representations have been made to me that if this matter were brought forward in the Dail I should suggest to the Minister that the remission of this entertainment tax should only be on prices under 10/-, in order to induce the executives to reduce their charges of admission and facilitate those who are not able to pay the high charges that are made by the racecourse executives. 
     
      
       I do not believe for one moment that this is going to do one bit of good to racing.  I do not believe that the entertainments tax interfered a terrible lot.  I am afraid the shortage of money was the first consideration. 
     
     
      
       Exactly. 
     
     
      
       The next thing is that Irish racing was assisted almost entirely by the Army of Occupation in this country.  I believe sincerely that is the case.  I believe that this concession is not going to have the slightest effect until such time as we are in a position to subsidise the consumer and there is plenty of employment.  I think it is from the general body of the people that racing will have to look for support. The entertainments tax was not so high that it prevented people going to race meetings.  Those who can afford it will go anyway, and those who cannot afford to go would not go even if you had only the entertainments tax as the admittance fee. 
     
     
      
       I do not think Deputies need be seriously afraid of the remission of this tax.  It has diminished from £21,000 to £10,000.  Within a year or so, if the tax were continued, not only would the revenue from it have vanished, but racing itself would have vanished in the country.  This tax is not the sole cause of the decline in the attendance at race meetings.  There are other contributory causes, and some of us had hopes that the Minister would adopt a more liberal attitude in removing some of the other things that tend to tell against the development of racing.  On racing depends the development of the thoroughbred horse, and the development of the thoroughbred horse is a greater industry than many Deputies realise.  The amount of employment given by racing and in   the rearing of thoroughbreds and other horses is not infinitesimal, and I daresay in most constituencies there are numerous men engaged in the care of horses.  If something is not done to help the revival of the small race meetings, a lot of extra people will be thrown out of work. 
       Some Deputy remarked that this was not a contributory cause, but that people had lost interest in racing, and one or two shillings meant nothing to them.  Any Deputy who attended small meetings in Southern Ireland or near Dublin where there was no charge would know that a shilling or two shillings means quite, a lot to a poor person.  This concession is only a little thing, and it is about one-tenth of what the racing people expect, but at least it is something. 
     
     
      
       I am going to insist on an answer to the question I put.  I did not want to make a speech, and it is very unfair that a member of the Government Party should make a case against the Minister such as the last Deputy has done.  I want to know will the removal of the tax be passed on the the people who in future may be expected in greater numbers on Irish rececourses? 
     
     
      
       You cannot have that I believe in a great many cases it will be passed on, but in other cases it probably will not be passed on. 
     
     
      
       Racing has gone to the dogs. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know would the Minister consider the application of this remission only to the small and not to the large meetings? 
     
     
      
       We can consider that when the matter comes up again.  An amendment can be put down. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister introduce the amendment? 
       Resolution agreed to. 
     
   
   
     No. 15&mdash;ESTATE DUTY. 
     
      
       I move: 
     
     (1)  That Section 16 (which relates to the abolition of limited aggregation of certain settled property) of the Finance Act, 1907,   shall be repealed so far as relates to persons dying after the passing of the Act to give effect to this resolution. 
     (2)  That sub-section (2) of Section 12 (which relates to the amendment of Section 4 of the Finance Act, 1894, as to aggregation) of the Finance Act, 1900, shall be repealed except so far as relates to persons dying before the 19th day of April, 1907. 
     Resolution No. 15 deals with the aggregation of estates for the purpose of assessing Estate Duties.  We would not have introduced this change but for the fact that it has been introduced by the British, and under the double taxation relief arrangements if we did not make the change we would lose about £10,000 a year for the benefit of the British Exchequer and, consequently, we make a change which will let us retain the £10,000 and give us £15,000 in addition. 
     Resolution No. 15 agreed to. 
   
   
     No. 16.&mdash;CORPORATION PROFITS TAX. 
     
      
       I move: 
       (1)  That corporation profits tax chargeable on profits of a foreign company arising in an accounting period ending after the 31st day of December, 1928, shall, subject to the provisions of this section, be charged, levied and paid at the rate of seven and one-half per cent. in lieu of the rate of five per cent. 
       (2)  That this resolution shall not apply to corporation profits tax chargeable on profits of a foreign company arising in an accounting period in respect of which such foreign company satisfies the Revenue Commissioners either 
       (a)  that during the whole of such accounting period all the members of such foreign company were resident outside Saorstat Eireann, or 
       (b)  that 
     
     (i)  in the case of the accounting period current on the 1st day of January 1929, during the whole of the time from the 31st day of December 1928 to the end of such accounting period, or   (ii)  in the case of the accounting period current at the expiration of six months from the day on which such foreign company commenced to carry on business in Saorstat Eireann during the whole of the time from the expiration of such six months to the end of such accounting period, or 
     (iii)  in the case of any other accounting period, during the whole of such accounting period such foreign company maintained in Saorstat Eireann a branch register of its members resident in Saorstat Eireann and that according to the law of the country in which such foreign company is incorporated and the law of Saorstat Eireann all stock and shares registered in such branch register and held by persons domiciled in Saorstat Eireann are or are deemed to be property situate in Saorstat Eireann for the purposes of assessment to death duties in such country and in Saorstat Eireann, or 
     (c)  that such foreign company commenced to carry on trade or business in Saorstat Eireann within six months before the end of such accounting period. 
     (3)  That this resolution shall be read with Part V. of the Finance Act, 1920. 
     
        It is not expected to produce any additional corporation profits tax. The ordinary corporation profits tax is at the rate of 5/-.  This applies to foreign companies and is at the rate of 7/6, but it will not be levied where the foreign company sets up what is called a Colonial Register here.  The setting up of a Colonial Register means that the shares of the company belong to Irish shareholders registered or situated here, and in that case we will get the whole of the death duties.  For example, if Messrs. Guinness set up a Colonial Register here the result will be that Irish shareholders whose shares are registered in the Colonial Register will have estates on which, when they die, we will get the death duties.  At present a considerable proportion of death duties goes to the British Exchequer. 
     
      
       That is a step in the right direction, anyhow. 
       Resolution No. 16 agreed to. 
       Consideration of Resolution No. 17 postponed. 
       Progress ordered to be reported. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported.  The Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.25 p.m. until 3 p.m. on Thursday, 26th April. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BANTRY COMPENSATION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that a Report under Section 15 of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, was obtained by Miss Molly Biaia, of Kealkil, Bantry, from the County   Court Judge at Skibbereen upon 24th April, 1924, for the sum of £8, besides costs and expenses, in respect of the taking and destruction on 24th February, 1923, at Kealkil, of a horse, her property, without her consent, by persons requisitioning the same for the use of an organisation engaged in armed resistance to the Government of Saorstat Eireann; whether he has declined to make any payment at foot of the Report; if he will state whether he has come to this conclusion without any communication with the applicant and without any opportunity being afforded her of being heard; and if he will undertake to reconsider the matter, and give the applicant an opportunity of putting forward statements in support of her claim? 
     
     
      
       A report was made under Section 15 of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, recommending payment of £8 compensation in this case, but after careful consideration I felt unable to authorise any payment. As regards the third part of the question, I had the advantage of a report as to the evidence given by the applicant on the hearing of her claim.  The decision refusing payment was communicated to her solicitor on the 22nd September; 1926, and no further communication on the matter has been received in my Department.  I am, however, prepared to consider any further evidence which the applicant may now be in a position to put forward. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - INCOME TAX RETURNS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance (1) what was the total amount of taxable earned income in Saorstat Eireann for the years ending the 31st March, 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926, 1927, and 1928 respectively; (2) what was the total amount of taxable unearned income in the same years, and (3) what was the total taxable income (earned and unearned) in those years. 
     
     
      
       Statistics of the total taxable income coming under review by the Revenue Commissioners are at present only available for the years 1923-24, 1924-25 and 1925-26, and of these it is only possible at the moment   to segregate the total of £24,461,000 for 1923-24 between earned and unearned income, the estimated amounts being £9,206,000 and £15,255,000 respectively. If the total taxable incomes for 1924-25 and 1925-26 were divided in the same proportion the results would be 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Earned. 
             Unearned. 
             Total. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
             £ 
             £ 
           
           
             1924-25 
             10,830,000 
             17,952,000 
             28,782,000 
           
           
             1925-26 
             11,518,000 
             19,090,000 
             30,608,000 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state the estimated total earned income and the total unearned income of all citizens in Saorstat Eireann in the years 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926 and 1927, respectively. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy be good enough to repeat the question tomorrow. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE MAINTENANCE ACT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can state (1) the individual works of restoration carried out under the Drainage Maintenance Act, 1924, by the Commissioners of Public Works during the year 1927-28; the district and county in which these works were carried out; the total expenditure involved in each, and the amount of the Government free grant and county free grant, respectively, in each; (2) the works of restoration which were begun but were not completed under the same Act; the district concerned; the estimated, cost of each; the amount actually expended on each in the financial year 1927-28; and the respective amounts of the Government and county free grant in each case; (3) the number of proposals (with a synopsis of each) to form a drainage district under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, submitted by county councils to the Board of Works; a list of the cases in which preliminary inspections were carried out during the year, and the results and cost of each inspection; a list of the cases in which investigations were proceeding at the end of the year, and the amount expended during the year on such investigations; the total amount borne by the Government and chargeable to county councils respectively, in respect of schemes which were rejected after   investigation; a list of the cases in which detailed schemes and estimates were prepared, or published, the estimated cost and a synopsis of each scheme; a list of the public inquiries held in connection with such schemes, and the results thereof; a list of the schemes submitted for sanction to the Minister ton Finance, and the result of each submission; a list of schemes upon which work commenced in the year 1927-28; the estimated total cost of these schemes, and the total amount expended upon them to the 31st March last; the number of schemes begun in previous years, but completed during the year 1927-28; the total estimated cost of such schemes; the total actual cost of such schemes; and the total amount expended upon such schemes for the year ending 31st March, 1928; and (4) the total amount due to the Board to the 31st March, 1928, in respect of loans made under the   Arterial Drainage Act, 1925; the total amount which became due in respect of such loans during the year ending 31st March, 1928; the actual amount collected or recovered by the Board in respect of all advances made by them under the Act, and the actual amount collected by the Board in respect of moneys which became due during the year ending 31st March, 1928. 
     
     
      
       Statements are attached giving information as regards the period between the passing of the Drainage Maintenance Act, 1924, and the 31st March, 1928&mdash;in respect of parts (1) and (2) of the question.  As regards part (4) no advances have yet been made under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925.  As regards part (3) I am prepared to make a return giving as far as possible the information sought but this will take a considerable time to prepare.  I will confer with the Deputy as to its form. 
       DRAINAGE MAINTENANCE ACT, 1924. 
       Between the passing of the Act and the 31st March, 1928, works of restoration were completed in the following districts:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Name of District. 
             County. 
             Government Free Grant. 
             County Free Grant. 
             Total expenditure. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             £ 
           
           
             Annagh 
             Galway 
             25% of cost. 
             &mdash; 
             1,492 
           
           
             Ardee 
             Louth and Meath 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             4,102 
           
           
             Athboy 
             Meath 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,012 
           
           
             Ballinacourty 
             Limerick 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             356 
           
           
             Ballybay 
             Roscommon 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             97 
           
           
             Ballycasey 
             Tipperary 
             33?% ,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,261 
           
           
             Ballycowan 
             Kildare 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             543 
           
           
             Ballynakill 
             Meath 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             469 
           
           
             Blackwater 
             Meath and Kildare 
             £400 
             Meath, £250 Kildare, £248 
             2,356 
           
           
             Borrisokane 
             Tipperary 
             33?% of cost 
             &mdash; 
             3,299 
           
           
             Boyne 
             Meath, Kildare, Offaly, and Westmeath. 
             £350 
             Kildare, £280 
             1,469 
           
           
             Brickey 
             Waterford 
             25% of cost. 
             &mdash; 
             1,474 
           
           
             Cappagh 
             Galway 
             30%,, 
             &mdash; 
             3,982 
           
           
             Clodiagh 
             Tipperary 
             £264 
             &mdash; 
             1,058 
           
           
             Clonlost 
             Westmeath 
             25% of cost. 
             &mdash; 
             481 
           
           
             Croghan 
             Roscommon 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             676 
           
           
             Curragha 
             Meath and Dublin 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             349 
           
           
             Doohyle 
             Limerick 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             524 
           
           
             Dungolman 
             Longford and Westmeath. 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,860 
           
           
             Dunkellin 
             Galway 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             £600 
             10,060 
           
           
             Dunmoran 
             Sligo 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             785 
           
           
             Elphin 
             Roscommon 
             33?%,, 
             &mdash; 
             8,062 
           
           
             Follistown 
             Meath 
             25% ,, 
             &mdash; 
             302 
           
           
             Garristown and Delvin 
             Dublin and Meath 
             20%,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,546 
           
           
             
               
               Gully (Lower) 
             Leix 
             30% of cost 
             &mdash; 
             1,760 
           
           
             Hind River 
             Roscommon 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             4,456 
           
           
             Island Lakes and Glore River. 
             Mayo 
             50%,, 
             £1,000 
             3,968 
           
           
             Kilbride 
             Kilkenny and Tipperary. 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             2,447 
           
           
             Kilcock 
             Meath 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             373 
           
           
             Kilmannock 
             Wexford 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,090 
           
           
             Kilmurry 
             Meath 
             20%,, 
             &mdash; 
             400 
           
           
             Lerr River 
             Carlow and Kildare 
             30%,, 
             &mdash; 
             4,336 
           
           
             Lough Mask and River Robe. 
             Mayo and Galway 
             50%,, 
             Mayo, £275 
             1,157 
           
           
             Lough Dalla 
             Mayo 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,341 
           
           
             Miles and Templebryan. 
             Cork 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             388 
           
           
             Milford 
             ,, 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             £350 
             1,467 
           
           
             Moyour 
             Mayo 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             977 
           
           
             Mullafarry 
             ,, 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             405 
           
           
             Nobber 
             Meath 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             2,178 
           
           
             Oranhill 
             Galway 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,179 
           
           
             Owenabrockagh 
             Mayo 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             447 
           
           
             Ratooragh 
             Cork 
             30%,, 
             £250 
             880 
           
           
             Shinrone 
             Tipperary and Offaly 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             2,252 
           
           
             Sow 
             Wexford 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             3,167 
           
           
             Tory Hill 
             Limerick 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,226 
           
           
             Ward 
             Meath 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             714 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Total 
             £84,223 
           
         
       
     
     In the following Districts works of restoration were begun, but not completed:&mdash; 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             District. 
             County. 
             Estimated cost. 
             Government Free Grant. 
             County Free Grant. 
             Expenditure to 31st March, 1928. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             
             
             £ 
             
             
             
             
             £ 
           
           
             Ballinderry 
             Westmeath and Offaly. 
             630 
             25% of cost 
             &mdash; 
             299 
           
           
             Ballycolliton 
             Tipperary 
             350 
             ,, 
             &mdash; 
             45 
           
           
             Ballynaskea and Castlerickard. 
             Meath 
             1,300 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             402 
           
           
             Boardsmill 
             do. 
             2,000 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             679 
           
           
             Camoge (Lower) 
             Limerick 
             2,000 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,371 
           
           
             Camoge (Upper) 
             do. 
             3,300 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,234 
           
           
             Fergus 
             Clare 
             19,000 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             £3,750 
             18,683 
           
           
             Glyde 
             Louth, Meath, Cavan, Monaghan. 
             6,200 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             Cavan, £30 
             5,604 
           
           
             Kilmastulla 
             Tipperary 
             5,800 
             33?%,, 
             &mdash; 
             4,766 
           
           
             Lavally 
             Galway 
             3,000 
             25%,, 
             £155 
             2,194 
           
           
             Owenkeagh 
             Cork 
             1,540 
             40%,, 
             &mdash; 
             1,362 
           
           
             Suck River 
             Galway &amp; Rosco'n 
             17,650 
             30%,, 
             &mdash; 
             16,515 
           
           
             Turloughmore 
             Galway 
             11,400 
             25%,, 
             &mdash; 
             5,475 
           
           
             Wilkinstown 
             Meath 
             900 
             ,,&nbsp;,, 
             &mdash; 
             807 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             Total 
             £59,436 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - YOUGHAL POSTMAN'S WAGES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether he can state (a) if the working hours and wages of James Donoghue, auxiliary postman, Youghal, County Cork, have been reduced, and, if so, for what reason; (b) whether an extra auxiliary postman has now been appointed within the same area; if so, whether any necessity existed for the   increased expenditure, and whether he is aware that any decrease of wages in the case of Donoghue would be a very great hardship, in view of the high cost of living figure. 
     
     
      
       In consequence of a necessary revision of the delivery arrangements at Youghal it was found that the services of an additional auxiliary postman were required during the non-season period of the year (October to May) to adjust properly the duties of the existing force and at the same time to improve the services. 
       As a result the duty of Mr. James Donoghue, auxiliary postman, was reduced from 33 hours to 30 hours weekly, with a corresponding reduction in wages at the rate of 2s. 9d. a week for eight months of the year. 
       While any hardship which may have been caused to Mr. Donoghue is regretted, it is not practicable to add to his duty without incurring increased expense which would not be warranted. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - NAAS BLACKSMITH'S CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that a sum of £1 18s. 0d. owing by the Military Authorities in Naas Barracks since 1924 to James Carroll, blacksmith, Dublin Road, Naas, has not been paid; and if he will inquire into the matter and have payment expedited. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that a sum of £1 18s. 0d. is due to Mr. James Carroll from Army funds.  All claims received from him have been paid in full. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - LOCAL RATE COLLECTION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health what was the total amount collected in rates by all the local authorities in Saorstat Eireann for the years 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926 and 1927, respectively. 
     
     
      
       The total receipts from rates by all local authorities were:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
               
             
             
             
             £ 
           
         
         
           
             Year ended 31st Mar., 
             1923 
             4,153,060 
           
           
             ,,,,,, 
             1924 
             5,327,341 
           
           
             ,,,,,, 
             1925 
             5,310,746 
           
           
             ,,,,,, 
             1926 
             5,297,943 
           
           
             ,,,,,, 
             1927 
             5,097,241 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM (CO. KERRY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether, in view of the fact that Patt O'Brien, The Cashen, Ballyduff, Kerry, an applicant for the old age pension, has found it impossible to obtain a certificate of age, and that two old age pensioners over 80 years have declared he is over 70 years, he will now grant him a pension. 
     
     
      
       An appeal was decided in this case on the 18th January, 1928.  It was determined that the claimant was not entitled to any pension, as it was not clear on the evidence submitted that he had attained the statutory age.  He was recorded in the Marriage Register as being 25 years of age when married on 2nd February, 1890.  The declarations submitted from neighbours were not considered sufficiently conclusive to establish his claim.  The case cannot now be re-opened. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BLIND PENSION CLAIM (KILLARNEY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health on what grounds Daniel Buckley, Kilcummin, Killarney, was refused a blind pension. 
     
     
      
       An appeal was decided in this case on the 3rd April, 1928.  It was determined that the claimant was not entitled to any pension, as it did not appear, in view of the terms of the report of the medical inspector who examined his eyesight on 28th March, 1928, that he was blind within the meaning of the Blind Persons Act, 1920. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - MOOREHALL ESTATE (CO. MAYO). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that acute congestion   exists in the townland of Rinaneel, in the parish of Carnacon; that about 150 acres of the lands of Moorehall, held by the Land Commission, are still undivided, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Land Commission to provide economic holdings for the tenants in the townland of Rinaneel, out of the Moorehall estate. 
     
     
      
       There are no lands in hands of the Land Commission other than 26a. 1r. 20p. of Ballycally, possession of which is disputed by a person named Alexander MacDonnell. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF CASTLEBAR LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state what steps have been, or are being, taken to provide Mr. William Fahy, of Barnastang, Glenisland, Castlebar, with an alternative holding, so that the three farms now in his possession in a very congested district may be divided among the uneconomic holders in the neighbourhood. 
     
     
      
       The matter is still under consideration, awaiting a suitable farm being available to offer William Fahy in exchange. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BALLA (CO. MAYO) ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that the LynchBlosse estate, Balla, Co. Mayo, was acquired by the Congested Districts Board in 1908; that two farms, containing about 500 acres (part of O'Connor's lease) on this estate at Poolavaddy, Balla, are still let in grazing; and if he will state the cause of delay by the Land Commission in taking over those farms for the relief of the acute congestion which exists in that locality. 
     
     
      
       As already stated in reply to previous question of 24th October last, the Land Commission is aware of the position referred to by the Deputy.  Major O'Connor's lease has recently expired, and the Land Commission have the matter under consideration. 
     
   
 