 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar a 12 a clog. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RENT (RESTRICTIONS) ACT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether, in view of the fact that a Commission is at present considering the position of town tenants, and that its final recommendations are likely to involve new legislation, he will consider a proposal to extend the time limit prescribed by Section 5, subsection 1 (b) of the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1926, viz., the 24th June, 1928, in respect of houses the rateable value of which does not exceed £30, in the County Borough and Urban Districts of Dublin, or £25 elsewhere. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Deputy intended to refer to Section 4, not 5.  I shall, of course, bear his suggestion in mind in case any legislation of this character is under consideration, but I am not to be understood as accepting the suggestion. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a number of owners of houses have given notice to their tenants that they must leave their houses in cases where the valuation is just £30, and the intention is to convert those houses into flats and charge excessive rents for them?  Will the Minister see that hardships will not be inflicted on such tenants? 
     
     
      
       That is a matter which will, no doubt, be taken into consideration by the Commission. I am awaiting their report. 
     
     
     
      
       Does the Minister not think that it would be fair to these tenants, who have notice served on them, for the Government to give them some relief by way of an extension of the Act, say, for twelve months, as these men are up against a situation in which they have to prepare new agreements with their landlords, and will probably have to pay excessive rent or leave the houses? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy recognises that that is quite a different question to that on the Order Paper.  The Deputy now requests that new legislation should be introduced forthwith to amend a section of an Act which was only recently passed. 
     
     
      
       To extend the period. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid that I cannot promise the Deputy that. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NEWPORT ASSAULT CASE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice what disciplinary action, if any, has been taken in the cases of the Superintendent and Sergeant of the Garda Siochana, stationed at Newport, County Tipperary, against whom damages have been awarded for assault on J.F. Morris, N.T., and William Gleeson, both of Newport, County Tipperary. 
     
     
      
       I understand that notice of appeal has been served against the decision of the Circuit Court in these cases and as the matter is therefore still sub judice I do not think that it would be proper for me to make any statement.  I may say also that a Sworn Police Inquiry will shortly be held and I shall, of course, await the result of this inquiry, as well as of the appeal, before coming to any decision. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SCHOOL ATTENDANCE AND MEDICAL CERTIFICATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether his attention has   been called to a recent statement by Mr. District Justice Price at Bray District Court, when he told a defendant in a school attendance prosecution, that unless the latter was prepared to pay for a doctor's certificate to prove his child's illness, he would be fined; whether the defendant stated he was unable to pay the doctor; whether the District Justice ordered a fine of 10s. in the case; whether there is any provision in the law by which poor people can obtain free medical opinion in such circumstances, and, if not, whether he will consider introducing an amendment of the law so that such a hardship as that described above may be obviated. 
     
     
      
       I have no information on the matters raised by the Deputy.  I may say that there is no provision in the School Attendance Act which prevents a District Justice from accepting satisfactory evidence other than a medical certificate that a child has been prevented by illness from attending school.  I am not aware that the demand for medical certificates has become sufficiently general to warrant an amendment of the existing law along the lines suggested by the Deputy. Apart altogether from the indefinite financial commitment of the State or local authority, I am not convinced that such amendment would not be productive of increased hardship and inconvenience. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say what is &ldquo;satisfactory evidence,&rdquo; as I have had several complaints of a similar nature? 
     
     
      
       That is a matter for the District Justice.  I have no authority in regard to it. 
     
     
      
       In this case the District Justice held that unless the man was able to pay ten shillings for a medical certificate he would have to be fined. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will recognise that I cannot discuss the grounds on which the District Justice based his decision.  If he thinks over it, he will see that there may occasionally arise a case in which the production of   a doctor's certificate may be necessary. It may be necessary in one case out of fifty, but it may not be necessary in the other 49 cases.  My fear is, apart from the cost to the local or central authority, that, if there is provision of this kind, it will probably lead to an increased demand for medical certificates. If the Deputy thinks it over, he will see that it would probably mean a great deal of hardship for the parents of children who get an ordinary attack of illness. In the case the Deputy mentioned I have no information.  There may have been a conflict of evidence, and the District Justice was, perhaps, convinced that the only way to decide was by the production of a medical certificate. There is nothing in the Act requiring the production of medical certificates in cases where satisfactory evidence is given of the inability of children to attend school through illness. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister, or the Minister for Justice, have this particular case investigated, as undoubtedly it is one of great hardship? 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether it is a case of hardship or not. 
     
     
      
       On the face of it, it is.  I think the Minister for Justice might take some action in the matter. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLONAKILTY UNEMPLOYMENT EXCHANGE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that the Employment Exchange at Clonakilty has been closed down, and that the work formerly carried out there has been transferred to Cork; if he will state the reasons for the closing down of this Exchange, and if, in view of the fact that there are about 1,500 men on the register of this office, he will consider the question of re-opening it. 
     
     
      
       The last manager of the Clonakilty Branch Employment Office having resigned from the service before a successor could be appointed, the Branch Office had to be temporarily closed, but arrangements are at present in progress for the   appointment of a new Branch Manager, and I hope that the office will be reopened at a very early date.  In the meantime the work normally falling on the Branch Office is being carried out at the Cork Employment Exchange. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that, in consequence of the existing state of affairs, ex-National Army men are brought down and given employment in the district? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid that is a separate question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FERMOY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether Mr. John Power, of 5 Grattan Terrace, Fermoy, County Cork, was refused unemployment benefit by the referee appointed under the Unemployment Insurance Acts to consider such applications, and, if so, for what reason. 
     
     
      
       On a claim dated the 12th January, 1927, Mr. John Power received unemployment benefit up to and including the 18th May, 1927.  It was then found that his circumstances were such that he was not entitled to benefit after the 13th of March, 1927. Consequently his claim was disallowed as from that date, and he was required to repay the benefit which he had received but to which he was not entitled. He appealed to the Court of Referees both in regard to the disallowance of his claim as from the 14th of March and also the order requiring him to repay the benefit to which he was not entitled.  The Court of Referees found that he was not unemployed and consequently not entitled to benefit on or after the 14th of March, 1927, and accordingly recommended that his claim should be disallowed as from that date.  On his second appeal against the order to repay benefit which he had received while he was not entitled to benefit, the Court recommended that the amount should be repaid. 
     
     On the 1st February, this year, Mr. Power lodged a further claim, which has been allowed, but as he has not repaid the benefit he received on the   1927 claim, the amount is now being deducted from the benefit accruing on his present claim.  When the claimant has paid back the amount which he owes to the Unemployment Fund, he will receive any benefit still due on his claim; otherwise any benefit that has or may in future become due to him will be set off against his debt to the Unemployment Fund. 
     
      
       Does the Parliamentary Secretary consider it just that when those unfortunate men who are unemployed for a long period try to earn a few shillings at fishing their unemployment benefit should be stopped because of that? 
     
     
      
       This is a case of simply asking to repay what he drew and was not entitled to. 
     
     
      
       It was previously stopped because he happened to catch a few fish. 
     
     
      
       Is it the reason given for withholding this unemployment benefit that the man was fishing on the Blackwater for salmon? 
     
     
      
       He fished for unemployment benefit to which he was not entitled, and he hooked it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLEGED SCARCITY OF HIDES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that Irish representatives of British boot and shoe manufacturing firms are urging Irish buyers into forward buying in anticipation of much higher prices, owing to alleged scarcity of hides; whether he can give an explanation of the considerable increase in the number and value of boots and shoes imported during the month of January, 1928, as compared with the month of January, 1927; and if his Department will make arrangements for the periodic publication of accurate information in this connection, with a view to preventing Irish traders being misled by false rumours of this nature. 
     
     
      
       I have no information that would enable me to answer the first two parts of the question, but understand it to be the fact that the price of leather is rising.  With regard   to the last part of the question, I do not think that my Department would be in a position to obtain any more accurate information than traders themselves can obtain. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT IN MEATH. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state (1) the reasons for refusal to grant unemployment benefit to Thomas Wallis, of Belshamstown, Batterstown, Co. Meath, and (2) why the claim of Patrick Traynor, Roestown, Dunshaughlin, was refused. 
     
     
      
       On a claim made on the 13th February, 1928, by Thomas Wallis, benefit has been allowed for 48 days, being the amount to which the claimant is entitled in respect of the unexhausted contributions to his credit.  Payment will be made to-day of so much of the benefit as has become due on the claim in question, and further payments will be made on Fridays until the total amount is paid, provided the statutory conditions for the receipt of benefit continue to be fulfilled.  There was some delay in authorising the payment of benefit due to the fact that the claimant had confused the reference to his account by taking out two unemployment books when he should only have had one. 
     
     Patrick Traynor made a claim to benefit on the 11th April, 1927, which the Insurance Officer disallowed on the statutory ground that less than twelve contributions had been paid for the claimant.  The claimant was notified of the disallowance and of his right to appeal to a Court of Referees within the prescribed time, but he did not exercise that right.  He renewed his claim on the 21st February, 1928.  Some of the contributions that had been paid for the claimant were not legally payable, because the employment in respect of which they were paid was not insurable. The value of these will be refunded if the persons who paid them apply for the amount in the prescribed form.  In addition, four of the remaining contributions are also thought to have been paid in error, in that the employment was not insurable, but further   inquiries are being made in regard to these.  If they are finally disallowed, it will be open to the persons who paid them to claim a refund of their value. This reduces the number of effective contributions paid, as to which there is no doubt, to ten.  If the four contributions that are the subject of inquiry are eventually allowed, the claimant will have fourteen contributions to his credit, and will be entitled to one day's benefit for each contribution; but if the four contributions at present in question cannot be allowed, no benefit at all can be paid on the claim, because the claimant will not be able to satisfy the first statutory condition, which requires that twelve contributions shall be paid as a condition precedent to the receipt of benefit. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ATHENRY COMPENSATION CLAIM 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state on what grounds he has refused to compensate Michael Barrett, Caheroyan, Athenry, Co. Galway, for a bicycle commandeered by Free State military at Athenry. 
     
     
      
       Compensation was refused to Mr. Barrett on the grounds that his bicycle was being used for purposes inimical to the State. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister for Defence state where he received the information that the bicycle was used for the purpose he states? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILCROHANE (CO. CORK) BLIND PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state why a blind pension has been refused to Mr. John O'Mahony, Carrigaveleen, Kilcrohane, Co. Cork; if he is aware that in May, 1927, the local Pensions Committee awarded the applicant a pension of 8/- per week. which award was objected to by the Pensions Officer; and whether, in view of the fact that Mr. O'Mahony is totally blind and is unable to work, the Minister will consider granting him a blind pension. 
     
     
     
      
       This claimant was examined by a medical inspector of the Department on the 1st December, 1927, as to vision.  The vision in one eye was much in excess of the standard laid down for a blind pension, and it was reported that it could be improved by a suitable lens. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A WATERFORD OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state why the old age pension was refused to Thomas Duggan, Dromore, Villierstown, Cappoquin, County Waterford, who claims that he has no means, being dependent on his brother for support, and unable to work. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the reply given to Deputy White in this case on the 9th November last.  A fresh claim was disallowed on the 8th December on the ground of means, there being no change in the applicant's circumstances since the previous decision was given. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM (COUNTY GALWAY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health on what grounds an old age pension was refused to Bernard Curley, Shehanagh, Menlough, Ballinasloe. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the reply given to him on the 24th November last in this case, which has not since come up on appeal. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health on what grounds he determined that John Lardiner, Carnmore, Oranmore, County Galway, was not entitled to an old age pension. 
     
     
      
       This claim was disallowed on the 12th January, 1928, on the ground that the applicant's yearly means exceeded the statutory limit of £39 5s. 0d. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister   aware that the applicant owns nothing, and that he is living with his brother who owns the place? 
     
     
      
       I do not know what he owns, but taking into account all those things that have to be considered in arriving at the statutory limit of means the Department's advisers report that his means, or the value of his maintenance, or whatever comes to him, exceeds the statutory limit. 
     
     
      
       The man owns nothing.  He is entitled to a pension and the people in the district say he will no get it.  That is an extraordinary decision. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FEES FOR VETERINARY ANALYSIS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state whether it is the custom to charge a fee of two guineas for analysis of the stomach and intestines of a heifer forwarded to the Veterinary College, Ballsbridge; if he is aware that this happened in the case of Mr. P. McCullen, Beamore, Drogheda; and whether this Veterinary College receives any grant from public funds. 
     
     
      
       In cases where chemical analysis of the contents of a stomach, etc., is considered necessary or desirable, the Veterinary College send the necessary material to the City Analyst for examination and report, the College not possessing facilities for the making of chemical analyses.  A fee of two guineas in the present case was paid to the City Analyst, which is recoverable from the owner of the animal concerned.  The College does not in any way benefit from such fees. 
       The answer to the concluding portion of the question is in the affirmative, in which connection I would refer the Deputy to the particulars given on page 202 of the current year's Estimates. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOWLER ESTATE (CO. MEATH). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he   will state whether the Land Commission is about to take over for division the Fowler Estate, known as Rathmoylan and Clagarrow, Co. Meath, and, if so, whether he will give an assurance that the uneconomic landholders in the district will get preference. 
     
     
      
       I will answer this question. The Land Commission have under consideration the acquisition of lands on the Fowler Estate, on which are situate the lands of Rathmoylan and Clegarrow.  If the lands are acquired the claims of all persons qualifying under Section 31 of the Land Act will be considered. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - STORE CATTLE EXPORTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he can state when the present restrictions will be removed so that store cattle can be exported. 
     
     
      
       I am advised that the British Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries are making an Order, the effect of which will be to enable, after the 16th instant, the export of store cattle to take place from all Irish ports, other than Wexford and Rosslare, to inland destinations in Great Britain, subject to detention, at their destinations, for fourteen days.  Meantime, under the terms of the British Order, only fat animals are allowed to be landed at the British landing places. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNTENANTED LANDS IN COUNTY CARLOW. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries to state the reasons for the delay in the acquisition by the Land Commission of the untenanted lands (Whitcroft and others) at Lumclone, Fenagh, Muine Beag, and whether, in the distribution of those lands, preference will be given to the claims of evicted tenants. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are negotiating with the owner for the purchase of 96a. 1r. 14p. of the lands of Lumclone.  If the lands are acquired, the claims of all persons qualifying   under Section 31 of the Land Act, 1923, will be considered. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMPLETION OF A CO. GALWAY ROAD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state when he proposes to complete the bog road on the Hall Estate, Newcastle, Monivea, County Galway. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy would be good enough to repeat this question next week.  It is necessary to procure certain information from the local Inspector. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A CO. WICKLOW MILL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether part of the estate of Col. Bonham, Colbinstown, Dunlavin, has lately been purchased by the Land Commission; whether any offer was made for an idle mill on the estate; whether he is aware that the mill would be of great service to the district both for corn grinding and sawing timber; whether he has been informed that an inquiry by a local manufacturer through Col. Bonham's solicitor, elicited a reply that the mill would not be sold, leased or rented; and whether he will take any steps to see that a property which came into Col. Bonham's possession through its original owner being unable to pay an excessive rent for it, is made available for the service of the community. 
     
     
      
       The untenanted lands of Colbinstown and Ballintaggart, on which there is a corn and saw mill, have not been purchased by the Land Commission. They are aware that Col. Bonham is not prepared to let the mill referred to. 
     
     
      
       Has any portion of the estate of Col. Bonham been purchased? That is my question. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION OF TUAM LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if his Department intends   purchasing the lands of Mrs. Burke (Henry Estate, Tuam), containing about 1,000 acres for distribution amongst the congested tenants and landless men in that area. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy would repeat that question next week. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. WICKLOW LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Land Commission will acquire, for the relief of congestion, three farms of untenanted land, containing about 302 acres, held by Mr. William H. Twamley, in the townland of Rathtool, electoral division of Hartstown, Co. Wicklow. 
     
     
      
       The lands are subject to Land Purchase annuities, and have not been offered to the Land Commission. 
       The Commissioners do not propose to take any action as regards their acquisition. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this land is sublet on the eleven months' system, and will he not acquire it for the relief of congestion? 
     
     
      
       Every inquiry will be made. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CASTLEDERMOT SMALL HOLDERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state why James Doyle, John Ruth and Laurence Murphy, of Castledermot, Co. Kildare, who occupy small holdings on the Archbold Estate, were not included by the landlord in his list of tenants entitled to benefit by the Land Act, 1923, and if he is aware that these men are still paying the old rent. 
     
     
      
       In the rental schedule lodged by the owner of the estate of Eleanor Frances Archbold, County Kildare, to enable the Land Commission to collect from the tenants compounded arrears of rent and payment in lieu of rent under the Land Act, 1923, the three persons referred to were not returned. John Ruth objected to his holding not being included, as he claimed it to be an agricultural holding   to which the provisions of the Act applied. The case was duly listed for hearing before the Judicial Commissioner, and due notice of the listing was given to the tenant's solicitor, but the objection was withdrawn before the date of listing.  No objection to the non-return of either of the holdings of James Doyle and Laurence Murphy appears to have been lodged with the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BOG ROAD, JOHNSTOWN (KILKENNY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he will now issue instructions to have the bog road scheme submitted by the Trustees, Bawnmore Bogs, Johnstown, County Kilkenny, proceeded with, in view of the great inconvenience caused to the tenants while the roads are left in their present condition. 
     
     
      
       The bog referred to is situate on the estate of Lord Ashbrook and another, County Kilkenny, which was sold by the landlords to the tenants under the Irish Land Act, 1903.  The bog, which comprises 1,000 acres, was vested in trustees under Section 4 of the Act. 
       The Land Commission have inquired into and considered the question of making the proposed bog road, and have decided not to take any action in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that the trustees in this case have exhausted their funds, and that there are seventy families involved? Could he suggest how this work is to be completed if the Land Commission is not going to do it? 
     
     
      
       According to my information, the trustees have certain funds at their disposal, and naturally it is their business to make this bog road out of the funds that they control. They are collecting rents from the tenants who used this bog.  At all events, no portion of the relief grant has been allocated to the County Kilkenny, and, consequently, there is no money at the disposal of the Land Commission to make this road. 
     
     
     
      
       If the trustees are prepared to pay some of the costs, will the Land Commission give a grant-in-aid? 
     
     
      
       On the face of it, I say that it is a matter entirely for the trustees to make this road. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNTENANTED LANDS NEAR CASTLECOMER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he has taken any steps with a view to the acquisition of the untenanted lands of the late Mrs. Lawless, Newton, Castlecomer, for distribution among the uneconomic landholders in the area. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings were instituted under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for the acquisition of the lands of Newtown, comprising 51a. 3r. 28p., held by Mrs. Elizabeth Walsh as successor to the late Mrs. Elizabeth Lawless. 
       These lands were published in a provisional list of lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, will become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day. 
       An objection to the acquisition of these lands by the Land Commission has been lodged by the owner, and is at present pending before the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE O'ROURKE ESTATE, TUAM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries why the lands on the O'Rourke Estate, Tuam, known as Old Race Course, containing 107 acres, which were taken up by the Irish Land Commission for distribution amongst the tenants, were afterwards handed back to Mr. Charles O'Rourke. 
     
     
      
       As the lands of Garrauns referred to were not found to be suitable for the relief of congestion, and as these lands were not desired by adjoining small holders, they were resold to Mr. O'Rourke under the provisions of the 1923 Act. 
     
     
      
       There are three tenants adjoining this property who claim that this 107 acres of land should   be divided amongst them, as there is no other land convenient that they can get as an addition to their holdings. I am not satisfied with the Parliamentary Secretary's answer that there were no claimants for the land. 
     
     
      
       Mr. O'Rourke has already sold 900 acres of land to the Land Commission, and all that he has left is 107 acres.  I think that is quite small enough to leave attached to the mansion house. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - IARRTAISI AR IASACHATA. 
     D'fhiafriugh 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh ar deineadh aon rud fos chun an iasacht ar ar scriobhadh chuig Coimisiun na Talmhan ar an 9adh Eanair a thabhairt do Shean O Conghaile, Baile Nuadh (Newtown), Cill Brighde (Celbridge); agus fos, ar deineadh aon rud i dtaobh iasacht Phadraig Ui Gruagain, Cnoc an Eallaigh (Knockanally), Domhnach Deadhaigh (Donadea), ar ar scriobhadh chuige ar an 8adh la de Mhi na Nodlag, 1927. 
     
     
      
       Nil aon chomhacht ag Coimisiun na Talmhan chun iasacht airgid do thabhairt do Shean O Conghaile chun stoc do cheannach.  Is feidir iarrataisi ar iasachtai airgid chun stoc do cheannach do sheola chun Runai Chorparaid an Chairde Thalmhaoichta, 2 Cearnog Mhuirbhthean Baile Atha Cliath, a bunuiodh le deanai.  An t-iarratas a dhin Padraig O Gruagain ar iasacht airgid i gcoir tithe, ta se fe bhreithniu fe lathair. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TUAM PAINTER'S CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance when he proposes to discharge the claim of Thomas Reynolds, painter, Tuam, for £60, in respect of which a decree was obtained in 1922. 
     
     
      
       I am unable to authorise any payment in this case until the claim has been adjudicated on in the court in accordance with the Damage to Property (Compensation) Acts, 1923-1926. 
     
     
      
       Has the Minister for   Finance received a letter from Mr. Callan, solicitor, Tuam, on the 3rd of January last? 
     
     
      
       I do not know. 
     
     
      
       I have information before me that Mr. Callan wrote on the 3rd of January stating that the necessary forms had been lodged and duly served as far back as 19th May, 1927. 
     
     
      
       My information is that the forms have not all been lodged. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COUNTY GALWAY DRAINAGE SCHEME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what is the cause of the delay in the issue by the Board of Works to the Galway County Council of the draft award in respect of the drainage scheme for the Killimore district. 
     
     
      
       A petition under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, was received from the Galway County Council for the formation of a new drainage district covering the existing Killimore Drainage District with some extensions. 
       The proposal has been inspected, and reported on, by an engineer, and a valuer has been engaged in the making of a detailed valuation of the lands that would benefit in the proposed new district. Owing to the difficulty of obtaining definite information as to the ownership of certain lands, the valuer's report has been somewhat delayed, but it is expected it will shortly be available. Pending its receipt it will not be possible to state what financial provision will be required to make the scheme an economical one for the drainage ratepayers, and no definite proposal can yet be laid before the County Council. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TOBACCO GROWING IN OFFALY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware (a) that instructions have been issued by the Revenue Commissioners to farmers in Mountbolus, Offaly, to consume by fire on 11th March, 1928, tobacco plants   grown by them in 1925-26, and whether such instructions represent the considered policy of the Government to this industry; (b) what compensation is likely to be offered to those people for this and previous losses on the growing of this plant, consequent on the rehandlers paying on account sums representing only half the market value of the plant. 
     
     
      
       Two tobacco-growers in Offaly have in their possession tobacco, grown in the year 1926, which should have been removed from their premises, in accordance with the regulations, before the 1st July last, but of which they have been unable to dispose. As a risk to the revenue was involved in the continued retention of the tobacco on the premises, the Revenue Commissioners informed those growers in November last that they were unable to permit them to retain the uncured tobacco of 1926 growth in their possession for an indefinite period, and that, in the absence of proposals for curing, they would require the tobacco to be destroyed by fire or other satisfactory means not later than 27th December last, and the time allowed was later extended to the 11th March. 
       The reply to the latter portion of the question is that no claims for losses alleged to have been incurred by the growers can be entertained.  No responsibility can be accepted in respect of tobacco grown since 1923, as the scheme of tobacco-growing experiments had been ended; and during the experimental period, 1913-24, the Department of Agriculture dealt only with the rehandlers, and neither entered into any agreement with growers nor incurred any obligations to them in connection with the experiments. 
     
     
      
       In view of the answer of the Minister may I ask have these people no option but to destroy this tobacco? 
     
     
      
       No, except they pay the Excise duty. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister receive representations from those people? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. WATERFORD PENSION CLAIM. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will consider the granting of a pension to the widow of James Byrne, Ballymacarberry, Co. Waterford, who served as auxiliary postman for 27 years, and who died on 26th October, 1926, leaving a widow and two children in straitened circumstances. 
     
     
      
       Service in a part-time capacity is not pensionable under the Superannuation Acts, and I regret that it is not in the power of my Department to grant Mr. Byrne's widow a pension. 
       I should perhaps add that the maximum compassionate grant was made to Mrs. Byrne out of the special fund at my disposal. 
     
     
      
       In view of the circumstances of the case, could not the Parliamentary Secretary increase the grant? 
     
     
      
       I have no power to increase the grant.  I made the maximum grant. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - POSTAL OFFICIAL AS HANDWRITING EXPERT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he is aware that the officer in charge of the Post Office Investigation Department makes a practice of giving evidence as a handwriting expert in cases not concerned with the Post Office, involving absence from his P.O. duties for periods of several days, and if he will state out of what fund he is paid for this work, and whether his Post Office salary still continues while he is so engaged. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that the official in question is occasionally employed as a handwriting expert. There is not any charge made against the Post Office in respect of such services nor is the officer in question at liberty to engage in this when on Post Office duty. 
     
     
      
       Is this man a whole-time official in the Post Office? 
     
     
     
      
       That is my question&mdash;is this man a whole-time official or is he not?  I think we are entitled to an answer to that? 
     
     
      
       Captain Moynihan is a civil servant employed by the Post Office, but he is entitled, in time which is not necessary for the Post Office, to engage in other employment, provided that his service during that time is not charged on the Post Office. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that the gentleman in question spent three days at the Circuit Court in Cork recently?  Was he paid by the Post Office for that time or not? 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware also that he spent fourteen days at the Croker Commission? Is it possible when he was engaged in that case he could still be required?  If he can be spared for fourteen days at a time, what is he wanted for? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question. 
     
     
      
       Is this man a qualified, appointed civil servant? 
     
     
      
       That also is a separate question. 
     
     
      
       I think my supplementary question arises out of the question on the Paper. 
     
     
      
       There are two official languages recognised in the Dail.  The English language is understood by every Deputy, the Irish language is understood by a few Deputies, but there is a language spoken now that nobody in the Dail understands. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask if the Deputy is referring to the Cork accent?  Might I also ask the Parliamentary Secretary if the same rule that he now applies to the official mentioned would apply to all other civil servants in his Department? 
     
     
      
       If special application is made for a right to engage in other occupations it will be granted in special cases. 
     
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Parliamentary Secretary if he is aware that this man went to the United States and was there for three months engaged on the Croker Commission, and had he the authority of the Parliamentary Secretary for that? 
     
     
      
       My original reply to the Deputy's question answers the supplementary question. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear the answer. 
     
     
      
       I will repeat it if the Deputy likes. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;No, no.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     RESIGNATION OF LEAS-CHEANN COMHAIRLE&mdash;PERSONAL EXPLANATION. 
     
      
       Before entering on public business, Deputy Padraig O Hogain desires to make a statement to the House. 
     
     
      
       The matter of my resignation from the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle is one upon which I am anxious to say not one word more than is absolutely necessary. I am jealous of the dignity of this Dail, jealous of its institutions, and I therefore desire neither by expression or implication to injure the tradition   amidst which they grew and developed. But I feel that I would not be true to myself as a member of this Dail, and as a Deputy charged with a duty, in co-operation with others, to a constituency, if I continued in a capacity which carried with it, in the opinion of the Ceann Comhairle, restrictions which would prevent me from being, in my opinion, a useful Deputy. Clearly there could not be efficiency where agreement did not exist between the two principal officers of the Dail on a matter so vital as the rights of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle. 
       The incident which precipitated my resignation is: on the forenoon of Friday last I handed into the office a notice of motion.  I did expect it would appear in the usual way and be circulated. I was away from Dublin in the interim between the adjournment of the Dail and its resumption on Wednesday. I did not hear anything about the motion meantime.  I was told on Wednesday that the motion did not appear on the Order Paper because the Ceann Comhairle was of opinion that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle should not move that motion.  In fact I learned in conversation with him that he was of opinion that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle should not engage in any controversial debates.  He suggested that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle should confine himself to matters peculiar to his own constituency.  I could not accept that position.  I consider I have a duty to discharge to my constituency and to the State in even controversial matters, and a right to discharge that duty, and I was not prepared to relinquish that on any consideration.  I am a Deputy first and Leas-Cheann Comhairle afterwards, and clearly my position regarding debate and motion must not be subject to any consideration other than my own discretion within the rules governing proceedings in this Dail.  As between the position of Leas-Cheann Comhairle and the interests of my constituency I decided in favour of my constituency.  Clearly, when agreement as to the rights of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle could not be secured between the principal officers of the Dail there could not be efficiency and the Dail would suffer. 
     
     
     
      
       That statement has been made by way of personal explanation, and, under the rules. of course, it does not give rise to a debate.  I myself had the advantage, through the courtesy of Deputy Hogan, of seeing his statement yesterday, and I think that there are in the statement two matters with which I would be concerned. One of them is a particular matter with which I do not propose to deal; the other is a general matter on which, seeing that my name has been mention, I might be allowed, in accordance with the ordinary procedure, to make a brief statement.  The question at issue is, in my judgment, not a question of the rights of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, whether as Leas-Cheann Comhairle or as a Deputy; the question as I understand it is whether the exercise to the fullest extent by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, whoever he may be and to whatever party he may belong at any particular time, of his righs and privileges as an ordinary Deputy of the Dail is compatible with the discharge of the duties which the House has imposed upon him and which he has accepted from the House.  I do not propose to go into that aspect further, beyond saying that my view upon the matter has been communicated at various times to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges and has actually been concurred in by a minute of that Committee on a particular occasion.  Obviously, a matter of that kind involves a great number of details and a great number of arrangements, and I wish to say that, while recognising to the fullest extent that the statement of Deputy Hogan&mdash;which, as I say, he had the courtesy to show me&mdash;is made in the utmost good faith. I do not accept the views attributed to me in the statement as a complete or an accurate presentation of my mind upon a matter, which is necessarily delicate and complicated. 
     
     With regard to the general question of the relations of the Ceann Comhairle and the Leas-Chean Comhairle, it has to be remembered that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle is appointed by the House and is responsible to the House; he is not appointed by the Ceann Comhairle and is not responsible to the Ceann   Comhairle, nor is the Leas-Cheann Comhairle at any time obliged to accept any view stated by the Ceann Comhairle, nor could he be coerced into accepting any view of the Ceann Comhairle. While it might be useful for him to have that view, and while it might be necessary in many cases for him to have that view, the Leas-Cheann Comhairle is entitled to ask, if he so desires, for the guidance or assistance of the Com-the guidance or assistance of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges on any question that arises in regard to his duties.  I would favour the latter course.  I do not want that statement to imply in any way that there is any question at issue now as to how the Leas-Cheann Comhairle carried out his duties.  There is no such question at issue.  But with regard to what I may call the scheme of carrying out his duties, if any difficulty arises, in my opinion that should be put before the Committee on Procedure and Privileges. In this instance, when the notice of motion was handed in, I felt it my duty to give my view, but I did not in any way coerce the Leas-Cheann Comhairle into any action, and it seems to me that, before another Leas-Cheann Comhairle is appointed, it will be necessary for the general question which arises here to be considered by the Committee on Procedure and Privileges. That would be a fruitful and profitable consideration, and I have only to regret that it could not have taken place before the actual resignation. 
     
      
       In view of the statement that you have made that there can be no debate at the moment on this question, which I think is one of vital importance to the procedure of this House, could you state how and when the matter will be brought before the Committee on Procedure and Privileges? 
     
     
      
       The Committee on Procedure and Privileges could consider the matter at its next meeting, which it may be possible to hold next week.  The Committee could then have the minutes of the proceedings of the meeting at which this matter arose before, and it could have a general discussion on the question,   which, I would like to repeat, is not a question of rights, but a question as to whether the exercise by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle for the time being to the fullest extent of his rights and privileges as an ordinary Deputy could be made compatible with the duties which he has to perform in the Chair. That question could, I think, be brought up before the Committee at a very early date, and I think it must be discussed by that Committee before a Leas-Cheann Comhairle is appointed, although I think that that appointment should not be delayed. 
     
     
      
       I understand that you are Chairman of the Committee? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I take it that you will bring this matter before the Committee at the earliest possible opportunity, because, I submit, this raises the whole question of the Ceann Comhairle and the Leas-Cheann Comhairle in contradistinction to the position of one another and of ordinary Deputies of this House. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it raises the question at all of the relations of the Ceann Comhairle and the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, but the matter will be brought before the Committee at a very early date.  As a matter of fact, already this morning, although meeting for another matter, the Committee had a word or two on this matter. 
     
     
      
       I wish to point out that before the Leas-Cheann Comhairle was appointed, Deputy de Valera appealed to the House to outline the duties of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  If that had been done and the thing had not been rushed, this matter would not have arisen at all. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask a question? I do not, of course. want to go into a debate.  As you say, this is not a proper time for a debate.  But I want to know if I am correct in what I gathered from the statement made by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, that he handed in his notice of motion on Friday, and that he heard nothing until   he came back to Dublin on Wednesday; that he was then told by somebody &mdash;I do not know whom&mdash;that his notice did not appear on the Paper, and why it did not appear.  Was there not any communication sent to him that it would not appear, or why it would not appear?  One would imagine that a courtesy of that kind ought to be extended, not alone to the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, but to anybody else. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask who was directly responsible for keeping that motion off the Order Paper? 
     
     
      
       I do not propose to enter into a debate as I said at the beginning, on this particular issue. The answer to Deputy Flinn's question is that the Ceann Comhairle was directly responsible.  As to the general question it not infrequently happens that a motion handed in on Friday does not appear on the Order Paper on Wednesday.  If it is a motion to which exception is taken for any reason, the Deputy who hands in that motion may be far away in a remote part of the country and he cannot be communicated with.  No communication except a verbal communication is satisfactory to settle the terms of a motion.  It frequently happens that when the Deputy who hands in that motion goes away to the country, if he is a Deputy belonging to a Party, the Party Whips are communicated with and consulted about the form of the motion.  In this particular instance I informed the Chairman of the Labour Party that I was holding up the motion until I saw the Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  I thought I would see him on Tuesday but I did not see him until Wednesday.  I am not prepared at this particular juncture to enter any argument or on a defence of that action in any way beyond saying that it is a common practice that motions handed in are frequently held up.  In this case it was necessary to have a word with the Leas-Cheann Comhairle in person. 
     
     
      
       I did not intend to criticise what happened.  I wanted to get information.  If you state that at the earliest opportunity you informed the Chairman of the Labour Party I   think that was quite adequate but I thought there was a suggestion in the paper read out by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle that there appeared to be a lack of essential courtesy in dealing with the matter. 
     
     
      
       The statement could leave that impression but the motion handed in by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle must be treated on the same footing as a motion handed in by an ordinary Deputy.  When a Deputy is in the country there is frequent communication with the Whips of his Party in Dublin.  It may happen that a motion made here in the name of the Deputy appears in a different form from that in which he handed it in although he did not know the particular form it was to take but the responsible people in his Party were satisfied and their word accepted that he would be satisfied subsequently.  In this instance a settlement of the question would be prejudiced if the motion had appeared. 
     
     
      
       Are we to infer from your statement that the reason for holding up the motion was the form in which the Deputy put it down or was it due to the fact that you objected to the Leas-Cheann Comhairle putting down a motion owing to the position he held? 
     
     
      
       It has been made quite clear by the statement of the Leas-Cheann Comhairle that the motion was not put on the Order Paper because it had been the practice, and it was my view that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle should not put down that particular kind of motion. I had never an opportunity of discussing that matter with the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, and until I had the motion could not appear on the Order Paper. As regards the rights of the Chair, there is no right whatever in the Ceann Comhairle to refuse to put on the Paper a motion proposed by the Leas-Cheann Comhairle, and no such right was ever claimed. 
     
     
      
       May I take it that the conclusions arrived at by the Committee on Procedure and Privileges will be communicated to the House and that the House will be given an opportunity of debating them? 
     
     
     
      
       I feel that the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, which is a very representative Committee and has always proved and is still proving itself a Committee capable of dealing with matters of procedure referred to it by the House in a very satisfactory way, should be left to deal with the matter. I think the matter should be left to them without making any preliminary conditions.  What should be done with the matter is a question to be considered by the Committee. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PROCEDURE AND PRIVILEGES. 
     
      
       On Friday last two questions were referred to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges for Report.  The Committee have held three meetings and made a Report.  I therefore move: 
       &ldquo;That the Report do lie upon the Table; that the Report be printed; that the minutes of evidence and appendices and proceedings of the Committee be printed.&rdquo; 
       I hope the Report will be available for Deputies early next week. 
     
     
      
       I just wish to point out that it is not stated specifically in the Report that the Report was carried by 5 votes to 4, and that the resolution on which the Report is based was in fact only carried by the votes of Deputies Duggan, Doyle, O'Hanlon, O'Sullivan and Morrissey.  The Deputies voting against it were Deputies Boland, MacEntee, Little and Aiken.  We objected to the Report going in in the form in which it is presented, which we consider incomplete. 
     
     
      
       The motion is that the Report lie on the Table; that the Report be printed, and that the minutes of evidence and appendices and the proceedings of the Committee be printed.  The documents will include all the information the Deputy has given. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES&mdash;VOTE 64 (ARMY). 
     
        The Dail resumed consideration of Supplementary and Additional Estimates in Committee on Finance. 
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. 
     Debate resumed on motion by the Minister for Finance:&mdash; 
     Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,400 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch 31adh Marta, 1928, chun costas an Airm maraon le Cultaca an Airm. 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £1,400 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st March, 1928, for the cost of the Army, including Army Reserve. 
     
      
       I submit that the transaction which necessitated the expenditure in this Vote was about the most treacherous transaction that has ever been perpetrated on the people of this country.  The Public Accounts Committee admit that these war materials were purchased for use against the Six County Government.  It has been definitely established here by Deputy Carney that at least one flying column was equipped at Beggars' Bush for military operations in that area, and it can be proved, and I have here documentary evidence to prove it, that officers from the Training Department of the Headquarters Staff at Beggars' Bush Barracks were actually arrested in the Six County area during 1922 for carrying out military manoeuvres in that area.  The Divisional Commandant of the Fifth Northern Division in 1922 made his position quite clear in a statement he made to the British representative on the Liaison Commission, when he declared that in certain eventualities, if certain aggressive action were taken against our people in the North, and if certain prisoners continued to be detained, he would lead flying columns into that area and take military action, even to the extent of disarming Specials in that area. 
     
     
        There is no room for doubting that in 1922, 95 per cent. of the officers and men who were acting under the Beggars' Bush Headquarters were bluffed into the belief that joint military action by the two sections of the Irish Republican Army would be taken to secure the freedom of Ireland and to emancipate our fellow-citizens in the Six-County area. It is a well-known fact that there was difficulty in restraining in 1922 the present Chief-of-Staff of the Free State Army, General Hogan, from taking that military action, until the deal that is under discussion now in this House was completed, and until the joint Army authorities were in a position to carry out the military policy that had been agreed upon.  There is ample evidence, and I have abundance of it here if anybody requires it, to prove that it was found almost impossible to restrain the military activities of some of the men who were then acting under the Headquarters Staff at Beggars' Bush. I have no doubt in my mind now, and I had no doubt in my mind then, that Dan Hogan and Sean MacKeon and other officers and men acting under them intended to use those guns against the forces of the Six-County Government, but I am equally certain in the light of after events, that it was intended by the Executive, to whom these men were responsible, that they would never be allowed to use these guns for this purpose.  These officers and men were deceived by the Beggars' Bush Headquarters and by the Executive to which that Headquarters was responsible.  They were deceived and betrayed as well as the men in the Four Courts. 
     A time was reached when something drastic had to be done in order to divert the minds of these officers, especially the men from the North, from the position in which the Nationalists and Catholics of the Six-County area found themselves.  The reign of terror that was created there by the Specials had aroused public indignation.  Every loyalist that was called a man was armed to the teeth.  Every Nationalist and every Catholic of the male population were outlaws in their own land. They were reduced to a condition of   abject slavery in that area, and the mentality of the men of the Irish Republican Army, of the Beggars' Bush section of it in the North as well as the Four Courts section of it, was that this thing would not be tolerated.  The jails were filled.  Our people were being flogged and interned, and many of them were being murdered cold-bloodedly in their own homes during that period.  The men of the Army could no longer be restrained.  The Beggars' Bush section of the Army accepted the Articles of Agreement for the express purpose of putting their house in order and preparing for a final military effort to free the whole of Ireland. They were more aggressive at that particular time towards the Six-County authorities than the men who took their orders from the Four Courts. It was then that it was decided by the Executive, to whom the Beggars' Bush men were responsible, that the bluff had been overdone. 
     The only way to prevent effectively the joint military action for which these warlike materials were purchased was to unloose the civil war that was unloosed the day the Four Courts were attacked.  And these guns that were purchased&mdash;the transaction that was entered into for the purchase of these war materials for the defence of our citizens in the north&mdash;were turned over to the Beggars' Bush men for use against their fellow-countrymen in the south.  That section of the Army that had been prepared to co-operate&mdash;and definite arrangements for co-operation had been made with responsible men on the other side of this House&mdash;in action against Ulster was rushed into civil war at twenty-five minutes' notice, and passions were aroused in that civil war, and bitternesses and hatreds were engendered that successfully blinded these men to ordinary reason, and the way was prepared for a complete betrayal of the north.  The country was shocked and horrified, and the position of our people in the north was for a time lost sight of, and the way was clear for a final betrayal without protest. 
     At the time that this transaction was being negotiated, at the time that these war materials were being purchased, would any member of the party opposite,   would any member of the present Cumann na nGaedheal Party, have dared to go before the public, to go before any section of Irishmen, and to have declared that this country was free, that the sovereign independence of this country had been attained? They would not have dared to do it then. 
     
      
       I would have done it and did it. 
     
     
      
       They went on with their civil war and, with their reptile Press, blinded the people; they unloosed passions that prevented people from taking a reasonable view of the situation that they then had created.  The doctrine then that was preached, and the only doctrine that any body of Irishmen would listen to, was the doctrine that the Minister for Finance preached when he said that he who would consent to Partition was a traitor and should be treated as such&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What is the treatment? 
     
     
      
       What treatment? 
     
     
      
       Ask the President. 
     
     
      
       This is the talk, you know, that leads to trouble.  I asked what is the treatment? 
     
     
      
       I thought that any Deputy coming from Cork knew what it was to be treacherous to the Irish nation. 
     
     
      
       I did not come from Cork. 
     
     
      
       I hope the House will reject this Vote and put the onus on the men on the opposite Benches of finding a way out of this dirty transaction of theirs, and I hope that we will not again hear from them anything more about the starting of the civil war and the cause of the civil war or what the civil war has involved this country in. 
     
     
      
       It struck me that, with the exception of the Minister for Finance, there has been no attempt made from the Government side to urge any reason as to why this money should be paid and it has occurred to me that they cannot be serious about it.  If they want this money passed the   Ministers opposite would have urged it on the House but perhaps they are holding back what they have to say and that there is a pleasure in store for us. But up to the present moment there has been no case made.  As a matter of fact, the Minister whom one would have expected to put the case for this particular Vote has judiciously absented himself from this debate and the Minister who took upon himself the responsibility of introducing the Vote damned it.  He said it was a transaction that should never have occurred. Surely the Minister does not expect that his majority in this House will pass such a Vote on a recommendation of that sort.  If he does expect it he must have great respect for the independent members of the House. As one of the Whips of this party, I am not going to complain as to how the Cumann na nGaedheal Party vote. I am not going to start a revolt on that side in case there might be a bad example.  I must say that the Minister has a very bad opinion of the independent Deputies of the House if, without any further recommendation from the House, without any further proof showing why this money should be paid, he expects them to vote this money which has been turned down three times by the Public Accounts Committee, set up by this House to investigate minutely all the financial transactions of the House. 
     
     
      
       They never heard such a case made for it as the Deputy's colleagues are making for it. 
     
     
      
       That is asking for it. 
     
     
      
       I do not quite get the Minister's point; perhaps it is due to my lack of intelligence. 
     
     
      
       It has been paid. 
     
     
      
       I am trying to make the point&mdash;perhaps I have not been clear enough&mdash;that there has not yet been made from the Government Benches&mdash;whatever may happen in the immediate future&mdash;a case for having the recommendation of the Committee of Public Accounts turned down. and that is what it amounts to.  The Minister by whom we would expect a case to be put up has very judiciously   absented himself from defending this transaction which, I think, could be best described mildly, if I can describe anything mildly, as double crossing. It is double crossing, to say the least of it.  It is up to someone on the Government side to give us the reason why this money should be paid.  I am very sorry that the old reliable Deputy, Deputy J. J. Byrne, who is so very fond of talking about the thirty-five millions that went up in smoke, has seen fit also to withdraw while this matter is being debated.  Surely now is the time for him to show who was responsible for the thirty-five millions. The thirty-five millions can now be explained if Deputy Byrne cares to take the matter up or if some of the gentlemen opposite wish to do so.  I submit that there has been no case made out. The Government in this matter has acted as if they were in the position that they occupied two years ago, when they had really a cast-iron majority.  I think they have learned the lesson recently that that is not now the position.  I am not going to go into the details of the civil war. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       I think the details have been sufficiently gone into.  I think it is up to the Government to state their case.  With the permission of the Ceann Comhairle, I will refer to the moving appeal made by Deputy Cooper.  I presume I have his permission for that.  I believe Deputy Cooper was sincere when he made the appeal to this House that a mantle should be thrown over the past.  I would like to urge on Deputy Cooper that he should try his powers of persuasion on the Front Benches opposite.  I admit that the three principal Ministers who are at present in the House, have refrained very largely since we entered here, from referring to the civil war&mdash;for whatever reasons can be best judged by the House; they themselves know.  I think there can be very little doubt as to why the Minister for Local Government and Public Health has refrained; it is pretty obvious anyhow.  I do admit, whatever the reasons may be&mdash;and it is all to the good&mdash;that these three Ministers, the President, the Vice-President,   and the Minister for Local Government and Public Health have not been in the habit of dragging in this question.  There are others who have. The Minister who should be supporting the Vote here, who, on every possible occasion has been throwing ridicule and contempt on the people on this side, and who has put the responsibility on us, has seen fit to absent himself. 
       I say to Deputy Cooper that he should try his powers of persuasion on the Minister for Defence, who is not present; the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, who is so fond of talking about petrol tins, and when he gets the opportunity of proving it, he absents himself also; and the Minister for Education and the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  If Deputy Cooper succeeds in persuading these people to pursue a different line, I do not think he will fail in his appeal to this side. I would like to say further that not alone were we not responsible for the beginning of this, but we tried on several occasions to stop it.  We made several attempts, and we were met at all points with a demand for the most abject and the most humiliating surrender. The very legislation responsible for our coming here was designed to create further strife in this country, and our coming in was a peace offering, which has been rejected.  I am sorry to see that Deputy Cooper is not here.  If the Ministry had tried to meet us half-way, if, instead of persecuting people like my friend George Gilmore, whom they are slowly doing to death in Mountjoy at present, they had shown some magnanimity, if they had wiped the slate and given us a new start and allowed us to conduct the Republican movement in a strictly constitutional fashion and not sent out agents-provocateur all over the country persecuting the people, they would succeed in having Deputy Cooper's wish realised.  I appeal to Deputy Cooper to try his powers of persuasion on the Front Benches opposite, and when he has done that I do not think he will fail here. 
     
     
      
       Not knowing very much about this particular item in question, I rise just to respond in a very few words to what Deputy Boland   has said.  I have been attracted rather much by what Deputy Boland has said on many occasions.  He couches his language in a generous way, even though he may say very bitter things. He appears to me to have a more generous disposition towards mankind in general than some of his friends on the other benches.  It would be well for us all to examine just what the condition of the country is.  It may be, perhaps, irrelevant to raise the matter on this Vote, but I propose, before I conclude. to come to the subject matter of the Vote itself.  After a struggle lasting for a very considerable time, this particular movement found itself divided.  Very many bitter things have been said; very many harsh things have been done.  I suppose, being Christians, we ought to wish that those bitter things would be no longer said and those harsh things would be no longer done.  But if we are to start out on such a basis as that, we ought to have agreement on fundamentals.  As I understand the situation for the last seven or eight years, it is on fundamentals that the real difference has been. My view from the moment I entered public life was that the principles of democracy take precedence over all other principles in connection with public matters.  I understand that was disputed by some of the colleagues of Deputy Boland.  It was, I understand, in the very beginning objected to that a particular policy proposed by certain people should be put to the people of the country, and from the opposition that was there engendered the bitter things were said and the harsh things were done.  There is no use in citing the start of the civil war from a particular action.  There was really civil war in this country during the early part of 1922, and it does not serve matters even now to deal with who was responsible for that.  I am prepared to discuss that at any time, in any place. 
     
     The question for consideration is, what good purpose does it serve?  What is it going to do for the future of the country?  We have a very serious and big responsibility towards the people of this country, those who agree as well as those who differ from us in that. Taking this Vote as just an item in   that respect, Deputies opposite appear to think that it affords them an opportunity for fixing responsibility in connection with one of the most disgraceful episodes in our whole history. What useful purpose is served by that? We are here to discuss public business. What is the public business?  That we discuss this, and get the authority of the Dail for the payment of the sum of money involved. 
     
      
       In connection with a certain transaction? 
     
     
      
       With great respect to the Deputy, if he will allow me to proceed, I think I will be able to deal with this without his assistance. The matter to which I am addressing myself arises out of the generous speech of his colleague on his right, and if the Deputy interrupts me in doing that, then apparently we are in disagreement on fundamentals.  The Public Accounts Committee disputed the payment of this item of £1,400.  Let us for a moment look at the business side of this.  Putting up the Vote here affords Parliament an opportunity to review the transaction.  Let me take a more extreme case.  Let us assume for the moment that the motion moved some months ago by Mr. Johnson when he was a member of the House had passed.  What would be the position in the House?  If Mr. Johnson had been elected President of the Executive Council he would be moving this Vote, and Deputies opposite would be voting for it.  That point is not understood by all the members. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, is it not a fact that Mr. Johnson, during the time that he was Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, stated in the report of the Committee that this transaction was irregular? 
     
     
      
       That is not the point at all. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I will have to go back farther if I am to explain, at any length, the point involved to the Deputy.  An opportunity is now afforded the House of reviewing this particular item as a business transaction. The authority of Parliament   has to be got to pay this sum of money. This Vote would have to be put down, no matter who sat on the Government Benches here.  Let us examine other circumstances in connection with this transaction, which, I think, started in June, 1922.  At that time there was not that control and exactness as regards public accounts that there is now.  An officer in the Army started this particular transaction, but he is no longer in it. That particular part of the proceedings could not happen now, nor could it have happened twelve months after.  The tangle which started in 1922 was not unravelled until 1924 or 1925.  The position, I suppose, is clear now to everyone except Deputy Cassidy, that in certain eventualities, if we suppose for the moment that Deputy O'Kelly had been elected President of the Executive Council, he would now be in the position of having to put up this Vote. 
       As I have stated, this transaction could not have occurred twelve months afterwards by reason of the very much tighter control that there is in the matter of administration.  At the time that this transaction started the Executive Council&mdash;the members of the Government&mdash;was very different in personnel to what it is now.  Three of the then members are now in their graves, and two are no longer in the Executive Council.  As an ordinary business matter, I think I have disposed of the transaction. Such an event as occurred in June, 1922, could not happen now. 
     
     With regard to the other items, may I put this point in answer to what Deputy Boland has said.  May I say I regard what he said as a generous statement, even though there were perhaps some bitter dabs in it.  What useful purpose is served by introducing the incidents which occurred not alone from 1922 but from January, 1922, up to date?  Do we get any greater public confidence in the national institutions? Deputies may have read within the last few days the very able pronouncement from Cardinal Gasparri regarding Governments.  It appeared to me to have been a very fair exposition of what might be expected in any country, if we are to have order.  If there are   changes of Government here, I never anticipate that those who are now sitting on the Front Bench, or who have sat on it during the last few years, will be eternally railing at their successors and diverting public attention and rousing passions that ought certainly be allowed to subside. 
     
      
       Might I interrupt the President for a moment to say that I think he must admit that all that raking up of the past has come from his side of the House, and that the four gentlemen I mentioned, as well as Deputy Byrne, are perpetually raising that point? 
     
     
      
       May I say to Deputy Boland that neither he nor I are impartial judges?  I think that, on reflection, he will admit that.  Those who have been or are parties to a dispute cannot possibly be impartial judges as to the merits of it.  Perhaps that is one of the reasons why I refrained&mdash;I did not know that I had until the Deputy told me.  The action that I have taken here since the Deputies opposite entered is the same action that I have taken always.  At my age one does not change his particular gait or mode of address.  I may say that if all the things which were said from the benches on the opposite side were true, which I do not accept, all I would say is that we have not much to be proud of, either on that side of the House or on this. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear. 
     
     
      
       In that spirit I ask that in dealing with the several matters which come before the House, we consider just what is going to happen in ten years' time and whether we are laying solid foundations for better minds to run this country in the future. That is all I have to say. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the President to make a start by releasing the prisoners? 
     
     
      
       That is a very irrelevant interjection on this Vote, but on it may I say that after very mature deliberation and consideration we have set up here Courts for the   administration of the law.  The position is that the people of the country must obey these laws and the decisions of the Courts.  If there is acceptance of that principle, a general recognition that we have to get respect for the law, and if that be recommended by those who continually talk about the prisoners, we would have a very different perspective before us in relation to these matters.  I stand, and have always stood, against violence by individuals. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the President how it was that he did not obey the order of the Republican Court in this matter in 1922? 
     
     
      
       I am surprised. 
     
     
      
       He suppressed the Courts. 
     
     
      
       The President asked a question which, I think, demands an answer.  What is the purpose of this debate and what good is it going to serve?  It is going to elucidate the truth.  On these benches there are 57 Deputies who have borne the weight of the President's slander for the last six years.  Speaking in the debate on Old Age Pensions, the President accused this Party of impoverishing this country and of starting the civil war. 
     
     
      
       May I interrupt the Deputy to say that that is not my recollection.  My recollection is that I said that the civil war cost approximately £22,000,000, and that the annual burden in respect to that is £1,100,000. Until the Deputy would quote the words from the official records I do not believe that I did more than that and that I did not certainly apportion any blame in connection with the matter at all&mdash;not but that I could if I wished. 
     
     
      
       I am depending on my recollection but we will leave that until we have the record.  Speaking the other day the Minister for Industry and Commerce&mdash;valiant soldier whose presence of mind in moments of danger is generally signalised by his absence of body, whose seat has been vacant since this debate started, and who never speaks in this House without using the self-same argument, until its monotony has become wearying to those who have listened to it longer   than we have&mdash;accused us of being absent from this House when the foundations. of this State were laid Why were we absent?  We are here to use the opportunity of this Vote, as we are entitled to do, to show under what circumstances the Pact, that would have brought a united nation and the representatives of a united people into a common assembly, was deliberately broken.  The Minister for Lands and Agriculture who, in the same fashion, accused members of this Party of having been responsible for the campaign of destruction that the attack on the Four Courts initiated, is absent, and the Minister for Local Government who was himself a party to this transaction, who paid certain of the moneys involved, and who was responsible for the death of his partners in this transaction refused to justify his part in these proceedings now.  Are they mute of malice or by the visitation of God?  Is it fear or shame that has sealed their tongues? 
     
     Let the Independent Deputies weigh the facts that have been recited to them this afternoon and yesterday.  There you had a categorical statement brooking no denial from men who were participants in the events they narrated. If you refuse to accept the statement turn to the Appendix of the Public Accounts Committee, read the Report of that Committee, and you will see that beyond denial it is clear Mr. Frank Fitzgerald&mdash;and I think he himself has borne a heavy weight of misunderstanding in this matter&mdash;was the common agent of two principals who were joint partners in one and the same transaction. Is not that the case we have always made, that there was an understanding between the section of the Irish Republican Army which had its headquarters in the Four Courts, and the other section that elected to remain under the control of the then Minister of Defence of the Irish Republic?  What caused that rupture?  It is clear from these accounts that an understanding existed late in June and, if my recollection does not mislead me, as late as the 24th June.  What occurred between the 24th and 28th June to dissolve that partnership?  Will the Minister who issued orders to the Chief of Staff to attack the Four Courts disclose to this   House what caused the rupture of this partnership, of that understanding to which he was a party?  He says he has already disclosed the facts in this matter in September, 1922.  If he did disclose the facts why is he afraid or ashamed to repeat his statement now? Here are the representatives of the men who are dead.  Here are the representatives of the men who sat in association with himself and some of his colleagues upon that Joint Army Council that planned the whole of this proposed campaign.  We are putting forward our story.  A letter which was written by Rory O'Connor was read, and the Minister for Local Government characterised it as a damn lie. 
     Read the evidence again that was given before the Committee of Public Accounts, weigh the statements that you have heard from these benches, and when you have read that evidence, weighed those statements, and considered that letter, is not that letter substantiated in every word by the things that have been said and gone uncontroverted and uncontradicted? Why is Rory O'Connor not here to answer for th letter?  Why is Liam Mellowes not here to answer for that letter?  Why is Joe McKelvey not here to answer for that letter?  Because Rory O'Connor and Liam Mellowes had an intimate knowledge of all the facts that led up to the attack on the Four Courts, and because Joe McKelvey was in exactly the same position as Deputy Aiken and Deputy Frank Carney, who had also taken a part, or were about to take a part, in the proposed operations against the Six Counties.  I am not going to go into the question as to whether the Minister for Local Government seriously intended this operation or not.  He may have.  We believe he is capable of deceiving those who were the other partners to this transaction. It has been suggested, and, I think, probably it is the most feasible explanation of his very equivocal position in this matter on that occasion, that he was deceiving the men in the Four Courts for some purpose or another. I am not going to go into that, but the thing is, if this understanding existed, who was responsible for the rupture? Who was responsible for the civil war?   Who was responsible for the executions? Who was responsible for the damage?  Who was responsible for the assassinations that followed in its train?  We want this question thrashed out once and for all, so that the campaign of slander against Eamon de Valera, not for any personal reason, but because he represents the historic cause of this Irish nation and because he stands for the unity and independence of this country, will cease.  We want this campaign of slander ended once and for all, and we are anxious for an open investigation of this matter, and the men who can shed light on the other side of it are the men on the other benches who have remained mute, as I said before, whether through malice or the visitation of God, whether through fear or shame. 
     
      
       I still maintain that this debate is out of order. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot maintain that against the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I would like to draw attention to the fact that this particular sum we are asked to vote is in connection with a transaction that occurred on the 19th December, 1924, dealing with the handing over of certain chemicals and certain revolvers.  A large part of the discussion here to-day has been concerned with the question of 10,000 rifles to be bought in England and, according to some people, used in the North.  If you look up the evidence, particularly the statement of the Auditor-General, in the special reports of the Sub-committee, of which I was a member, you will find that the transaction ceased in August, 1922, and was settled, so far as it could be settled, in February, 1924.  That matter was dealt with under the Vote that was passed last year.  Consequently, we only have to deal to-day with the final Vote for the purchase of chemicals and revolvers and not with the question of the 10,000 rifles. 
     
     The whole question was debated in the Dail on the 7th July, 1925, when Deputy Johnson dealt with the matter very fully, and the Minister, in two speeches, explained the reason why the Vote was being asked for.  I think the   Minister, in putting forward this Vote on this occasion, had only to refer Deputies to his previous statements on the matter.  Deputy MacEntee has suggested that in the report of the Sub-Committee&mdash;in Appendix 9 to the report of the Second Public Accounts Committee&mdash;there was evidence of some collusion between two principals in this matter, and it was the result of some preconceived arrangement between sections of the Army.  I think I am the only member of the Dail who has been on all Public Accounts Committees which have investigated this matter, and I am the only surviving member of the Sub-Committee which investigated the private files of the Ministries of Finance and Defence.  In all those files there was no evidence whatever that this transaction, which lasted so many years, was the result of such a combination as Deputy MacEntee suggests. 
     
      
       The Deputy has stated that there is no evidence of this fact in the report of the Committee on the purchase of arms.  Would he read the beginning of the first paragraph, which says: &ldquo;From a report by the Chief of Staff&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       That is the general report? 
     
     
      
       Appendix 9, page 404, line 5. 
     
     
      
       Yes, that the arrangements were made with Fitzgerald, but I do not see any reference to two principals. 
     
     
      
       Wait a minute. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must allow Deputy Esmonde to speak. 
     
     
      
       I quite understand that, but he does not want to put the facts before the House. 
     
     
      
       There were so many agents and sub-agents it was a matter that was very complicated. 
     
     
      
       Deputies on my right are constantly saying that they want other points of view mentioned, but it seems that when the other points of view are put forward   these Deputies never listen to them. Deputy Esmonde is making a statement, and apparently Deputy MacEntee does not want a statement but a cock-shot. 
     
     
      
       Is this a coroner's inquiry? 
     
     
      
       On the part of Deputy Esmonde it certainly is not. 
     
     
      
       We are asked to refuse the payment of this amount and a sum of £1,400 is about to be surrendered to the Exchequer by the Department of Defence.  If we refuse to pass this sum a very interesting situation will arise.  According to law, the Accounting Officer of the Department of Defence, unless he has previously repudiated his responsibility in writing, is responsible for paying this sum. That particular official became Accounting Officer of this Department a year or more, I think, after this transaction was inaugurated.  I presume it is the intention of Deputies who refuse to pass this Vote to deduct the sum from the salary of this officer.  That would take several years to do. Another interesting point in that connection is that this sum was paid for certain chemicals and revolvers.  Presumably, therefore, this official, after he has paid to the Treasury £1,400, will be entitled to have returned to him not only a sum of £326 16s. 6d. for which the chemicals were sold, but also, I presume, a very large number of revolvers. That, I think, would be the situation if this Vote were rejected.  I do not know whether the official would be glad to get the revolvers, but it is a rather ridiculous situation to put him into.  Members opposite have used this Vote in order to revive memories of 1922, and I am very glad that members of the Government Party have, as far as possible, refrained from following their example.  We notice in the Press statements made by members on the opposite benches at public meetings that it is desirable to get away from the bitterness of those past events, but their actions during this debate did not carry out the good intentions which they have expressed.  This Vote is the winding-up of a very long transaction,   and I think it would have been more reasonable to ask the Dail to pass it without discussion. 
     
     
      
       As I do not wish to give a silent vote on this Motion I would like to say that I am voting against it, but my vote is in no way influenced by the discussion that has taken place as to the origin of the civil war.  I believe that that is a matter that has ceased to be of any great interest to the people of the country, and I believe, in any case, that this Dail is not a court, and cannot be constituted a court, or try the particular issue as to who started the civil war.  This particular transaction was a discreditable one, to say the least of it.  It may have taken place when there was not the same accountancy machinery as we have at present and, though I would possibly be prepared to overlook that particular portion of it, I am not prepared to overlook or condone the way in which it was muddled two years at least after it had taken place.  It is because I am not prepared to overlook that or approve, even at this stage, of the action that was taken by the particular Ministers concerned, one of whom refused to appear before the Public Accounts Committee although he was summoned there to give his version of what took place, that I am going to vote against this motion. 
     
     
      
       I would like to comment on Deputy O'Connell's statement. He objects particularly to the way in which this matter was muddled by being dragged out for two years. What he really objects to is that payment was not made completely wiping out everything two years before it was made, without the full examination and very critical search on the subject that were given to it during two years.  It would have been very easy to do that. The matter was fully gone into before any payment was made.  I did refuse to go before the Public Accounts Committee four years after the time when I was no longer the Minister responsible, on 24 hours' notice, and without being given any inkling as to the matter I was going to be asked to solve. With regard to other general matters, for one reason or another we have been   asked whether in 1922 an attempt was made on the part of some of us to disentangle from the struggle in the Six Counties, or whether there was an attempt on our part to knit closer that struggle, whether there was an attempt to deceive members on the opposite Benches or whether there was an attempt to deceive some of the people who supported us.  All these are interesting subjects for investigation at a suitable time.  All I have to say with regard to these matters is that if I was of the particular calibre that would enter into discussion under these circumstances here now in 1928 I would not have been of the calibre to shoulder the particular responsibilities that fell in my way in 1922.  I have no intention of discussing these matters in 1928, and in these particular circumstances.  It is partly a matter of inertia, but it is also a tendency I have to pass from the absorption of one particular year to the absorptions of another year, to pass from one year's responsibility to another year's responsibility. 
     
     
      
       The Minister explains, or rather complains, that his reason for not appearing before the Committee was that he only got 24 hours' notice, and that he was given no notice of the matter regarding which the Committee wanted him to come before them and discuss.  Is that the gist of his reply to the invitation to come before the Committee? 
     
     
      
       My reply is fully printed in the report. 
     
     
      
       Did you ask for time? 
     
     
      
       I asked for nothing.  I sent a definite reply saying I was not going to appear.  I think that reply, with a little less superficial examination, could be perfectly easily understood. 
     
     
      
       I feel that it might be wiser to move the adjournment of the debate, if it is allowable, in order that very serious issues which have been raised might be solved by consideration in the interval.  I am one of those who believe that very often two apparently contradictory outcomes may logically follow from a particular series of circumstances.  Arising from a small   matter of this debate there has been raised the most critical and the most crucial question of the last generation of Irish history.  It is conceivable that how we treat the issue which has now been raised may significantly alter the history of another generation.  There was a very great tragedy in this country in almost recent months, from which some of us indicated one direction of departure and from which some others pleaded there might follow great fruits of benefit to this country, that out of it might rise healing, assuagement and hope of unity among men who were divided.  But from that instead there arose a policy which did not tend in that direction.  I am now submitting to the House for consideration that in the raising of this critical issue here to-day in the attempt to get to the bottom of this matter, and in getting to the bottom of the matter, perhaps, to get rid of some of the worst of the consequences that have followed, so that we may build upon this very unfortunate question this very fortunate inquiry into the circumstances of this question something of betterment, something of real fundamental value to the whole of the people of this country.  It is in that spirit I ask, a couple of minutes before 2 o'clock, the permission of the Chair to move the adjournment of the debate. 
     
     
      
       I think the debate that has been raised on this Vote has no relation to it.  I would prefer that the motion be put, and that some other time we could set apart a month for a discussion of the question that has been raised, or there could be a special session to deal with it. 
     
     
      
       The question has been raised, and whether or not that is desirable is another matter, but as it has been raised, this is the time to solve it. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Let it go to a vote. 
     
     
      
       It will when we are ready.  We have tried hard to get this question discussed honestly and openly. There is a body in this country that has been cruelly slandered, in my opinion. 
     
     
     
      
       Will you allow me, sir, to move that the question be now put? 
     
     
      
       I have moved the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       The Minister claims to move that the question be now put. 
     
     
      
       I submit that it is very unfair to closure the debate. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has claimed to move that the question be now put.  Standing Order 52 says:&mdash; 
       
         Closure of Debate:  After a question (except a question already barred from debate under the Standing Orders) has been proposed from the Chair either in the Dail, or in a Committee of the whole Dail, a Deputy may claim to move: &ldquo;That the question be now put,&rdquo; and unless it shall appear to the Ceann Comhairle that such a motion is an infringement of the rights of a minority, or that the question has not been adequately discussed, or that the motion is otherwise an abuse of these Standing Orders, the question &ldquo;That the question be now put&rdquo; shall be put forthwith, and decided without amendment or debate. 
       The question therefore for the Chair to decide when permission is asked to move a motion, &ldquo;That the question be now put,&rdquo; is whether such motion would be an infringement of the rights of the minority, whether the question has been adequately discussed, or whether the motion is otherwise an abuse of the Standing Order.  It is, I think, not usual for the Chair to do more than state whether he withholds or gives his consent. This case is perhaps a special one. Having regard to the debate and the decision the Chair is now called upon to give, it might be made clear that the matter at issue before the Committee is one which, as I pointed out from the Chair yesterday evening, does not, in fact, if the ordinary rules of procedure were carried out strictly, allow very great scope for debate. 
     
     
        Matters, therefore, perhaps not strictly within the scope of order, were raised&mdash;they were allowed to be raised. An appeal was made yesterday evening to the Ceann Comhairle that this matter should be treated with some liberality from the Chair, and in a statement made from the Chair it was stated that some liberality would be shown with regard to this general question.  With regard to the point raised by the last Deputy who spoke, I think that by no stretch of the Standing Orders and by no indulgence shown by any conceivable chairman could the whole question Deputy Flinn has outlined be debated under this motion.  If the debate were adjourned until next week for the purpose Deputy Flinn indicated, the debate could not be resumed on the basis that all these fundamental matters were going to get full consideration, because, in the first place, even if they got consideration, they would not be decided when the question before the House was put to the House and decided. Therefore, in my judgment this question now before the House does not afford that opportunity.  The opportunity which has been granted&mdash; I do not know whether Deputies will agree that it has been granted freely and liberally&mdash;(Deputies: &ldquo;Hear, hear&rdquo;)&mdash;has afforded an opportunity for Deputies to state their particular point of view, and, on the other hand, for the President and the Minister for Local Government to state, very briefly, a different point of view.  In the judgment of the Chair, very little more than an opportunity to state a point of view can be given.  The debate which arose here could not be such as to enable all the questions of fact, and all the other questions at issue, to be debated and brought to a decision.  The rights of the minority, therefore&mdash;assuming for the purpose of this decision that the minority is on my right&mdash;in this case have certainly been protected.  There have been fourteen speakers during the debate, not including Deputy Flinn. The Deputy did not speak on the subject proper, since his endeavour was to get permission to move to report Progress. There were fourteen speeches.   On the side of the normal majority of the House I find the Minister for Finance, the President and Deputy Esmonde&mdash;three&mdash;have spoken on the merits of the motion.  Deputy Cooper's intervention was not about the motion, and as an offset against him one might put Deputy O'Kelly, who intervened owing to an appeal made by Deputy Cooper, and did not speak upon the general motion.  Therefore, it seems to me, the minority in this case have had the fullest possible freedom in debate and that there is no infringement of the right of the minority in giving the Closure. 
     The question has been adequately discussed in so far as it appears to me anyone desires to discuss it.  Deputy O'Connell and Deputy Esmonde discussed it to-day.  I do not think the motion is an abuse of the Standing Orders and, therefore, I am accepting the motion of the Minister for Finance that the question be now put.  The question before the Committee was Vote 64&mdash;Army.  The Minister for Finance now claims to move: &ldquo;That the question be now put.&rdquo; 
     
      
       On a point of order&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Deputy is entitled to raise a point of order at this stage, but I will hear him if he relates it precisely to this. 
     
     
      
       I want to know if it is in order to put the Minister's motion at seven minutes past two o'clock, when Private Members' Business must be taken at two o'clock? 
     
     
      
       It is in order to bring to a conclusion any proceedings which take place before 8.30 p.m. in the ordinary way.  I think it is in order, also, to bring to a conclusion any proceedings with regard to public business which originates before 2 o'clock on a Friday.  It is in order to take the necessary decision and to have the necessary divisions.  The question now is: &ldquo;That the question be now put.&rdquo; 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 73; Nil, 58. 
     
     Ta    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. D. J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. 
             Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Richard Anthony. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Henry Broderick. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Archie J. Cassidy. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Hugh Colohan. Eamon Cooney. Martin John Corry. Fred Hugh Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. Edward Doyle. James Everett. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. 
             Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Daniel Morrissey. Thomas Mullins. Thomas J. O'Connell. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. William Archer Redmond. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Patrick Smyth. Michael Tierney. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle; Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     
       
        Main question put. 
     The Committee divided: Ta, 75; Nil, 59. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. James Coburn. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. D.J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. 
             Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. William Archer Redmond. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Richard Anthony. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Henry Broderick. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Archie J. Cassidy. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Hugh Colohan. Eamon Cooney. Martin John Corry. Fred Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. William Davin. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. Edward Doyle. James Everett.
 Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Timothy Sheehy (Tipp.). 
             Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Daniel Morrissey. Thomas Mullins. Thomas J. O'Connell. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly.
 Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle.  Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     Ordered that progress be reported. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Progress reported.  The Committee to sit again on Wednesday, March 14th. 
     
       Professor THRIFT  took the Chair. 
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - CONSTITUTION OF THE TARIFF COMMISSION. 
     Debate resumed on the following motion and amendment:&mdash; 
     That the Dail is of opinion that the Tariff Commission, as at present constituted, is unsuitable for dealing expeditiously with applications received for the imposition of tariffs and should be replaced by a Commission consisting of five members who should have a knowledge of agricultural and industrial conditions (of whom one should be a qualified accountant), appointed by the Executive Council with the approval of the Dail, and to hold office for a stated period; 
     That the Commission, thus constituted, should have power to investigate the conditions existing in any industry in regard to its need for protection against foreign competition and should make recommendations to the Executive Council as to how the benefits derived from the measure of protection afforded to any trade can be shared by the consumers; 
     That for the purposes of its inquiries the Commission should be empowered to enforce the attendance of witnesses and to examine them on oath; 
     That the Commission report to the Executive Council, which shall publish such reports within three months of their presentation if so requested by the Commission. 
     &mdash;Deputy Lemass. 
     To delete all words after the word &ldquo;opinion&rdquo; in the first line and add the words:&mdash;&ldquo;that the Tariff Commission Act should be amended so as to provide that the members constituting the Commission shall devote their whole time to the work of the Commission; 
     That the Commission constituted after amendment of the Act should have power (in addition to the powers given by the existing Act):&mdash; 
     (1)  on the submission of proposals by or through the Minister for Industry and Commerce or the Minister for Lands and Agriculture or on its own initiative, to investigate the position of any industry and the possibilities of fostering such industry or protecting it against foreign competition; 
     (2)  to report on the probable effect of methods of assisting and protecting any industry by methods other than customs duties; 
     (3)  to report on the safeguards required or desirable to ensure a satisfactory standard of working conditions for employees in any industry to which assistance or protection may be given.&rdquo;&mdash;Deputy T.J. O'Connell. 
     
      
       Before a Vote is taken on this motion there are one or two points that I want to deal with in order that there may be no misunderstanding about it.  It was stated by the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and a number of other speakers that it would not be possible to get men with the qualifications required for the Commission suggested in the motion who would be unprejudiced, detached, and absolutely impartial, but I submit that no case has been made out to show that it is necessary that the members of the Commission should be unprejudiced or detached or impartial.  Certainly if the nomination of the Tariff Commission was in my hands I would not insist   upon these qualifications in the persons whom I would select, and I do not think that the practice of seeking for people who are unprejudiced, detached and impartial is followed in the case of other Commissions.  I also think that the provision in the motion that the persons selected should be approved by the Dail is a necessary provision, and I think that the Dail, at any rate, would be as impartial in its selections and as anxious to seek the best persons to constitute a Commission as the Executive Council has proved itself to be. 
       A number of Deputies thought that the motion gave a good opportunity for having a sly dig at the Fianna Fail Party for advocating an increase in expenditure. The cost involved in the setting up of the Commission proposed in the motion would be very slight.  A few weeks ago a woollen mill closed down in Kilkenny while an application for a tariff on woollen cloth was before the Commission.  I think that if it is a case of cost we would find the money well spent to set up a Commission such as is proposed in the motion.  It was suggested by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Industry and Commerce that special committees should be set up to deal with applications which could not come before the Commission as at present constituted.  With regard to that, I merely want to state that such a system is in operation in England at present in connection with the Safeguarding of Industries Act, and there is, I think, general agreement amongst all the political parties in that country that it is absolutely unsuitable, and there is a general demand for its termination. 
     
     The Minister for Finance stated that it was not desirable that the Commission should deal with the question as to what price protected goods should be sold at by native manufacturers.  In that connection I merely want to point out that the Schedule of the existing Act provides that the Commission shall report upon the effect &ldquo;the granting in whole or in part of the concessions asked for in the application would be likely to have&rdquo; on the consumers of the goods produced by the industry in respect   of which an application was made, and on the cost of living.  The Commission is expected to report on that, and we do not think that it is unreasonable to ask them to go further and to report upon how the benefits to a trade, secured as a result of protection, could be passed on to the consumers.  The Minister for Industry and Commerce said that it would be unfair to those engaged in a protected industry to ask them to give any guarantees in respect of prices.  We on these benches do not think that that would be unfair.  We think that if the community is going to take action for the benefit of those engaged in a particular industry, the community should be satisfied that the benefits will be passed on to the consuming public, and in actual fact it has been the practice of the Commission up to the present to seek such guarantees from those who came before them. 
     The only other matter to which I want to refer is the section of the amendment which deals with the recommendation that the Commission should &ldquo;report on the safeguards required or desirable to ensure a satisfactory standard of working conditions for employees in any industry to which assistance or protection may be given.&rdquo; Deputy Davin stated he understood that in proposing my motion I had spoken against that section.  I will read what I did say.  I said:&mdash; 
     I am not at all sure that it is advisable to impose that duty upon the Tariff Commission.  The Commission may not be the most suitable body to decide the safeguards required. There is in that section the suggestion that the Government has a re sponsibility for ensuring satisfactory working conditions only in the case of protected industries.  We hold that it is the duty of the Government to ensure that satisfactory working conditions should prevail in every industry operating in the State and not merely in those protected. 
     Our view is that the Commission, constituted for the purpose of investigating all applications for tariffs, should not have imposed upon it the duties suggested in Paragraph 3 of the amendment, not because that duty should not be carried out, but because   the Commission would not be the best body imaginable for carrying out that duty.  The safeguards or the guarantees that would be given when the application was before the Commission would be of little value unless there would be continuing investigation of the conditions existing.  That should be the regular and permanent duty of a section of the Department of Industry and Commerce in relation to all industries and, we are prepared to agree, particularly in relation to protected industries. As I stated in moving the motion, the points of agreement between the amendment and the motion are much more numerous than the points of difference.  I regret that the amendment has been brought forward. I believe that it is likely to cause some   confusion amongst those who have not been giving the matter very careful consideration. 
     
      
       Does the Deputy mean to say that it is confusing himself? 
     
     
      
       To an extent also.  As a matter of fact, it took me a good ten minutes, working on a sheet of paper, to enumerate the particular points of difference between the motion and the amendment.  However, if the motion I have proposed is defeated I would be very glad to see the amendment carried. Certainly the Commission outlined in the motion or in the amendment would be preferable, in my opinion, to the Commission as at present constituted. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 13: Nil, 117. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. Henry Broderick. Archie J. Cassidy. Patrick Clancy. Hugh Colohan. William Davin. 
             Edward Doyle. James Everett. Sean Hayes. Thomas Hennessy. Daniel Morrissey. Thomas J. O'Connell.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. William P. Aird. Denis Allen. Ernest Henry Alton. George Cecil Bennett. Neal Blaney. Ernest Blythe. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Seamus A. Bourke. Sean Brady. Michael Brennan. Robert Briscoe. Sean Brodrick. Daniel Buckley. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Michael Clery. James Colbert. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Eamon Cooney. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Martin John Corry. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. Fred. Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey.
 Sean F. Lemass. Finian Lynch. Ben Maguire. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Sean MacEntee. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Seamus Moore. Richard Mulcahy. Thomas Mullins. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. John F. O'Hanlon. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. 
             Eamon de Valera. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Frank Fahy. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. Hugo Flinn. Sean French. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Michael Jordan. Stephen Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. Myles Keogh. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Hugh Alexander Law.
 Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. John Tubridy. Daniel Vaughan. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Davin and Cassidy.  Nil: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle.  
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       I will put the main question. 
       Motion put. 
       The Dail divided.  Ta, 50; Nil, 82. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Martin John Corry. Fred. Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Samuel Holt. 
             Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Henry Broderick. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. Archie J. Cassidy.
 James N. Dolan. Edward Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. James Everett. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. 
             Patrick Clancy. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. John Daly. William Davin. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey.
 Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies G. Boland and Allen.  Nil: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle. 
     Motion declared lost. 
     
      
       If there is no objection, I will now move the adjournment of the House until Wednesday next at 3 o'clock. 
       The Dail adjourned accordingly at 3 p.m. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - THE NEWBRIDGE POST OFFICE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if it is proposed to remove the Post Office at Newbridge, County Kildare, to another part of the town, and also, if it is his intention to reduce the present staff, and if he will state his reasons for so doing. 
     
     
      
       It is not proposed to remove the Post Office in Newbridge from the present site.  Owing to a considerable decrease in the amount of work transacted there, Newbridge is now an office proper to be carried on on the scale payment basis, and the question of transferring it to that basis is under consideration.  If this were done there would be alteration in the public facilities given, but the new Sub-Postmaster would have to provide the necessary staff to carry on the office, and the present established force would be otherwise provided for. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - VESTING OF LANDS IN TENANTS ON THE WALTER SWEETMAN ESTATE, CLANE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he can state when the tenants on the estate of Walter Sweetman, at Clane, County Kildare, will have their farms vested in them. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have published in a Provisional List the lands on the estate of W. Sweetman, County Kildare, as lands which will, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, be vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day.  At the present stage of the proceedings it is not possible to state when the holdings will be vested in the tenants. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SUGGESTED IMPROVEMENTS TO THE T.F. O'REILLY ESTATE, BELMULLET. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that the estate of Mr. Thomas F. O'Reilly, of Belmullet, Co. Mayo, was purchased by the Congested Districts Board some 14 years ago; that up to the present no improvements have been made there in the making of roads for the accommodation of the tenants, nor have any fences been made on the lock-spitting of the engineers, who acted at the time; if the Minister would take steps to have the unfinished portion of the road from the main road to the seashore completed, and if a grant would be given towards the making of the fences. 
     
     
      
       The estate of T. F. O'Reilly was vested in the Congested Districts Board on 1st December, 1920. The sums of £623 and £1,756 have been expended on fences and roads respectively. 
       The question of the alleged unfinished road has been referred to an inspector for report. 
     
   
 