 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i geeannas ar 10.30 a.m. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS.   LIMERICK CORPORATION GAS UNDERTAKING (PENSIONS) BILL, 1928. - JOINT COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS. 
     The Joint Committee on Standing Orders relative to Private Business reported that they had nominated Deputies Beckett, Moore and Cassidy to serve on the Joint Committee on the Limerick Corporation Gas Undertaking (Pensions) Bill, 1928, and on the Joint Committee on the Waterford and Bishop Foy Endowed Schools (Amendment) Bill, 1928. 
     Ordered that the Report lie on the Table. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS.   LIMERICK CORPORATION GAS UNDERTAKING (PENSIONS) BILL, 1928. - NOMINATION OF CHAIRMAN OF JOINT COMMITTEE. 
     It was announced that in pursuance of Standing Order 61 of the Standing Orders relative to Private Business the Cathaoirleach of the Seanad and the Ceann Comhairle had nominated Deputy Hugh A. Law to be Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Limerick Corporation Gas Undertaking (Pensions) Bill, 1928, and of the Joint Committee on the Waterford and Bishop Foy Endowed Schools (Amendment) Bill, 1928. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS.   LIMERICK CORPORATION GAS UNDERTAKING (PENSIONS) BILL, 1928. - SEANAD ELECTION MOTION. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Seanad Election Motion, 1928, be adopted.&rdquo; 
     
     
        From the passing of this Motion to-day until 12 noon on Wednesday, 7th November, nominations for the panel may be received, and the voting for the panel will take place on Thursday, 8th November, between the end of Question Time and 5.30 p.m. on that day.  There are two amendments down on the Order Paper in the name of Deputy Lemass.  I have put down one amendment which, I suggest, meets his first amendment.  I am prepared to accept his second amendment, though it may devolve on the returning officer to see that the proceedings do not resolve themselves into a conversazione. 
     
      
       Deputy Lemass does not move his first amendment. Amendment No. 1 not moved. 
     
     
      
       I move: To delete the words &ldquo;purports to nominate&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;shows that the person nominated by such paper is&rdquo;. 
     
     
      
       My recollection is that the Minister said that, as well as giving facilities to people on the Riviera to vote, he would consider the possibility of giving the same facilities to people in America.  One of our Deputies is there, and I hope that the Minister will remember that fact when the Seanad election comes off.  I do not mind the other people. 
     
     
      
       As that matter has arisen, may I say that I am doing my best, and I hope to make arrangements for the election whereby there will be allowed fourteen days between the issue of the papers and the carrying out of the election. 
     
     
      
       Is that the maximum time you can allow? 
     
     
      
       I think it is the maximum time we will be able to allow. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       On behalf of Deputy Lemass I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;To insert at the end of Rule 15 a new paragraph as follows:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;The counting of the votes shall take place in the presence of any Deputy who may desire to be present, and who was, either the   proposer, seconder, or assenter to the nomination of a candidate. Not later than 5.30 p.m. on the afternoon of the eight day of November, 1928, the returning officer shall announce to the Dail the hour and place at which the counting of the votes will take place.&rdquo; 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     Motion, as amended, put and agreed to. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS.   LIMERICK CORPORATION GAS UNDERTAKING (PENSIONS) BILL, 1928. - NOMINATION PAPERS&mdash;DAIL PANEL. 
     
      
       I have to announce that nomination papers for the Dail Panel will be available before the Dail rises to-day, and may be obtained by Deputies on application at the Public Bill Office.  I have further to announce that I have appointed the Clerk of the Dail as the person to whom nomination papers are to be delivered under Rule 5 of the Resolution. Nominations will be received in the office between the hours of 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays (except on Wednesday, November 7, 1928, when the hours will be between 10 a.m. and 12 o'clock noon); and between the hours of 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Saturdays. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS.   LIMERICK CORPORATION GAS UNDERTAKING (PENSIONS) BILL, 1928. - ESTIMATES FOR PUBLIC SERVICES. 
     The Dail, according to order, resumed consideration of the Estimates for Public Services in Committee on Finance. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS.   LIMERICK CORPORATION GAS UNDERTAKING (PENSIONS) BILL, 1928. - IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. VOTE 64&mdash;ARMY (RESUMED). 
     Question again proposed: 
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £504,433 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1929, chun Costas an Airm, maraon le Cul-taca an Airm. 
     That a sum not exceeding £504,433 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will   come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1929, for the cost of the Army, including Army Reserve. &mdash;Minister for Finance. 
     
      
       Yesterday evening I suggested that there was an understanding at one period that no more than 20,000 fully armed men could be kept in this country at one time unless by permission or sanction of England. The Minister might easily point out that that figure must be wrong, because during the civil strife the Free State had under arms close on 60,000 fully equipped men.  That does not alter the situation.  In normal times, I understand, it was agreed that not more than 20,000 fully equipped men should be kept, but that in abnormal times the number could be exceeded. I do not know whether the number&mdash; 20,000&mdash;now exists or has been increased, but perhaps the Minister would say whether there is to be any definite number of fully equipped men at any one time.  It was pointed out yesterday that for a country such as this, considering everything, considering the situation we are in, the cost per man in the Army to the State at present is out of all proportion, and certainly is not justifiable, particularly when it is compared with that of other countries which are far ahead of us in many ways, which have not the strain of excessive taxation which we have to bear, and also which are able to keep armies or effective units at a much less cost.  Our cost per man is £145 for the coming year.  Last year it was £180, so that some effort is being made to reduce the cost and something has been done.  It must not be overlooked that that effort is being made, but still the cost is far too high.  The British have an Army of 400,000, of whom 153,500 are regulars, 110,800 are reserves, and 139,000 are territorials.  That Army costs £41,000,000, which works out at a cost of £102 per man.  In Australia they have 47,000 effectives at a cost of £1,141,000, which works out at £22 per man, and in New Zealand the cost of 23,000 effectives is £454,000, or £20 per man.  The figure in Denmark and Switzerland is below that, but, as Deputy Cooper pointed out, in these countries,   particularly in Switzerland, service is compulsory and there is no payment. Therefore the cost there would be certainly low. 
       To get back to the item of warlike stores.  If the Estimates are gone through, and if the details of the expenditure are examined, and if it is agreed that we should have an Army, it is essential that this Army should be properly trained for purposes even such as were suggested by the Minister for Agriculture, for internal use only.  He has no fear of any outside aggression whatever; he has no fear of this country challenging the rights of any other country.  He spoke of the first-rate Powers, but I suppose we would not even challenge a third-rate Power.  That being the case, I wonder is the Minister prepared to say that he has sufficient reserves of material to put at the disposal of the Army should he be called upon to put an Army into the field?  I do not know how many field guns we have, whether it is three or four.  I do not think it would be policy to ask the Minister that question, or policy for the Minister to answer it, but it is known that if these eighteen-pounders that we have were put into action we would require something like 300 rounds per day for each eighteen-pounder for ordinary use in warfare.  I wonder is the Minister satisfied that he has sufficient reserves for those eighteen-pounders to keep them, for the sake of argument, in operation for a period of six months? We have also a tank as part of the equipment.  I do not understand what use one single tank would have in this country except, as Deputy Carney pointed out, we were going to make the Army in this country a pocket edition of the British Army, the nucleus of an army that could be joined up with the British Army if Britain were at war and if this country were committed in some way or other to join up with it. 
     
     There is no doubt that we, on this side, are anxious that talk of civil war, talk of war, as far as we are concerned, with anybody, should cease.  We all believe that we have had enough of that.  We are out to see the youth of the country trained, and to see that the manhood of the country will be kept at   the disposal of the country, not only for the assistance they would give if we were threatened, but also in order that we would have a healthy body of people as properly trained and developed as physical culture will make them.  We are anxious to see some form of force developed which will be really an army of the people no matter what Government is in power.  We are anxious to see that it will be open to all classes of people in the community, and we would like to see such organisations as the British Fascists, which are now being started, made impossible.  We think that the Army should be open to all classes, and let anybody who wants a military training join a force such as a territorial force.  We think that should be the only thing that would be permitted.  I put it to the Minister again that it is ridiculous for us to talk of having an Army that is effective when we have nobody to fight and when we do not intend to fight.  It is ridiculous to train an Army on the basis of the British Army, to be a pocket edition of it.  What we want is to try to get down the cost of the Army, and to get that money which is spent in an unproductive way for some work of a productive nature.  If the Minister could succeed in reducing the cost of the Army so that the country would be saved another £500,000, that £500,000 would go a long way towards helping to solve the housing problem and alleviate unemployment.  When we aim at a small Army, it is no argument to say that if that small Army is disbanded or cut down we are going to have the ranks of the unemployed swelled by so many thousands more. 
     I do not wish to say anything more except to point out&mdash;perhaps the Minister will correct me if I am wrong &mdash;that everything in our Army is controlled from outside.  We are not allowed to get any equipment outside Woolwich Arsenal.  If we ever had strained relations with England in future this whole Army would be useless. If we are bound to observe a state of neutrality in the event of England being embroiled with some other country, and we say that we are not going to take sides, we cannot even defend ourselves if we are attacked   elsewhere.  The Minister, knowing the details of the matter, can clear up these points, but I would like him to consider the suggestion made by Deputy Carney as to the possibility of eventually evolving a territorial form of military force, which will not cost the country half as much as the present form of professional army. 
     
      
       I am sorry that the only significant speaker we have heard on the Government side in relation to this question is now absent.  The Minister for Agriculture is a debater for whom, as a debater, I personally have very great respect.  He is probably, from his own point of view and as the exponent of a point of view, far and away the most effective debater on the Government side.  He made last night a contribution to this discussion which, for frankness, for courage, and for importance it is impossible to exaggerate. Whether his point of view is correct or incorrect is an entirely different question. But, in so far as the Minister for Agriculture can speak for the Government, he made last night a statement of the highest possible political, economic, and constitutional significance.  I am one who has never interrupted that Minister at any time, except for the purpose of enabling him to develop and make clear his argument.  I am one who has, as far as possible, whenever he has been in any difficulty in this House from interruption or otherwise, whenever he has seemed, even in the opinion of the Chair, to wander a little further than he might have, tried to do everything humanly possible to see that the point of view that he represents is made unimpeachably clear to the House. 
     
     I do not know whether the Minister does represent the opinion and judgment of the Government on this matter.  We had an example the other day of his intervening to declare an entirely different point of view in relation to a Government measure than the point of view expounded by the Minister responsible for the measure. It is out of a spirit of fairness to my opponent that I ask, if the Minister for Agriculture did, in the speech he made last night, represent the opinion   of the Cumann na nGaedheal Government, that the Cumann na nGaedheal Government should say so explicitly and not leave the question in doubt.  I will take it for the moment that he did; that the Minister for Defence has been brushed aside; that the little equivocations, coverings-up and colouring have been thrown away; that gauntly, frankly, we are face to face with the policy in relation to the Army, in relation to this country, and in relation to constitutional development in this country, that is represented by the mentality of the Minister for Agriculture.  If he does represent the Government of the country, then this thing is clear: that it is an acknowledged and commonly accepted fact on all sides of the House, and in every Party, that the existing Army as at present constituted has not and is not intended to have any military value.  That is the issue perfectly clear.  If the Minister for Agriculture represents the view of the Ministry in relation to this Army, then there is agreement upon both sides of the House&mdash;an agreement between this Party and the Cumann na nGaedheal Party and the Labour Party, in so far as its opinion has been expressed by Labour members, that the Army, as at present constituted and organised, has not and is not intended to have any military value in the ordinary sense of that term.  The answer to the question of Deputy Hogan of Clare has been given, that it is in some form an internal police force, nothing more and nothing less; acknowledged to be of no value and intended for no use outside that purpose.  The country now is face to face with the fact that an Army with aeroplanes, an Army with armoured cars, an Army developing the technique of gas attacks, according to the late Minister for Defence, has no military purpose whatever.  Is that right? 
     The second question that was asked was: What that Army was for.  To enable the people of this country to do wrong! I am not going to misrepresent that somewhat impudent phrase. I take it that what was meant there was that it was intended to carry on this country and enable Governments   to do what they have been doing. What I am going to suggest to the House is that it is an Army to enable the people of the country to do wrong in one direction only&mdash;to do wrong or right in one direction only; that it is so constituted as a hard shell from a military point of view, when it ought to be a soft shell from a military point of view, in order that it may be useless from a military point of view in one direction, and only useful in a civil and internal way in the other.  To paraphrase for a moment a saying which is put as the headline of that defunct rag, the President's newspaper: Challenged from the right by Campbell and Clanricarde, challenged from the left by Downing Street, the London Produce Exchange, and the B. &amp; I., the Minister for Agriculture looks to his front and travels the only road that they have left open to him. The Army, according to his admission, exists in order that the people may do wrong or do right by travelling the only road which has been left open to them&mdash;the road on which the people and the bullocks both travel to the port; one to be thrown out as an unnecessary interference with the right of the owner of the home farm, of the whole of the produce of the home farm; the bullock to pay the rent of ownership to the owner of the home farm.  If I understand the policy as declared explicitly and clearly by the Minister for Agriculture in this matter that is the policy.  An Army of no military value, a constitutional and military and economic position in which we are helpless to do anything but travel the road marked out by Clanricarde and the B. &amp; I.  Is that sufficient justification for the continued existence of such an Army?  Is it for that that people of this portion of Ireland have allowed that Army to be set up and are prepared to pay the cost of its maintenance in order that we may travel this road marked out for us and no other? 
     There is a spurious kind of clear logic and reason which distinguishes the Minister for Agriculture, and which certainly intrigues me in listening to him.  I would define it in the old proverb: &ldquo;That what you can see, but   cannot see over, is as good as the infinite.&rdquo;  The Minister for Agriculture, day after day, and in every way, sets up to us this proposition in all sorts of forms.  There is a dice in front of him and the number on it is four. It is no use telling him that six is on the top and three, two, and one around the sides.  Challenged from the right by Clanricarde, and from the left by the B. &amp; I., he cannot turn to the side, he cannot look to the top, he cannot look anywhere but straight in front of him on the road to the British Produce Exchange through which we pay the economic tribute of economic and political servitude of this country to another.  He says that when the majority-will of the people, which is represented in this House by the position of the privileged votes of Trinity College, the position of the privileged votes of this semi-sterilized National University, when the will of the people, represented by something less than .15 of one per cent. of the electorate, is changed, and when we change sides in this House, we will have no one on our flank, this Army will be here to see that the people have power to do wrong, that there would be no interference with them.  This Army of 5,000; this hard-shell toy Army&mdash;I am speaking in no sense disrespectfully when I say that, I am speaking merely of its size and power relative to the size and power of armies against which it might be put&mdash;this toy Army will be here and no one will be on its flank.  When we ask him what about the 20,000 or 30,000 foreign troops which are upon the sod of this country and are upon our flank he says: &ldquo;I cannot see that.  I am only dealing with the 26 counties.&rdquo;  What difference does it make to this country that that foreign Power has been enabled efficiently and economically to segregate its army in one portion of this country based upon the ports, instead of scattered uneconomically throughout the length and breadth of this land? Nothing on our flank! Thirty thousand troops upon our flank backed by all the money, backed by all the munitions, backed by all the financial and political power of one of the greatest empires in the world.  Nothing upon   our flank.  Our Army has power to see that our people can do wrong. 
     A horrible picture was painted to us of what would happen if our ports were closed.  We would have attained over the whole of Ireland, it was said in a very excellent debating point, excellently put' by the Minister for Agriculture, precisely the same condition that Wexford protested against when her port was held up by foot and mouth disease.  Again and again you have the same story.  Challenged from the right, challenged from the left, his eyes upon the London Produce Exchange, and no deviation by word or thought allowed to those people except to travel the road of the tribute.  I agree without any hesitation whatever that is the first impact of the blow of that economic and political domination which the Minister for Agriculture with courage and with frankness declared in this House last night more strongly than it has ever been declared before. 
     I have no illusions at all as to the weight and inconvenience of the first exercise of the power of that economic domination, but what does it amount to in the last analysis?  It is cutting the road of the tribute.  It is stopping the means of paying debt.  It is the means of refusal to acknowledge ownership and the right of that economic, political and military dominance to insist that we shall travel the road between Scylla and Charybdis.  When we say send out our people to all the corners of the world for fear they might graze this home farm and that we shall send out the bullock that belongs to the owner is it now to be realised by every member of the Army that in a military sense they are not intended to exist.  Is that the message the Minister for Agriculture is sending to commissioned, non-commissioned and private ranks of the Army, that they are just a police force to see that we do travel the road into which we are forced by the Army which is segregated in another portion of this country and which belongs to those who for centuries have exacted the tribute of men and money from this country?  Let the Army and the people understand   that this thing is all camouflage, that the Minister when he was making his speech was trying to fool the House and that the Minister for Agriculture would not let him; that the Minister was talking of an Army which was supposed to have some military function and that the Minister for Agriculture comes here and says, &ldquo;Do not tell stupid, silly lies, tell the truth.&rdquo;  It is part of our organisation. If the people of this country were to start doing a wrong in a different way, what would happen?  If instead of executing seventy-seven of the common&mdash;ah! &ldquo;Not seventy-seven, madam, seventy-eight,&rdquo; the most cowardly, shameless statement&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Will the Deputy come to the Army Estimates? 
     
     
      
       I am following the speech of the Minister. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy was not following any speech of that kind in his last remark.  He must come to the Army Estimates now. 
     
     
      
       The Army exists in order that the people of this country may do wrong.  That is the declaration of the Minister for Agriculture, that this people can continue to do whatever the Dail authorises them and stands over their doing.  What it is contended is that this Dail did stand over and authorised the execution of seventy-seven men. 
     
     
      
       We are not going to discuss the executions in this debate. 
     
     
      
       I understand I am limited. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is no more limited than anyone else, but we are not going to discuss the executions in this debate.  That was indirectly ruled yesterday from the Chair when the Minister for Agriculture in speaking mentioned the Civil War.  The Deputy will have to keep within reasonable limits. 
     
     
      
       Are we not at liberty to discuss Army policy? 
     
     
      
       That is a rhetorical question. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister for Agriculture has told you that this Army has no military value.  He has told you that it exists purely and simply as a political and civil force for the carrying out here of political and civil activities.  He has told you the dangers of travelling outside the only road.  He has told you that there is upon this country, economically, politically, financially and militarily, a grip which makes it utterly useless to have any Army in the military sense, and that he and his Government are here to obey those who challenge him from the right and from the left and direct his eyes, his ideal and purpose of the whole use of this country along the road where the men go and the beggars follow. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Flinn when speaking reminded me of a strange and extraordinary phenomenon which exists on the upper reaches of the Orinoco basin, a volcano of mud in full eruption.  To-day Deputy Flinn in spite of various irrelevancies, did refer to one matter that I think is of importance in this debate, and that is the statement of the Minister for Agriculture last night.  Deputy Flinn interpreted that statement by replying that in the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture the Army is of no great value from the point of view of defending the country from external aggression and that in fact its sole and exclusive object is to preserve order within the limits of the State, to carry out the policy of an armed police force and once there is no threat of internal aggression that necessity for the Army would disappear.  If that is the correct interpretation of the speech of the Minister for Agriculture, I certainly repudiate it absolutely.  I think if that is the correct interpretation it is at variance, in absolute contradiction, with every statement of national defence policy made by any member of the Executive Council since the establishment of this State.  I think that is in absolute contradiction with the opening statement of the Minister for Defence, and absolutely incompatible and irreconcilable with the elements of the Estimate here   before us to-day.  If the sole object of the Army is to carry out the functions of an armed police force, then certainly there is no necessity for the establishment of a superior military college. 
       I read very carefully this Estimate and would like to congratulate the Minister for Defence on it.  It has been received with less criticism than any previous Estimate since the establishment of the State.  I would like to congratulate the Minister also on the conclusion of his first year in this Department, because of the fact that in spite of his ferocity in cutting down expenses he has won the confidence of all sections under his authority.  That is no mean achievement in view of the naturally unpopular things which he has had to do in cutting down the expenditure in the Army.  There has been a very striking improvement in the efficiency of the defence forces within the last year and, indeed, within the last two or three years. There has been a much clearer grasp of the general strategic situation in this country on the part of the higher officers in the Army.  The strategic position in this country is naturally unique in the world and one which will require very careful study, very great labour and work on the part of the military officers of our Army to discover what is the best we can do within the limits of our financial resources. 
       In the course of this debate several valuable suggestions have been made from various parts of the House.  Both Deputy MacEntee and Deputy Kerlin at one period seemed to imply that they were in favour of conscription, but when Deputy Anthony, with that usual maiden aunt mentality of the Labour Party, demanded if they were definitely in favour of conscription they hedged, replied and refused to answer. As far as I am concerned, I would like to state quite definitely that I am entirely in favour of conscription.  I hope there are other Deputies in this House who have similar views.  Deputy Hogan seemed anxious as to whether I wanted him to be executed for high treason.  I am not sure that I ever advocated such an extreme course. 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy said I should be tried for high treason; he did not say what the result would be. 
     
     
      
       I would not wish the Deputy to be sent to what Deputy Wolfe would describe as his eternal reward.  In any case, in time of war and strained relations with foreign Powers, I think I certainly would intern Deputy Hogan. 
     
     
      
       Wait until you are in power. 
     
     
      
       Listen to Grattan. 
     
     
      
       Numerous Deputies speaking from the opposite benches, whilst criticising the Government, made suggestions regarding the establishment of territorial reserve forces which are practically identical with the policy announced by the Minister.  In fact, after listening to the speeches, one cannot come to any other conclusion than that there is general agreement amongst all sections of the House as to what form the Army in this country should ultimately take.  There is disagreement, as far as I have been able to discover, solely on the question of the exact size of the standing Army which will remain for the purpose of training the other sections of the defence forces.  Deputy Carney, I think, suggested that 3,000 would be sufficient. The Minister proposed 5,000.  I am not competent to say which of those figures is the correct one, but I imagine that the Minister has more information at his disposal and that the officers in charge of the Army have given more thought to, and had greater opportunities of studying the necessities of the situation than Deputy Carney. I, therefore, am of opinion that 5,000 is the minimum to which we could afford to reduce the Army in order to preserve its efficiency as an ultimate defence force in the State.  Reference has been made in the course of the debate to the position which would arise in this country in case of war between Great Britain and some other first-class Power, in particular with reference to the Treaty ports which are, of course, to be found not only in the Treaty as signed in   London, but also in the alternative which Deputy de Valera put forward after the signing of the Treaty. 
     
     
      
       Are they exactly the same? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       They are not. 
     
     
      
       I cannot see any difference. 
     
     
      
       You cannot blame us for that. 
     
     
      
       I would be very pleased if any Deputy on the opposite side could point out the difference. 
     
     
      
       I would be prepared to do so. 
     
     
      
       It does not really matter in this debate. 
     
     
      
       In any case, the terms as regards the Treaty ports are those ultimately agreed to by England. If there is any difference between them and those set down in Document No. 2, probably, when it comes to dealing with the British Government that difference will disappear.  I would like if the Minister could give us any information as to what exactly transpired at the last Conference in London when the question of taking over some part of coastal defence was considered with the authorities of the British Navy.  I understand that the matter has again been postponed, but with the growth of modern aerial defence I think it is highly probable in a few years' time, possibly in five years' time, that a considerable step can be taken towards the solution of that problem by the development of an Irish seaplane force which might very well be sufficient to substitute for any present coastal defence in the hands of the British Government at the present time. 
     
     I am glad to see in this Estimate a slight increase in the money available for the Irish Air Force.  It has been increased from £17,000 to £21,000 roughly, whereas there has been naturally a very large decrease in the other sections which come under subhead O&mdash;General Stores.  I wonder if the Minister is intending to purchase   more modern types of machines than are at present available to the Irish Air Force.  As far as I know, there is only one up-to-date modern machine in service.  The others are somewhat antiquated.  While it is impossible for us, with our limited resources, to develop whole squadrons of up-to-date air machines, still I think the Minister would do well if he bought at least one specimen of each of the more prominent types of modern machines, in order that our men may be acquainted with the latest developments in this direction.  There has been a slight increase in the Estimate.  I hope there will be a still further increase in the coming year.  Deputy Carney, I think, objected very strongly to certain moneys which were spent with reference to Army courses. 
     I think the Minister is to be congratulated on the encouragement which the Government is giving to the Army in the matter of horse jumping. Horses are one of the principal products of this country.  They are a product of the country which is renowned the whole world over.  It has been certainly very humiliating during recent years that whereas in all the international military competitions throughout Europe the majority of the horses used by every army have been Irish horses the Irish Army itself has not been represented. 
     Irish officers travelling abroad at jumping competitions are in the nature of commercial travellers, in showing one of the best products of the country, and I think the new policy which the Minister has adopted of encouraging and assisting Irish officers, who have not got the private means that officers in other armies have, to participate in international competitions in other parts of Europe is one that should commend itself to the House and to the agricultural community.  This debate has been a much more useful one than I anticipated, and I was pleased to hear the speeches delivered by Deputy Kerlin and other members of the Opposition, in which they showed a tendency, not merely of destructive criticism, but a tendency to try and improve matters so far as the Army is concerned rather than demanding its abolition.  If ever   they reach a position when they are in control of the Army it will be, naturally, much better for them, and much better for everybody if, in the meantime, they take a constructive interest in the defence force and try as far as they can to improve it in the direction they require.  I was glad to hear certain outbursts from back benchers at the opening of this debate.  They were much better than I anticipated.  The general tone of the debate has been good. 
     
      
       I would like to refer, first of all, to the attempts made by the Minister towards a reduction of the Army.  I can see in all this a concerted attack by the Cumann na nGaedheal Party and by the Ministers for Agriculture and Defence, and even by Deputy Esmonde, on the Army, with an attempt to reduce it.  The only one from the Government Benches who has come out definitely and stated his case candidly was the Minister for Agriculture.  He called the Army everything he could. He ridiculed it and told those in it that they were simply tin soldiers, toy soldiers, and he went so far as to call them anything but soldiers.  Deputy Esmonde capped the attack from the Government benches by calling them commercial travellers.  The Army Order issued recently that officers must wear uniform is, I take it, an attempt by the Minister to put these men into such a position that they can see that they will not be able to remain in the Army on their salaries, and that the amount of odium they will incur by appearing in hotels and theatres in hundreds, in a time of peace, will not conduce to keep them in the Army; that it is definitely a peace Army that will never fight. 
     
     The Minister for Agriculture said that it will never fight and that there is no intention that it should fight anybody. In a characteristic speech the Minister for Agriculture told us that the Army was simply an auxiliary police force.  He cast so much ridicule on it that it would be very difficult for any man to remain in the Army.  He showed us that it was not a national force; that it really existed as an auxiliary police force.  Having done   that the Minister appears to advocate that the Army should be brought down to Bodenstown periodically to shame them, to let them see exactly what their position was, to talk nationality at them once a year, and having done that, he could feel assured that some of them who remembered the origin of that Army, or of portion of it, will probably leave it in disgust.  If any of them wish to remain in that Army, that peace loving, tin-can fusilier brigade, the policy adopted by the Government would be to bring them out to meet peace statesmen like Mr. Kellogg, and finally to use them as commercial travellers for exploiting Irish horses, and in that way to help the Minister for Agriculture. I do not see how we can afford to send officers to jumping competitions on the Continent in the present state of the country, considering the poverty that exists and the lack of finance.  I do not see how we can afford to train an army simply to send them out as commercial travellers.  If the officers knew that that was their exact position, and if the people before whom they perform were told that they were not really army officers, but portion of an auxiliary police force, they would not feel at all proud of their position. 
     
      
       I would be very interested to have from the Minister for Defence some more particulars as to what is the real purpose of the Army.  He told us certain things that the Army does not stand for, but, in face of his statement, I would like to point out to him that if this Army has no object before it&mdash;in so far as its purpose would be to safeguard the interests of this country, nationally, against any external aggression&mdash;I say there is no possible purpose that the Army can serve, other than an injurious purpose.  In the first place the maintenance of the Army, having regard to the present economic condition of the country, is a thing that the country can hardly tolerate.  However, if it were pointed out that the outlook of that Army was a national one, in spite of the terrible pressure that the maintenance of that Army entails, I am quite satisfied the country would be   satisfied to meet the necessary expenditure. 
       As the country stands now, divided into two sections, if the set purpose of the Army was ultimately to bring together these two units and to make the country national, then, no matter how hard the penalty of providing the funds, I could understand the Minister asking this House for these funds to maintain and develop such an Army. I am sure that the response, even under great duress and pressure, to provide the Army with the necessary equipment for such an object would be forthcoming.  But, it has not been contended that that is the object of the Army.  If the object of the Army is to defend this country against external aggression, let us have some indication of where that external aggression is to come from and what sort. Clearly there must be a policy and an object for the maintenance of the Army.  Let us have some indication of what its purpose is.  If it is to defend this country against outside aggression, all I can say is, if there is a danger of that sort, the Army we are maintaining is entirely insufficient. 
       If we are to be attacked at all from an external country that country must have a force strong enough, a force which will have to cross the sea to attack us, and clearly it is our duty, in view of danger of that sort, to provide protection in the way of a naval force. 
     
     Let us have some indication as to what the policy and the object of this Army is, what the nature of this defence is.  My own impression, in the absence of any actual statement of policy on the part of the Minister, is that the Army is not alone useless, but that it is injurious.  I have a clear recollection of the unhappy circumstances of a few years ago when two armies in this country were contending against each other.  The feelings that have remained since then have not been favourable and have not left the Army, as now maintained as the official Army, popular in the eyes of the people.  Maintained, therefore, as they are, without any definite purpose to serve, nationally or economically, they are not alone a drain upon the   resources of the country, but they are injurious to the extent that they create a prejudice amongst various elements in this country that is injurious.  As long as they are maintained as an Army those feelings will be kept alive and the best results will not be secured.  If an Army were required, we had a very good Army here before there was any official establishment of an Army, and I am satisfied that if an Army is again required to defend this country in any way, the present Army will not be able to meet the demands on it, and that the State will have to appeal to the general body of the people to come together again.  The State has ample knowledge at their disposal to know that if that appeal is made there are people in this country who are excellent soldiers and are willing to give their services voluntarily, to risk their lives, to take their chance, for the simple purpose of defending this country nationally.  In view of the existence of that sentiment amongst the people, will the Minister for Defence say what occasion there is at all for preserving an Army in peace times, an Army that has no national outlook or purpose, and whose very existence is even a menace, in so far as it creates prejudice and ill-feeling? I say that the sane and sensible thing at the present time would be to disband that Army altogether and to depend upon that voluntary force, the members of which are willing to give their services in case of national requirements, and to respond to the call, whenever it comes.  Instead of that, by maintaining this Army as it is, there is a strong feeling, and, I should say, a fairly substantially founded one, that the only purpose that the maintenance of this Army serves is to prevent those young men from keeping any interest in their country, and to prevent them, at any time that the country may require their services, from giving them freely in the interests of the nation as a whole. 
     If the Minister would use all the money spent on the Army, running practically into two million pounds, on building a naval force, there would be some return for it.  I do not mean a naval force in the usual sense, but in a protectionist sense, a force that would   prevent our fishing industry from being robbed by raiders from European countries, and from England and Scotland too.  If he would provide a naval force strong enough to protect that fishing industry for our starving fishermen he would be doing something of practical benefit to the nation.  That is an alternative means of spending the money, and such a naval force as a protection for the State would be of far greater benefit than the maintenance of the Army on its present basis, or even on a much more extended and elaborate basis. 
     It is difficult to understand what object the Minister can have in asking for a Vote for the maintenance of the Army, while at the same time asking for a Vote to enable this House to send representatives to the Peace Conference. We are playing on two fiddles. On which of these matters are we serious, or are we serious at all?  There has been so much talk about the efforts of this Peace Conference and of the necessity for our representation there, and so much confidence has been placed in it that the House has voted large sums of money to send our representatives there to contribute to the general maintenance of peace.  I may tell you that it must take a good deal of persuasion and conviction on the mind of any man in this House to get him to vote money for such a purpose.  In the present conditions of the country, and realising the terrible plight of the people here, if money must be extracted we must at least be sincere in our object and well convinced that the object for which the money is to be spent is a useful one, when the House votes money to send representatives to the Peace Conference or for purposes of that sort. 
     
      
       On a point of order, can the Deputy tell us what Peace Conference he is referring to? 
     
     
      
       The Geneva Conference, of course.  I thought the Deputy understood that there was such a Conference. 
     
     
      
       How does it come in under this Vote? 
     
     
     
      
       I am merely explaining that we have an Army for defence purposes while the House has expressed its confidence in the great belief that the result of the Geneva Conference will be the wholesale elimination of armies.  If the House believes in that, as they should, before they come to vote the necessary expenditure for representation there, there should then be no necessity to maintain an Army any longer.  If you want peace and if you want to show your confidence in it, get rid of this Army. You cannot afford to maintain it.  No serious national purpose is being served by it, and no economic purpose is being served by it; as a matter of fact, it is ruinous to the economic progress of the country.  Be honest and say: &ldquo;We do believe in peace, and we are satisfied that peace can be maintained as the result of our contribution to and representation at that Conference.  We will show our belief in it and get rid of this Army.&rdquo;  Set an example to the world if you honestly believe that any purpose is being served under that camouflage of Geneva representation. 
       The other evening here I listened very attentively to the statements made by some Ministers when the motion to give pensions to widows and orphans was under discussion.  That is a very deserving object, and I felt rather sorry for the Minister for Finance when he expressed regret at not being able to accede to the very reasonable and very deserving claim that was made, because, as he asked, where was the money to be raised from?  The result of it would be increased taxation. 
     
     I feel sorry for the Minister that he is placed in the position that he realises what is owing to the taxpayers of the country, but is prevented from putting into effect the charitable instincts that he has expressed in his speech. Without adding any increased taxation on the taxpayers, I suggest that here is an opportunity which the Minister should avail of.  We are spending £1,800,000 on the Army and, according to the Minister's own statement and also the statements of other Ministers, that Army serves no practical purpose.   The Army has no policy; it is not an Army at all, and it is even abused by those who should defend it as a military body.  The Army has no purpose to serve.  Then let us disband the Army and spend portion of the £1,800,000 in relieving the distress that was talked of the other day, in allowing pensions to be paid to widows and orphans around the country and in meeting other urgent needs. 
     Yesterday I heard the Minister for Education stating that while various suggestions were made for an improved condition amongst the teachers, better school accommodation, and meals for poor children, his hands were tied because the Minister for Finance could not provide funds.  The suggestions were all very generous and humane, but that was the big obstacle.  Here we have an opportunity of saving money to devote to those purposes.  If the Minister for Defence will scrap that useless machine of his and put aside that money that is collected for Army purposes from the taxpayers, the Minister for Education will have enough left, after provision is made for pensions for widows and orphans, to make full provision for better educational facilities and meals for the children.  That is a big consideration, and these are two very important factors.  I urge the House to take into consideration the grave poverty that exists all over the country.  I suggest that before you continue to extract from the people, in their present terrible plight, money for the maintenance of an Army that serves no practical purpose, you should seriously consider its total elimination, and you might instead devote more attention in the directions that I have outlined.  Such a course would be a relief to poor Ministers who so often have to plead that there is no money to enable them to carry out desirable reforms. It will be also a relief to the unfortunate taxpayers they profess to have such pity for. 
     
      
       I think it is up to somebody to give the Dail the viewpoint of the ordinary citizen with regard to this issue of the Army.  I desire to give such a view of the Army on the volunteer basis suggested by Deputy Kerlin. I speak with a little experience and I   say that a volunteer army such as the Deputy suggested is not anything to be recommended to this country.  The Deputy has talked about a small standing army and of increasing volunteer forces, and he puts the cost down on the lowest estimate at something over £1,000,000.  Side by side with that we have the comments of other Deputies. They call for economy and they advocate the total disbandment of the Army.  They say that no money should be spent on an army.  We have had a good deal of experience of a volunteer army.  It has been said that it served its purpose.  It did, under very favourable conditions, conditions that will not ever again obtain in this or in any other country, perhaps.  We do not want to return to the local unit or to the local captain.  In those days of better roads and motor cars, we do not want to return to the local unit or captain. Anyone living in the country knows that after 1920, 1922 and 1923, when missions were held in various parishes, the next thing was that furniture or silver was being left outside the doors from which it was taken.  I do not care whether it is furniture in North Cork, a bank robbery in Borris or Roscrea, or greyhound robbing in North Kilkenny, it can all be traced to the one system, the volunteer system. When I mention greyhound robbing in North Kilkenny I do not couple the sympathisers of the Deputies in opposition with that.  Possibly the people who were connected with that fought on the same side as I did myself. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy ascribe original sin to the volunteer system? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is just as intelligent as some of his colleagues. 
     
     
      
       The people whom I saw convicted of the robberies were members of the party that Deputy Gorey ran away from.  I do not know if that is why he left the Farmers' Party. 
     
     
      
       I challenge the Deputy to prove anything.  If he wants some details with regard to bank robberies and furniture robberies.  I will give some.  I am prepared even to give him   names and details.  Everybody knows about the Deputy and his long rope. 
     
     
      
       I can give you some details, too. 
     
     
      
       This proposal made by Deputy Kerlin will be welcomed by young men of enterprise in the country. As a matter of fact, many of them are looking forward to the day when Deputy Kerlin's proposal will be realised.  There are plenty of people longing and hoping for the return of these days, and they will be very disappointed indeed if the proposal by Deputy Kerlin does not take effect. We heard a lot from Deputy Kerlin about volunteer forces, their adequate efficiency and effectiveness.  Anybody who knows anything about military service and about war knows what an opinion like that amounts to.  I want to say here that this country never saw war.  There are only a few people in this House, and only a few people in the country, who really saw war. Deputy MacEntee did not see war. Deputy Carney saw war and so did Deputy Cooper, but the bulk of the people of this country never saw war. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Gorey saw it. 
     
     
      
       He saw red. 
     
     
      
       No.  I did not.  I saw what was nicknamed the Civil War. I saw the run-aways.  We, in this country, never saw war, and it is a good job for the country that we never did see war. 
     
     
      
       Chuck that. 
     
     
      
       The people of this country, I repeat, have not seen war, and I hope, whatever wars may be engaged in in the future, that the people in this country will never see struggles fought under modern conditions. 
     
     If we had just let loose on this country for a week or fortnight the war conditions as they obtain to-day, this country would speak very lightly about war, or perhaps I should say that they would not speak lightly of it, because they would not speak of it at all.  Nobody knows that better than Deputy Carney.  When Deputies talk about an   efficient and adequate Army, I would say that 500 men would be as effective and adequate as the Army suggested by Deputy Kerlin.  In this country what was known or nicknamed as the Black-and-Tan war was a war in which there was not a howitzer or eighteen-pounder in use, and the only eighteen-pounder that came in came in in the civil scramble. 
     
      
       Will the Deputy move the adjournment of the debate? 
     
     
      
       I move the adjournment of the debate.  There were a few other gems that I would like to give away. 
     
     
      
       Keep your eighteen-pounder until Wednesday. 
     
     
      
       Be in early, and let all be here. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - LEGAL PRACTITIONERS (QUALIFICATION) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE (RESUMED). 
     Question again proposed: That the Bill be read a Second Time. 
     
      
       I will be very brief. Let me say at the beginning that I am all out in favour of this Bill.  I consider it a very reasonable Bill, and I consider it long overdue.  I believe that this Bill is one of the most important Bills that we have had to deal with for some time.  I regard, and I believe a huge majority of the Dail regards, the Irish language as one of its most precious heritages.  I look upon the Irish language as the sheet-anchor and one of the hall-marks of our nationality. Therefore any measure of legislation that will tend to forward the language of this country is appreciated, I am sure, to the full by every member of the Dail.  If we let down the language, down goes this nation.  If the language were not cherished and succoured by the Government, I for one would not remain in the Government Party.  What is the policy of the Government?  The   policy of the Government, I take it, is first to do all it can for this country and for the people of Ireland; to cherish the language of Ireland and in every way to support and maintain our Irish institutions. 
       Some Deputies have talked about compulsion.  We all know that the avowed policy of this Government is to advance the language.  Surely everybody in the Saorstat in the year 1928 should know that no public appointments in future will be made unless the candidates have a practical knowledge of the Irish language.  I for one, at any rate, when speaking to the Irish people for the last five years have stressed that point, and I told them that if they failed to learn the language of Ireland, if they had no love for the language, well then they should look upon the language from a bread and butter point of view of life and from the materialistic point of view.  It is nonsense then to say that anybody or that everybody did not know what the policy of this Government is and I am sure succeeding Governments will be in the matter of forwarding the Irish language.  I look upon the legal profession as one of the chief props of this State.  If we go to Paris or Berlin or Madrid and visit the courts of law in those places what language will we find spoken there? In the Parisian or Madrid courts or in the Berlin courts, the language you will find spoken is the language of those countries. 
     
     It has been further stated that barristers and solicitors are officers of the courts and that, therefore, they are officers of the State.  In a sense they are, and on a different level, say, from the other professions, doctors, engineers or other people.  All the law proceedings in the courts are given widespread publicity in the metropolitan papers and in the provincial papers.  Take up any of these papers when any law proceedings are on, and you will see the space that is devoted by the papers to these law proceedings. Therefore, I regard the legal profession as forming perhaps one of the main props of this or any other State.  Barristers and solicitors in a sense are compulsionists.  They compel   the man in the street and the people of the nation to do something very often against their wills.  It would appear that in the Dail in the year 1928 there are some members of the legal profession who are adverse to this judicious vis a tergo.  I have recollections that I have read in, I think, the &ldquo;Independent,&rdquo; that the Incorporated Law Society, sitting here in Dublin, had a debate recently on the Irish language, and that in the course of that debate they turned down the Irish language. 
     I hope they will not bring an action for libel against me if I am wrong.  I take it that their turning down of the Irish language was one of the great factors why Deputy Conlon and his colleague, the other back-bencher, saw well and thought it wise to introduce this Bill.  I think it was Deputy Buckley who made the statement that the schools that were most proficient in the Irish language and in Irish education generally were the schools that were most proficient in other subjects. I take that as a fact, and I think it is a very significant fact.  If the children of the Saorstat were able to obtain such high marks, because, undoubtedly, of the fact that they studied the Irish language, therefore, I believe, it follows that the legal profession in studying the Irish language will be assisted by that very fact.  Its study will help to clarify and brighten up their minds, if I might say so.  I, for one, hope that when they do study it the fact of studying it will bring additional rose nobles into their coffers.  The language of Ireland has been compulsory in the Saorstat for a considerable time.  It is being taught in the schools.  The teachers were compelled to learn the language.  Those who did know it were brought to various Irish-speaking centres and they were made, and rightly made, to refurbish their minds as regards a knowledge of Irish, and then they taught it to the children.  I think that the language has now been taught compulsorily for four or five years.  The children of to-day will be the men and women of to-morrow, and if any profession, or section of the people, failed to stand shoulder to shoulder with the   rest of Irish-Ireland, I think that any National Government of the day would be lacking in its duty if it did not use some judicious compulsion in compelling that section to study its own language.  Twenty-eight years ago, when I was in college, I studied the Irish language from Father O'Growney's books.  I have some of them yet, and in my spare time I take them up whenever I can and study the language.  I venture to say that the sacrifices and sufferings which the Irish people have experienced for the last ten years or more would in great part be nullified, and the amount of freedom accruing from those sufferings and trials, the amount of material gain if you like, would be wasted and, to many of us in this Dail, the whole matter would be a calamity unless the Irish language was cherished and brought to the forefront as a language of any country should.  I am very glad that this Bill has been introduced.  I think it was necessary, because, as I have said, one of the chief props of the State, namely, the law, did not in my opinion take that interest that it should have taken in the question of the Irish language.  I am very glad indeed that Deputies Conlan and McFadden have brought forward this measure which, I hope and believe, will be carried by an overwhelming majority. 
     
      
       Tar eis an oiread ata raidhte ar an Bhille seo, is beag ata le ra agam sa.  Ta an furmhor againn ar aon intinn fa'n cheist seo.  Gidh go bhfuil daoine in aghaidh an Bhille, ta athas orm a ra go bhfuil na Teachtai as Co. na Gaillimhe ar aon intinn fa'n cheiste, d'ainneoin nach bhfuil an tuairim ceudna acu ar rudai eile.  Tamuid ar aon intinn an teanga do chur ins an ait cheart, ins an ait ba choir di a bheith agus ins an ait in a raibh si fado. 
     
     Is breagh an rud go bhfuil an cuid is mo de na Teachtai ar son an Bhille seo ar gach taobh de'n Tigh agus go bhfuiltear beagnach cinnte go gcuirfear i bhfeidhm e.  Ta daoine in aghaidh an Bhille, mar a dubhairt me. ach, ma ta, is cuma cad a deir siad no cad a dheineann siad, ta an furmhor againn annseo ar aon tuairim&mdash;go.   gcuirfimid an teanga in-uachtar. Cuireadh sios i le scrios agus le troid, ach cuirfimid suas aris i.  Buaileadh e ar doigh nar ceart&mdash;leis an laimh laidir&mdash;agus, ma's ga e, cuirfimid ar ais ins an ait cheart i ar an doigh ceudna. 
     There is very little to say that has not already been said on this matter, except that in my opinion the Bill does not go far enough and is not comprehensive. I hope it is only a beginning and that other Bills will be brought forward of a similar nature.  The opposition to it is mostly the same old opposition that was always against the Irish-Ireland movement.  Deputy J.J. Byrne seems to have taken it on himself to speak for the Benchers in this matter, but I would like to know from him whether he has the authority of the Benchers to take up the attitude which he has adopted and whether they are as much opposed to Irish as he says. One of the principal reasons given by Deputy Good for his opposition to the Bill is that people who send their children to school to England and other countries are victimised, as their children are handicapped when they come back without knowing the Irish language.  I would like to tell Deputy Good that from my own point of view, and from that of most Deputies, we consider that the Irish schools and colleges are sufficiently good for any Irish boy or girl.  I think the day has long gone when we should, for the sake of tone, snobbery, or whatever you like to call it, regard English education and English schools, English ideas and English culture as necessary for boys, whereas, as a matter of fact, Irish schools and Irish ideas are much better for them.  Deputy Redmond and Deputy Cooper more or less agreed that the cause of the Irish language should be advanced, but they objected to what they call revolutionary methods.  I do not see anything revolutionary in this Bill.  It only requires a small knowledge of Irish for the entrance examination, and is no hardship on any of those who are already studying law.  In addition to that, those who are leaving school and are preparing to take up the   law or any other profession have generally sufficient knowledge of Irish to pass the required examination.  In that way I do not see how it can be looked on as a revolutionary Bill.  Although I very often agree with Deputy Dr. Hennessy, I do not agree with him on this matter.  He wrote a long letter to the papers recently in which he went back to the early conquest of Ireland and talked of the Firbolgs and the Tuatha De Danaans and proved that there are a number of very good Irishmen whose ancestors never knew Irish. It was a sort of epistle the point of which I could not get, but I hope he will develop it further. 
     One point that has been brought out in the course of the debate is that the majority of Deputies are favourably disposed towards Irish and that they would support any steps that are taken to make Irish the language of the country, as far as possible, in our time.  I hope that in a very short time some steps will be taken to see that the medical profession will also be manned by Irish speakers in this country.  At present, of course, Irish is compulsory for matriculation in the National University, but in Trinity and in the College of Surgeons it is not.  If any steps can be taken to make Irish an essential subject for the medical as well as the legal profession in these two colleges I hope they will be taken.  I think it is high time that people, even from Trinity College, should begin to realise that the language has come to stay, that we are going to see as far as we can that it will be the language of the country, and that a day will come when all Irishmen without any compulsion will take up Irish and so advance towards the realisation of the ideal Gaelic-speaking State. 
     
      
       I am opposing this Bill because I think it savours too much of compulsion and dictation and because it is one of those pin-pricks that annoy a very large section of our people.  I believe you can lead Irishmen but you cannot drive them.  Many of the speeches in support of this Bill were simply an attack upon and sneers at what the speakers were pleased to   call the Ascendancy Party.  They are accused of being anti-national, anti-Irish, etc.  I would remind supporters of the Bill that many of the so-called Ascendancy Party belong to the educated classes and that they also pay a large proportion of national taxation, the money that is used for compulsory Irish and without which the wheels of Government could not function.  I would tell those Deputies also that the love such people bear to Ireland is no less than that of those who shout their nationality like Cheap Jacks at a fair.  I think the time has come when Irishmen should respect the other fellow's point of view without sneering and threatening by such expressions as &ldquo;They will have to toe the line,&rdquo;&ldquo;the writing is on the wall,&rdquo; etc. 
     
     
      
       I think we heard that before. 
     
     
      
       I am saying that we are threatened with such expressions as these.  Deputy Carney in his speech told us that his experience when he was at school was that Latin was a compulsory language.  I admit it was compulsory, but it was not made compulsory by legislation, which is a very different matter.  It was made compulsory by the governing bodies of the Universities, and then the Board of Education made it compulsory in the Intermediate, because the secondary schools were but the stepping-stones to the Universities.  That is very different from the compulsion and dictation contained in this Bill.  We are trying to dictate to the people entrusted with the training of our young men for the legal profession.  That compulsion is used without consulting them in any way, without consulting the Benchers of the Kings Inns or the Incorporated Law Society.  If the Benchers of the Kings Inns or the Incorporated Law Society made Irish compulsory I would approve of their action.  They are the bodies responsible for the training of our law students, and I think we should not interfere with them in this way.  I would ask the House to consider what good it is swatting up Irish for the purpose of passing a compulsory examination, even if the standard of the   examination is high?  What good is that going to do the language movement? I believe it will not do it any good, and it may entail hardship on many aspirants to the legal profession. 
       There seems to be a misunderstanding about this Bill.  Some people seem to think that the Bill only entails what would be a compulsory entrance examination for a student preparing for either branch of the legal profession. If Deputies will read Clause 5 they will see that the substance of it is that if the Incorporated Law Society or the Benchers of the Kings Inns are satisfied that a student has qualified, either for the Bar or as a solicitor in his legal knowledge, he is then called by the Chief Justice in the usual course. This Bill empowers the Lord Chief Justice for the time being, if he thinks that a certain student has passed his law examination and if he has any doubt that he is not a proficient Irish scholar to give him an opportunity of calling for another examination.  I think that is going entirely too far.  As I said before, I do not feel compulsion is going to do the language movement any good.  It will not help to make it a living language, and for that reason I am opposing the Bill. 
     
     
      
       It is my intention to vote for the Second Reading of this Bill, though I consider the Bill will require a certain amount of amendment in Committee.  I hope that by the time I have finished my criticism of the Bill I shall have succeeded in satisfying the House that two amendments, at any rate, such as I suggest, are wise and proper amendments to be made.  I do not agree with Deputy Tubridy and Deputy O'Connell that this is a small measure.  I agree with Deputy Matthews, on the contrary, that the measure goes further than any other measure yet introduced into this House.  It is not correct to say, as Deputy Tubridy said, that only a small amount of Irish will be required&mdash;something like the matriculation standard.  That is not the Bill at all.  The Bill is that no party shall be admitted to the degree of barrister-at-law, unless he has a competent knowledge of Irish, and   that nobody shall be admitted to practise as a solicitor, unless he has a competent knowledge of Irish.  I take it that that means&mdash;must mean&mdash;that he is capable of conducting business in court in Irish.  I do not know what else it could mean.  &ldquo;Competent&rdquo; there must mean competent to carry out the duties of his profession.  In consequence, I take it that this Bill means that any person who is now under sixteen years of age, and who at any future time is either called to the Bar, or is admitted as a solicitor, must have a good working knowledge of the Irish language.  That is the measure as it stands, and it is better that it should be completely understood. 
       It is different also from any other measure which has passed through this House because, up to this, compulsory Irish has always been associated either with a grant of Government money or with employment, the remuneration of which comes out of either public or semi-public local funds.  This Bill goes very much further than that.  At the present time as far as the Bar is concerned, it only applies to assistant District Justices, because the section dealing with Circuit Court Judges was ruled out of order in the Courts of Justice Bill.  But the general principle underlying that was that all legal appointments made in future and conferred upon persons, under sixteen at present, would only be given to persons with a competent knowledge of Irish.  These are, of course, Government appointments.  Similarly, Irish is compulsory in the schools, but it is only compulsory in State-aided schools. 
     
     To a certain extent, this Bill starts a new principle&mdash;I say only to a certain extent.  In this Bill Irish is made compulsory for persons who have received no Government money in the course of their education and who are not asking for any Government employment or any payment out of public funds.  As a matter of fact, they have the privilege of paying to public funds a certain amount for stamp duties before they can be admitted to the profession.  But I say that it is only to a certain extent a departure because, when called to the Bar, or   admitted as a solicitor, certain rights and privileges are conferred upon a certain class of the community.  They are given the sole and exclusive right of audience in the High Court, and, with some statutory exceptions, which enable secretaries of Departments and other public officials to appear in court, they have the exclusive right of audience in the lower courts too. Therefore, this is dealing with professions which are protected either by the common law or by statute, but, at any rate, have a certain amount of public protection.  They are not in the same position as, let me say, doctors, who are not so protected; or priests, whom Deputy Fahy mentioned, who of course are not so protected.  The analogy, if I were to draw an analogy, would be rather the dentists' profession, because it will be in the recollection of the House that we recently passed a measure protecting the dentists' profession.  That would be, in fact, the analogy. 
     A great deal has been said in favour of compulsory Irish, and in favour of the Irish language and Irish revival.  I think the House is almost unanimous in its view that, for the future development, and I believe also for the future prosperity, of the country, the revival of the Irish language is a matter of the first importance, and the only question I think which has been really debated here is the question of procedure &mdash;is this wise?  I have considered the matter for whatever my own judgment and opinion are worth.  I have listened to the speeches with great attention and given the Bill very careful consideration indeed, and I have come to the conclusion that, on the whole, this Bill will make for the advancement of the Irish language, and that is the reason I am giving it my support. 
     Deputy Matthews said he would be in favour of the Bill if the Benchers made Irish compulsory.  The Benchers could not make Irish compulsory.  The Benchers do not educate in languages at all.  They have nothing to do with the teaching of languages.  All they do is to give instructions in law.  They do indeed make a certain amount of Latin necessary.  But the reason of that is because the law which is administered   in our courts is, to a certain extent, founded upon the Roman law, and some slight knowledge of Latin is necessary for the full understanding and learning of the Roman law; and also because, throughout all our law, there is a great number of maxims which started originally in Latin and which are still used in Latin. The standard of Latin required is not very high.  At present, for admission to the King's Inns, all that is necessary is that a person who presents himself shall have matriculated at some university in this country or have passed the Senior Grade Intermediate, or got a degree in certain foreign universities. 
     If he has none of those qualifications, then there is an examination for him. In that, he can take either Irish or English&mdash;he has the choice of both; but he must take Latin.  The examination, I need scarcely say, is hardly ever held, because every person who presents himself has passed one of those examinations, and the standard is, roughly speaking, the matriculation. But it is quite possible, as a matter of fact, that a person might present himself, and become a member of the King's Inns, who did not know one single word of Irish or English.  It is rather curious, but it is so, because it is quite possible that a graduate of an Indian university would present himself to the King's Inns and he would be admitted as a student because he is a graduate of that university; yet he may have done all his university work in his own native language.  As a matter of fact, there have been people called&mdash;certainly I am told of one particular example, a native of the State of Uganda, who was called to the Bar here and who had not a competent knowledge of English.  I mention that to show that the Benchers do not concern themselves with educational qualifications at all.  The sole thing they concern themselves with is seeing that those whom they admit to the degree of barrister-at-law shall have obtained a knowledge of law, so that they shall be able to discharge their duties to their clients when they get called. 
     Section 3 reads:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;No person shall be admitted to   the degree of barrister-at-law, unless before he is so admitted, he satisfies the Chief Justice, by such evidence as the Chief Justice shall prescribe, that he possesses a competent knowledge of the Irish language.&rdquo; 
     I think that section should be amended.  There are two processes and it appears to me that Deputy Conlon has confused the two.  In the first place, the Benchers admit a man to the degree of barrister-at-law.  That does not enable him to practise at the Irish Bar.  Before he can practise at the Irish Bar he must be called to the Bar by the Chief Justice.  That is what confers the right of audience in court. The Benchers confer the degree and that degree is recognised outside the country.  For instance, a man may receive the title of barrister-at-law from the Benchers and may go to India and practise, although he has never been called to the Irish Bar and would have no right of audience at the Irish Bar.  My suggestion is that that section should be amended so as to read: &ldquo;Nobody should be called to the Irish Bar by the Chief Justice unless he has a competent knowledge of the Irish language.&rdquo;  I think that is what the House wants; that the language of the courts being Irish, persons coming to practise in those courts, should know Irish.  But I do not think the House wants, or that it would be necessary that a person who is never going to practise in these courts should know the Irish language.  Foreigners come over here to study law.  I do not think it should be necessary for a foreigner, taking out a course of studies for three years in King's Inns, to study the Irish language, when at the end of three years, after he has taken his degree, he goes away to another country and never returns to this country. 
     
      
       I think what the Minister for Justice has said is practically what Deputy Conlon has in mind.  But there is a question of a man going away with the Irish degree of barrister-at-law. He cannot hold himself as a competently educated Irishman when he does not know his own language.  I want to bring that to the mind of the Minister. 
     
     
     
      
       It is not a question so much of a person not knowing his own language as that a great number, almost fifty per cent. of the students at one time, were not Irish born; a great many of them were Hindoos, and there is still a considerable number of such students at the King's Inns.  What the House wants, and would like to secure, is that persons getting the privilege of practising in our Irish courts should know the Irish language. 
     
     There is another point which goes further, and here again, I suggest to the House, that a concession might be made.  The point was made by Deputy Cooper that a considerable number of Irish barristers and solicitors do in fact go abroad.  These Irish barristers have a right to practise in courts in other countries because they are Irish barristers, and that right might be taken away if this measure, in its present form, becomes law.  That is to say, if an Irishman can practise in another country because he knows law, and if a barrister who is an inhabitant of another country cannot come here and practise in Ireland after he has taken his degree and has been called to the Bar in his own country unless he has also a knowledge of the Irish language, then Ireland would be asking more from other countries than other countries are asking from Ireland, and reciprocity might be taken away.  While that would not affect a very large number of persons&mdash;the number of foreigners here in this country practising either as barristers or solicitors, is very trifling&mdash;it would affect a considerable number of Irish people who go abroad. I suggest the Bill might be altered so as to make it possible that persons who have been called to the Bar, and have taken out their degrees in other countries, could be admitted to the Bar here without a knowledge of the Irish language being required.  I know it is said, from the benches opposite, that we do not educate for export, and that people ought to make a living in their own country.  But I like to get down to hard facts, and, as a matter of fact, there are a great number of persons, whom I know, called to the Bar, or admitted to the solicitors' profession, who have tried to make a living in Ireland   and failed.  The Bar is a very difficult profession to get on at; it is a very slow profession. 
     Sometimes a very able man may have to wait years and years before he gets an opening.  He may not have the means at his disposal to enable him to wait during those years.  In consequence he goes abroad to some of the countries in which, as an Irish barrister, he can practise.  India, for instance, is one.  A great number also go to Africa, to the East Coast, to the Strait Settlements, and to Canada.  In Canada there is another examination, but not in the other places.  Men who really tried here and failed have been driven to emigrate, and a great number of them have been very successful, and have done extraordinarily well.  A great number, who never succeeded in getting an opening here, succeeded when they got away, and have risen to the very top of their profession. 
     I agree with Deputy Cooper that it would be a hardship if that avenue were closed to men who have honestly tried to make their living in this country, but found that, under present conditions, they could not make their living here. These are the two amendments I suggest in this Bill.  But while the Bill may stir up, and will stir up, a very considerable amount of opposition, while it has been already severely criticised, and will be more severely criticised, I believe on the whole that this Bill will do good.  I believe on the whole this Bill will tend to get the driving power of two great professions and the high prestige of two great professions, one of which I have the honour myself to belong, right behind this movement for the revival of the Irish language. 
     
      
       Cuidighim leis an mBille seo.  Is doigh liom nach bhfuil aon mhaith a bheith ag caitheamh airgid ar obair na Gaedhilge sna scoileanna ma ta na dligheadoiri agus an dream eile mar iad ag cur na hoibre sin ar neamh-nidh.  Ta Bille den tsort seo ag teastail i gcoir an uile dream sa Tir nach bhfuil ag deanamh a geion fein ar son na teangan.  Ceapann lucht dlighe go bhfuil eagcoir dha dheanamh ortha sa rud seo ach biodh a fhios acu gur   ortha fein ata an locht oir ta eagcoir mhor dha dheanamh acu le fada an la ar theangain na tire seo.  Deir an Teachta Reamonn nach bhfuil dligheadoiri go bhfuil an Ghaedhilg acu ag teastail.  Muna bhfuil siad ag teastail ta gadh mor leobhtha agus is leor duinn an fios sin.  Is maith le Teachta Reamonn agus le Teachta Cuipeir an Gheadhilg ach ni maith leo i d'fhoghluim. 
       Ta duine i gcoinnibh na Gaedhilge no i bhfabhar na Gaedhilge&mdash;nil aon bhothar idir eadtora ann.  Taimid tuirseach o bheith ag eisteacht leis an bport a bhi ag an Teachta Cuipeir maidir le foghluim na Gaedhilge.  Dubhairt se gur thosuigh se ag foghluim na Gaedhilge ta fiche blian o shoin, go ndeacha se cho fada le &ldquo;bo bhan&rdquo; agus &ldquo;bo dhearg&rdquo; agus gur stop se annsin. 
       Ta na daoine aithride seo cho huasal agus cho leigheanta gur masla dhoibh a iarraidh ortha an teanga d'fhoghluim. Ta an oiread baint ag na daoine seo le dream go bhfuil ollmhaitheas an tsaogail acu gur masla e iarraidh ortha focal da dteangain fein do bheith acu. Ni fheicim rud ar bith nios greannmhaire no nios amadaighe na bheith ag eisteacht le daoine gur cheart doibh fior-chultur na nGaedheal do bheith acu ag leigint ortha gur gaill galanta iad.  Ni fhaca me rud ar bith nios aite na sin ariamh&mdash;an dream suarach seo ag cur i gcoinne gach rud ata Gaolach agus a bhaineann leis an naisiuntacht. 
       I dtaobh an Bhille fein, ta athas orm go bhfuil an tAire Dli agus Cirt ag cuidiu leis.  Deir se go bhfuil faoi leasuithe do chur isteach ann, ach ni aontuighim gur ceart leasuithe a chur isteach a dheanfadh dochar don Bhille. Ta an Bille ar an treo cheart.  O chualamar na Teachtai O Conchubhair agus O Connallain agus an tAire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli ag caint o chianaibh, ta atharu intinne tagtha ar chuid againn.  Creidimid go mb-fheidir go bhfuil cuid acu dariribh i dtaobh na Gaedhilge. 
     
     Ma taimid i ndariribh, caithfimid an Bille do neartu.  Caithfimid dul an bealach ar fad.  Mholfainn, in alt a do, 16 bliana d'atharu go 18 mbliana. Muna ndeanfaimis sin, ni bheidh dligheadoiri againn go mbeidh an Ghaedhilg acu go ceann seacht   mblian; agus muna ndeanfar rud eicint tabhachtach roimh sheacht mbliana ar son na Gaedhilge agus ar son na nGaedhilgeoiri, ni bheidh aon Ghaedhilgeoiri leis an nGaedhilg do labhairt le Doctuiri na le Dligheadhoiri.  Ceapaim gur fiu feachaint isteach sa sgeal agus an aos d'atharu o 16 bliana go 18 mbliana. 
     Caithfidh me a ra go bhfuil an iomarca comhachta tugtha don Phriomh-Bhreitheamh.  I dtaobh an fhocail seo &ldquo;competent&rdquo; in alt a 3, is feidir dha bhri a bhaint as an bhfocal sin.  Cur i gcas go bhfuil priomh breitheamh i gcoinne na Gaedhilge nach dtig leis-san glaca le dligheador nach bhfuil ach cupla focal Gaedhilge aige.  Ma bhionn se i gcoinne na Gaedhilge, nach dtig leis a ra gur &ldquo;competent knowledge&rdquo; e sin. B'fhearr liom-sa da gcuirti grad speisialta isteach sa mBille i n-ionad an fhocail seo.  Ba mhaith an rud e da ndeanfaimis an rud ceanna a rinne Roinn an Oideachais nuair a thosuigh siad ar an Sceim Ghaedhilge sna sgoileanna.  Ba mhaith an Sceim i sin ach nior chuir siar isteach an focal &ldquo;competent.&rdquo;  Do chuir siad isteach Grad spesialta no Teisteas spesialta. An rud a rinneadh leis na hoidi is feidir e dheanamh leis na dligheadoiri no le haon dream sa tir ag a bhfuil baint acu le gnothai puibli no le gnothai ua ndaoine.  Do mholfainn don Aire an t-atharu sin do dheanamh agus do b'fhiu e dheanamh ma taimid i ndariribh i dtaobh an Bhille seo.  Is ceart a ra go bhfuilimid buidheach de na Teachtai a thug isteach an Bille, Taim fein buidheach ar chuma ar bith de na Teachtai a thug isteach e. Bhiomar fein ag smaoineadh ar feadh sgathaimh fhada ar Bhille den tsort seo, ni hamhain do dhlighead oiri, ach do dhreamanna eile, ach bhi a fhios againn da dtabharfadh sinne Bille den tsort seo isteach bheadh' chuile Theachta ar an taobh eile den Tigh 'na aghaidh.  Nilimid-ne cho nimhneach, caol-intinneach leo-san. 
     
      
       Nil an ceart agat sa meid sin. 
     
     
      
       Ta sinne ag cuidiu leis an mBille seo agus taimid buidheach de na Teachtai a thug isteach e.  Ta suil againn go mbeidh   tuille le cloisteail uatha i rudai den tsort seo.  Taimid-ne ag cuidiu leo leis an mBille seo do dheanamh 'na dhli. 
     
     
      
       Ta seanradh ann&mdash;&ldquo;An rud a theigheas i bhfad theigheann se i roighineadas,&rdquo; acht ma chuaidh an Bille seo i bhfad, buidheachas mor le Mairtin O Connallain agus le Micheal Og Mac Faidin ni dheachaidh se i roighineadas.  Ni he amhain mo bhuidheachas-sa, acht beidh buidheachas an Tighe agus na tire ortha.  Ni'l focal agam-sa le radh i n-aghaidh na ndligheadoiri i mo cheanntar fein.  Mara mbeadh cuid aca, ni bheinn-se annseo le labhairt inaon chor, agus taim cinnte go bhfuilim ag cainnt ar a son, nuair a deirim go bhfuil cead mile failte aca roimh an mBille seo. 
       Anois, na Teachtai a labhair i n-agaidh an Bhille seo is mo, go mor, a labhradar i n-aghaidh an chaoi ar tugadh isteach e, na an Bille e fein. Dubhairt siad go mo cheart go Mhairtin O Conlain agus go Mhicheal Og Mhac Faidin a dhul chuig Cumann na nDligheadoiri le na gcuid hatai i na lamhaibh aca, agus iarraidh ortha, as ocht De, cead a thabhairt doibh an Bille seo a thabhairt isteach.  O!  Bhi an saoghal sin ann, nuair a chaithfeadh a leighthidi sinne a dhul chuig na daoine mora, beaga, le nar hatai i nar lamhaibh; acht ta an saoghal sin imthighthe, agus &ldquo;imtheacht gan filleadh chuige.&rdquo; 
       Nil fhios agam a ndeachaidh na Ministeiri thart ag fiafhrughadh de gach uile dhuine an raibh se ceart aca a leithidi seo no a leithidi siud de Bhille a thabhairt isteach?  Taim-se cinnte nach ndeachaidh; acht ar ndoigh ni rabhadar a deanamh dlige do &ldquo;bhoicini&rdquo; annsin.  Nil fhios agam an 'sa ngealaigh abhi na daoine seo i na gcomhnuidhe le deich mbliadhna anuas.  Ar an bpoinnte a thosuighmid ag stiuradh ar dtire fein, tchidfea an dream seo ag dul thart le na gcuid leabhra beaga Gaedhilge agus iad ag iarraidh bheith dha foghluim o aon nduine a raibh si aige, agus eagla an domhain ortha nach bhfuighdis cead bpostai a choinghbheal nuair nach raibh Gaedhilge aca.  Acht an troid eadthrainn fein mhill se e seo. 
     
     
        Dubhairt Teachta sa Tighe seo&mdash;nil mise cinnte cad e an caoi 'na ndeirtear i nGaedilg e, bfeidir &ldquo;Sean Maith&rdquo;&mdash; John Good&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       &ldquo;Sean gan Mhaith.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       O! Bhain tu as mo bheal e.  Dubhairt se nach mbeadh seisean i nagaidh da bhfuigeadh se fuagra chuig bhliadna go raibh a leitheidid'a dheanamh.  Nach bhfuilimid ag tabhairt fuagra dhoibh agus cad e an mhaith ata ann?  Nil, agus d'a leitheidi le fiche mbliain na da bhfuighead siad dha fhichead eile, acht deirtear gur maith an rud &ldquo;gradh no faitchios.&rdquo;  Nil an &ldquo;gradh&rdquo; aca, agus mar sin caithfear an &ldquo;faitchios&rdquo; a chur i geill.  Anois, nil amhras nach faitchios, agus bualadh agus fuagra agus gach uile mhi-adh eile a chuimhnigheadar air a ruaigh ar dteanga dhuthchais as an tir.  Mara bhfuilimid i ndan i a thabhairt ar ais le reidhteach, caithfimid i a thabhairt ar ais ar an mbealach ceudna 'nar dibriughadh e. 
       Dubhairt Teachta O Beirne, nuair bhi se ag labhairt i n-aghaidh an Bhille, nar chomortas an tir seo agus an Bhreatain Bhig&mdash;an ait da labhrocha-sa i nBearla le duine aca, d'freagrochadh se i bBeurla thu, agus go niompochadh se ar ais agus go labhrochadh se i mBreathnas le duine d'a mhuinntir fein, gidh go raibh Beurla ag gach duine aca.  Taim cinnte go bhuil eolas cruinn ag go leor Teachtai ar an mBreatain, ar an nGreig, ar an bhFrainne agus ar an nGearrmain agus gan acht fiorbheagan eolais aca ar a dtir fein.  Da dtagadh Teachta O Beirne, agus na Teachtai eile ata i naghaidh an Bhille seo go dti mo cheanntar-sa, chidhfeadh siad go bhfuil an rud ceudna le cloisteal ann agus ata sa mBreatain Bhig. Castar an oiread Sasanach orm-sa le go leor daoine agus labhraim leo i na dteangain fein acht labhraim le muinntir mo cheanntire fein ann mo theangain dhuthchais fein. 
     
     Na daoine a leag an cheud chloch de'n Tigh seo&mdash;An Piarrsach, Eamonn Ceannt agus Sean Mhac Diarmaid&mdash;ni do'n Bhreatain Bhig, do'n Bhreatain Mhor na go tir ar bith eile a chuadar acht imeasg fior Ghaedhilgeoiri Chonnamara   gur fhogluimeadar an teanga. D'fhagaibh siad sinne leis an teangaidh thuas agus thuas a chaithfeasmuid i do choinneail. 
     Labhair Teachta O Fathaigh faoi chuirt i n-Doire-an-Fhiadh.  Bhi mise ag cuirt i gCarna 'ar thug gach uile dhuine de na fiadhnuisibh fiadhnuise i nGaedhilg.  D'innis an fear Teangain do'n Bhreithimh e, agus nuair thug seisean bhreitheamhnas labhair se, ar a laghad leathuair i mBeurla ag tabhairt comhairle do na daoinibh seo, ma bfior do fein, agus nior iarr se ar an bhFear Teangain, focal d'ar dhubhairt se a mhiniughadh dhoibh. 
     Acht anois ta athrughadh ar an sgeal. Ta fior-Ghaedheal i na Bhreitheamh san ait, a bhfuil an teanga Gaedhilge ar a chomhairle fein aige.  Anois, i gCondae na Gaillimhe, ta 75,579 Gaedhilgeoiri agus nach bhfuil iachall ar ar Rialtas dlighe a dheanamh ionnus go mbeadh comhthrom na Feinne aca seo agus gan dligheadoiri a bheith in a measg gan Gaedhilge a bheith aca. 
     Da mbadh teanga iasachta a bheadh an Bille ag iarraidh a chur i bhfeidhim, taim cinnte nach mbeadh na daoine seo ata in aghaidh an Bhille leath chomh duthrachtach in a aghaidh agus ata siad. 
     Nois, faoi h-ailt a tri agus a cuig, ma baintear iad seo amach ta se chomh maith an Bille a stroiceadh ar fad.  Na sgruidtheoiri a bheadhas da sgrudadh, ta suil agam nach dtiubhraidh siad teist doibh ma bhionn siad i ndan &ldquo;Do Thighearna,&rdquo; no &ldquo;O Onoir&rdquo; no &ldquo;cad e an t-ainm ata ort&rdquo; no &ldquo;la breagh&rdquo; a radh, mar se mo bharamhail-sa gur mo an dochar ata deanta ag ann a leightheidi seo go chuis na teangain na rud ar bith eile.  Ta eolas agam-sa ar dhaoinibh go bhfuil teistis aca agus gan fiche focal Gaedhilge i na bpluic. Cuid aca ag iarraidh bheith da muineadh, acht an te a bhios a magadh bionn a leath faoi fein.  Ta suil agam nach mbeidmuidne ag magadh faoi'n gceist seo nios fuide. 
     Chomh cinnte agus ata muidne annseo gabhfamuid ar Sluagh na Marbh. Chomh cinnte agus go rachamuid ar Sluagh na Marbh sgriobhfar Stair na h-Aimsire seo.  Chomh cinnte agus sgroibhfar i, si an cheist a iarraidhead   fear a shriobhtha dhe fhein&mdash;Ceurd a rinnemuid do'n Ghaedhilg na do'n Ghaedhealtacht? 
     Ta suil agam nach mbeidh se le radh aige gur leig &ldquo;Beal la h-uaighe ait ag Beal na Truaighe. 
     
      
       Go mairidh tu i bhfad! 
     
     
      
       I support this Bill for three or four reasons.  One reason that appeals most to me is that I have the honour to represent the county which gave birth to Father O'Growney, and which has the honour of holding his remains to-day.  Coming from such a county I do not think it is possible for anyone not to do everything that could possibly be done to assist the language movement.  As most Deputies know, Father O'Growney found the language in a dying state in County Meath.  With the assistance of a group he revived the language, and to-day it can be heard spoken at least in the district in which he was born. There are other reasons why I should support this Bill.  Unfortunately I have no knowledge of the language, but it is quite easy to see and understand that our language has a most important bearing on the future of the country, both from the intellectual and the commercial points of view.  Language is the hallmark of any nation, and all over the world nations have made desperate efforts to revive their languages.  Not only that, but we find that writers and historians have always admired, respected and looked up to these nations that have made efforts for the revival of their languages. That may be from the cultural point of view, but I believe it will also have an important bearing from the commercial point of view.  If we are not in a position, when we produce goods, to export them under an Irish name, and with Irish instructions, these goods will at once lose their individuality in foreign countries; they will be simply classed as the products of other countries.  I believe it is most important that the individuality of any products we produce should be strictly preserved.  These are some of my reasons for supporting this Bill, because it is one aiming at the revival of   a language that so many laws and so many Bills passed in another country attempted to destroy. 
     
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom cupla focal a ra ar an gceist seo. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will pardon me for interrupting, but I think he has already spoken on this Bill. 
     
     
      
       Nior dhubhairt me ach focal no do.  Ba mhaith liom ra na raibh an oiread san naire orm riamh lem' shaol agus a bhi trathnona De Ceadaoin seo caithte nuair a b'eigin dom suidhe anso agus eisteacht le n-a raibh le ra ag Eireannaigh i gcoinne a dteangan fein. Chuirfeadh se naire ar dhuine daoine do bheith ag teacht ar son an naisiuin, no an mheid ata faghtha dhe, agus seasamh anso chun aghaidh bheil do thabhairt ar Theachta go raibh se de sprid aige an Bille seo do thabhairt isteach d'fhonn is a iarraidh ar lucht dli teanga a tire fein d'usaid.  Rud naireach isea e aon Eireannach d'fheicsint ina sheasamh ag deanamh suarachais da theangain fein; ceann de sna teangacha is sine agus is glaine i Roinn na hEorpa.  Teanga isea i gur ceart d'Eireannaigh bheith moralach na taobh, agus usaid do bhaint aisti agus i chur chun cinn.  Ta fhios againn conus ar cuireadh an Bearla chun cinn sa tir seo.  Bimid ag cainnt mar gheall ar an nGaedhilg do dheanamh eifeantach.  An dtugamiud aon iarracht chun a dheanamh amach conus a cuireadh d'iachall ar na daoine glaca le bearla Shasna?  Ta se orainn anois teanga na hEireann do chur san ait gur ceart di bheith agus an Bearla do scuaba chun fain, agus nuair a thiocfaidh an la san is mo ar fad an meas a bheidh ag tiortha eile ar an tir seo na mar ata fe lathair. 
     
     Dubhairt an Teachta Antoine an la fe dheire gur am caillte ar leanbhai an t-am a chaitheann fe lathair ag foghluim Gaedhilge san scoileanna, mar na raibh einne sa bhaile chun Gaedhilge do labhairt leo.  Is fior an meid sin fe lathair, ach pe sli e, faghaidh na buachailli agus na cailini seo an scoil agus eolas eigin aca ar an nGaedhilg   agus beidh an t-eolas san ag dul i bhfeabhas in aghaidh an lae.  Fasfaidh na leanbhai seo suas, posfaidh siad, beidh a bpaisti fein aca, le congnamh De.  Raghaidh na leanbhai seo ar scoil agus muinfear Gaedhilg doibh; raghaid a bhaile agus nuair a bheid ag pleireac timpal an bhuird am caithte bidh deanfa siad usaid de'n Ghaedhilg d'fhoghluimiodar. Cloisfidh a dtuismitheoiri iad ag cainnt na Gaedhilge, eisteoid leo go curamach agus beidh an-athas ortha nuair a gheobhaid amach go dtuigeann siad an Ghaedhilg ata gha labhairt ag na paisti.  Ni he amhain go mbeidh athas ortha ach beidh mortas ortha go dtuigeann siad na leanbhai ag cainnt agus socroidh siad na n-aigne congnamh do thabhairt doibh.  Do reir mar bheidh na daoine ag fas suas, beidh an Ghaedhilg ag fail greim ionta agus bheidh si ag dul i neart.  Ar an abhar san, ni cailliuint ama e&mdash;an t-am a chaitheann na leanbhai ag foghluim Gaedhilge sna scoileanna indiu.  Da mba rud e na tabharfai an Ghaedhilg thar n-ais fein, ni am cailte a bheadh ann, mar is mor an congnamh doibh an dara teanga chun abhair eile d'fhoghluim. 
     I wish to say that I never felt more ashamed in my life than on Wednesday evening last, when I had to sit here and listen to what was said by Irishmen against their own language.  The fact that representatives of the nation, or what is left of it to us should stand up here and abuse the Deputy who had the temerity to bring in this Bill, to ask the lawyers to use the language of their country, was humiliating.  It was humiliating to see any Irishman standing up and decrying the use of his own language; one of the oldest and one of the purest in Europe.  It is a language that Irishmen ought to take a pride in using and in developing. We know how the English language was pushed into this country. We talk about compulsory Irish.  Do we ever try to realise how the English language was foisted on the people? It is up to us to bring the Irish language back to its proper place, and to hunt the English language out, and when that day comes the country will be held in far higher esteem by other countries than it is at present. 
     
        Deputy Anthony said the other day that the time spent by children learning Irish in the schools at present was time lost, that when they left school and went home there was nobody at home to talk Irish to them.  That is true at present, but these boys and girls at any rate will leave school with some knowledge of Irish, and as years go by that knowledge will be improving. These children will grow up, they will marry, they will have children of their own, please God.  These children will go to school and will be taught Irish; they will go to their homes, and when they are playing and around the table at meal-times they will use some of the Irish they have learned at school.  The parents will hear them use the Irish, they will listen attentively and they will be very pleased when they find that they understand some of the Irish that the children are speaking.  Not alone will they be pleased but they will be proud of the fact that they do understand their children talking the Irish, and they will make up their minds to help them.  As each succeeding generation comes along the Irish will be getting its grip on the people and will be strengthened in its position.  Therefore, the time spent by the children learning Irish in the schools to-day is not lost time.  If they never brought back the Irish it would not be lost time, because the fact that they learn a second language is of great help to them in learning other subjects as well. 
     Deputy Wolfe said that the movement for the revival of the Irish would injure the law schools and other schools; that it would prevent foreign scholars from coming here to be educated in special branches of knowledge. Does the Deputy know that when Irish, and Irish only, was the language of the country these people came from all parts of Europe to be educated, and they did not baulk at the Irish language? We must assume that the first thing they had to do when they came here&mdash;and they came in thousands&mdash; was to learn Irish, and they did not baulk at it.  I venture to say that until Irish gets its proper place in the schools and colleges of Ireland, until we link   up with that past and give our language the place it ought to have in our country we will not attract scholars to our colleges and universities in the numbers that we should attract them if we had our own language.  I believe that when that day comes we shall attract great numbers of scholars from all parts of Europe and from America, because we shall have our distinct civilisation. If foreign scholars want specialised education; they do not go to a second-rate English-speaking country for that education; they go direct to Oxford and Cambridge, where they will get a first-rate English education, and there is no reason why they should come to a country like this.  But if they recognise that this is a distinct nation, speaking its own language and having its own national characteristics, they will come here to be educated if they get a better education than they would in England, and I have no doubt that, with the revival and the use of our own language, we will be able to give them as good an education as they would get in England, or a better one.  The people who imitate the traits, characteristics and language of another country are despised, and deservedly so, by the people of that country.  The imitator is always despised by the persons he imitates.  We are practically a nation of slaves to-day, imitating the people of another country.  Why should that be so?  Ought we not to have some pride in our country, in our own national characteristics, traits and language? Until we have that love of country we shall not be esteemed by the other nations of the world, and justly so.  Let us be Irishmen and let our women be Irishwomen; let us realise the position we ought to hold in the world, and then we shall have the respect of the world.  Until we do that we shall not have the respect of the world. 
     I congratulate Deputy Conlon on having brought in this Bill.  It will certainly do good.  The lawyers need not complain that it will be hard on them.  They have had plenty of time to realise that the Irish language is going to take its place in the country again, the place it should have always had.  The Gaelic League has been in existence for the last twenty-five or   thirty years and the Irish language is being taught on a wide scale in the schools for the last five or six years.  I suppose some people were of the opinion that they need not pay any attention to it, that it was only a passing phase.  They must, however, realise now that the language has come to stay.  There are, thank God, people still in the country who mean to work to that end, namely, that the Irish language shall take the place in the country that it ought to take. 
     As for Deputy Dr. Hennessy's contribution to this debate through the medium of the &ldquo;Independent,&rdquo; I am glad that one important point in Irish history has been cleared up anyhow. That is, that Deputy Hennessy is descended from the Firbolgs.  Of course, he complains that the Gaels came in after the Firbolgs, conquered them, and prevented them from attaching the prefix Mac or O to their names. That is the reason he tells us why he has not MacAonghusa as his name.  I can assure him that the Gaels of the present day will not put any obstacle in the way of allowing him to put the prefix Mac or O to his name if he so desires or if he has the courage to put it there and in future call himself MacAonghusa and not Hennessy. 
     
      
       It is not my intention to occupy the House very long at this late hour, but I do not wish to give a silent vote on such an important question as this.  I wish to say at the beginning that it is my intention to vote against the Bill.  When I say that I intend to vote against it, I do not want anyone to understand that I am deadly opposed to the Irish language. 
     
     
      
       No, you only want to kill it. 
     
     
      
       We will give the Deputy a chance afterwards.  I do not interrupt the Deputy when he speaks.  I do not think that the Government are proceeding in the right way for the benefit of the Irish language; but having said this, I hope no one will think that I am in deadly opposition to the language. Heretofore it has not been our system to use compulsion.  It had not   been the system of the late regime in this country to use compulsion in this matter.  Consequently, we feel very much when we are told that we must do certain things under compulsion, and that if we do not do them then we will have to abide by the consequences. The fact that the Government have disclaimed responsibility for this Bill will not relieve them of the responsibility in the eyes of the man in the street. People undoubtedly consider that it has been hatched under Government supervision and is being brought forth by the influence of one of their Party. We cannot see why this means is taken of forcing the language on this particular profession.  It is evidently against their wish it is being done, because there have been various means tried to get them to take up the Irish language.  As far as I know, and I believe I am correctly informed, there have been medals and superior marks offered to any student who passes his examination taking the Irish language as a subject. 
       It would be very interesting to know why this particular profession has been selected.  Is it a matter of placing another brick upon the already troublesome Border question, or is it a matter of trying to drive our children to other centres across the Border and elsewhere, or is it possible that the language is not getting the support which the Government have been expecting, and, sooner than admit that the country has thrown the dice against the language, they are now willing to make another great effort regardless of cost or of any loss to the profession? I have been told by people who are supposed to be in the know, and to have considerable influence, that it is useless for Deputies on these benches to oppose this move.  We have been told that the two big parties are out to see which can get the most credit in this political game, and until that is decided, or until they decide that the game is not worth the candle and that they are only losing time, the struggle will be continued for some time to come. 
     
     It is estimated that the cost of teaching the Irish language is something like half a million.  According to the   valuable letter which we had a few days ago, and which, up to the present, has not been contradicted, that half a million would almost pay the interest on £10,000,000.  I would like to know if the Government will put it to the country as a straight issue whether the farmers would be willing to get a loan at a moderate interest, say 21⁄2 per cent., or consent to be further taxed in respect of this unwanted service.  Are we to take it that Deputies who were complaining so much about the housing question last Wednesday and about unemployment would rather see the language supported to this enormous amount than to have the money devoted towards giving employment to the starving people in the country? It has been stated here repeatedly that we do not want to educate our people for export.  I wonder if parents can say what walk in life they are educating their children for.  It is a very big question, and I think it is a terrible thing to try in any way to stop energetic members of Irish families from seeking a livelihood in other countries. I wonder whether a great many people here are aware that banks which cannot collect money due them are prepared to advance more money to get people to go to a foreign land and send home money from there which will not only repay the banks but also will restock the lands.  If the Irish language is to be forced to the extent that we will prevent our people going abroad, we will be making a very severe mistake. I think Deputies should realise the blessing which the English language affords in the sense that our people can go abroad and get positions in other countries the moment they land, and so avoid having to wait for months or a considerable length of time to acquire a knowledge of a universal language. 
     
      
       Have not enough gone out of the country already? 
     
     
      
       They are going in thousands every week. 
     
     
      
       Deunaim comhghairdeachas le Teachta O Conallain agus le Teachta Mac Phaidin mar gheall ar an mBille a thug siad isteach. Chimid anois na daoine ata ar thaobh   na teangan agus na daoine ata in aghaidh na teangan.  Na Teachtai do labhair in aghaidh an Bhille iniu, ba cheart doibh an meid a dubhairt siad a ra se no seacht de bhliantaibh o shoin nuair a bhi polasai an Rialtais da chur i bhfeidhm.  Cuireadh tus ar pholasai an Rialtais sna sgoileanna agus cade an mhaith a bheith ag cainnt agus ag seabhoideadh mar a mbeadh se in ar gcomhacht deire do chur leis an bpolasai sin anois.  An meid airgid do caitheadh ar an bpolasai sin, ta se caithte; an meid Gaedhilge ata foghlumtha ta se foghlumtha.  Rinneadh tus an polasai sin do chur i bhfeidhm. Ach, o'n meid do chuala me annso, ise mo bharuil nach mbeadh aithmheula ar dhaoine airithe da gcuirfi deire leis an bpolasai sin imbaireach&mdash;nach mbeadh bron na aithmheula ar na dligheadoiri no cuid mhaith de na sagairt, no de na dochtuiri no de na daoine leigheannta eile ar fud na tire.  B'fheidir nach mbeadh bron mor ar lucht oibre ach oiread oir dubhairt an Teachta Antoine nar thuig se an sgeul.  Ni thuigeann siad an sgeul&mdash;tar eis an ri ra ata ann le cupla bliain. 
     
     Mar a dubhairt mo chara, An Teachta Domhnall Ua Buachalla, ta sprid nua tagaithe sna sgoileanna.  Ta furmhor na n-oide ag deanamh a ndichioll ar son na teangan.  Ta an teanga gha labhairt go maith ag an cuid is mo de na paisti.  Agus na paisti ata idir 17 agus 18 mbliana d'aois agus ata tar eis cursa d'fhail sna scoileanna idir mheadhonaigh, ta nios mo Gaedhilge acu na mar bhi ag na cigiri agus daoine a bhi ag obair faoi Chonnradh na Gaedhilge 20 bliain o shoin. Ise tuairim na paisti fhein gur ceart an teanga a bheith gha mhuineadh ins na sgoileanna.  Nil siad in aghaidh na teangan.  I dtosach, b'fheidir nach mbionn siad i ngradh leis an dteangain a gcuid de na sgoileanna.  Ta fhios agam go bhfuil scoileanna i mBaile Atha Claith ata ag fail airgid as Gaedhilg do mhuineadh agus nach bhfuil an teanga gha muineadh ionnta in aon chor.  Ach sa sgoileanna ar fud na tire ta athas i gcroidhthibh na bpaisti a bheith ag foghluim na Gaedhilge.  Ta an furmhor acu in ann comhradh do dheunamh as Gaedhilg agus beidh brod orra ma fheiceann siad   go bhfuillimid annso ag deanamh ar gcion ar son na teangan. 
     Ta orainn d'fheiceail nach mbeidh an t-am do chaith na paisti seo ag foghluim na Gaedhilge caillte ortha, go mbeidh ait doibh in a dtir fein agus go mbeidh postanna ar fail acu; nach mbeidh an sceal fe mar bhi se se no seacht de bhliantaibh o shoin i rith reim an Chaisleain nuair nach raibh aon mheas, ach a mhalairt, ar dhligheadoiri a bhi ar thaobh an naisiun&mdash;gidh gur beag naisiuntachta a bhi i gcroidhthibh an chuid ba mho acu.  Ta athru tagaithe anois.  Ceist nua ata gha phle againn anois, mar adubhairt an tAire Airgid. Ta tus deanta againn.  B'fheidir nach raibh se ceart ar gach doigh ach ta se deanta againn.  Ta daoine sa tir agus nil siad ag dul ar aghaidh leis an saol ata ann.  Faoi'n sean reim, bhi siad cho sclabhamhail sin go raibh siad ar thaobh an Rialtais i gcomhnuidhe. Anois, ta Rialtas eile ann agus polasai nua acu.  Faoi'n polasai sin, ta an teanga gha mhuineadh sna sgoileanna le seacht mbliana anois agus ta se riachtanach i gcoir Seirbhise an Stait ach nil na daoine leigheannta ag deanamh a gcion ar a son.  Ta dligheadoir Stait i ngach condae sa Saorstat ach ni shaoilim go bhfuil aon dligheadoir sa Stat ag deanamh a dhicheall ar son na teangan.  Is mithid deire do chur leis sin. 
     O cuireadh tus ar an bpolasai seo, bhi am ag na dligheadoiri feachaint isteach sa cheist seo.  Bhi fhios acu nach raibh crioch leis an bpolasai sin.  Cibe seans a bhi ag an &ldquo;oppressed minority&rdquo; deire do chur leis an bpolasai sin uair amhain, nil aon tseans acu anois, mar ta na Teachtai ar an dtaobh so den Tigh. cho maith leis na Teachtai ar an dtaobh eile, go laidir ar son na teangan. Mar gheall ar san, rachaidh an teanga ar aghaidh. 
     Ma fheicimid thart, chimid nach bhfuil lucht leigheannta ag deanamh a ndicheall fa'n gceist seo&mdash;na dochtuiri, no na dligheadoiri no na sagairt fein. Ta paroisti san nGaeltacht agus da mbeadh an meid ata deanta ionnta ag Roinn an Oideachais agus ag na muinteoiri deanta ag na sagairt, bheidh an teanga sabhalta.  Ach nil ach fior-chor duine imeasc na sagairt ag deanamh a dhicheall.  Ach nuair a fheiceann siad   go bhfuilimid ag tabhairt aire do na foir-eigeantoiri imease na dligheadoiri tuigfidh siad go bhfuilimid i ndairiribh. Nuair a fheiceann na daoine leigheannta an meid Gaedhilge do labhradh annso iniu&mdash;ta suil agam go mbeidh a thuille againn sul a bhfad&mdash;tuigfidh siad nach bhfuil aon stad leis an bpolasai nua agus gur mithid doibh bheith a bogadh. 
     Mar gheall ar na doctuiri, gidh go bhfuil an Ghaedhilg riachtanach san Ollscoil Naisuinta le 15 bliana, nil aon nidh deanta acu.  Is do liom go bhfuil an Ollscoil nios measa na na dligheadoiri no na doctuiri fein.  Nil aon rud deanta acu chun an teanga do chur chun chinn.  Na daoine ag a bhfuil ceimeanna on Ollscoil le deanai, nil leath an sprid acu agus a bhi ag na mic leighinn a bhi ann blianta o shoin. Teasbaineann an diosboireacht so gur mithid do na hOllscoileanna&mdash;ni amhain Colaiste na Trionoide ach an Ollscoil Naisiunta agus Colaiste Magh Nuadhacht&mdash;nios mo do dheanamh ar son na teangan na mar ta gha dheunamh acu fa lathair. 
     Ta fhios ag na daoine leigheannta nach feidir an teanga do tharraingt thar n-ais agus nach feidir don chuis dul ar aghaidh agus i a brath ar chongnamh an lucht oibre agus na bpaisti amhain.  Ce'n fath gur chuaidh Bearla ar aghaidh san mBreatain Mhoir agus an Fhrainncis sa bhFrainnc?  Mar gur chuidigh na daoine uaisle agus na daoine leigheannta le canuint airithe.  Bhi cupla teanga ga labhairt 'san mBreatain agus sa bhFrainnc.  Thaoibhigh na daoine uaisle agus na cuirteanna le teanga speisialta agus bhi an bhuaidh ag an teanga san.  Chuaidh an Bearla agus an Frainncis ar aghaidh agus bualadh ar an Provencal agus ar na teangacha eile.  An cheist ata againne, ta se gha phle i Roinn na hEorpa iniu. Cuir i gcas Bohemia.  Dibearadh an Almainis as Bohemia.  On meid a leighim agus on meid a chluinim, creidim anois go bhfuil se in aghaidh an dli i Czecho-Slovakia Almainis do labhairt&mdash;gur coir e do na Bohemians a dteanga fein do labhairt.  In Alsace, ta fhois againn go bhfuil Rialtas na Frainnce ag iarraidh a dteanga fein a chur isteach agus an Almainis do   bhrughadh amach.  In Esthonia agus i dtiortha nua eile ta siad ag iarraidh a dteanga fein do tharraingt thar nais. Agus sinne ata ag maoidheamh as ar gcultur leis na ceadta blian agus ag cainnt agus ag sior cainnt ar stair na tire, taimid chun dul ar gcul agus an meid ata deanta againn a chur ar neamh ni, toisc go bhfuil cupla duine, cosamhail le Teachta de Bhuibh, in ar gcoinne&mdash;daoine go bhfuil fhios acu go bhfoillseoigh an &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; a n-oraidi in aghaidh na Gaedhilge agus nach gcuirfidh siad i gclo fiu agus focal de na horaidi a dineadh as Gaedhilg, no ma cuirfidh siad ni dheanfaidh siad e i gceart.  Ta an &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; i gcomhnui ag caoine mar gheall ar imtheacht na Sasannach as an tir seo agus ta an Teachta de Bhulb ag caoine mar gheall ar imtheacht an Bhearla agus na mBearloiri.  Ach ni cuirfear stad orainn mar gheall ar sin. 
     Is athas liom a fheicail aris an sprid a bhi in ar gcroidhthibh 20 bliain o shoin.  Deunaim comh-ghairdeachas le Teachta O Conchubhair, le h-Aire an Rialtais Aitiula agus leis na Teachtai eile do labhair cho maith a gus cho spridiuil ar an mBille seo agus nil aon amhras agam na go bhfuil an rud ceart a dheanamh againn anois. 
     Bhi tagairt do cheist eile dtaobh an Bhille seo&mdash;nach raibh aon cho-chomhairle idir na daoine a thug isteach e agus na  Benchers  agus na abhcoid.  Mar adubhairt an Teachta O Fathaigh, fuaireadar faill an rud ceart do dheanamh.  Do chuir an Priomh-Bhreitheamh an cheist os a gcomhair agus d'iarr se orra rud eigin do dheanamh.  Ni dearnadh e.  Ta fhios againn nach mbeadh an sgeul mar sin da mbeadh siad fa reim an tsean-Chaisleain. Dheunfaidis fe mar iarrfai orra.  Ba maith an rud go dtuigfeadh siad go bhfuil athru ann anois agus an rud nach ndearna siad ar athchuinge an Phriomh-Bhreithimh dheinfimid e ar a son. 
     Mar gheall ar na leasuithe, aontuighim le Teachta O Cleirigh go mba cheart an aois a athru in alt a 2 o 16 bliana go 18 bliana.  Ni shaoilim go bhfuil moran den fhirinne san leith sgeul-nach mbeidh am ag na mic leighinn an Ghaedhilg d'fhoghluim.  Ni bheidh an scrudu ro-dheacair.  Ta an   teanga gha mhuineadh i ngach bunscoil agus i ngach meadhon-scoil san tir agus ta suil agam go ndeunfaidh na hOllscoileanna nios mo ar a son feasta. Ma dheunfaidh siad, ni bheidh moran triobloide ar na mic leighinn dli a ndothain Gaedhilge d'fhoghluim. 
     Ta suil agam go ndeanfaimid nios mo na mar ata san mBille seo ar son na Gaedhilge.  Ta suil agam go gcuirfear ar bun annso cumann de Chonnradh na Gaedhilge i dtreo agus go mbeimid in ann a thuile do dheanamh ar son na, teangan agus nach mbeimid faoi'n masla do chuir an Teachta de Bhulbh orainn an la fa dheireadh&mdash;nach raibh ach an deichiu cuid de na Teachtai in ann rud ar bith do dheanamh tre Ghaedhilg agus an meid sin nach raibh siad a dheunamh.  Aontuighim le Teachta O Cleirigh, cho maith, go mba cheart cur sios go cruinn ar an bhri ata leis na bhfocail &ldquo;competent knowledge.&rdquo; Ta a lan daoine a fuair postanna san Saorstat, mar adubhairt An Teachta O Mongain, mar gheall ar an &ldquo;competent knowledge&rdquo; a bhi acu agus is beag eolais a bhi acu ar an teanga.  Ta daoine agus teistimeireachtai acu agus nil siad in ann a gcuid oibre do dheanamh i gceart tre Ghaedhilg.  Ba cheart duinn an saghas eolas ata uainn do chur sios go cruinn. 
     Is do liom go bhfuil an iomad comhachta san mBille ag an bPriomh-Breitheamh. Ta air a bheith sasta go bhfuil Gaedhilg ag an abhcoide no dligheadoir agus b'fheidir go mbeadh air dul in aghaidh an Chumainn Dli. Ma ta scrudu le bheith ann, ba choir duinn muinighin a bheith againn as. Ba choir duinn a bheith sasta roimh re gur scrudu ceart a bheas ann agus nach n-neireochaidh le duine ar bith gan eolas ceart a bheith aige ar an dteanga.  Ni coir an t-ualach so do chur ar guailnibh an Phriomh-Breithimh. 
     Anois, tairgim go gcuirtear an diosboireacht ar ath-lo. 
     Debate adjourned. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - MESSAGE FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
      
       A Message has been received from the Seanad that it has passed Constitution   (Amendment No. 7) Bill, 1928, and that it has agreed to set up a Joint Committee on the Betting Bill. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - QUESTION TO MINISTER FOR JUSTICE. 
     
      
       A statement has been made to me which I accept with reserve, but which, nevertheless, has been made by a responsible person. Accordingly I wish to ask the Minister for Justice this question: If he will ascertain whether there is any foundation   for the statement that while Mrs. Despard was being removed to hospital from her residence, Roebuck House, Dundrum, a party of men from the Criminal Investigation Department were carrying out a raid on the premises?  I do not think it is necessary to say any more. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has asked me to ascertain whether a certain statement is true or not.  I will ascertain. 
       The Dail adjourned at 2 p.m. till Wednesday, October 31st, at 3 p.m. 
     
   
 