 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i geeannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DONEGAL COMPENSATION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance why compensation was refused to Mr. Jim Kelly, Frosses, County Donegal, for injuries received from the Black and Tans, who took him from his home on April 17th, 1921, and assaulted him, inflicting on him severe injuries; and further, whether the Minister is aware that compensation was paid to others in the area who lodged claims at the same time. 
     
     
      
       After the fullest consideration in the light of all the information before me, I came to the conclusion that the circumstances in this case did not justify payment of compensation. With regard to the last part of the question, I would inform the Deputy that every claim for compensation was considered and decided on its own merits. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this man was a captain in the I.R.A. and that he was totally incapacitated for eighteen months after receiving these injuries? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that he was incapacitated for that period. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister not aware that there were doctors' certificates submitted to the effect that this man was incapacitated for eighteen months? 
     
     
     
      
       There was a certificate submitted to the effect that he was suffering from an injury to the shin, but I am not aware that he was incapacitated for eighteen months and unable to work. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister reconsider this case? 
     
     
      
       Well, the only thing I can say is that I will undertake to look into the facts again. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - OLD AGE PENSION APPLICATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that an old age pension was refused to Mrs. Mary Enright, of Britfieldstown, Minane Bridge, County Cork, on the grounds that her yearly means exceed the statutory amount, and if he will state the evidence on which this decision was based. 
     
     
      
       Local inquiries have to be made in this case.  Perhaps the Deputy will repeat this question in about ten days' time. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. WEXFORD PROPERTY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that early in 1922 property was stolen from Patrick Parle, Thornville, Wexford, and from Fraser Meadows, same adress; that the property was recovered by Republican police and arrests made; that the suspected persons were identified by Meadows and removed to Waterford Jail; that the property was lodged in South Main Street Barracks, Wexford, pending the trial of the persons suspected at the Circuit Court; that subsequently South Main Street Barracks, Wexford, and Waterford Jail were taken over by Free State troops; and that the prisoners were released and the property of Parle and Meadows appropriated; that in October, 1923, the County Court Judge reported for £12 to Parle, and £20 to Meadows; whether those amounts were paid, and if not, for what reason. 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to say whether all the statements in the Deputy's question are correct. Reports were, however, made in these   cases under Section 15 of the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, recommending payment of the amounts indicated by the Deputy, but after consideration I came to the conclusion that the cases did not come within the scope of Section 15 of the Act, and I accordingly refused to authorise payment. 
     
     
      
       Do I understand the Minister to say that he came to the conclusion that this case did not come within the scope of this section? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Then I take it that the Minister has taken it upon himself to reverse the decision of the Circuit Judge on a question of law? 
     
     
      
       On a question of fact. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister whether the question as to whether certain cases came under a section of an Act of Parliament is a question of law or of fact? 
     
     
      
       There is no appeal in these cases.  They are reports and the Minister has discretion to review them. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEITRIM COMPENSATION AWARD 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state why a sum of £100 only was paid to Michael Flynn, of Gortnagullion, Kishcarrigan, P.O., County Leitrim, though he had been granted a decree for £196 by the late Judge Brown in 1922, consequent on a raid on his home in 1921 by the &ldquo;Black and Tans,&rdquo; on which occasion he was beaten and robbed of £96&mdash;the amount awarded (£196) being later approved by the Commission set up to revise these claims, and if the Minister will see that the full award will now be paid. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my reply to a similar question by Deputy McKenna on the 25th January, 1927, in which the position was fully explained. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CIVIL SERVANTS AND MARRIAGE ALLOWANCES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether male   civil servants who entered the Civil Service by confined examinations during the past two years receive marriage allowances, and, if not, whether he will state for what reason they have received different treatment from that accorded those who have entered by open competition during the past two years. 
     
     
      
       The scales of pay allowed to civil servants who entered by confined examinations during the past two years were those in force when it was originally decided to give those temporary officials an opportunity of entering the permanent service through the medium of examinations confined to themselves. 
       The scales of pay with marriage allowances are based on the assumption that the persons entering are of the normal age of recruitment and are, generally, unmarried at entry.  The persons who entered for the confined examinations referred to in the question had already passed the normal age of recruitment and many were married. Moreover, they were already temporarily employed in the service on the basis of rates of pay fixed before marriage allowances were introduced, and their conversion on to the scales of pay with marriage allowances would have involved reductions of pay and consequent hardship to unmarried candidates, who would have been placed on a scale much less favourable than that actually granted. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PENSIONS FOR WORKING CLASSES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether consideration has been given to the question of making provision for the working classes in the Saorstat in regard to old age pensions and widows' and orphans' old age contributory pensions as favourable as those enjoyed by similar classes in Northern Ireland. 
     
     
      
       As indicated by me in the course of the debate on old age pensions in this House on the 1st instant, the state of our finances is not such as to permit of the restoration of all existing old age pensions to the rates which held good immediately prior to the   coming into operation of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1924.  This being so, detailed consideration has not been given to other proposals of the kind mentioned by the Deputy, which would involve further additional expenditure of a substantial amount. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BUNCRANA PIER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether it is intended to proceed with the scheme for the extension and development of Buncrana Pier, and, if so, why no provision is made in the current estimates for the cost of the scheme; whether, having regard to the urgency and necessity of this work, and of its importance to this fishery centre, a supplementary estimate will be introduced to enable this scheme to be carried out immediately. 
     
     
      
       The proposal to carry out improvement works at an estimated cost of £30,000, of which it is suggested that £20,000 should be provided out of State funds and £10,000 by the Buncrana Urban District Council, is at present the subject of investigation. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DRAINAGE OF OFFALY RIVERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he can give the reasons for the delay in carrying out the drainage work on the Erkina, Eglish and Johnston Rivers, and why further surveys will have to be carried out before the scheme can assume a definite shape, the total cost of the preliminary work already carried out, and whether there is any possibility of the work being started during the present year. 
     
     
      
       There has been no avoidable delay in dealing with the proposals under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, for the drainage of the Erkina and Eglish and Johnston Rivers.  The procedure under the Act is necessarily long, involving much detailed investigation.  This scheme is a large one, and further surveys will be necessary in order to ascertain the best and most economical method of treating the rivers so as to obtain the highest return for expenditure, and to   afford the landholders to whom the scheme must be submitted the fullest information. 
       No actual preliminary works on the rivers have yet been carried out. 
       As soon as a scheme has been settled and an estimate of its cost prepared the facts will be placed before the Department of Finance and the County Council to ascertain whether the free grants necessary to make the scheme economic for the landholders will be available.  When this point has been decided, the proposed scheme must be submitted to the occupiers of the lands to vote upon.  In the circumstances it cannot at present be stated whether it will be possible to have all the preliminaries completed in time to enable work to be started this year. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary say if a scheme has already been submitted to the Department of Finance arising out of previous surveys and valuations, and will he answer that part of the question which asks him to state the total cost of the preliminary work already carried out? 
     
     
      
       There has been no preliminary work carried out.  The cost of the actual survey amounts to £267, but there has been no actual work done. 
     
     
      
       That £267 includes the salaries of the officials and their travelling and subsistence allowances for having done nothing up to the present? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HAULBOWLINE COAL SUPPLIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that no facilities exist for the transport of coal for use by the inhabitants of Haulbowline; that they are at present compelled to purchase at an exorbitant price the pulverised German coal stored on the island, coal which the Minister has stated is of poor quality, and which the Medical Officer has certified as dangerous to the public health; that there is a good quality coal also stored which is being supplied to British warships in the harbour, and if he will give facilities to the residents for the purchase of supplies from this stock. 
     
     
     
      
       While there are no special facilities for the transport of coal from the mainland for the use of inhabitants of Haulbowline, such supplies as are needed have hitherto been transported gratuitously by the Government ferry-boat.  There is no compulsion on the inhabitants of the island to purchase the continental coal stored there, which is being used in the dockyard services supplemented by small quantities of British coal when quick steam is required. 
       The very small quantity of British coal on the island is needed for the purpose named and also for the national school, to which supplies will now be given on the recommendation of the local medical officer of health.  It is not desirable to purchase a fresh cargo of British coal for Haulbowline until the continental supply is exhausted.  In these circumstances it is regretted that while there is no objection to sales to the inhabitants from the stock of continental coal, which is of the same quality as was used generally throughout the country during the coal shortage, there is now no spare stock of British coal for sale to them or to the British men-of-war in the harbour. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ROSSCARBERY POLICE BARRACKS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if it is intended to rebuild the old police barracks in Rosscarbery, destroyed during the Anglo-Irish war, and, if so, when it is proposed to begin this work. 
     
     
      
       It has not yet been definitely decided whether it will be necessary to restore the ex-Royal Irish Constabulary barrack at Rosscarbery for Government purposes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RURAL POSTMEN'S APPOINTMENTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs will he state the qualifications governing the appointment of rural postmen. 
     
     
      
       Rural postmen are recruited from boy messengers who obtain Civil Service certificates by   competitive examination held by the Civil Service Commissioners under the Civil Service Regulation Acts.  I might add for the information of the Deputy that we take this question as applying only to established postmen. The information given is given only in regard to established postmen.  There are also other large classes of postmen, auxiliary postmen and part-time postmen. If the Deputy requires information regarding the system of recruitment of these men, I will gladly supply it. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that I recently wrote to the Department concerning an appointment in Killarney, and I asked that a certain man who was carrying on duties in a temporary capacity be continued, and the reply I got was that ex-National Army men should get preference? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not dealing now with the established class.  These men do not belong to the established class, and the original question put to me was taken as applying to the established class. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THURLES POSTMAN'S PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will state whether it is a fact that Michael Toohey, Thurles, Co. Tipperary, who has resigned his position as postman after 42 years' service, has been refused superannuation or compensation; if he will state the reasons for the refusal, and if he will undertake to review the decision. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Michael Toohey was employed as an unestablished part-time postman and resigned his appointment on 12adh Meadhon Fhomhair, 1925.  Service in an unestablished part-time capacity is not pensionable under the Superannuation Acts, but I am having further inquiry made as to the possibility of a grant being made from the special fund at my disposal, and I will communicate the result to the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - POLITICAL MEETINGS AND NATIONAL SCHOOLS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for   Education if he is aware that Cumann na nGaedheal meetings are being held, and were held, in the National School, Breaghy, and in the National School, Ballinalee, in the parish of Clonbroney, County Longford; whether it is the policy of his Department to allow political party meetings to be held in National Schools; and, if so, whether he will order that National Schools be made available for meetings of all political parties. 
     
     
      
       I have communicated with the manager of the schools referred to, and he has replied that no political meetings have been or are being held in these schools.  He states that, in connection with the formation of credit societies and the provision of loans to farmers, permission was asked to discuss these matters with the priests in the schools.  Further, more recently the unemployed labourers and some farmers made a similar request for the use of the schools in connection with the allocation of the £150,000 grant. These requests were acceded to by the manager, and he opened his schools to his people of all shades of opinion. 
       It is not proposed to withdraw the regulation which prohibits the holding of political meetings in National Schools. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that these meetings are advertised in the local paper, that the Cumann na nGaedheal political representative attends them and that they are also advertised on the chapel gates for weeks? 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that these meetings were convened for the purpose of considering unemployment that existed in the district, that they were convened at the instigation of the people principally concerned, and that the public representatives of the district were invited to attend those meetings to give their views upon the matter?  Some of the public representatives did attend, others did not.  I would like to know the reason why Deputy Killane did not attend. 
     
     
      
       Nothing that Deputy Killane has said or that   Deputy Connolly has said conflicts in any way with the answer I have given. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister for Education see that the schools are available in the same way for every political organisation just as well as for Cumann na nGaedheal? 
     
     
      
       There is an implication in that quite at variance with the answer which I gave and which was based on the information given me by the manager of the school. I have no reason whatever to cast the slightest doubt on the information given me by the manager. 
     
     
      
       I wish to ask the Minister does he deny that meetings have been held in these schools under the auspices of the Cumann na nGaedheal organisation? 
     
     
      
       I have no information whatsoever of the kind. If the Deputy listened to the answer he would see that quite clearly.  In the supplementary questions that was not even stated. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister for Education incapable of getting the information? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid the Deputy does not know much about the management of schools. The schools do not belong to the Minister for Education.  I asked the manager of the schools, who represents the trustees of the schools, whether political meetings were held and he says no.  He describes the kind of meetings that were held and I have no reason whatever to doubt his word. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GEOLOGICAL SURVEY IN LEITRIM AND SLIGO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if an application had been received by his Department some time ago to have an expert geological survey of the townlands of Beaugh, Garvagh, Tullynascreena, Greaghnafarna, in the County Leitrim, and Boleymount, Lavally, Carranagulty, and Cartrondargang, County Sligo; and also if a promise was made in December, 1926, that an expert would be sent; if the expert has been   sent, and, if so, what the result of his survey was, and whether his report is available. 
     
     
      
       My Department received correspondence on this subject late in 1926, and in December of that year; the correspondent was informed that the Geological Mapping of the Connaught coal deposits was under revision by the Geological Survey who were working as a beginning on the known deposits of the Arigna Coalfield and had in view the re-examination of the whole district, including the townlands mentioned, and that it would be some time before the particular locality could be re-examined.  This revision has not yet been completed.  The correspondent was informed further that the formations shown on the original survey maps of the area in question lie beneath the productive coal measures. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if the Committee of Inquiry recently set up by this House had this matter placed before them, and will the consideration of it be so prolonged that it will not be likely to lead to anything definite that would be of practical use by way of dealing with the question of unemployment that has been so seriously entertained in this House? 
     
     
      
       I have no information that the matter was before the Committee on Unemployment.  I do not consider it would be a useful way to employ the unemployed by getting them to look for what is not there. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KERRY LIMESTONE QUARRIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he can state (a) what is the cause of delay in re-opening the limestone quarries in Tureenamult, Gneeveguilla, Rathmore, Kerry; (b) when he expects the quarries to open, and (c) who is at present in control of the quarries. 
     
     
      
       I cannot state the cause of delay in re-opening the quarry in question, nor have I any information as to when it may open.  As   regards the last part of the question, I understand that on the occasion of a sale under the Land Purchase Acts, this quarry was conveyed by the vendor to trustees to be held by them on trust to work and develop it for the use and benefit of the tenant purchasers on the estate and on other estates of the vendor so as to ensure a supply of limestone and lime for the cultivation of the tenants' holdings.  I have not control over this quarry, and any question as to its working would appear to be a matter for the trustees and beneficiaries. I am informed unofficially that the difficulty which the trustees found themselves in arose over a particular house, and that another department is endeavouring to get that difficulty settled, after which there may be no obstacle to the working of the quarry. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BIRDHILL RAILWAY CROSSING (TIPPERARY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that there has been no gate-keeper of the railway crossing on the public road from Birdhill (Co. Tipperary) to O'Brien's Bridge, for some months past; that this has resulted in great inconvenience, and even danger, to the large numbers of drivers of vehicles using this road; and whether he proposes to make representations to the railway company in the matter. 
     
     
      
       I have already made representations on this matter to the railway company, which contends that it is under no obligation to provide a gate-keeper at this crossing.  The obligations of the company in regard to level crossing depend on statute and, in case of a dispute, are for a court to define.  I have no authority to do so. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand from the Minister that railway companies are free to leave all their crossing gates unattended and thereby put the public who use the roads to very considerable risk? 
     
     
      
       Any man who is under a legal obligation to do anything is free to neglect his obligation, subject to a court action being taken to enforce the obligation. 
     
     
     
      
       Who is bound to take action against the company if they have any legal action? 
     
     
      
       The people who feel that they are aggrieved. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REFUSAL TO PAY UNEMPLOYMENT CLAIMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state the reasons for refusing unemployment benefit to Michael Dooley, Mayhora, Castlecomer. 
     
     
      
       Michael Dooley, Mayhora, Castlecomer, made a claim to unemployment insurance benefit on the 13th February, 1927.  His claim was disallowed by the Insurance Officer under Sub-sections (ii) and (iii) of Section 7 (i) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, on the grounds that he was &ldquo;not unemployed&rdquo; and &ldquo;not unable to obtain suitable employment.&rdquo;  Mr. Dooley has appealed against this decision, and his appeal will be heard by the Court of Referees at an early date. 
     
     
      
       What is the definition of &ldquo;unemployment&rdquo;?  I understand that this man has a few acres of land and a large family and that he has to eke out an existence by getting employment from the County Council. You compel the County Council to insure him and then when he becomes unemployed you refuse to pay him benefit.  I would like to know what is the law in regard to the holding of land.  Am I to understand that if a man has only half an acre of land that your local officer can rule him out of unemployment benefit? 
     
     
      
       The case in question will now be decided by the Court of Referees to whom the applicant has appealed. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary-Secretary say what is the maximum number of acres of land which an unemployed man is entitled to hold in order to enable him to get unemployment benefit under the Act? 
     
     
      
       It does not depend on the amount at all. 
     
     
     
      
       What instructions are given to the insurance officers with regard to the number? 
     
     
      
       None. 
     
     
      
       He uses his own discretion? 
     
     
      
       Yes; decided by cases. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why unemployment benefit has been refused to Miss Kathleen Dooley, Kilkenny Street, Castlecomer. 
     
     
      
       Miss Kathleen Dooley, Kilkenny Street, Castlecomer, made a claim to benefit on the 7th of November, 1927, which was disallowed by the Insurance Officer under Section 7 (1) (ii) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, on the ground that the claimant was &ldquo;not unemployed.&rdquo; Miss Dooley appealed against the disallowance to the Court of Referees, which recommended:&mdash; 
       1.  That benefit be disallowed in respect of the period 14th November, 1927, to the 16th December, 1927, inclusive, on the ground that the claimant was &ldquo;not unemployed&rdquo; in that period when she was undergoing a course of instruction with the Castlecomer Poultry Society; 
       2.  That benefit be allowed in respect of unemployment proved outside of the period 14th November, 1927, to 16th December, 1927, inclusive. 
       All benefit due accordingly to the claimant in respect of the days of proved unemployment, viz.: twenty-eight days' benefit, has been paid. 
     
     
      
       As this girl could not find employment she had to go as an apprentice, and are we to take it from the Minister's reply that any person assisting as an apprentice is ruled out, and that persons in her position who are working without remuneration in kind or in cash may be at the loss of their unemployment benefit? 
     
     
      
       The Court of Referees ruled according to the statute that she was not unemployed, and therefore that she could not be paid during that period. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CASTLECOMER COALFIELDS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state what steps have been taken by his Department to ascertain the coal-bearing qualities of the Firoda (Castlecomer) district, and, if no steps have been taken, whether he will arrange to have a survey made. 
     
     
      
       A preliminary inspection of this area was made by an expert from my Department some time ago, but for the preparation of an adequate report it is considered necessary to have the information which would be provided by a revision of the geological maps of the Leinster coalfield which was then being undertaken. Owing to more urgent work it has since been found necessary to interrupt this revision, but I shall endeavour to have it expedited as far as practicable. 
     
     
      
       That is the same reply substantially that the Minister gave to Deputy Holohan six months ago.  Am I to understand that at the end of another six or twelve months I will get the same answer? 
     
     
      
       It depends on whether the necessity for the interruption of the work has ceased or not. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RECIPROCAL UNEMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS WITH NORTHERN IRELAND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is prepared to give further consideration to the urgent need for establishing reciprocal arrangements with the Government of Northern Ireland for the payment of unemployment insurance benefits to insured persons who are, from time to time, compelled to cross the border, and as a result find themselves deprived of the benefits of insurance schemes towards which they are compelled to contribute both in the Free State and in Northern Ireland; and whether any further proposals for a solution of the difficulty have been made by either the Saorstat or the Northern Ireland Government. 
     
     
      
       I can add nothing to the reply I gave to a similar   question by Deputy Carney on the 29th February. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that under Section 8, sub-section (4) of the Unemployment Insurance Act citizens of the Saorstat had been awarded 150 days' benefit and had become unemployed, and instead of drawing 150 days' benefit, went to England and to Northern Ireland in search of employment. They got employment there and worked for a period extending over 18 months.  On returning to the Free State they found that they were debarred from receving the benefit that had already been allotted to them previous to their going to England. Does the Minister not think that this is a great hardship on these citizens of the Saorstat who, instead of knocking around the corners of their native towns, went to a foreign country in search of work?  Is the Minister aware that while reciprocal arrangements can be made in the case of the professions, the dental profession, the legal profession and the medical profession, signed by Balfour as representing Great Britain, McGilligan representing the Free State&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is now making a speech. 
     
     
      
       It is all right; it is to the point. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must sit down. 
     
     
      
       And Dawson Bates representing Northern Ireland&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must sit down.  Next question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RETURN OF A SPORTING GUN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he is aware that a sporting gun registered in the Chief Ordnance Office, Royal Arsenal, Wool-wich (Serial No. D/10,553) as the property of Patrick Casserly, Derryveigh, Ballymahon, is now in custody in the Chief Odnance Office, Island Bridge Barracks, Dublin; that the owner has applied repeatedly to have the gun restored to him; that his request has been   refused on the ground that he did not produce a receipt from the British Army authorities, though he did not in act receive any such certificate; and whether the Minister will now direct that the gun be restored to him. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Casserly was informed on the 29th November, 1924, and again on the 1st and 17th September, 1925, that on production of a firearms certificate obtainable from the Garda Siochana, the weapon would be issued to him.  Up to the present Mr. Casserly has not furnished the necessary certificate and until he does so the gun cannot be restored to him. 
     
     
      
       I could not hear a single word that the Minister said. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would be good enough to repeat the reply. 
     
     
      
       I think I spoke up, and if the Deputy did not hear me it was because the ordinary Deputies were not mannerly enough to keep order.  (Reply re-read.) 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Minister's reply, would he say who are the extraordinary Deputies? 
     
     
      
       That was not part of the reply. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister if this gun is not in the possession of the Free State Army authorities at present?  Under what circumstances will they give it back to the rightful owner, and if they are not going to do that will they compensate him for the loss of the gun? 
     
     
      
       I have already answered the question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MILITARY PENSION CLAIM (FERMOY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state why the application for compensation of Mr. John McCarthy, Ballyvonare, Buttevant, County Cork, who was accidentally wounded while on guard duty in the Military Barracks, Fermoy, County Cork, on the 2nd March, 1922, was refused   under the Army Pensions Act, 1923. 
     
     
      
       Mr. McCarthy was not wounded on the 2nd March, 1922, but at a later date, when he was not acting in the service of the State. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister be prepared to make inquiries into the case, as I hold two doctors' certificates stating that this man was seriously wounded on the 27th March, 1922? 
     
     
      
       The question says the 2nd of March. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister be prepared to inquire into the circumstances of the case again? 
     
     
      
       I have inquired. Is there any additional evidence? 
     
     
      
       What decision was come to? 
     
     
      
       That he was not acting in the service of the State at that time. 
     
     
      
       How could it be possible for him to be on guard duty in the military barracks, Fermoy? 
     
     
      
       There was a criminal conspiracy at that time against the State. 
     
     
      
       A successful one against the Irish Republic. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE ACTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the total number of persons in Saorstat Eireann who are insured under the National Health Insurance Acts, and the number of these who have attained the age of sixty-five years, but have not attained the age of seventy. 
     
     
      
       It is estimated that the number of persons insured under the National Health Insurance Acts is 404,340, of whom it is estimated that 7,985 have attained the age of 65 years, but have not attained the age of 70 years. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DONEGAL HOUSE SHORTAGE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that there is great hardship in the district of Newtowncunningham, County Donegal, owing to the shortage of houses, as a result of which some people are compelled to live in cow-sheds, and whether he proposes to take any steps to relieve this congestion by having labourers' cottages erected. 
     
     
      
       The Housing conditions in Newtowncunningham have not been specially brought to my notice but inquiries will be made.  The provision of labourers' cottages in this area is a matter in the first instance for the Donegal Board of Health and Public Assistance. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WATER SUPPLY FOR ACHILL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether his Department has received representations from the people of the townland and village of Valley, Achill, to the effect that there is no proper water supply available for the inhabitants of the district, and that the present supply drawn from a neighbouring lake is polluted, and has been declared by an analyst to be unfit for use; whether he is aware that serious illnesses have been caused by the use of the water now available; and if he will say what steps have been, or are being, taken to provide these people with a supply of pure water. 
     
     
      
       The complaints received in regard to the water supply to Valley, Achill, were investigated locally by a medical inspector in May, 1926, and were not found to be based on grounds of a serious character.  The analyst's report was to the effect that the water was &ldquo;unfit for use without filtration.&rdquo;  The Board of Health were notified that the provision of a small filter and tank connected with a pump would meet the necessities of the case, but when the work was advertised difficulties were aparently experienced in finding a contractor.  The present position is indefinite, but the Board of Health were advised on the 2nd instant   to undertake the work otherwise than by contract if tenders cannot be obtained. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CREAMERY REORGANISATION SCHEME. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state the number and names of creameries which have ben closed and are likely to be closed down as redundant, under the Creamery Reorganisation Scheme, and whether any return showing details of these creameries, will be presented to the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Forty-eight creameries have been closed up to the present under the scheme referred to. I am sending the Deputy a list of the names of these creameries.  I am not in a position at present to indicate the number or names of the further creameries which it may be found necessary to close down. 
       In regard to the concluding portion of the question, I am not aware as to the nature of the details which the Deputy has in mind, but if he will furnish me with information on this point I shall look into the matter. 
     
     
      
       Having regard to the uncertainty which at present prevails as to the attitude of the Government to the creameries, or ones that may possibly be erected, and also bearing in mind the general dissatisfaction at the result of the secret negotiations carried on by the Government, would the Minister consider it advisable to make the pronouncement that I have asked, so that this matter can be investigated in the light of public discussion? 
     
     
      
       I am quite willing, but I want to know what inquiries the Deputy wants.  The question runs: &ldquo;To ask the Minister for Lands and Agriculture if he will state the number and names of creameries which have been closed.&rdquo;  I stated that forty-eight creameries have been closed and that I will send the Deputy a return of the names.  That is the answer to the first part.  I also stated that I am not in a position at present to indicate how   many are really to be closed in the future. 
     
     
      
       That is the point between us. 
     
     
      
       The latter part of the question reads: &ldquo;And whether any return showing details of these creameries will be presented to the Dail.&rdquo; What details does the Deputy want? I suggest that the Deputy should think over the question of what details he wants, and then I will consider whether I can give them. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DREDGING OF KINSALE HARBOUR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that representations were made to his Department some four months ago regarding the urgent necessity for dredging the Harbour at Kinsale; that the Harbour Commissioners are prepared to bear a reasonable portion of the cost, and that his Department promised to send an engineer to report on the matter at an early date, and whether, in view of the importance of this work to the town and port, he will state when he proposes to have this examination made. 
     
     
      
       I am awaiting reply to a communication on the subject which was addressed to the Kinsale Harbour Commissioners by my Department on the 14th ultimo inviting the Commissioners to furnish a close estimate of the cost of the dredging which it is considered will meet the fishery requirements of the port.  Until that reply has come to hand I am unable to make a definite statement on the matter. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a communication was sent to the Board of Works some three or four weeks ago in connection with this matter asking for an estimate as regards the dredging, and is he aware that that communication appears to have been pigeon-holed? 
     
     
      
       I have nothing whatever to do with the Board of Works. I am awaiting a reply to my communication to the Kinsale Harbour Commissioners of the 14th February. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ROAD WORKER'S DISMISSAL. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries why Mr. Bartley Doran was dismissed from his employment on the road being constructed by the Land Commission at Sheskinacrone, Dungloe, County Donegal. 
     
     
      
       I am making inquiries as regards this matter and will communicate with the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TALAMH DO ROINNT (CO. CHILL DARA). 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh an bhfuil aon ni a dheanamh aige chun talamh eastait Chluain Chorraigh i mBaile Nuadh i gCo.  Chill Dara do roinnt ar na daoine a bhfuil se ag teastail uatha; an fior gur eirigh fear darab ainm Prendergast as an fheirm &mdash;cupla cead acra&mdash;afuair se le deanai; agus an dtabharfar an meid sin fein do sna daoine seo. 
     
     
      
       Ta breithniu agus socru a dheanamh ag Coimisiun na Talmhan fe lathair i dtaobh conus a deighlealfar leis na tailte ata gan roinnt ar Estat Chluain Chorraigh. Ni fior e gur eirigh fear darb ainm Prendergast as an bhfeirm a tugadh do le deanai. 
     
     
      
       An bhfuil fhios ag an Runai, um an am go mbeidh an cheist seo na hiasachtai reitithe ag an Aire, go mbeidh se rodheanach do sna feirmeoiri aon rud fonta do dheanamh chun a gcuid talmhan do chur i gcoir&mdash;chun siol do chur agus a leitheid. 
     
     
      
       Dubhras leis an Teachta gur shocruigheam ar cheana i dtaobh na bhfeirmeoiri a bhi oiriunach. 
     
     
      
       Sin e is do leis an Runai. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARREARS IN LAND ANNUITIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what is the total amount of arrears in land annuities   due to 1st January, 1928, in the Saorstat. 
     
     
      
       Figures showing the arrears of land purchase annuities as at 1st January, 1928, are not available. but the arrears outstanding at 31st January, 1928, amounted to £585,760. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WEST CORK LAND ANNUITIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state the number of decrees for non-payment of land annuities in the constituency of West Cork, and the total amount which they represent. 
     
     
      
       According to the latest report of the West Cork State Solicitor, the number of undischarged decrees in his area for arrears of land purchase annuities was 121, and the total amount of arrears involved £3,068. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CORK ANNUITY ARREARS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what is the total amount of arrears in land annuities due to 1st January, 1928, in Cork County, and the amount of agricultural grant stopped from Cork County Council in the financial year 1927-28, in respect of arrears in land annuities. 
     
     
      
       Figures showing the arrears of land purchase annuities in County Cork as of 1st January, 1928, are not available, but the arrears outstanding at 31st January, 1928, amount to £48,769.  The second part of the question should be addressed to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary be prepared to accept these arrears by small instalments? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy had better communicate with the Land Commission on that matter.  It depends entirely on the circumstances of the case. The Land Commission is under a statutory obligation to collect these arrears. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CULLEN ESTATE (COUNTY TIPPERARY). 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if it is proposed that a report of the proceedings before Mr. Justice Wylie in connection with the purchase by the Land Commission of the estate of J. Greene, Cullen, County Tipperary, shall be circulated to the Deputies for County Tipperary. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings before the Judicial Commissioner are Judicial proceedings and reports of them cannot be circulated.  I may add that if the Deputy refers to the estate of Nicholas J. Greene, there were not any proceedings before the Judicial Commissioner in regard to it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEWIS ESTATE (CO. GALWAY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Land Commission, in dealing with the estate of Mr. John A. Lewis, County Galway (Record No. S. 1990), proposes to recognise the owner as tenant to himself for an area of 71 acres, 3 roods, 31 perches, in the townland of Cuilleendaeagh, and an area of 46 acres, 2 roods, 5 perches in the townland of Garraunphaudeen; and if such action is proposed, what the reason therefor is. 
     
     
      
       In the schedule of particulars lodged by the owner of the estate of J.A. Lewis, County Galway, to enable the lands to be vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day under the Land Act, 1923, J.A. Lewis has been returned as tenant of two holdings, viz., 71a. 1r. 31p. of Cuilleendaeagh and 46a. 2r. 5p. of Garraunphaudeen, under judicial rents.  The Land Commission on the 7th instant published notice of their intention to retain these holdings under Section 28 (6) (d) of the Act, with a view to taking proceedings for the resumption of the holdings after the appointed day has been fixed for this estate. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Parliamentary Secretary if he will give the answer to a question which I had down yesterday, as some mistake has arisen   in one of the Departments in reference to it?  If I get a written answer I shall be satisfied. 
     
     
      
       Very well. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NEW ROSS DRAINAGE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries why the drainage of the flooded lands at Ballilogue, near New Ross, is not being proceeded with, and if he will take steps to have this urgent work resumed without delay. 
     
     
      
       The reclamation of the flooded lands of Ballilogue is now complete save for some minor repairs to the embankment which will be carried out shortly.  The question of the closure of the breach in the main embankment between the townlands of Grange and Coole whereby portions of these lands are now subject to flooding by high tides is under consideration with a view to ascertaining whether the work could be undertaken during the coming summer. 
     
     
      
       I think the Parliamentary Secretary has been supplied with information which is at variance with the facts.  He says that the work is nearly complete.  An embankment was made on the flooded lands but there are still 170 acres flooded.  I presume that, while no steps have been taken to deal with the situation, the Parliamentary Secretary expects the occupants of the land to pay their annuities? 
     
     
      
       The payment of land annuities is an entirely different question. I think I made it clear in my reply that the particular matter in which the Deputy is interested is under consideration.  Deputies are aware that it is not an economic proposition to carry out work of this kind during the winter months. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DICKENS ESTATE (ACHILL). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what steps have been, or are being, taken to carry out necessary improvements on the Dickens Estate, Curraun, Achill, lately acquired by the Land Commission; whether he   is aware especially of the bad housing conditions which exist on this estate, and whether he will take immediate steps to remedy these conditions. 
     
     
      
       Estates are dealt with in the order of priority in which their Schedules have been lodged in the Land Commission.  This estate has not yet been reached but when it is being dealt with the Deputy may depend upon it that the fullest and most sympathetic consideration will be given to the question of its general improvement. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary say how soon he expects that this particular estate will be reached? 
     
     
      
       I cannot say at the moment.  Particulars concerning the estate have only been recently lodged in the Land Commission and there are some thousands of estates ahead of this one. 
     
     
      
       Would not the Parliamentary Secretary take into account, as regards the order in which estates are dealt with, the necessity of having the work carried out on this particular estate? 
     
     
      
       Probably the same case could be made for, at least, 90 per cent. of the estates that are being dealt with at the moment. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - McDONNELL ESTATE (ACHILL). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that for the past few years drift sand has been gradually encroaching on the lands held by tenants on the McDonnell Estate at Valley, Achill; whether he is aware that very considerable damage has been done to the crops this year; that in many cases it has been impossible to harvest the potatoes and root crops sown last spring; that the holding of one tenant has been completely covered with sand, while very large portions of others have been rendered unfit for grazing or cultivation, and if he will say what steps are being taken to prevent the encroachment of the sand, and to compensate the tenants concerned, for the losses they have suffered. 
     
     
     
      
       The general problem of the prevention of damage caused to holdings by the disintegration of sand dunes during storms, and the deposit of storm-borne sand on the holdings, has been engaging attention.  Expert opinion has been obtained as to the best preventive measures, including the development and spreading of suitable grasses with natural binding properties and the planting of shelter belts of trees. 
       As regards the estate of Leslie Elliott (formerly McDonnell Estate) referred to in the Deputy's question, the Land Commission have had a full report by their Inspector regarding damage to holdings by sand-blowing, and this case will be considered with other estates similarly affected. 
       Last spring the Land Commission distributed the untenanted land on this estate, and they gave special consideration to the claims of tenants whose home holdings had deteriorated as a result of sand-blowing. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COUNTY KILKENNY ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if the Irish Land Commission have inspected the lands known as White's Castle, Knocktopher, County Kilkenny, with a view to their acquisition for distribution amongst uneconomic holders and landless men. 
     
     
      
       I will communicate the reply in writing to the Deputy in the course of a few days. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PURCHASE OF TENANTED AND UNTENANTED LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what is the total value of tenanted and untenanted land purchased under the Land Act, 1923, and the approximate value of land yet to be purchased; what is the value of tenanted and untenanted land purchased in County Limerick. 
     
     
      
       Up to the end of February, 1928, under the provisions of the Land Acts, 1923-27, the total price of tenanted land vested in the Land Commission amounts to £1,172,005 and the total price of untenanted   land vested in the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923, amounts to £2,016,111. 
       The respective prices of tenanted and untenanted land vested in the Land Commission in County Limerick are £58,265 (tenanted) and £79,230 (untenanted). 
       It has been estimated that advances amounting to £30,000,000 will be required to complete Land Purchase in Saorstat Eireann under the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNTENANTED LAND LEASES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that delay exists in arriving at decisions under Section 11 of the Land Act, 1927, where owners of parcels of untenanted land which are held under a fee-farm grant, renewable leases, or leases for long terms, apply to the Land Commission for an order that the parcel shall vest in the Land Commission on the appointed day, and that in the meantime landlords are proceeding against such owners for arrears of rent which, in the case of an order being made vesting the land in the Land Commission, shall not be payable by the vendor; and whether steps will be taken to expedite matters, and save owners of such land from unnecessary expenses. 
     
     
      
       To enable the Land Commission to judge whether or not a case comes within the provisions of Section 11 of the Land Act, 1927, the lands have to be inspected before the application under the section is heard by the Commissioners.  The applications lodged with the Land Commission are being dealt with as rapidly as possible. 
     
   
   
     VOTE ON ACCOUNT. 
     
      
       In view of the fact that a motion in reference to the Vote on Account appears on the Order Paper to-day, may I ask when we will have the memorandum of procedure in reference to it? 
     
     
      
       It is being sent out to-night.  It relates to   Estimates which cannot be discussed until fourteen days after the circulation of the Book of Estimates which was sent out last Friday. 
     
   
   
     RESIGNATION OF LEAS-CHEANN COMHAIRLE. 
     
      
       Before beginning public business, I wish to state that the Leas-Cheann Comhairle desires, through me, to tender to the Dail his resignation of the office of Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  He desires to express his appreciation of the kindness, courtesy and assistance which he received during his term of office from all Deputies. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask whether the Leas-Cheann Comhairle is willing to give to the Dail his reasons for taking this serious step? 
     
     
      
       I have not considered that matter.  I only got notice of it a few minutes before 3 o'clock.  I do not think a debate can arise on it now.  It is a matter for consideration as to what steps can be taken on the matter of his resignation. 
     
     
      
       My question was whether the Leas-Cheann Comhairle is willing to give his reasons to the Dail for taking this step. 
     
     
      
       I am willing to do so. 
     
     
      
       How are we to determine the time for such debate? 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to settle that with the Leas-Cheann Comhairle.  As the resignation of a Leas-Cheann Comhairle is an event which has never occurred before, it is my own view that in regard to a statement by Deputy Hogan it should not be made to-day, but apparently the resignation must take effect from the time it is announced by the Ceann Comhairle.  It is not desirable that a debate should take place on it to-day. I will consult with Deputy Hogan as to when his statement can be made regarding his reasons for his resignation. 
     
   
   
     PUBLIC BUSINESS. - SUPPLEMENTARY AND ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. 
     
        The Dail resumed consideration of Suplementary and Additional Estimates in Committee on Finance. 
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - VOTE 54&mdash;LAND COMMISSION. 
     Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £35,000 chun ioctha an Bhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1928, chun Tuarastail agus Cestaisi Oifig Choimisiun Talmhan na hEireann (44 agus 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, agus c. 71, s. 4; 48 agus 49 Vict. c. 73, ss. 17, 18 agus 20; 53 agus 54 Vict., c. 42, s. 2; 54 agus 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38 agus c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; an tacht Bli Thalmhan (Coimisiun), 1923, an tacht Talmhan, 1923, agus Acht na mBannai Talmhan, 1925. 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £35,000 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1928, for the Salaries and Expenses of the Irish Land Commission (44 and 45 Vict., c. 49, s. 46, and c. 71, s. 4; 48 and 49 Vict., c. 73; s.s. 17, 18 and 20; 53 and 54 Vict., c. 42, s. 2; 54 and 55 Vict., c. 48; 3 Edw. 7, c. 37; 7 Edw. 7, c. 38 and c. 56; 9 Edw. 7, c. 42; the Land Law (Commission) Act, 1923, the Land Act, 1923, and the Land Bond Act, 1925). 
     
      
       In opposing this Supplementary Vote to the Land Commission, I would find it difficult, I think, to speak in stronger terms against the dilatory methods of the Land Commission than Deputy Reddy did in this House on a former occasion when introducing a motion directed to expediting the purchase and division of lands under the Land Act of 1923. Deputy Roddy at that time was a member of the Government Party, and, naturally, was not actuated by any desire to disparage in any way the   efforts of the Government.  Nevertheless, his criticism of the Government on that occasion and their failure to tackle the land problem in a really determined manner was just as strong as that expressed by any Deputy on those benches yesterday.  Speaking in support of his motion on the 26th November, 1925, he said:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;When the 1923 Act was passed it was assumed, and rightly assumed, I think, that the Government meant to tackle this problem in a really serious and determined manner.  The advantages that the Act would confer on the country were penned in the most brilliant colours, and promises were held out to the people that its provisions would be in full effect in the course of two or three years at the outside.  These promises have not materialised, with the result that a feeling almost akin to despair is beginning to take possession of the minds of many people.&rdquo; 
     
     Whether Deputy Roddy's words on that occasion were intended to bring home to the mind of the Government the dissatisfaction expressed by most people at the ineffectiveness of the Land Commission, or whether they were merely intended as a political appeal to his own constituents, I do not profess to know.  At all events, the problem of land purchase has not improved very much since 1925, if one is to judge by the statements made here yesterday, although Deputy Roddy is now Parliamentary Secretary and the political head of the Land Commission. The speech of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture yesterday was anything but convincing.  He dealt with this great problem in a manner so flippant as to lead one to conclude that the Government were merely endeavouring to whitewash themselves and the officials of the Land Commission, and that they cared very little for the unfortunate farmers in congested districts, especially in the West.  The Minister quoted figures in support of his statement, but they afforded cold comfort to the unfortunate congests who have already grown weary of Government promises.  That the Minister   has always available a very elaborate array of figures on all occasions in support of Government policy is evident from the speech of Deputy Roddy, portion of which I have already quoted. Referring to the Minister's figures, he said:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;The Minister may quote an elaborate array of figures in order to show the amount of preliminary work the Land Commission is doing.  He did quote figures extensively in the debate on this year's Agricultural Estimates, figures designed to show the amount of land that had actually been inspected by the Commission, the amount of land that had actually been valued, and the amount of land that had actually been divided, and for which land purchase agreements had been signed.  These figures undoubtedly looked very formidable on paper, but, after all, they carried no conviction to the minds of the ordinary small landholders throughout the country, who want to see some tangible, practicable evidence of the Minister's policy.  They want to have the lands divided, and divided immediately, and no other argument will convince them of the effectiveness of the work of the Land Commission.&rdquo; 
     I wonder will Deputy Roddy speak in similar terms of the Minister's figures now that he has been promoted to the position of Parliamentary Secretary? As far as the division of land in County Sligo is concerned, I have no hesitation in saying it has been done in such a way that only those who are members of Cumann na nGaedheal have the least chance of securing land.  Recently on the Gore-Booth estate at Raughley when land was being divided the most deserving tenants, some of them poor fishermen, were denied land for no other reason, I suppose, than that they were not supporters of Deputy Roddy, while others, who were well known to be prominent members of Cumann na nGaedheal, and who had already sufficient land, were brought in some cases a distance of four miles and given portions of this land.  This is only one example of the way the Land Commission is being used throughout the country for party purposes.  I appeal to   Deputies to refuse to agree to this Supplementary Estimate in view of the very unsatisfactory way in which the Land Commission has dealt with the land problem, and to mark their disapproval of the way the funds of the Land Commission are being and have been used by the Government to secure support for their own political party. 
     
      
       I have been listening during the past few days to a caoin from occupants of the Opposition Benches in regard to the way farmers are being treated by the Land Commission. I have been working and fighting for the farmers of the Free State to secure the rights they have got under the Land Act passed in the Dail when the Deputies sitting on the opposite Benches were not taking much interest in settling the farmers but were taking considerable interest in unsettling them.  We hear that the Land Commission is not expeditious in dealing with the division of lands.  I regard that as a purely political cry.  I am speaking from experience of my own county, and I know as much about the division of land and land problems as any other man in that county.  The figures regarding the division of land in my county, Tipperary, are: since the 1st April, 1923, 13,221 acres have been divided; 21,020 acres have been vested in the Land Commission for the purpose of division, and 26,000 acres are the subject of inquiry.  That is, in Tipperary over 60,000 acres have been handled and considered by the Land Commission with a view to division, and as the total acreage in Tipperary is 1,000,000, that is about one-sixteenth, or 6 per cent.  We are told that the Land Commission is dilatory.  While I have no figures to prove it, I believe I am correct in saying that more land has been acquired for division in Tipperary since control was taken over by our Government than there had been for ten years under the former regime.  It is my opinion that as much land has been taken over in Tipperary for the purpose of division as was taken over altogether under the previous regime. I am not against the division of land. I have always publicly given my approval to a sane division of land, but I am opposed to using the problem of   land division for party purposes.  I do not accuse Deputies on the opposite Benches of being the only Deputies who are using this question for party purposes, but I say it is untrue and unsound; it is worse than unsound, it is wrong in the interests of the nation&mdash; that the land problem should be used as a party cry and for party purposes. 
       We have heard &ldquo;hear, hear,&rdquo; from Deputy Fahy.  What part does Deputy Fahy play in that connection?  We have heard cries from the opposite Benches.  We have heard that the Land Commission is dilatory and slow in carrying out the purchase of land.  As I understand the carrying out of land purchase, the owners have to be paid in accordance with the laws passed here by means of Land Bonds.  I heard in the House to-day from Deputy Roddy that the liability of this State for the completion of land purchase, for the purchase of land for the purpose of division and for sale to the tenants, is going to be something approximating to £30,000,000.  We have Deputies going down the country telling the farmers that this country is not liable for the payment of Land Commission annuities. 
     
     
      
       Are we in order in discussing the payment or non-payment of land annuities on this Vote? 
     
     
      
       We are not. 
     
     
      
       It is quite relevant, because I am explaining that Deputies are complaining that the sale of land is not being expedited (cries of &ldquo;Order.&rdquo;) If it is not being expedited, if the owners of land are not in a hurry to dispose of the land, is it any wonder?  Thirty million pounds have to be advanced on the credit of the State.  Something like one hundred million pounds have already been advanced on the credit of the State. Deputies are going round the country telling the people that the nation is not liable. 
     
     
      
       We do not want to enter into a discussion now on this question of land annuities.  It is a big subject in itself, and if we are   going to discuss it, we should take it as a separate subject.  I admit that it might possibly be used by way of illustration, but anything further than that would compel me to allow Deputy Fahy, for example, to make his own defence. That would lead us away into another subject altogether. 
     
     
      
       I was only giving it by way of illustration.  In view of your ruling, sir, I will not pursue it any further.  The whole problem of land division is being used for political purposes, and it is unsound that the problem should be so used.  It is quite understandable that in the past when the land problem was a national one, it should be so used, but the land problem is now an internal and domestic one, and that political capital should be made out of it is really injurious and not helpful to the economic situation of the country. 
     
     
      
       It is still a national question. 
     
     
      
       We are all aware that the economic condition of the farmers is not satisfactory, and requires all the attention of those interested in the economic welfare of the country.  But it is a shame and a pity that the attention of the farmers should be directed to seeking a remedy for their economic problems along lines which will lead them nowhere.  The attention of farmers which might be helpfully and rightfully directed to other methods of dealing with these difficulties in which they find themselves, is directed to the vain hope that some day or another relief will be found from other sources because of political agitation.  It is all very fine to talk about expediting the work of the Land Commission.  The figures that I have given in regard to my own county show that the Land Commission has been expeditious and has done wonderful work in that county. Deputies must be aware of the problems which the Land Commission has to face in connection with the division of lands.  They must be aware that undue haste will react on the Land Commission, on the Government and on the country.  They must be   aware that there is a considerable amount of inquiry to be made and many legal transactions to be carried out before the land comes into the possession of the Land Commission ready for division.  They must be aware that when that part of the work has been carried out there remains the work of selecting the allottees, which is in itself a difficult problem.  The complaint I would make, if I have any complaint with regard to the work of the Land Commission in my county, is that they have if anything been too hasty in the selection of the men whom they placed on the land. 
     
     
      
       Especially on the Lattin Estate. 
     
     
      
       We will talk about that estate if the Deputy desires. If anything they have been too hasty. They have in some cases put men on the land who were undesirable and unsuitable, because of the desire to get work done, to achieve something and to make it plain that they were advancing. It is not in the interest of the Land Commission, the Government or the nation that unsuitable men should be placed on the land&mdash;men who would make a failure in the working of the land or who have no intention of working it.  These men will eventually fall back as a burden on the State. It is the duty of the Land Commission to approach the problem of allotting the land with great care and caution. Complaint has been made from the opposite Benches that men have got land because of party affiliations.  If I were asked did men get land in my county because of party affiliations, I would say from a surface view that men got land in that county because of affiliations with the party opposite.  I have heard complaints that men who were out in the Civil War and men who were in jail got allotments of land.  Surely if there is bias, if men are getting land because of party affiliations, that would not happen?  As a matter of fact, I have had something to do with recommending men for allotments.  I have recommended men who have got them and men who have not.  I have known good men and bad men to get land, but I cannot say from   my examination of the whole problem in my county&mdash;and I believe in that county a great deal of land has been settled; it is the second county in that regard&mdash;that land was granted because of party affiliations. 
     
     
      
       There are always exceptions to the rule. 
     
     
      
       I say that while it is essential in the interests of the country that land should be divided and that uneconomic holders should get additions to their land, it is also essential that the procedure in regard to the settlement of land should be carried out with care and caution.  I think it is right to say in that connection that the size of a holding ought not to be the only criterion.  There are big economic problems involved in this matter of the division of land.  Deputy Boland thought fit to mention the Lattin estate.  I have no apologies to make for my action in connection with that estate.  Anything I said or did about that estate was in the open, on the platforms of the meetings called in that particular place, and I have never been inside the door of the Land Commission to make representations for or against the division of the Lattin estate.  I want to say that in dealing with this problem of the division of land consideration must be given to every aspect of the case, besides the size of a holding.  The whole economic effect of the division of land must be taken into account.  In my county a good deal of land has been divided.  On this Lattin estate we have some of the best fattening land in the county.  An agitation was got up to have that divided.  In connection with the division of land the question of the quality of the land is a matter of considerable account. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order, may I ask are we discussing the policy of dividing land or the quality of the land? 
     
     
      
       I am very glad to notice the zeal for order this evening.  I am very glad indeed. 
     
     
      
       One of the industries of this country, and particularly   in my county, is the rearing of young stock.  As the land becomes more and more divided there will be more and more young stock reared. But young stock is not disposed of as young stock; it has to be fattened and finished, and there has to be land on which to finish young stock.  I think it is advisable in the interest of the economic situation that all the best fattening land&mdash;the grazing land&mdash; should not be acquired for division.  In my opinion the best land and the most suitable land for division is second-class land.  Deputies on the other side have now something good to go on, something that can be spoken of from the platform.  They can say, &ldquo;Heffernan, the Farmers' Party man, does not want to give the best land to the uneconomic holders.  He is prepared to give them second-class land.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Granite farms. 
     
     
      
       I say it is not in the interest of economic conditions always to divide the first-class grazing lands.  While the economic situation continues as it is, and for a long time to come, we must have fattening land on which to finish our cattle.  If we have not got that land we cannot sell to the best advantage, because it is out of the question to think of beasts a year and a half old being put into the stalls, nor can the small farmers' holding fatten them.  If you take away the real first-class grazing land, and our grazing land is the best of its kind in the world, you are seriously injuring the cattle trade.  Deputies on the benches opposite are not particularly interested in the cattle trade.  They get very interested when foot and mouth disease breaks out in the country. 
     
     I do not intend to go any further into details of the Lattin Estate, but there are many other aspects of it.  This is only a minor aspect of it in my opinion. I know perfectly well that an agitation on that estate was got up by a very adroit gentleman; and very likely any statements I make will be scrutinised and copied out of the Official Reports of the Dail, and probably without reference to the context.  However, they are welcome to any statement I have   made.  I am prepared to defend my action here and outside&mdash;in my own county. 
     
      
       On a point of order, I suppose the Deputy is in order in using the privileges of this House to attack a man who cannot reply to him here? 
     
     
      
       I did not gather from the Deputy's statement that he was attacking any particular person. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy spoke about a very adroit gentleman who would carefully read, take out and misrepresent what Deputy Heffernan was saying in this House. 
     
     
      
       That sounds very mild compared to many of the things that I have heard.  I do not know the person concerned, and there is no indication given as to who he is.  It is a political question. 
     
     
      
       I think it might be information to you and to the House to say&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Order! If the Deputy gives the name now he will make it worse. 
     
     
      
       I am not going to give the name, but perhaps I may say that that adroit gentleman knows more about the Land Acts than anyone in this House, except perhaps the Minister for Agriculture. 
     
     
      
       I do not deny that that particular gentleman does know a great deal about the Land Acts.  I do not deny he knows still more about land agitation.  Now, having dealt with the problem of the actual division of land in my county. I say that, in my opinion, and so far as I have been able to observe as a member of the Farmers' Party when it stood in its old position, and as a member of the Farmers' Party as associated with the Government, the Land Commission officials have in my county carried out their work expeditiously and efficiently, particularly in regard to the actual acquisition of land.  They have touched one-sixteenth   of the land, and that one-sixteenth is roughly six per cent. of the whole county, which includes a very large area of mountain.  I should not be surprised if, under the Land Act of 1923 and since April, 1923, the amount of land dealt with was not ten per cent. of the arable land of the county.  If that is not expeditious, I do not know what expedition is. 
       There is another aspect of the Land Commission to which I want to draw the attention of the Parliamentary-Secretary and that is the question of vesting under the Land Act of 1923. Deputies on the other side are very much interested in the 1923 Act. When the 1923 Act was forged it was forged by the help of the Farmers' Party and not by the help of the so-called farmers' party on the other side of the House.  They have 28 working farmers in the party opposite.  Did these gentlemen give any help in the forging of the Act of 1923?  Were these 28 gentlemen elected as farmers or as politicians?  They were elected as politicians. 
     
     
      
       I wonder what was Deputy Heffernan elected as? 
     
     
      
       I was elected as a farmer and I increased my majority every time, and I will be elected again as a farmer. 
     
     
      
       Let us get back to the land. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the question of vesting of the land, if there is a complaint against the Land Commission it is in this regard.  I have a complaint that the Land Commission has been dilatory in carrying out vesting of the land.  I believe there are reasons and explanations given in this House already, and I believe the fault lies not so much with the Land Commission or the tenants as with the owners of the land.  They have been slow in furnishing the particulars necessary in order to carry out vesting. There have been legal difficulties with regard to title and other matters. There have been so many difficulties that a very considerable portion of the land that came under the Act of 1923 is not yet vested.  We have reached a   stage when something should be done in that regard and we would like to hear from the Parliamentary-Secretary if any considerable advance has since been made.  I suggest that if a considerable advance has not been made and is not possible as the Acts stand at present it is up to the Government to try and devise methods, if necessary legislative methods, which will give them power to carry out the vesting of holdings.  If necessary compulsory powers should be obtained to force landlords and owners of the land to produce the necessary documentary and other evidence to show that the title is clear and that the land was ready for vesting. 
     
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom labhairt as Gaedhilg ach da ndeanfainn sin d'fheidir na scriobhfai sios mo chuid cainnte no da scriobhfai go gcuirfi i gcanuint i nach mbainim usaid aisti agus nach n-aithneofai mar mo chanuint fein.  Mar sin, ta se cho maith dhom labhairt i mBeurla, ar nos na bhFranncach sa Phairlimint i gCanada, mar adubhairt fear an &ldquo;Irish Times.&rdquo; 
     
     I listened very attentively yesterday to the Galway Deputies discussing the Land Commission and I must say that I got a good deal of information from Deputies on both sides of the House. In the first place, I must sympathise with Deputy Jordan in his difficulty in discovering where the man who divides lands at election times in Galway comes from, because I had no such difficulty myself.  I congratulate the people of Connemara on their astuteness in discovering these people when they came around.  When I heard this man was around dividing land I followed him up a few days afterwards.  I went to the man who had been showing him round and I said: &ldquo;Who is this man from the Land Commission?&rdquo; He said: &ldquo;He is not from the Land Commission.  He is a tea traveller.&rdquo; I said: &ldquo;Why are you bringing him round?&rdquo; He said: &ldquo;He does not know Irish.  I told him all the Irish and I got 5/-.&rdquo;  We in Galway look on the Land Commission in the Gaeltacht as a huge joke.  Ever since the C.D.B., which was a decent body and which did something for the Gaeltacht, was abolished, the Land   Commission has left the Gaeltacht as they found it.  We look upon the Land Commission as a dumping ground for all the discontented people of the Free State Party in Dublin and in the country.  When they had some improvement work to do about six months ago in my district they appointed six gangers over the work, and the necessary qualification for a ganger was to have acted as a personation agent for Cumann na nGaedheal.  That was essential. 
     I went to the engineer in charge, who had been under the Congested Districts Board and who, I presume, gets very little attention now from his new masters, and I asked him how did he select those gangers.  He said: &ldquo;I have not even the right to select gangers.  This work is done from Dublin.&rdquo;  You can imagine the kind of people who live down in the country, in a village like Bealadangan, where I come from, where the only man who has £2 a week is an ex-R.I.C. sergeant pensioner who has a pension of £200 a year and who stopped in the police up to the end, and he is the man who was appointed as a ganger under the Land Commission.  We look upon all the Land Commission work simply as a process of fooling the people as long as they can. 
     As regards their improvement works, I think they had better leave them alone.  They dismissed or did away with all the efficient men that they had in the Congested Districts Board, men who knew their work, who were dealing with the people for nine or ten years or more and knew their necessities. Now there are a number of officials, with anything but very Irish names, and certainly with no knowledge of Irish, going around and advising them as to what they should do to improve the Gaeltacht, people who have no idea of what the Gaeltacht means. They have started the Cluas Valley scheme and the Maam Valley scheme that nobody but a man with an English mind could think of.  I got a little information yesterday from Deputy Broderick.  I am sorry that the Minister for Agriculture is not here, because I believe he said yesterday that he had divided 133,000 acres in the Free State.   Deputy Broderick says that 50,000 acres have been divided in Galway, and the Parliamentary Secretary who spoke last said that there were 60,000 acres divided in Tipperary. 
     
      
       I did not say that.  I said &ldquo;handled.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Well, in any case, 50,000 acres were divided in Galway, and that is a very big percentage.  I doubt it very much.  The Deputy also stated that in Cluas, in Connemara, houses were being built by the Land Commission to relieve congestion.  That is not so.  To give an example of what the Land Commission are capable of doing, I would like to mention the case of a farm known as the Ardagh Farm, near Clifden, where there is terrible congestion.  This is the only farm in the place.  The tenants applied for the division of this land seven years ago, and on the 28th October, 1925, I think, a letter was sent to one of the tenants: &ldquo;I have no idea of the delay in this matter, or if the Land Commission intend to buy from Mrs. Pye (who is the tenant).  I know she is willing to sell for a fair price.&rdquo;  On the 18th November, 1926, there was an answer to Deputy O'Connell that: &ldquo;Until resumption arrangements have been completed, the Land Commission will not be in a position to say whether the division of the lands can take place.&rdquo; 
     
     On the 20th January, 1927, in answer to a question by Deputy O'Connell, as to why the land had not been divided, the reply was: &ldquo;The Provisional List for this estate was published on the 24th August last,&rdquo; and when I wrote stating the facts and asking them whether they were going to divide the land or keep it as a grazing farm for 80 bullocks, in a little place like Clifden, where there is no land and where this is badly needed, the answer I got was: &ldquo;When you have a little more experience of Parliamentary life you will realise the necessity of putting much of the information received from your constituents through a sifting process before basing any conclusions on it. They are at present considering the compensation to be given to Mrs. Pye.&rdquo; The consideration has taken seven   years, so I suppose the land will be divided some time. 
     Then the Land Commission have started a very grandiose scheme at Cluas and in the Maam Valley.  We look on that as a huge joke, because nobody intends to go to live in Cluas at all.  It consists of an undrainable mountain, and there is four feet of mud there.  I do not know if it is too late even yet to get them to look at the place and to see that it is not fit for human beings.  The man who originally thought of it was from the Congested Districts Board, I must admit, and he said that if they got 100 acres possibly they would live in it. Then the Land Commission decided to give 25 acres to each man, and they are bringing them from the seashore, where they have seaweed to manure the land, up to this mountain, which could never be manured, and which could never produce anything but watery potatoes.  I suppose, like Mahomet, they will have to go to the mountain. 
     To make the joke a little better, a gentleman who was employed as a ganger by the County Council, who was dismissed for inefficiency, in a long article in the local Press says what he himself actually did with this land on the mountain, but he did not point out that the gang he had working on the road did all the work for him on his own land, and it was on account of that that he was dismissed.  Now he is sent up in charge of a gang away into the wilderness to build houses and drain the bog on the Maam Valley scheme.  The Maam Valley scheme is a little better.  There is a good deal of land there very useful for sheep but for nothing else.  It is worth 5d. to 1/3 per acre, and the average is about 7d. That is going to be the great saving of the Gaeltacht and the Irish language! I think the sooner the Land Commission gives up this joke the better.  If they want to deal with the Gaeltacht they should do so, but they should not fool the people any longer with a policy of dividing land on the mountains. 
     
      
       It has been said that the Land Commission are a very slow   body, but I will give you a few instances where they move fairly fast. Within the last few months a farm in Ballingeary, County Cork, was sold by the Land Commission for £32.  I call that pretty fast work.  The result of the sale of that farm was that the owner a widow, was removed to the mental hospital, and her children were removed to the county home.  Ballingeary is in the heart of the Gaeltacht, and in a congested district.  In another case, in County Cork, the Land Commission seized three cows and two calves for rent about two years ago. These were removed and sold, and the result, as far as the owner, who was also a woman, is concerned, was that she got credit for £15 from the Land Commission. The two calves would have realised a good deal more than that in any market.  This farm was also up for sale but, as in most other cases, there was no bid for it.  I do not know what they intend doing with it.  Of course the Land Commission have it posted up all over Cork and on every dead wall in the country. 
     
     There is an estate down there known as the Mount Massey estate.  For thirty years the landless people on this estate and in Masseytown, Macroom, have been agitating for the division of the lands.  The major portion of the estate was sold four or five years ago&mdash;at least I suppose it was sold&mdash;to a man who had been grazing it for some years.  He got, I believe, between three and four hundred acres.  There are 50 or 60 tenants living on this estate, and their claims to the land were not considered. At the present time, I have been informed that the Land Commission are prepared to divide up 81 acres out of this 300 or 400 acres between the 50 or 60 tenants living on the estate, provided that the urban council will pledge the rates of the town of Macroom as security for the tenants.  Another estate adjoining Mount Massey was sold to the town tenants of Macroom within the past seven or eight years.  At that time neither the council nor anybody else was asked to go as security for the tenants.  The land was handed over to them by the Land Commission.  There was no question of security.  It is only now, when 81 acres of this 400 acres in   Mount Massey are being handed over to the tenants, that the council are asked to act as security for them.  Perhaps the Land Commission, or the officials engaged in this transaction, are not aware that the present occupier, who was formerly grazing the land, has a son-in-law and some influential friends on the Macroom Urban Council.  Perhaps this is only done in order to give the Land Commission an excuse for not dividing even this small portion of the Mount Massey lands amongst the landless people on the estate. 
     I have always believed that the land should be divided up amongst the landless people.  I do not hold with giving 200, 400 or 500 acres of a small estate to one man.  I believe in giving him a fair-sized farm and in dividing up the remainder amongst the landless people. It is no wonder there is no respect for the Land Commission throughout the country.  Their idea seems to be to turn the country again into ranches. Instead of dividing the estates which come into their hands amongst the landless people, their idea seems to be to make the rich richer, to give men who already have a few farms, a few extra farms, and let the poor people have the emigrant ship, the county home or the mental home.  We have not too many estates.  Every other day you can see notices that these farms are for sale by the Land Commission.  On most of these farms there is no stock at the present time.  They cannot put cattle on them even, if they could purchase them, because they would be seized for rent or for rates.  The rent and the rates are mounting up, and unless the Land Commission changes its methods neither the Land Commission nor the people will be able to get anything out of the land in the near future. 
     
      
       I rise to protest against this Vote for the Land Commission because I believe that there is a serious case against them.  The Minister for Agriculture goes on the line that nobody in this House knows anything about the Land Commission or the land question but himself.  Speaking in a rather flippant fashion he raised a barrage and by this barrage thought he succeeded in refuting the questions put   to him or the accusations made against the Department.  He may have satisfied himself, but he did not satisfy this House&mdash;at least he did not satisfy the Deputies on these Benches, and I do not believe he has satisfied the public. One of the remarkable things that he stated was that the Land Commission is the most efficient Department in the most efficient Civil Service in Europe. It is strange that this Department, which is the most efficient in the most efficient Civil Service in Europe, is practically the only Government Department that has not issued an annual report of its transactions for years past. On the 8th November last I put a question to the Parliamentary Secretary as follows:&mdash; 
       To ask the Minister for Fisheries if he will publish a report giving particulars of all land purchase transactions under the 1923 Land Act; stating the price paid for all land purchased by the Irish Land Commission; the price at which said land was subsequently let to small tenants; also giving similar particulars under previous Land Acts for at least five years prior to 1923; also stating the average price given for land per acre under the 1903 and 1909 Land Acts; also particulars of expenditure under all improvement schemes carried out by Irish Land Commission, and average cost per house built by Irish Land Commission and old Congested Districts Board. 
       The reply was:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;A report is in course of preparation by the Land Commission giving up to the 31st March last, particulars of all proceedings under the Land Act, 1923, and also those under the previous Acts.&rdquo; 
       I again asked the Minister when the Report would be ready on the 25th November, and the reply was:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Report on the proceedings of the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923, and the previous Acts is in course of preparation, and will be completed early in the coming year.&rdquo; 
     
     That Report has not yet been published. If, as the Minister for Lands   and Agriculture has stated, this is the most efficient Department in the most efficient Civil Service in Europe, it is strange that we are not to get the information that we get at least about other Departments. 
     The Minister for Lands and Agriculture said that he challenged the Deputies on these Benches as to whether they stood for the policy of abolishing all farms above 130 acres.  I have no hesitation in telling the Minister that the supreme problem in the land question is the problem of congestion, or what is known as the rural slum.  The claims of the congested areas and the rural slums should get precedence from every party in the State that has anything to do with the land.  The people who were sent to hell or Connaught have both a historical and a moral claim above any other section. 
     The Minister, as I have stated, by the barrage that he raised and by the flippant way he spoke, satisfied himself that he had answered the attack made on the Land Commission, and that he had answered the questions asked; but he neither answered the attack made on his Department nor the question asked.  He was not able to give an explanation as to why estates for 15 to 20 years in the hands of the Land Commission have not been vested, any why there has been nothing done on some of those estates and nothing done in the way of dealing in the West with the congestion that exists on these estates. Take one particular estate&mdash;the de Clifford Estate, in the County of Mayo. I have had to go to the Land Commission about this estate during the past month or two, and I discovered that it has been in the hands of the Land Commission for 17 years.  It has not been vested in the tenants, nor has there been any attempt to deal with the congestion that exists on the estate. The same thing applies of other estates not as long in the hands of the Land Commission. 
     
       Professor THRIFT  took the chair. 
     
      
       There is the Ruttledge Estate at Cornfield.  The Minister issued this challenge, and asked us did we stand for a policy of abolishing all farms over 130 acres.  I would ask the   Minister in return to state to the House if there is some serious defect in the law that prevents the vesting of property in the hands of the Land Commission in the tenant purchasers&mdash;is there some technical flaw in the machinery at the disposal of the Land Commission? If there is, why should not the Minister state so, come to the House and ask for a remedy?  I am quite sure that when he does, the House will not refuse to facilitate him. Instead of doing that, he states that the sole motive inspiring Deputies on this side of the House is the making of political capital out of the land question. There is one way of preventing political capital being made by any party in Ireland out of the land question, and that is by an immediate settlement of the land question. 
     
     I, for one, thoroughly agree with the Minister in saying that the quicker the land question is settled the better it will be for the country and the better it will be for the people.  I may be wrong, but the statement was made yesterday that there were 3,000,000 acres of land in the possession of the Land Commission and that out of that 3,000,000 acres only 500,000 acres had been dealt with.  I would like to know from the Minister or from the Parliamentary Secretary the means by which he arrives at a valuation of the estates when they are going to be taken over by the Land Commission&mdash;the means by which he arrives at the ultimate purchase price given to the landowners and the compensation given to the ranchers or graziers.  I ask the Minister is it not a fact that several estates in the west of Ireland at the present time in the hands of the Land Commission are causing the loss of vast sums of money due to the prices they are giving to the ranchers under the name of compensation and due to the prices they are giving to the landowners?  Is it not also a fact that when the Land Commission takes over estates in the west of Ireland and proceeds to settle them and to hand over the turbary to the small tenants, and which is supposed to last the tenants for their natural lives, and not only for the natural life of the tenant but for succeeding generations, that a lot of   these small tenants find themselves within a year or two without any turbary, for the simple reason that the supply they have got has been exhausted? They find themselves in the position that they are paying for 681⁄2 years for what they do not get.  If the Minister will come forward and honestly state that there is some technical fault in the law, if he will make an honest attempt to answer the questions put to him from these benches, he will find that the Deputies here will not offer any useless obstruction and that they will not stand in the way of a final settlement of the land question. 
     
      
       I did not intend to intervene at all in the discussion, but the discussion has broadened out very much from what I first thought it was &mdash;an ordinary Supplementary Estimate. For the first time in this Dail we have a very powerful advocacy, numerically at any rate, of the cause and interest of the tenants and farmers of the country.  I should have been very grateful indeed if I had that support in 1923.  It would have been a very material benefit then, when I and the small party we had here in 1923 were handling the question of land purchase.  My small party of seven would have been very glad, indeed, of the assistance of the Opposition of to-day. 
     
     
      
       Join them now. 
     
     
      
       What Deputy Walsh and the other Deputies have said is true&mdash;true to this extent, that what they described as the rural slums have first claim in the matter of land settlement. The problem of congestion should first be dealt with.  That was the case that we put up in 1923, 1924, 1925 and 1926.  And the Government agreed, and the Government has devoted all its attention to the settlement of the congests.  Up to 95 per cent. of the estates that have been dealt with up to now have been untenanted land.  The whole attention of the Land Commission has been given to the question of dealing with untenanted land.  Anybody who knows the working of the Land Commission,   and has any knowledge at all of its operations, knows how very difficult it is to make haste with the case of untenanted land as opposed to tenanted land.  In the question of untenanted land, title is the big obstacle. Title under the old Acts, the British Acts, was a very difficult matter.  We thought to simplify it, and we did simplify that matter in the 1923 Act and in the later Act, but especially in the 1923 Act.  All the work done at that time should be considered, and I think the people who were responsible for it should get a little credit.  We do not ask much; in fact, we do not ask for anything.  What I do say is, that the question of untenanted land is a very different question from that of tenanted land.  In the case of untenanted land you have first to deal with title; then you have to find tenants, and then you have to divide and sub-divide, make roads, build houses and do a hundred other things that you have not to do in the case of tenanted land.  You could deal with fifty tenanted estates in the same time as you would require to deal with one untenanted estate. 
       I do not stand here as a champion of the Land Commission.  If I did, extracts would be read from previous speeches made on the Estimates of former years&mdash;a series of them, because I was in opposition then and the Opposition is now beginning where I left off a few years ago. 
     
     
      
       Come amongst us. 
     
     
      
       God knows where I will land yet. 
     
     
      
       God knows&mdash;you do not. 
     
     
      
       Maybe I would get a seat on the Labour Benches.  I think the time has arrived when nearly all the untenanted land has been dealt with.  Some of it has been dealt with already; a good deal has just been finished, and very little remains to be done.  I think the time has now come when the tenanted estates that were put on one side while the other question was being settled should come in   for their share.  I can understand the reason why the operations of the Land Act with regard to tenanted properties have not been as brisk as we would wish; but I think that the time has now come when they should be dealt with. I want the House, and particularly the Opposition, to realise that there was as good and even a better case made year after year for the tenants and the congests before the present Opposition came here.  I challenge Deputies on the opposite Benches to read the records; I challenge the Opposition to take extracts from the debates of former years and see if we did not make a better case than they are making now. 
     
     
      
       A bad case for the Government. 
     
     
      
       I desire to make a protest against this Supplementary Estimate.  I will first protest against the price paid to former holders for land.  I made inquiry and I cannot find out on what basis that price was arrived at.  I cannot find out whether it was by scrutinising the books of the landlords, books covering the peak years when cattle were at a very high price and when land was of abnormal value.  It is the opinion of the people in the country that these prices were arrived at upon that basis, and that that basis was adopted for the sole reason that the landlord class belong to a certain very influential society in this community and that at the head of the Land Commission that society holds sway. 
     
     
      
       I think this class of insinuation affects every Deputy of the previous Dail.  On a point of explanation, I want to say that the cause of the prices was the market value and the rushing and the organisation throughout the country.  There were men like the Deputy and other people who gathered at the cross-roads, and they forced the owners of particular lands to sell, regardless of the price. 
     
     
      
       Number two speech. 
     
     
      
       It is a point of explanation. 
     
     
     
      
       You do not like an attack on the Masons. 
     
     
      
       It was a point of explanation. 
     
     
      
       I believe there is some justification for that opinion.  It is an old saying that what everybody says cannot but be true.  There is some reason why a price that leaves the land outside the pale of the ordinary farmer's capacity to pay is being given.  That is one reason why I protest against this Supplementary Estimate.  That brings us also to the question of title.  Any of us who has studied the history of land in this country knows how in the past these landlords' titles were acquired. I hope it will not pain the minds of any of the Imperialists of this House if I refer to the time when the confiscation of the land of this country was carried out by the British.  In one case that I am aware of the landlord got £14,000 for portion of his estate, and he admits that brings him in £700 a year, delivered by the postman without any effort on his part.  Without any worry or trouble he gets £700 a year off two townlands, portion of his estate that he sold to the Land Commission. He admits that only in two of the peak years, when land was at a very high value, when it was almost a fabulous price in this country, did he make that much net profit out of this estate. That is one example of too much being given for the land. 
       I must also complain of inefficiency on the part of the Department in dividing the farms they have acquired. Any ordinary farmer knows how to lay out a field so as to make it advantageous for tilling, and knows how to take the lie of the land, as they say, into consideration when he is laying out a field.  In no case yet did I see either the lie of the land taken into consideration or water facilities taken into consideration.  I also complain about engineering in the making of roads.  In one case that I am aware of, instead of building up a road they sunk it in such a way as actually to make more a canal of it than a highway. 
     
     
      
       Venice! 
     
     
     
      
       They will have to try to fill that up at extraordinary cost, and never get it properly filled up.  I am not a judge as to whether the engineers were culpably inefficient or ignorant, but I hold they did not do this in the way that an ordinary man, having a knowledge of making a farm road, would do it.  Another thing I have to complain of is that the moment the election was over they dismissed all the men they had employed in the area that I come from.  Last summer.  when everyone was busy working at the crops, they gave employment to men on this estate beside me.  Everybody knows, at least those who have any knowledge of the digging of land, that it is almost impossible to make fences in the summer time.  A man at that sort of work would do as much in the winter time in two hours as a man working for twelve hours on a hot summer's day. It is when the land is soft that work should be done, and not when it is dry and baked with the sun.  For these reasons I join in protesting against this Vote. 
     
     
      
       I desire, while taking part in this discussion, to make it quite clear that I am not in any way opposed to the Vote being granted.  I wish to bring to the notice of the Parliamentary Secretary the great delay experienced in the acquisition of a farm situated in County Louth.  It is known as the Robinson farm at Redbarns.  I was informed that the Land Commission sent down an official to inspect this land some three or four years ago and to make a survey of it.  This official received applications from the sons of the former tenants of that estate.  I have already put down some questions in connection with the acquisition of this farm.  I was informed by the Parliamentary Secretary that the Land Commission were prepared to make an offer to the owners of the farm for the whole or part thereof.  I want to ask him what is meant by &ldquo;the whole or part thereof.&rdquo; 
     
     In answer to a previous question of mine, I was informed that the Land Commission were prepared to acquire the whole of this farm.  Was it the addendum to the previous answer given   to me that was responsible for the letting of this farm on the eleven months' system during the present year?  Certain people have taken it on the eleven months' system, and some of them, I understand, reside in Northern Ireland.  It is with a view to preserving the peace of that district that I am particularly anxious the Land Commission should acquire this land at once.  From the information that reached me recently, I am fearful that the peace of that district will be disturbed if something is not done in the immediate future.  As one always opposed to war, whether agrarian or otherwise, I would impress on the Parliamentary Secretary the necessity of taking immediate steps to acquire this land.  The question of title, as Deputy Gorey suggested in regard to other estates, does not arise in this case, as the people who have taken the farm on the eleven months' system must have someone to pay the grazing money to. 
     I know that the descendants of the tenants who were evicted are ready and willing to take over this farm, when it is acquired and divided by the Land Commission, on the terms that all other farms have been taken over on.  They are quite prepared to go back again to the homes of their forefathers.  In the interests of the peace of the district, I hope the Parliamentary Secretary will be in a position to inform the House that the Land Commission have definitely decided to take steps to acquire this land in the immediate future. 
     
      
       Although this Vote is being introduced for the purpose of making good the deficiency in the income derived from untenanted land acquired under the 1923 Act, the discussion has ranged over the whole field of Land Commission administration.  Much of the discussion has proceeded on a fallacy.  Deputy Dr. Ryan was responsible for the fallacy.  In the course of his remarks he said that the £15,000 referred to by me in my introductory statement really represented a net loss of income in respect of untenanted land acquired under the 1923 Act.  I think I made it abundantly clear in my opening statement   that this £15,000 was merely intended to bridge the period between dividend day and the gale day, and that it would be recouped to the Land Commission when the holdings were finally vested in the tenants.  I also stated that there was an amount of arrears due in respect of 1923 Act estates amounting to approximately £9,000.  These are arrears that are due over the last 12 or 18 months, and it is hoped that eventually they will be recovered by the Land Commission, so that the actual net maximum loss is somewhere in the neighbourhood of £10,000.  It is hoped that eventually the net loss will not be nearly so high as that. 
       I think the main burden of the complaint against the Land Commission has been the delay in dividing and distributing estates acquired by them since the passing of the 1923 Act.  In that connection I would like to remind Deputies of the actual position of affairs.  I am not prepared to admit that there has been any delay.  After all, Deputies should realise that the land problem is probably one of the very biggest this State has to deal with. Rome was not built in a day, and it is not possible for the Land Commission, or for any Government institution, to deal with a problem such as this in the course of a few years.  We have certainly made tremendous strides since the passing of the 1923 Act. 
     
     We are dividing land to-day at least three times faster than it was distributed under the old regime.  In proof of that I wish to give the House certain statistics relating to the acquisition and distribution of land during the last four years.  First of all, I want to remind Deputies of the fact that a certain procedure is laid down under the Acts of 1923 and 1927 for the acquisition of land, and that the Land Commission must proceed literally in accordance with that procedure.  Land is acquired here on the basis of compensation to the owner, and, as the Minister for Agriculture pointed out yesterday in his speech, compensation must be assessed according to the equities and merits of each case.  The facts must be taken into consideration and must be decided   on in a judicial way.  The machinery available has been provided by this Dail under the Land Acts of 1923 and 1927.  That machinery is fairly elaborate, and if delays have taken place, as delays must inevitably take place, we must place the blame for that mainly on the machinery devised and designed by members of this and previous Dails. 
     Already 258,396 acres of untenanted land have been divided since the formation of the present Land Commission. In other words, more than a quarter million acres of land have been actually distributed since the Land Commission came under the control of the Free State Government on the 1st April, 1923.  Of this area 103,260 acres comprised untenanted land on the old Congested Districts Board estates, 22,162 acres of untenanted land purchased by the Estates Commissioners, and 132,974 acres of untenanted land purchased under the Act of 1923.  That makes a total of 258,396 acres.  In that connection I also wish to make another point.  Deputies should remember that the Act of 1903 was a voluntary Act and that the Act of 1923 is compulsory in principle.  Most of the landlords, the cream of them, sold their estates under the 1903 or 1909 Acts, and the estates that remained over to be acquired under the 1923 Act were either heavily encumbered or retained by owners for various other reasons.  They may have been held in trust for certain members of families or held over for other reasons.  Under the 1903 Act it was in the interests of the landlords to see that particulars in respect of estates lodged with the Land Commission were absolutely accurate in every detail, because it was on that schedule lodged that the rentals, annuities and so on, were assessed.  The procedure under the 1923 Act is quite different.  Under the 1923 Act the landlord is under a statutory obligations to lodge what is called a schedule of particulars, but the landlord is not under the same obligation as he was under the 1903 Act, to see that that schedule of particulars is absolutely accurate in every detail. Consequently, it devolves on the Land Commission to check every single detail of that schedule of particulars, to see that the boundaries are correct, that   the rentals returned are correct, as well as innumerable other details that should ordinarily be included in a table of that kind.  That means that the work of the Land Commission in that one respect alone has been doubled under the 1923 Act as compared with the 1903 Act. 
     I stated a moment ago that land has been acquired at a much faster rate since the Free State Government took control than it was acquired and distributed under the former regime.  During the 30 years operations in connection with untenanted land under the old Land Commission and the old Congested Districts Board, 750,253 acres of untenanted land were divided, representing an annual average acreage of about 25,000.  Suppose we take the period as 25 years, which, after all, would be a more reasonable period. The annual average acreage would then be somewhere about 30,100 acres. Deputies should also remember that in these days the Land Commission was made up of at least three Departments &mdash;the Land Commission, the Estates Commissioners, and the old Congested Districts Board.  You had three different Government Departments dealing with the land problem, and these three different Departments were administered by seven permanent heads.  You had two Judicial Commissioners and three Land Commissioners, comprising the old Land Commission, and two paid permanent members of the Congested Districts Board.  The salaries of these officials were: One Judicial Commissioner, £3,500; a second Judicial Commissioner, £3,000; one Commissioner, £3,500; two Commisisoners £2,000 each, and two C.D.B. Commissioners receiving a salary of £2,000 each, making a total of £18,000 in salaries alone for the statutory heads of the Departments responsible for the acquisition and distribution of land, I hope Deputies will make a particular note of these figures, because it is an unfortunate habit of Deputies, when they go down the country, to abuse various Government Departments, and to refer particularly to the very high salaries the heads of these Departments are receiving.  I am making this comparison to-day to show that in the old days the number of statutory heads was double the number you have to-day for   dealing with the acquisition and distribution of land. 
     As Deputies are aware, these three Departments were amalgamated on the 1st April, 1923.  Now the amalgamated Departments of the Land Commission, with all the additional work of the Acts of 1923 and 1927, are administered by three statutory heads, one Judicial Commissioner who is in receipt of a salary of £2,500 per annum from the Central Fund, and two Commissioners in receipt of a total salary of £3,000.  In other words, you have to-day three permanent heads of the Land Commission in receipt of salaries amounting to £5,500, carrying on double the amount of work that seven officials with salaries amounting to £18,000 were carrying on under the old regime.  During the four years' existence of the present Land Commission 258,396 acres of untenanted land have, as I have already stated, been divided.  That works out at a yearly average of 64,599 acres, more than double, or practically treble, the average acreage per annum that was dealt with in pre-Saorstat days.  Yet Deputies speak of delay in acquiring and distributing land under the 1923 Act, the actual position being that we are to-day actually dividing, acquiring and distributing land three times faster than it was distributed under the former regime.  It must also be remembered that there are a limited number of inspectors, who, besides dealing with untenanted land, have a large amount of other work to do in connection with tenanted land, making inquiries as to vesting, sometimes into the title of untenanted land, and about the boundaries of tenanted land under the 1923 Act.  They have also to deal with the supervision of improvement works on estates and other work that has to be undertaken under various relief grants. 
     Furthermore, at the time when the Land Commission was transferred to the Free State Government a huge amount of arrears of work had accumulated under the old Boards.  It was the custom of the Congested Districts Board to acquire land and hold it over for a number of years.  In the majority of instances they held over this land until   they were able to acquire other lands and carry out schemes of rearrangement and consolidation over a whole townland.  That was a common thing for them to do, and the result was that at the time of the amalgamation of the Land Commission and the Congested Districts Board we found that we inherited a tremendous amount of arrears from these Boards.  In addition to acquiring and distributing land under the Land Act of 1923, we have also tried to clear off these arrears, and we have succeeded in reducing an enormous volume of them. 
     Many Deputies, in the course of their speeches, referred to grievances of congests, landless men and evicted tenants. So far as I am aware, most of the genuine evicted tenants have been dealt with under previous Acts.  In the cases of those who have still to be dealt with they are to receive consideration in connection with the redistribution of estates coming in under the 1923 and earlier Acts.  It is well, in a discussion of this sort, that we should clearly realise the nature of the problem with which we have to deal.  So far as can be estimated, the approximate number of presumably uneconomic holders&mdash;that is to say, holders either with a rental of £9 or, under, or an annuity of £7 or under&mdash; is £248,000.  Of that number, approximately 64,000 reside in what is commonly called the Gaeltacht areas, or at all events, in the most congested parts of the country.  There are 184,000 outside. Of the 64,000 in the Gaeltacht or congested areas, about 33,000 inhabit the special areas described in certain portions of the Gaeltacht report. 
     Taking the minimum average of ten acres as being necessary to bring up each of these 248,000 small holders to an economic standard, it will be seen that it would require about 2,500,000 acres of land&mdash;in other words, it would require that amount of land to relieve congestion in the Free State.  Unfortunately, it is not likely that there will be more than 1,000,000 acres available for that purpose.  This area includes all manner of waste land, such as expanses of moor, heath, water, mountain, and so on.  Assuming that those 1,000,000 acres are all capable of some   degree of production, and that the claims of discharged employees, evicted tenants, and other people who qualified under Section 31 of the Act of 1923 are excluded, only 40 per cent. of the congestion in the Free State can be relieved. Even under the best possible circumstances there would be a probable balance of 148,000 congests remaining unprovided for after the last available acre of land has been acquired and distributed.  That is the problem we have to deal with, and these figures represent approximately the actual position of affairs. 
     A great deal has been heard about the exorbitant prices which the Land Commission are paying for lands acquired under the Act of 1923.  It has been stated by a number of Deputies that on account of some peculiar influences, which certain landlords have in certain high quarters of the Land Commission, they can get any price they demand for land.  In that connection I would also like to give Deputies some information with regard to the prices we are paying for land to-day as compared with those paid for land under the earlier Acts, and I have no doubt it will be a revelation to some Deputies to know that we are buying land cheaper to-day than we bought it under either the 1903 or the 1909 Act, notwithstanding the fact that the price of land is higher to-day than when it was acquired under the other earlier Acts. The average price paid for land per acre under the 1903 Act was £11.4. Following the passing of the 1903 Act, land as security naturally improved, economic conditions somewhat improved, and there was a greater desire on the part of farmers to own more land, with the result that, between the period of the passing of the 1903 and the 1909 Acts, land prices improved considerably. 
     The average price of land acquired under the 1909 Act amounted approximately to £16.2, and the average price we have paid for land acquired under the 1923 Act only amounts to £10.3 per acre.  That shows that the price we have paid for land under the 1923 Act is smaller than the price paid under any of the earlier Acts, notwithstanding the adverse conditions under   which most of this land was acquired. I do not think that I need say anything further on the question of prices as these figures are eloquent and speak for themselves.  Now, as to vesting, I quite agree that a number of small holders have legitimate grievances because of the delay in vesting their holdings. Much of that delay was inevitable, first of all because of the huge amount of arrears work we inherited from the old regime, and, secondly, because of the fact that extreme pressure was brought to bear on the Land Commission to acquire and distribute land under the 1923 Act.  As a result of the passing of the 1927 Act, which gives power to add compounded arrears of rent to the annuities, we have been able to speed up considerably the work of vesting estates and holdings, with the result that during February last we began to experience the real advantages to be derived in that connection under the section referred to.  In February 509 holdings were vested.  During October last year only 88 were vested; in November 147, and in December 89 holdings were vested, and so on during the previous months.  That shows that, in consequence of that section of the 1927 Act being now in full operation, we have been able to speed up considerably the work of vesting estates and holdings. 
     These figures are an indication of the extent to which we have speeded up the work.  It will be seen that in November we vested only 147 holdings, while as many as 509 were vested in February. As time goes on we will be able to improve considerably on those figures. Steps are being taken with the object of further accelerating the vesting of holdings in tenants.  Deputies referred to quite a number of grievances regarding their own particular districts.  I do not propose to deal with individual cases or to go into individual grievances. If any Deputy has a grievance in connection with the manner in which the vesting of an estate is being dealt with, he can put down a question and I will give him all the information I can, or he can write a letter to the Land Commission and he will get the desired information.  The same applies to other classes of grievances.  Deputy   Derrig, in the course of his speech, referred to the fact that in 1912 the Land Commission distributed 30,000 holdings. I do not know what knowledge Deputy Derrig has of land, but presumably he is confounding holdings with acres.  The average holding in this country is in the neighbourhood of 30 statute acres, and if the Deputy's statement is to be taken as correct it would mean that the Land Commission in 1912 was distributing at the rate of 900,000 acres, or approximately 1,000,000 acres per annum.  If that were true, there would be no necessity for passing the 1923 Act.  There are only 17,000,000 acres in the country, and every one of these would have been distributed, if Deputy Derrig's figures are true, before 1923. 
     
      
       As Deputy Derrig is not here, I might say that he afterwards explained it was vesting he meant. 
     
     
      
       Even assuming he meant vesting, that figure is not correct. Deputy Little tried to clarify the position, and I think he only succeeded in making matters worse. 
     
     
      
       As a point of personal explanation, the Parliamentary Secretary says I made matters worse, but I was reading the ipsissima verba of Mr. Birrell in the House of Commons in giving the full figures. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy did mention he was quoting from a statement made in the House of Commons in the year 1912.  At all events, I want to make it perfectly clear that Deputy Derrig was not correct. 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, I said that the number of holdings averaged at least 30,000 between 1903 and 1912.  The exact phrase used in Mr. Birrell's reply was that agreements for sale had been concluded in connection with them.  Would the Parliamentary Secretary be good enough to state the number of holdings which have been allotted since 1922 by the Land Commission? 
     
     
     
      
       The statement to which the Deputy referred was with regard to purchase agreements lodged with the Land Commission up to 1912, and had reference to tenanted holdings. There was no reference to untenanted land, or the acquisition or distribution of land.  The reference related to the applications for vesting of tenanted holdings, but even the Deputy's figures on that point are not correct. 
     
     
      
       I quoted as a comparison the number of holdings that have been acquired since the Free State came into being.  So many different terms are used with regard to this subject that one is at a loss to know the correct one.  According to an article in the &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; on November 1st, the number of holdings is 27,000. From 1903 to 1912 the average number was more than 30,000. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy is somewhat confused.  I had better leave it at that.  The next point, I think, the Deputy made was that the Land Commission in 1912 had 638 officials.  He overlooked the fact that the Land Commission at that time was not the only body in this country responsible for acquiring and distributing land.  He should have known at that period there was such a body as the Congested Districts Board in existence.  In addition to the 638 officials employed at that time by the Land Commission, there were 200 officials functioning under the Congested Districts Board.  Even in 1912 there was a considerably larger number of officials dealing with land acquisition and distribution than there is to-day.  The staff of the Land Commission in 1912 dealt with all Ireland and numbered 576.  The staff of the C.D.B. in that year was 200, so that the total staff for the two Boards was 776. 
     
     
      
       Surely the Staff of the C.D.B. was dealing with other things than land.  Was it not concerned with rural industries, fisheries and many other matters? 
     
     
      
       I am only referring to the portion of the C.D.B. staff that dealt with the acquisition and distribution of land.  There was a fishery and cottage industry section as well. 
     
     
     
      
       Were you referring to the whole staff, or only to the portion of the staff dealing with land? 
     
     
      
       I am giving the staff of the C.D.B. that dealt with the distribution of land. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state what the total staff of the C.D.B. was at that time? 
     
     
      
       It was somewhere in excess of 200. 
     
     
      
       So that you are including the whole staff of the C.D.B. as well? 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary deal with the point I made about not finishing the roads in estates that are being divided?  I complained in my speech last night that where estates have been divided in Roscommon the sod was taken off the road between the two ditches, and the people who were to get the land were told by inspectors that there was a certain amount of money ear-marked for making these roads.  Nothing has been done. 
     
     
      
       I do not know to what estate the Deputy is referring, but there is always a certain amount of money set aside for the making of roads on an estate.  If the Deputy puts down a question I will give him information on the point. 
     
     
      
       What I have stated is, that where land has been divided in Roscommon during the last few years people have been told a certain amount of money was left by for road purposes, but the roads have not been made.  I am interested in this question because in connection with relief grants recently the claim was made that roads should be made out of that money, whereas they should have been made out of money from the Land Commission. 
     
     
      
       There is always a certain sum of money set aside for the purpose of carrying out necessary improvement work on estates acquired by the Land Commission, work relating to fencing, road making, draining, etc.  If money has been set aside in connection   with these particular estates, that money will be spent for the purpose for which it has been set aside. 
     
     
      
       The point is, when? The people are trying to use the land and cannot do it.  That is no good to me.  I cannot go to the Land Commission. I will be told it is up to me to get the money for this.  Then we are told that the engineer has said the money is there.  The Parliamentary Secretary says there is money there. What is the use of having money if it is not used? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy gives particulars of the estates I shall have inquiries made.  I cannot carry the information in my head relating to every estate everywhere in the Free State. If the Deputy puts down a question in connection with the particular estates in which he is interested, I will give whatever information is wanted.  If money has been set aside for the purpose of carrying out improvements on these particular estates, I shall see that these improvements are started as soon as possible.  I do not think that there is anything further that I can say.  I do not propose to go into the details in connection with estates raised by various Deputies.  If a Deputy wants information in connection with a particular estate in his constituency, or road work, or any other improvement for which the Land Commission is responsible, if he puts down a question or writes a letter to the Land Commission, I shall give him any information he wants.  I want to emphasise again the fact that this £35,000 does not represent a net loss&mdash;that the actual net loss eventually may be very small; that the £15,000 which Deputy Ryan referred to will be recouped to the Land Commission when the holdings are vested in the tenants; that the arrears will be collected, because they have only accumulated during the last twelve or eighteen months. Probably we shall succeed in getting some other money which is outstanding at the moment in connection with estates, so that it is impossible at the moment to say what the actual net loss will be eventually. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask when the report of the Land Commission, dealing   with its activities during the past ten years, will be published? 
     
     
      
       The report of the Land Commission is in course of preparation, and proofs are actually ready.  The work of preparing the report was exceedingly heavy, and at the moment the work of the Land Commission is exceedingly heavy.  Deputies can see by looking at the Order Paper any day that it takes quite a lot of work on the part of the officials to prepare answers to questions asked by Deputies in all parts of the House.  We are trying to carry on the ordinary office work, get the work done in connection with the acquisition and distribution of land, carry on as a banking institution in connection with the collection of land annuities; carry on the work in connection with the vesting of holdings, and so on, and in addition to that we are trying to prepare the report. We hope to have the report available and circulated to Deputies in the course of the next couple of months. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Morrissey quoted a case yesterday, and I quoted a case concerning the policy of the Commissioners&mdash;I emphasise the word policy&mdash;in declining to acquire any portion of large ranches in the Counties Tipperary.  Leix and Offaly.  Am I to understand that the Parliamentary Secretary declines to defend the action of the Commissioners regarding this matter of policy?  I think the Parliamentary Secretary had sufficient time to look up the cases referred to yesterday, and I do not think he should brush aside the point raised. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I indicated to the Deputy that if he wants to raise that matter he can put down a question or he can raise it on the adjournment.  I have not an opportunity to look up particulars. When I answered that question in connection with that estate before, the Deputy appeared to be quite satisfied. 
     
     
      
       The Parliamentary Secretary, I am sure, understands the   meaning of language better than I do.  If he reads the question again he will find that he did not answer in the way in which the question sought for an answer when put down and it is because he declined to answer the points raised in the question that I raised the question yesterday. 
     
     
      
       If I did not answer the question satisfactorily, I am amazed the Deputy did not ask a supplementary question. 
     
     
      
       Has the Parliamentary Secretary any explanation to offer for the action of certain officials of the Land Commission in his own constituency in bringing in men, including Peace Commissioners and men with pretty large holdings, and installing them on ranches which are being divided in various parts of the county, excluding tenants living adjacent?  Has he any explanation to offer or any excuse to make for those officials or will he be prepared to say that those officials are not working in the interests of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party? 
     
     
      
       I am perfectly certain such a thing as the Deputy mentions has not happened.  I know we have the most competent staff of officials in Sligo, and I know that they are carrying out their duties in an absolutely fair and impartial way.  If the Deputy has any grievance against any official in Sligo he had better put down a question on the subject or raise it on the motion for the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary deny that the particular man, John Nicholson, Dunfore, a Peace Commissioner, was brought from four miles away and given a division of the land at Raughley on the Gore-Booth estate while the unfortunate fishermen, depending for their living on a few acres of barren land and their catches on the sea, were denied portion of this land simply because they were not political supporters of the Parliamentary Secretary? 
     
     
      
       I do not know any Mr. Nicholson in Sligo who is a Peace Commissioner. If the Deputy has a grievance he has his remedy.  The Parliamentary   Secretary cannot remember the names of every individual even in his own constituency who got land in the last two years.  The Parliamentary Secretary never bothers his head who gets land and who does not.  He takes particular good care not to intervene in the distribution of land or in the allocation of land to individuals. 
     
     
      
       I have pretty good evidence that the Parliamentary Secretary has intervened in much smaller matters than the division of land in the county Sligo in the last fortnight.  I asked a particular question and I made this point in speaking a couple of hours ago, and I put it to the Parliamentary   Secretary now to deny if it is a fact, that a man was brought from four miles away, who had land already and given portion of this particular farm, and that several small uneconomic farmers were denied portion of the land because they were not fortunate enough to be Deputy Roddy's particular friends. 
     
     
      
       I told the Deputy already I have no knowledge of these things, nor do I know a Mr. Nicholson in Sligo.  Now that the Deputy has got all the advertisement he requires, perhaps he will put down a question, and we can discuss this matter later on. 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided:&mdash;Ta, 83; Nil, 51. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. James Coburn. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Richard Corish. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. John Daly. William Davin. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Edward Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy.  
             John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Matthews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. William Archer Redmond. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil    
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Patrick Clancy. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Fred Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. James Everett. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Samuel Holt. 
             Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Sean McEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle. Nil: Deputies G. Boland and D. Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - VOTE 57&mdash;RAILWAYS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1928, chun iocaiochtanna fe Acht na mBothar Iarainn, 1924, fen Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc., agus chun cricheanna eile a bhaineann le hIompar in Eirinn. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1928, for payments under the Railways Act, 1924, the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc., and for other purposes connected with Irish transport. 
     
     
      
       This vote is explained in the footnote to the Vote itself.  Under the Railways Act the old baronial guarantees were wiped out and the State pays to the Great Southern Railways Company £48,000 per annum over a certain period of years, and recovers half that amount by payments made to it from the previous baronial guaranteeing areas of amounts which are proportionate to what they used to pay for the baronial guaranteed lines.  One county council has failed to pay that contribution over the years 1924-25 and 1925-26, and since that contribution was not paid there were withheld from that county council repayments that should have been made to it, arising out of previous payments it had made with respect to a baronially guaranteed line.  It is now expected that the county council is going to meet its obligations.  That being so, the moneys previously withheld will have to be given to it.  Hence this Vote, because we expect that before the end of the financial year the money will have been recovered from the county council. We will then have to grant to that county council the money due to it which was previously withheld.  This is really a book transaction. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state what grounds he has for anticipating that recovery of the amount due will be made in the current financial year? 
     
     
      
       It was a promise. 
     
     
     
      
       Is he satisfied that the Dail should take the action he suggests on the strength of the promise he received? 
     
     
      
       I do not want the Dail to believe that I am entirely without defences in case the county council still refuses to pay.  If the county council continues in that attitude, then there are moneys due to it out of the Local Taxation Account which I will have transferred to this particular account on application made to the Department of Finance, and as a result, although this particular amount of money might be repaid to the county council, they will be mulcted in another way until they meet their debts. 
     
     
      
       What I want to get clear is the reason for the introduction of the Supplementary Estimate at this time&mdash;prior to the ordinary Estimates. If the amount had been paid there would be reason for the introduction of a Supplementary Estimate, but merely on the strength of a promise of payment I do not see why it should be necessary to do so now. 
     
     
      
       The reason it was brought in was because the county council was to have held a meeting, and the secretary had definitely promised that the moneys would be paid. If the moneys are not paid we have two ways of meeting it.  This money, although voted, need not be paid to the county council, and even if it is paid in this way there is another way of withholding a similar amount from the defaulting county council.  This is a book transaction which had to be cleared up, and it has been introduced before the end of the financial year because of a promise that was made that the money would be in our hands before the 31st March.  If it is not, there are other ways of meeting the new situation. 
     
     
      
       Did the county council give you any reason as to why they were not paying this amount? 
     
     
      
       No, no satisfactory reason. 
     
     
      
       Because they have reasons. 
     
     
     
      
       There is no reason why a county council should not pay its debts. 
     
     
      
       The Leitrim County Council always paid its debts.  I understand that this refers to the Leitrim County Council? 
     
     
      
       Yes, it is Leitrim. 
     
     
      
       They were always able to pay their debts until you sent a commissioner there, who left the county council finances in a state of chaos. That is the reason. 
       Motion put and agreed to. 
       
         Professor THRIFT  took the Chair. 
     
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - VOTE 60&mdash;UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE. 
     
      
       I move: 
       Go ndeontar suim bhroise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i nith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh Marta, 1928, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi i dtaobh Arachais Diomhaointis agus Malartan Fostuiochta. maraon le sintiuisi do Chiste an Diomhaointis. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st March, 1928, for Salaries and Expenses in connection with Unemployment Insurance and Employment Exchanges, including contributions to the Unemployment Fund. 
     
     
      
       This Vote arises in this way: Under the 1920 Unemployment Insurance Act, British Departments were bound to pay certain contributions into the fund in respect of demobilised soldiers and sailors.  Up to the 1st July, 1923, we honoured the British contributions, just as they honoured the Saorstat contributions. Stamps put up by either Government were recognised for purposes of payment when benefit came to be drawn. We were liable, accordingly, for benefit paid to demobilised soldiers and sailors in Ireland, and, being liable for a certain amount, we demanded from the   British Treasury that they should transfer here an amount to meet the liability that we had incurred.  The appropriate contribution had to be made.  That was agreed in principle, but the discovery of just what the contribution was to be took a certain amount of time.  There were many discussions, and the basis of the contribution had to be subjected to very much argumentation.  Eventually, and during the period of the current financial year, a basis was agreed on and a sum of £49,000 was transferred.  The State contribution to the Employment Insurance Fund depends upon other contributions. The State contribution is a fixed thing&mdash;it is a percentage.  It has to bear a certain proportion to the amounts that are derived from other sources&mdash;from the deductions from the workmen and from the employers' contributions. The fact that an additional £49,000 has been paid in immediately raises the State contribution to the Unemployment Insurance Fund.  On the other side, there is an appropriation-in-aid, and the appropriation-in-aid, which depends upon the total amount of the Fund, is also automatically increased.  The additional moneys received from the British Treasury amount to £49,000.  The State contribution, automatically increased thereby, amount to £24,200.  The State contribution has always to bear a fixed relation to the amount derived from the employer and the employee.  As the amount derived in some way from between the employer and the employee has been increased by £49,000, the State contribution to the Fund has also been increased by this amount of £24,200. The appropriation-in-aid has to be a fixed fraction round about one-sixth of the extra amount, £49,000 plus £24,200, and that is shown as an addition of £11,650.  That is the necessity for the Vote. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - VOTE 62&mdash;DEPARTMENT OF POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     Go ndeontar suim bhraise na raghaidh thar £10 chun ioctha an   Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1928, chun Tuarastail agus Costaisi na Roinne Puist agus Telegrafa, maraon le Telefona. 
     That a supplementary sum not exceeding £10 be granted to defray the charges which will come in course of payment during the year ending the 31st March, 1928, for the salaries and expenses of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs, including Telephones. 
     
      
       The amount shown in the Supplementary Estimate is a token amount.  The actual amount required, as Deputies will see by the Estimates, is £27,671, but as the savings on the total Vote amount to more than this sum we are asking the Dail to vote £10.  The money expended is made up of two items, an item of £11,125 for the purchase of sites, and an item of £16,546 under the heading of Stores other than Engineering Materials.  The item for the purchase of sites is required because of an expansion in connection with the acquisition of a site to be allied with the Cork Post Office.  The site has been acquired in MacCurtain Street, Cork.  It is situated close to the railway station and to the quay, and is considered quite suitable for the purpose for which we require it&mdash;that is, as a sorting office. 
     
     This sum also contains an item for the acquisition of a site in connection with the Gorey post office.  The Gorey post office was held on a lease.  An opportunity has been given to us to purchase this, and we have done so. Portion of this vote&mdash;£1,000&mdash;is for that purpose.  The other sub-head of the Vote relates to a sum of £16,546 and is for stores other than engineering material.  The explanation of this Vote is as follows: In 1922, on the taking over of the Post Office service by the Free State Government, there was a shortage of postal bags required for the conveyance of mails between England and Ireland.  We had no means of manufacturing these bags in the Free State at the time.  The process we went   through was that of keeping a sufficient quantity of these bags which passed to us from the British Postal service and using these for our own purposes. These gradually accumulated until we had sufficient to meet our requirements, and also until we had made preparations to have the bags we required manufactured in the Free State.  From 1924, at which time we ceased to retain any surplus amount of the British bags, negotiations were continued in regard to the amount to be paid to Britain in connection with these bags.  Eventually an agreement was arrived at this year for the payment of the bags in question, and the total we have agreed to pay Britain is £16,546.  That is the reason this Vote is required. 
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state whether the other articles mentioned in the Vote&mdash;handcarts, letter-boxes, baskets, etc., are being made in Ireland at the present time?  We would like to know that. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is quoting from the total Vote.  This Vote only deals with a particular item of mail bags.  The Deputy is asking a question which is extraneous to this particular Vote.  I am not in a position to give him any definite information.  I do not know whether I am called upon to get any information in regard to these particular items, but I can say that, generally, as far as possible, we are getting all the store requirements of the Post Office manufactured in Ireland. We are giving a definite preference to Irish-made articles.  There are some articles which cannot be manufactured in Ireland, and we are obliged to get these outside the country. 
     
     
      
       The Vote deals with two separate sub-heads&mdash;the purchase of sites and the purchase of stores other than engineering materials.  The details at the foot of the Estimates deal with mail and parcels bags, handcarts, letter-boxes, baskets, etc.  I think the question is quite a proper one to raise under this Vote. 
     
     
      
       That is the old Vote. 
     
     
      
       That is the total amount of the Vote.  Under that heading   the Vote was £52,246.  That is the total amount shown in the estimate, but we are only asking for the additional amount of £16,546 for mail bags.  The other items were included in the original estimate and could have been dealt with at that time. 
     
     
      
       The Vote comes under the heading of G (I), and I submit it is quite in order to ask a question about items enumerated in G (I). 
     
     
      
       As Deputy Davin points out, the Vote consists of two parts, and it always has been our practice to deal with the first part be-before taking the second.  Anybody who wishes to raise a question in regard to the purchase of sites can do so before we take up G (I).  Nobody, apparently, wishes to do so.  In regard to G (I), in so far as Deputy Moore's question is in order, I think the Parliamentary Secretary has answered it&mdash; that we can only deal with the additional articles which are to be purchased under the new Vote.  The Parliamentary Secretary states that the additional sum is entirely for bags. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask your ruling on this: In the original estimate sums of money were voted for expenditure under certain headings.  If, as a result of the expenditure of that money additional money is required, even for other matters such as the mail bags here, and if I find in connection with one of the items covered by sub-head G (I) that, to my mind, the money should not have been expended, am I not entitled to raise the question that the additional sum would not be necessary if the unnecessary purchases had not been made? 
     
     
      
       If your question had a direct bearing on the purchase of these particular bags you would be in order. 
     
     
      
       If I can show that the purchase of other items under sub-head G (I) was unnecessary and that the money saved thereby would have gone for the purchase of these bags&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I would rule that out of order. 
     
     
      
       I want to ask the   Parliamentary Secretary if when the discussions were taking place with the British Government he put forward any claim on the head of mail bags made in British prisons by Irish prisoners of war.  I am in earnest. 
     
     
      
       I did not put forward any claim of that kind. 
     
     
      
       The Parliamentary Secretary did not make it very clear what our obligations were.  I presume we did not have to pay the full amount for the service of these bags.  I presume the English Government bore a certain proportion. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy misunderstands my statement.  As I pointed out earlier, there was a shortage of bags in this country.  We met that shortage by the simple, and perhaps not altogether unjustifiable method of retaining the British bags which came across here. We retained the bags.  Of course there is a question of reciprocity to a certain extent.  Our bags are going to them, but this is for the balance which remains with us.  There is always a certain number of bags passing backwards and forwards.  There was a definite balance which remained on our hands and which had to be paid for. 
     
     
      
       I find myself in a difficulty.  In the Supplementary Estimate itself there is a definite reference to cycles.  Am I at liberty to raise the matter of cycles? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Therefore, we cannot raise this matter at all? 
     
     
      
       You are not in a position to deal with it on this Vote.  You are only entitled to deal with the money for the purchase of bags. 
     
     
      
       With reference to the payment to the British Government for these bags, I want to ask were not these bags originally purchased with Irish as well as with English money?  Why should we have to pay for them now? 
     
     
     
      
       I presume when the segregation of the British and Irish Post Offices took place that a definite allocation of material was made to the Irish Post Office.  At least the material which was then in the hands of the Irish Post Office was allocated to them. 
     
     
      
       Then we have to pay twice. 
     
     
      
       There was not a sufficient amount of mail-bags for internal purposes.  In the ordinary course of events we would have to acquire these bags by purchase, or else manufacture them ourselves.  It was not possible to manufacture the bags and not possible to purchase them internally, so the simplest way was to retain in our possession the bags coming across.  This was done with the sanction of the British Post Office.  The bags were definitely the property of the British and not of the Irish Post Office, and naturally we were called upon to pay for them, and we did. 
     
     
      
       Why the property of the British Post Office? 
     
     
      
       They were the property of the British Post Office. They were sent over here, and why would they not be their property? 
     
     
      
       Was it not a common service? 
     
     
      
       No; this was after the segregation. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I do not understand it yet. 
     
     
      
       Were not these part of the assets of the British Empire? 
     
     
      
       Not at all.  This was after the assets had been distributed. 
     
     
      
       We did not even get post-bags. 
     
     
      
       Did the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs send to the British Post Office and ask for these bags since the segregation? 
     
     
      
       It amounts to that. 
     
     
      
       It is not what it   amounts to, but is it a fact that you sent for them recently&mdash;since the segregation? 
     
     
      
       That is not a fact, but it amounts to that. 
     
     
      
       It is the fact we want. 
     
     
      
       We did not physically send anybody over for them. The fact is that we retained the bags from the British Postal Service.  We have reason to be obliged to the British Post Office for allowing us to retain the bags.  We did not pay for the bags at cost price, but we had to assess the value.  We got good value. 
     
     
      
       How did the bags come here in the first instance&mdash;I daresay they were left here because it was expected that they would be required to be used here? 
     
     
      
       They were constantly passing backwards and forward between England and Ireland with mails, parcels and letters for each country.  In order to meet our internal requirements for bags, we, instead of sending back the surplus bags, retained them for our own use, and we paid for them at a later stage. 
     
     
      
       Yes, second-hand bags at cost price. 
     
     
      
       There can be no doubt about the price.  We got good value. 
     
     
      
       We have here a sample of what is happening all the time&mdash;the British policy of what is ours is theirs, and what is theirs is their own. 
     
     
      
       Due to a lack of understanding on your own part. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Industry and Commerce has not been able to come to the assistance of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, to make it very clear. 
     
     
     
      
       He has not. 
     
     
      
       That might not be due to my lack of effort, but to the Deputy's lack of understanding. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Parliamentary Secretary's explanation, amplified by the explanation given by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, am I right in assuming that this is a case of confiscation where we are paying compensation? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is nearly as bad as his leader. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy makes an insinuation which is in common with almost every other insinuation made by his side&mdash;that we get the worst of every bargain.  The Deputy states that we paid the price of new bags for second-hand articles.  I may inform the Deputy that we consider we got very good value, and the price we paid was not excessive. 
     
     
      
       Has this Government got any share whatever of the assets of the United Kingdom? 
     
     
      
       That has nothing to do with this debate. 
     
     
      
       It has a lot to do with this debate, and with a good many more matters, because our share of the assets would amount to a big figure. 
     
     
      
       We did get a considerable share of the assets of the United Kingdom, but a great proportion of what we got was destroyed by followers of the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       Were they in the bags? 
     
     
      
       By the orders of Mr. Churchill. 
     
     
      
       Did we pay for the bags in the same manner as we paid for the guns that attacked the Four Courts? 
       Question put. 
       The Committee divided: Ta, 75; Nil, 51. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony.
 Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. Alfred Byrne. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Richard Corish. William T. Cosgrave. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Edward Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). 
             James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe.
 Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Patrick Clancy. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Fred. Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. James Everett. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Samuel Holt. 
             Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle.  Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Motion declared carried. 
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - VOTE 64&mdash;ARMY. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go ndeontar suim bhreise na raghaidh thar £1,400 chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch 31adh Marta, 1928, chun costas an Airm maraon le Cultaca an Airm. 
       That a supplementary sum not exceeding £1,400 be granted to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st March, 1928, for the cost of the Army, including reserve. 
       As Deputies will see from the face of the Estimate, this sum is required for the purpose of making good an amount disallowed by the Public Accounts Committee in their report on the accounts of the year 1924-25.  In the Public Accounts Committee's final report for the year the following paragraph occurs: 
       It transpired in the course of the inquiry that a sum of £1,400 had been paid in the financial year 1924/25 in respect of the warlike stores reported upon in paragraph 50 of the final report of last year's Committee.  This sum is a continuing payment of the sum disallowed in sub-paragraph 6 of the said paragraph and must consequently be treated in the same way. The payment in question is therefore disallowed. 
       In the paragraph referred to of the previous year's report a sum of £8,305, I think, had been disallowed, and an estimate to make good that sum was brought before the Dail in July, 1926, and then passed. 
     
     It is necessary to bring in this Supplementary Vote now in order that the Army Finance Officer may be relieved of a legal responsibility which falls on him, a responsibility which is not a moral responsibility as he acted throughout under direction.  This constitutes one payment really but the money was paid in two instalments in two different years.  The transactions in respect of which these payments were made arose in 1922.  They were, in fact, a continuation of transactions that had begun long before the Truce.  They were transactions in respect of which it was exceedingly difficult to get details and in respect of which vouchers and ordinary   documents were unobtainable.  An attempt to settle the matter was made in February, 1924, and an official from the Department of Finance was sent to London to examine into it.  He acted with a solicitor.  He made a settlement which he thought was the fairest that could be effected in the circumstances. There was an undoubted liability on the State and it had to be discharged.  The amount was determined or rather had, as it were, to be measured, because there was no possibility of determining it exactly in the way in which it would have been determined in the case of an ordinary transaction where a proper contract had been entered into.  It was determined according to the information that was available and on the best lines possible. 
     I stated when this matter was first before the Dail that my own belief was that the transactions should not have been entered into, that after the Treaty there was no need for surreptitious purchases of explosives or arms.  But the purchases were made.  Payment was due and was made but because of the peculiar features of the transaction it was disallowed by the Public Accounts Committee.  As I have said, there is a technical responsibility on the Army Finance Officer and the Supplementary Vote is now put before the Dail to make good the final instalment of the sum paid, namely, £1,400. 
     The whole matter was discussed at great length before the Public Accounts Committee, and in the Dail on a couple of occasions.  Deputies who are interested have doubtless read the reports of the Public Accounts Committee as well as the proceedings before that Committee.  I do not propose to summarise them, or to take the Dail over them. 
     
      
       I understood the Minister to say, in introducing this Vote, that the Army Finance Officer acted throughout under direction. Would the Minister disclose to the House under what direction? 
     
     
      
       The direction of Ministers. 
     
     
      
       Which Ministers? 
     
     
      
       Different Ministers, I think. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the Minister for Finance particularise the Minister? Was it under the direction of the Executive Council as a whole, or under the direction of some one particular Minister or Ministers? 
     
     
      
       The first payment was made, I think, under the direction of the President.  I do not know for sure. 
     
     
      
       Are we to take it, then, that it was the President acting for the Executive Council? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance has asked the Dail to approve this Vote in order to finish up what he called transactions that in his opinion, as he stated, should not have been entered into.  These transactions were under review and discussion before the Public Accounts Committee in three different years.  In reading the Report of the Public Accounts Committee one learns that the sum of £1,400 is to finish up a payment to a Mr. Fitzgerald in London for contracts or purchases which he made on behalf of the Dail Ministry of Defence.  Before going further I should like to read some extracts from the evidence given by General McMahon before the Public Accounts Committee in 1925 regarding the manner in which the materials purchased by Mr. Fitzgerald were to have been used.  Mr. Fitzgerald claimed that although this stuff which he purchased was not actually delivered here in Ireland, that he was entitled to payment as well as to payment for options which he advanced on the instructions of the Dail Ministry of Defence or the purchasing Department which was directly under the Dail Ministry of Defence. 
     
     General McMahon said.  &ldquo;We were to take delivery of the revolvers&rdquo;&mdash; revolvers which Fitzgerald claimed payment for&mdash;&ldquo;in a very short time after he got them, immediately before the attack on the Four Courts, only the Four Courts upset it.&rdquo;  Again he said, in alluding to another purchase which Mr. Fitzgerald made of potassium chloride, one of the principal constituents in the manufacture of explosives, that  &ldquo;it was to do a certain work; it was to be used for carrying out certain operations.&rdquo; It was not delivered, because, as he said, &ldquo;the original arrangements did not materialise.&rdquo; 
     I hope the Dail will not approve of this Vote or do anything which might be construed as giving sanction to the actions of the present Ministers in connection with these transactions.  I think their whole actions at that time were as mean and as contemptible a piece of treachery as was ever practised by any set of men against their fellow-countrymen.  These stores were bought by and under the direction of the Army Headquarters that had given allegiance to the Dail, and that was directly under the control of the Dail Ministry of Defence right up to the attack on the Four Courts.  That Army Headquarters and the men acting under them were given a definite assurance by the present Minister for Local Government who was then the Minister for Defence.  The assurance he gave them was that the Army &ldquo;will remain occupying the same position towards the Government of the Republic and occupying the same position as regards the Minister for Defence, and under the same management and in the same spirit as up to the present.  The Army will continue to remain the Army of the Republic.&rdquo; 
     
      
       On a point of order, Mr. Chairman, do you think it would be in order on this particular Vote to start a general debate on the events of 1922?  I wonder would it be advisable? I do not know. 
     
     
      
       This Vote relates to arms purchased at that time. 
     
     
      
       I take it that what Deputy Aiken is saying bears directly on the Vote for £1,400? 
     
     
      
       This was public money spent for arms and war material to be used by the Army which was paid out of public funds.  Mr. White, who purchased these arms, under the direction of Mr. Fitzgerald, who was an agent of the purchasing department of the Army under the Dail Ministry of Defence, said in his evidence regarding some of these transactions which the Minister   for Finance now says should never have been entered into:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;I got in touch with a firm in London, the name of which I will disclose presently.  This was a firm of professional gun-runners. . . I mentioned this to Fitzgerald.  He asked me to meet him one day at the Four Provinces Club.  I met him there, and he brought a man whose name was given to me as that of Sean Golden, who said he was Assistant Director of Purchases for the I.R.A. at the time.  Golden told me that very large supplies of arms were necessary. He gave me a list, which I have here. . . When Golden gave me this list he said it was urgently necessary to get the arms.  I was given to understand that these rifles were required for use in anticipation of trouble with Ulster.  I was even told by Fitzgerald that the intention was to arm the Irregulars, and that in order to do that the rifles supplied by the British Government could not be used because, as you know, every British rifle is stamped with a number, and if one were lost and afterwards recovered, it could be identified.&rdquo; 
     
     These transactions went on at that time under the authority of the Dail Ministry of Defence, and with the sanction of the whole Dail Ministry.  The young men who were under their control believed the promises which the Free State Ministry gave them, that these arms were going to be used, and all the arms they had possession of, in defence of the rights of the Irish people to independence and for one government for the whole of Ireland.  They were told to remain under the Dail Ministry of Defence on the understanding that the army was to remain the army of the Irish Republic.  If the Free State Ministers had then told the young men who had done good work for Ireland like Sean McKeon, Sean McMahon, who was Quartermaster General at the time, Dan Hogan and many others in the present Free State Army that they were going to prosecute a war in this country in defence, not of the rights of the Irish people, but of the claims of the British King, those young men would never have joined their army and right well they knew it.  Instead they   told them they were going to stand up for the rights of the Irish people, for their freedom and independence, and every step they took justified it to these young men on the plea that what they were doing was the best thing in order to achieve the rights of the Irish people. It was only when they had the hands of these men steeped in the blood of their brother Irishmen that they disclosed to them that they were not going to pursue the rights of the Irish people any longer, but sit down and rest content, although the ashes of the people they had slain, and the comrades they had got slain, cried out for vengeance, cried out that the rights of their country might be achieved. 
     At the time that these purchases were being made, as well as there being an army under the control of the Dail Ministry of Defence, there was another section of the young men of Ireland who had fought with the men who remained under the control of the Dail Ministry of Defence, for the freedom and independence of the Irish Republic during the Black-and-Tan war, and they had their headquarters in the Four Courts. These young men, just the same as the young men under the Dail Ministry of Defence, were told that the arms that were coming into the country, and which were being purchased and handed over by the British, were going to be used to achieve the rights of the people of Ireland.  Actually they were in the Four Courts, as Rory O'Connor pointed out, on the 28th of June, when they were attacked, by the wishes of the Dail Minister of Defence.  Rory O'Connor writing shortly before his execution, said: 
     We were never requested to evacuate the Four Courts; on the contrary, at one meeting of the Coalition Army Council, at which Mulcahy, O'Duffy, Mellowes, Lynch and myself were present, we were only asked to evacuate the Ballast Office, Kildare Street Club, the Masonic Hall and Lever Bros.  At that stage we actually discussed co-ordinated military action against the N.E. Ulster, and had agreed on an officer who would command both the Republican and F.S. troops in that area.  We were also to send from the South some hundreds of our rifles for use in that   area.  The reason given was that it would never do if rifles which had been handed to the &ldquo;Government&rdquo; for use against the Republic, and which, of course, could be identified, were found in use against Craig.  An exchange of rifles was effected.  It should be remembered that at this time the &ldquo;Government&rdquo; was publicly declaring that it was the &ldquo;mutineer&rdquo; section of the army which was fighting the Ulster people. 
     At this meeting I have referred to someone suggested the evacuation of the Four Courts and Mulcahy laughingly said that as long as we held that place the war against N.E. Ulster would be attributed to us. 
     
      
       That is a damn lie. 
     
     
      
       Mulcahy is a good judge of lies.  He is a good judge, and well you know it. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister has made his remarks about anything said in this House I must ask him to withdraw. 
     
     
      
       In deference to the Chair I withdraw these remarks, but I may make a personal explanation. This matter has been drawn in by Deputy Aiken involving a discussion which goes back into the whole of what happened in 1922.  Personally, I do not propose, in 1928, to discuss any aspect of these matters in this House. 
     
     
      
       We do. 
     
     
      
       I speak for myself. 
     
     
      
       We want to finish up your job here now and pay up. 
     
     
      
       The Minister must be allowed to proceed uninterruptedly. 
     
     
      
       In so far as I had any explanation to make of these matters I think I gave, in September, 1922, a very full explanation to the House here.  I say that I completely withdraw in deference to the Chair the particular words I used, but I must, as   a matter of personal explanation, ask to be allowed to say here that what Deputy Aiken has just said as words of mine is an absolute untruth.  I just butt in on his present discourse in order to say that. 
     
     
      
       And the men who can prove it are dead. 
     
     
      
       They are not all dead.  There are some alive who will prove it&mdash;every word of it. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Boland and Deputy O'Kelly are not in order in making such interruptions, and they will not serve their own cause by doing so. 
     
     
      
       We are the best judges of that. 
     
     
      
       You are not. The Chair is the best judge of that. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Local Government has just said that an extract which I read was untrue, and I must say that nobody would expect the Minister to say anything else. 
     
     
      
       Certainly not. 
     
     
      
       I maintain, and it is quite evident, that both the young men who were in the Four Courts and the young men who were in Beggars' Bush under the Dail Minister of Defence were absolutely deceived as to how the arms, which were purchased under the Vote which the Dail is now being asked to pass, were going to be used.  They believed that those arms were going to be used, as I said, in the defence of the rights of the Irish people, and it was because that belief existed in the minds of the people who then joined the Army at Beggars' Bush that the young men who fought for Irish independence were got to join that Army at all, and it was only when their hands were stained with the blood of their fellow-countrymen that the Minister opposite said to them:&mdash;&ldquo;You cannot be any worse anyway.  You cannot go back now to the people with your hands stained with blood.&rdquo;  It was only then that the real purpose of the Minister   was made clear to them, and it was made clear to them, or at any rate to the principals among them, in October, 1923, when the civil war was over.  It was only then that Fitzgerald, who had control of these stores in London, was ordered to dispose of them.  General MacMahon, in giving evidence in 1925 in reference to stores purchased under this Vote, said:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The ex-Minister for Defence and myself were in London about October, 1923 and we thought we had definitely closed that matter (that is the option of purchasing 10,000 rifles) by making arrangements with Fitzgerald. We instructed him to dispose of the material he had in hand.  We were not anxious even to get the revolvers.&rdquo; 
       By that time the dirty work had been done in this country.  The Dail, to which President Cosgrave and his followers here claim that this Dail is the legitimate successor, was suppressed on the 30th June, 1922.  These arms, or some of them at least, which should have been used to defend the rights of Ireland were used to attack the Four Courts and destroy all hope of independence so far as these men could destroy it.  The Four Courts were attacked on the 28th June, and, as Rory O'Connor said, they were only asked twenty-five minutes before the attack to vacate the place.  Up to then, as he pointed out, the Four Courts were occupied with the full knowledge and consent of the Minister for Defence. 
     
     
      
       Absolutely untrue. 
     
     
      
       How do we come to be discussing this? 
     
     
      
       There is a Vote here for £1,400 for warlike stores which were purchased in June, 1922, and also in July, and on other dates up to the end of that year.  I am reading some extracts from the evidence given before the Committee on Public Accounts. 
     
     
      
       That does not seem to raise the question of the occupation of the Four Courts. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance in asking for the approval of   the House for this Vote, said that the transactions mentioned should not have been entered into after the Treaty was signed.  I am showing that they were entered into with the full knowledge and consent of the then Dail Minister for Defence, and most of the then Ministers are Ministers of the present Government, and I say that there never was a greater piece of treachery than that in connection with these transactions. 
     
     
      
       The question at issue is the financial aspect of these transactions.  A certain sum of money was disallowed by the Public Accounts Committee and it was necessary to re-vote it.  By implication it is now sought to open up the whole question of the use of arms.  It is not a question of the use of arms, but how the arms were purchased. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance said that the transactions should not have been entered into. 
     
     
      
       I was explaining that the money was money which was not properly accounted for, that these were not proper transactions, and I said that after the Treaty surreptitious purchases which involved this sort of thing should not be entered into. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance says that in 1928, after hundreds of young Irishmen were killed because these surreptitious buyings were going on, with the consent of the Dail Minister for Defence and of Dail Ministers.  In 1928, six years after the starting of the Civil War, the Minister for Finance makes such statements, but why did he not tell the young men under his command in June, 1922, that these things should not be going on? The young men under the control of the Dail Minister for Defence were being induced out beyond their depth, and it was only when they were beyond their depth and could not get back to the shore that they were told the truth. If they were ever going to be told the truth&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What is the truth? 
     
     
     
      
       A thing you do not know much about. 
     
     
      
       The truth is what I have stated.  These arms were purchased and the young men of the country, who were bearing arms under the Dail Minister for Defence, were led to believe that these arms were going to be used in defence of the rights of the people of this country and for their freedom and independence.  That is true, and it is true that it was a piece of treachery on the part of the State Ministers. 
     
     
      
       It is not true. 
     
     
      
       As I said in reply to the Minister for Local Government, no one could expect him to say anything else. 
     
     
      
       And, as he said, &ldquo;Certainly not.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I hope that the Dail will not approve of this Vote and will not give sanction to these transactions, which the Minister for Finance said should not have occurred.  I hope that the Dail will also say that the whole transactions carried out by the then Free State Ministers will not be sanctioned by this Assembly.  These accounts were not passed by the Committee on Public Accounts on three occasions, and it is only because the Free State Minister for Finance wants finally to steam-roll this through that it is coming up here for sanction, but I hope the Dail will not sanction it. 
     
     
      
       In the absence, due to illness, of Deputy Johnson, the then Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, I signed the Report on which Deputy Aiken has based his attack on this Vote.  I would like to say that after three years on the Public Accounts Committee I am satisfied this transaction was an unsatisfactory one, but one that under the circumstances of the time was justifiable.  I think that the Ministry of Defence were anticipating Deputy Carney's wish when he objected to our taking over arms from the British because they were only dud rifles.  The Ministry of Defence went out of the British orbit and bought elsewhere. When you have transactions   with people who are dealing in arms in a somewhat illicit fashion, and who are labelling their arms as something else&mdash; when you are dealing with firms who have not established a reputation for integrity&mdash;you may have difficulty on the point of accountancy at a later date. That was the view I took of this transaction. It was unusual, and, I think, unfortunate but I do not think there is any ground for suggesting turpitude on the part of the Department responsible for it.  I want to go a little further.  I recognise Deputy Aiken's sincerity.  I recognise also that the Minister for Local Government could reply with equal sincerity.  I say to Deputies on both sides of the House that it is not going to do the country any good to be raking up these old quarrels and shaking the bones of the dead.  Deputies on one side of the House may talk of Rory O'Connor, others of Sean Hales, and others of Mrs. Lindsay.  That is not for the good of the country.  The past is past.  For God's sake let it be forgotten. 
     
     
      
       It can never be. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry.  I am, perhaps, not the right person to make this appeal.  I hope Deputies will realise I am making it with all sincerity. It will do no good to be raising old quarrels, perpetually raising old issues. When I came back to Ireland in 1918, having seen young Irishmen of the type Deputy Aiken talks of &ldquo;On far foreign fields from Dunkirk to Belgrade,&rdquo; and even far beyond, I prayed that I would not see such types lying dead on the Irish fields.  Can we not make a truce of God over the bones of the dead and not be dragging them into these controversies? Every side has something to complain of.  I would appeal to Deputies on all sides of the House not to be dragging the dead into their arguments. It is not going to make the country better or happier.  I am not speaking as a politician, but as a man who loves his country and wants to see peace in it. 
     
     
      
       I fully sympathise with the appeal made by Deputy Bryan Cooper.  I feel he is speaking sincerely in asking that this matter should not be gone into, and I believe it would be the wish of the vast majority of this House   that we should not, to use the picturesque phrase made use of by one of the gentlemen who is now a Free State Minister, go on &ldquo;rattling the bones of the dead.&rdquo;  We do not desire to do that.  I assure the House that I personally do not desire to do that, but this I must say in all sincerity to the House, that for six years those of us who have been Irish Republicans, and who have been Irish Republicans for a long period before that&mdash;when we were all one party, and when the gentlemen on the opposite side and ourselves had very close and intimate relations which have been smashed ever since the Civil War started&mdash;on most occasions on which speeches have been made by those two gentlemen who sit opposite to me now, as well as their colleagues, have been charged&mdash;they have charged me as a responsible Republican, knowing intimately the proceedings, as these gentlemen cannot deny&mdash; with responsibility for starting the Civil War.  If I were going before my God this minute, I say that I believe I have no responsibility for it.  Up till now we have had no opportunity, certainly not an opportunity with a platform such as we now have, and with those gentlemen face to face with us, to tell them what we believe to be true.  They may say, and say, perhaps, what they believe, that what we say is not true.  Although we live in Ireland I believe there are many people still unprejudiced in matters of this kind, and I know there exists a public opinion that is prepared to hear both sides and decide.  Our side of the story has never been heard, and you, gentlemen, have never heard it&mdash; Deputy Cooper and his colleagues have never known it&mdash;because the Press here will not give it.  On numberless occasions letters have been sent to the daily Press here&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Would it curtail the Deputy's argument if I told him that I am a regular reader of the &ldquo;Nation&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       Thanks for the compliment, but I have never gone into the history of the disturbances of the last six years in the &ldquo;Nation.&rdquo;  I have made definite statements there with regard to the incidents that have happened, but I have not gone into the history of the last six years.  As I say,   the daily Press have not given, and I do not presume to say they would in the future give, in their columns what we look to as our side of the story as against the Free State Ministers.  They have not done it and will not do it. Therefore I think that, in all fairness, matters arising, in a liberal sense, out of this particular Vote ought to be allowed to be discussed here by the Chair and by the Dail.  Again I say that I do not want to rattle the bones of the dead or go into unnecessary things about that time, but I think I might make an appeal to the House, to those who are to some extent, perhaps, unprejudiced&mdash;at any rate, they are to this extent, that they were not on one side or the other in this dispute.  I say to them that in all fairness to us they ought to hear our side of the story and, having heard it, they are free to judge on which side the truth lies.  They will, perhaps, agree that there is a certain amount of truth on our side, and that all the truth is not in the one story they have been listening to and that has been dinned into their ears, day in and day out, since June 28th, 1922. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be better if the Deputy wrote a book? 
     
     
      
       And let you forge a few more despatches. 
     
     
      
       These things will all go down in books in good time, and they will be all there in history. 
     
     
      
       Get some of your pensioners to write a book. 
     
     
      
       Those who come after us will have to judge.  Some people I know have written books; others are engaged in writing books&mdash; we wrote a lot of history in those years &mdash;but up to the present one side of the story, and one only, has been told.  As one individual who knows something&mdash; I do not know all, I do not profess to know all, but I know something of the circumstances of the time&mdash;I say that in fairness our side of that story should be heard.  If it is not heard now, it will have to be heard again, because as sure as we are here it will come out some time or other.  There is a lot of bitterness rankling in the hearts, not alone of the men here, but of Republicans elsewhere, because that opportunity has   never been given to us.  I am not familiar with the details of these purchases, with the details of the transactions that went on at that time, but there are men in the Dail who are familiar with them, who had a part in these transactions to some extent, and who can tell the truth as they know it about them.  They will be told that they are telling untruths; you can hear the statement from the other side and can judge.  It has been stated over and over again that certain of the arms and equipment purchased out of these moneys that are now the subject of discussion were guns that were used by what were then known as &ldquo;irregulars,&rdquo; and these guns were supplied to these &ldquo;irregulars&rdquo; by the gentlemen who styled themselves the &ldquo;regulars&rdquo; at that time.  That statement has been made over and over again on public platforms by some of our friends on this side, and they believe they have evidence to prove what they say.  They claim that they have evidence to prove that guns that were purchased, part of them, with this money that is now the subject of discussion were given into the hands of some young men of different flying columns from different areas in the six Northern counties and elsewhere who were sent into the North to fight the men in the Six Counties&mdash; sent in there armed with these guns and sent there with the knowledge, if not directly under the orders, of the gentleman who is now known as Deputy Mulcahy.  These statements have been made.  He has denied them now&mdash;he has denied some of these statements. There are, I believe, Deputies here who are prepared to add their testimony to the statements that have been made, and it will be for you to judge. 
     
     These purchases that were made began before there was any talk of civil war so far as the public knew. Others may have known something about it.  When that equipment was bought originally there was division but there were certain meetings and certain agreed action being carried on by both sides of the army, and there is still available, although a number of the chief characters concerned are dead and gone&mdash;some of them shot by those   gentlemen opposite, shot in cold blood, supposed to be a reprisal; they are dead and gone; it was an easy way to put witnesses out of the way when you had dirty things to hide; that is my belief&mdash;there are others still living who can bring evidence to show that there is foundation for the belief on the Republican side that a dirty trick was played.  That is what is believed, and, mind you, the Republicans got close on half a million votes in the last election, which shows that there is a body of opinion behind them.  Republicans believe that a dirty trick was played, and with that opinion behind them you can at least agree that there is some ground for investigation, and there ought to be some opportunity of threshing the thing out. 
     I do not intend to go at greater length into this matter.  I should like that it would not develop heat, although I suppose that is impossible.  While I suppose I could generate as much heat on this subject as anyone else I would rather not do it.  I would rather have this matter developed and discussed and searched right to the foundation in all calmness, without any heat, and, if possible, without any bitterness.  I admit that I feel bitter sometimes, and I think with reason, knowing what I know, and knowing what I must tell the House some day or another.  I have reason I believe to feel bitter, but I will not go into that at the moment.  On this one issue of the purchases, and what arises out of them, I should like that the House would give a fair hearing to those who can speak with more intimate knowledge on the subject than I have, on the understanding that they have evidence to bring forth to prove that there was something that was not straight, that was not gentlemanly, that was not honest, and that certainly was not Irish, that was done at that time by one set of gentlemen to brother Irishmen. 
     
      
       What are we to understand is the desire of the Deputy with regard to the debate? He made an appeal for liberal treatment from the Chair and from the House for certain matters.  The Chair is liberal in a great many matters.  We have had a debate on the Land Commission,   for example, yesterday and today which could easily be described as liberal from the point of view of the Chair.  In this particular case we might as well be clear as to what we do want to discuss.  We might as well be clear that if the House really does want to discuss something they must do it.  But the issue of these purchases technically from the point of view of the Chair is this: that this is a sum of money disallowed by the Public Accounts Committee; that it has now to be voted&mdash; this is the third Vote on the question or the second&mdash;and what arises is the report of the Public Accounts Committee as to how financial transactions were carried out.  The other general questions do not arise.  For example, if a Government with a different personnel from the present Government, composed of different persons, with a wholly different history, were in office, they would still be asking for this Vote of £1,400 simply as a matter of financial arrangement.  Therefore, we have in fact already travelled a good deal outside the normal scope of this kind of motion.  If any good purpose could be served by travelling outside the technical scope of a particular Vote the Chair has no particular objection to have that purpose served, but if the purchase of these arms and their objective and all its alleged implications are going to be gone into, it seems to me to be quite fair and square that the issue that arises is not so much the attack on the Four Courts, or why the Four Courts were attacked but the question of the split in the Irish Republican Army, and why did all these things happen.  Deputy O'Kelly concluded &mdash;I hope I am not misquoting him&mdash; by saying he hoped to prove that something happened that was not straight, was not gentlemanly, was not honest and was not Irish. 
     
     
      
       May I interrupt for a moment.  I said that, but not that I could prove it, but that my friends could, even arising out of this specific purchase of arms without going outside it. 
     
     
      
       That it could be proved that a transaction was not straight, was not gentlemanly, was not honest and was not Irish.  Now I am   afraid it would be absolutely impossible to prove that particular thesis without generating a great deal of heat.  I do not see how it could be debated otherwise. I allowed the Deputy to come to the absolute conclusion of his speech without any interruption of any kind from the Chair, because from the nature of the case I recognise there is a real difficulty in the matter, but I do not think that difficulty could be solved by discussing these fundamental matters on anything that could be reasonably described as a side wind, and this particular Vote for £1,400 can, I think, be easily described as a side wind.  If the implication in the purchase of arms is as great as the Deputy and others attempted to prove, then we get into a very large field of debate, and I think if we are going to discuss this particular matter we ought to discuss it at some time or other on a motion with malice aforethought, and with full knowledge of what we are actually going to do.  Whether that would be a desirable thing and would serve any good purpose it is not for me to say. But whether this House now on this Vote is the proper platform on which to go into these matters is very doubtful. I can allow for statements, such as Deputy O'Kelly's opening statement, as to what he feels in his conscience about his action and the action of those who stood with him.  That is quite a reasonable proceeding, but if the two sides of the question have to be investigated with a view to proving something before the House on that whole question of 1922 we are getting into a very vexed question indeed. Personally, I do not think it should be done on this Vote, and I do not think Deputy O'Kelly really intended that on this particular Vote we should go into these matters.  We could not go into them in less than several days, and I do not think we really ought to do it. 
     
     
      
       Is maith an sgealaidhe an aimsir agus tiochfaidh an fhirinne amach la eigin. 
     
     In dealing with this Vote for £1,400, I do not propose to go outside the Public Accounts dealing with the matter&mdash; the Appropriation Accounts for 1923-24, the Public Accounts for 1924-25, page 363, the Interim and Final Reports of   the Public Accounts Committee for the 30th April, 1926, and Appendices 8, 9 and 10.  And as one of those who has been the subject of jibes and taunts across the floor of the House and from political platforms, as to the responsibility for certain events that happened in the last seven or eight years, and as one who worked for peace and tried to keep my temper, I ask Deputies who have an open mind in the matter to read over these accounts for the truth &mdash;they can be found in the Library of this House&mdash;and to examine the statements in connection with that purchase of arms. 
     We are asked by Deputy Gearoid O'Sullivan what is truth.  That is a reminiscent phrase, for jesting Pilate once asked, &ldquo;What is truth?&rdquo; It was said by some Deputy opposite that dirty work was done.  By whom, or how, I do not know, because it was said sotto voce and it was difficult to catch the exact words.  Well some of the truth is to be found in these reports I quite acknowledge the sincerity of Deputy Cooper in the appeal he made, but he has not been the subject of taunts and gibes that we were subjected to.  I am willing to leave the verdict to history, but in the meantime I ask that Deputies, instead of taking our words, should read the Public Accounts of that transaction in the Library.  In the Minutes of the Public Accounts Committee, 1925, in answer to the Chairman it was stated by the Auditor-General that he found that an advance of £10,000 had been made in this matter before he took up office.  He did not know what the advance made meant.  There was no ledger account in respect of it, and there were no vouchers in support of it.  The date is significant.  The transaction occurred in June, 1922.  &ldquo;We could get no information on the matter for quite a long time,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;but eventually,&rdquo; he went on, &ldquo;I discovered the claim was made by Senior Crozier and Company, a firm associated with Mr. F. Fitzgerald.&rdquo;  He was a director of the firm, and it was subsequently discovered that he practically owned the firm.  The account had reference to chemicals.  There were bills for   £8,329 5s. 1d., which were supported by invoices for chemicals of various kinds, and amongst the chemicals were thirty casks of D.N.T.  There are men here who were in the Civil War and they know what D.N.T. is used for.  But the significant fact is that the purchases were made early in 1922.  The firm had transactions with the I.R.A., I believe, prior to that, also.  It is not necessary, perhaps, to go through the whole account. Mr. Fitzgerald seems to have made a fairly good profit.  I do not want to go into that matter, because it is my impression that he was made the scapegoat in this, so that attention might not be directed to more vital points.  The Public Accounts Committee have turned it down two or three times and it was passed by a majority vote here, I believe.  The first grant of £10,000 was sanctioned, I believe, by the President at the time.  It was to be for the purchase not only of chemicals, but guns, cannon, rifles and revolvers, and the order was held up after the attack on the Four Courts. 
     
      
       Before the Deputy proceeds, I should like to say hat that sum that I was referring to was not the £10,000, but about £5,000 paid subsequently. That was the sum that I said had been sanctioned by the President. 
     
     
      
       I accept the correction.  In the Minutes of Evidence of the Public Accounts Committee, 1923-24, the witness said, in answer to question 2706, that a sum of £8,305 was paid to the Army Vote 1923-24 by direct order of the Ministry of Finance, and that was not a final settlement.  Then there was a question of pressing reasons and urgency why it should be settled.  But: &ldquo;The Committee is of opinion that a closer investigation is required and that all the facts affecting the case should be presented to the Public Accounts Committee.&rdquo; That is to be found at question 2720. 
     
     Sums were paid in 1922-23 and 1923-24, and that did not complete the account; £1,400 was further advanced in 1924-5 and, in answer to a question it was stated that in these matters the Executive Council acts collectively.  I do not know whether the   Executive Council stands over that or not.  If it does not then it should not be paid; it should be repudiated, and if it does stand over the whole transaction all the facts should be published and the reasons given for the purchase of these chemicals and arms.  Appendix VIII. has a memo. on the purchase of warlike stores.  Arrangements were made by the military authorities in Dublin with Mr. F. W. Fitzgerald in June 1922 for the purchase of rifles, large guns and ammunition, and £10,000 was advanced.  The Minister for Finance said that after the Treaty there was no need for surreptitious purchases of arms and ammunition.  Well, some Ministers at the time thought that there was need for it, and out of that need, in the opinion of the Minister then, have arisen many sad things that have happened since.  I say to the independent members of this House particularly, and those who have an open mind on it, to weigh that fact carefully.  It was the opinion of some Ministers then that those arms should be purchased, though arms could have been got, of course, through Mr. Cope, from the British Government, for what was called the National Army.  I do not know if it was at that date.  The summary of the transactions with Mr. Fitzgerald for May, 1922, was&mdash;total paid £19,705; in June, 1922, £10,000; in October, 1923, £5,000; in February, 1924, £3,260, and in December, 1924, £1,400.  The last four sums were advanced by the Minister for Finance and recovered from the Army Vote.  Appendix IX the same Report states: &ldquo;From a report by the Chief of Staff we learn that early in 1922 arms were required for the use of the Northern Divisions of the Army, and it was decided to procure a quantity to be sent to the North.&rdquo;  Negotiations were entered into with Mr. Fitzgerald for two thousand revolvers, ten thousand rifles and five large guns. Negotiations were complete by June, 1922, but when the attack on the Four Courts came and there was a change of policy Mr. Fitzgerald was told to hold his hand.  I ask independent Deputies to weigh these facts: what were all these guns for and what was the ammunition for?  I ask them to think if the sole responsibility for the Civil War rests with these benches, or if any   responsibility rests with them.  Let them weigh carefully these facts.  They can be got from official accounts in this House. 
     There is an undated memo. in the same appendix from Fitzgerald saying that the guns were seized by the police after delivery to him on behalf of Messrs. Soley and Co.  I wonder who gave information as to their delivery there.  There is not in the files any record of a contract, or anything in the nature of a contract, or any note of the price.  The chemicals delivered in Dublin then were chlorate potass., D.N.T. and barium nitrate, and he says that these transactions referred to pre-Truce, during the Truce, and subsequent purchases by the National Army, the total being £6,068 19s. 7d.  In May, 1922, before the Civil War, £18,018 was paid for chemicals to that firm. Generals Mulcahy and MacMahon, on the 19th October, 1923, went to London, after an interview with the President, to pay £5,000 as a final settlement. They got, I believe, a receipt on account.  At that date Mr. Fitzgerald had received £15,045&mdash;I do not say for himself, but for the firm he represented &mdash;against goods invoiced at £19,704, but of which only £9,000 worth had been delivered.  So that it is no wonder that the Public Accounts Committee hesitated to sanction the payment of these amounts.  In February, 1924, Mr. Fitzgerald telegraphed that the revolvers had been seized by the sheriff, and that he had been served with bankruptcy papers.  &ldquo;The bankruptcy story was misleading and admitted to be a trick concocted by Mr. Fitzgerald.&rdquo;  I am afraid a lot of these phrases have been put in, perhaps truly, but in order, perhaps, to distract attention from certain other aspects of the purchases. After much trouble and inquiring, Mr. Doolin, acting for the Ministry, paid Mr. Soley's claim against Fitzgerald, totalling £3,260. 
     
      
       Does the Deputy say that it is his opinion that the statements were put in deliberately by the Public Accounts Committee to distract attention? 
     
     
      
       No; I say they are quite right, but a lot of these facts have been published, when others were not published,   in order that the public might draw conclusions.  I do not say that the Public Accounts Committee were accountable for that.  Not only was this £3,260 paid then, but it was agreed to pay £1,400 in full settlement in order to obtain the chemicals and the revolvers which had not yet been delivered. The position then was that the Government had paid £18,305 on Mr. Fitzgerald's claim, whilst Mr. Fitzgerald retained goods charged at £10,385.  The £1,400 was withheld because he did not give up the chemicals and guns which he was supposed to hold, in the name of the Free State, let us say, at the time.  In July, 1924, legal proceedings were threatened against Fitzgerald, and in December, 1924, he agreed to carry out his undertaking of February.  The £1,400 was paid to him and he delivered the revolvers and portion of the chemicals.  On April 16th, 1925, after further threats, the balance, said to have been in stock in charge of the Army since September, 1922, was delivered, and finally the chemicals, which cost the State £2,261, were sold in London in March, 1926, for £315.  It is no wonder that the Public Accounts Committee states that a lot of these should not have been paid.  Mr. Fitzgerald, at any rate, has got £19,704. There is £1,400 still due from one account to another and we are asked to sanction it.  In view of the purpose for which these guns were bought, in view of the use to which some of them were put, and in view of the suspicion over the whole transaction, I think that the House should not, without a full inquiry, sanction, even now, that £1,400. We do not know what value was got for them or whether the firm in London ran risks commensurate with the money they got, and if they are satisfied with their profits, but in Appendix 10 there is a letter from Mr. J. F. White to Major-General MacMahon in which he states:&mdash; 
     
     &ldquo;Mr. Fitzgerald informed me that, whereas the Free State could purchase rifles openly from Mr. Cope, of the British Government, it was desired to obtain a large number secretly for use against Ulster so that, in the event of any of these rifles   being lost in battle, they could not be identified as having been supplied to the Free State.&rdquo; 
     I wonder if that statement published in the accounts, will also be stigmatised as a lie, or if there was no understanding whatever as regards Ulster between the Four Courts and Beggar's Bush. There are Deputies here who were actively concerned in these negotiations and they can prove it.  I believe that no attack was meant on Ulster, but that the whole plan was to deceive a certain section of Irishmen into accepting the Treaty which they would not have accepted if they knew what was meant. That is my reading of it.  I believe that the whole transaction was rooted in dishonour, that Mr. Fitzgerald was a scapegoat, that many things were done by men who did not intend to keep their faith either with friend or foe, and they could interpret friend or foe as they wished.  History will judge it. But in view of this transaction alone, I would ask Deputies on the other side not to throw taunts across the House as they did, and that Deputy Heffernan should not shout across that we destroyed the assets of this country.  This transaction alone, if nothing else, will show that there are two sides to the question and I ask Deputies to judge it fairly and not to vote that £1,400 if they believe in truth. 
     
      
       In entering briefly on this debate, I hope to keep within the bounds of the debate.  I wish to protest against this sum of £1,400 being voted in this instance, because I hold that not alone was the whole transaction irregular, but it involved a lot of things with which I cannot possibly agree.  These stores were being purchased with a certain definite object in view.  That object was to supply certain men in Ulster with arms, and those arms were to be used against Ulster. That at least was what we who went along to Beggars' Bush and Portobello understood.  That is what we were told. It was hoped that no longer than six months would elapse until we, with the rest of our comrades who were not included in what is now called the National Army, would take part together in concerted action against the Six Counties.  The arrangement made was   that those arms which were handed over from the British Government were to be given to the I.R.A. in the South and West, and they in their turn, were to supply rifles and other arms to the volunteers in Ulster.  The reason given then was the reason which has already been quoted&mdash;because all those rifles on the buttplate and on the bolt had a registered number which could be identified if they were captured in the North, and it would be held that these arms, given by the British Government to the staff in Beggars' Bush and Portobello Barracks, were being supplied to the Republicans in Ulster in order that they might fight against the British forces there.  That was the contention, and that has already been stated here and read out of a report in this House. As well as that, there is in connection with this particular matter something which convinces me, although I was not convinced at the time&mdash;even up to the attack on the Four Courts&mdash;that there never was any intention of putting these arms to the use to which they were supposed to be put when purchased. That is the fact that already in the Six-County area arms which had been purchased or captured by the I.R.A. were actually taken out of the possession of the I.R.A. and brought outside the Six Counties. 
     
     To give you one example: In my own area we had purchased £318 worth of arms and in addition, taking them at the headquarters valuation at that time, I had captured several hundred pounds worth of arms.  I discovered during the time when these purchases were being made that these arms had been taken out of that brigade area, brought away and taken over by the Division which was then subject to Beggar's Bush and under the command of General McKeon. As a consequence, not alone were those arms, which were stipulated for here, not supplied to our people in the North but those arms which we had purchased and captured were taken and the men up there were left without any means of defending themselves, not to talk of any means of carrying out any aggressive action against Ulster.  During the period when we were in Beggar's Bush and Portobello Barracks we were supposed to be still part of the I.R.A. and had our letters addressed accordingly.   We were told that when these arms came over from London it was only a matter of having a Conference or a Convention of all the volunteers to decide what our future attitude or action would be.  I remember listening to a speech on the square in Beggar's Bush by the then Minister for Defence who is now on the opposite benches, and he said that this Convention was to be held and that we should determine what our attitude should be.  Those arms after they were purchased were not applied to the use to which they should have been put.  There was one particular item of Hotchkiss guns.  There were five machine guns brought into Beggars' Bush barracks and I obtained one from the Quartermaster-General, for Derry City.  I discovered afterwards that a raiding party had come along and taken back the machine gun from the people who had got it.  In other words, it was taken out of Derry and brought back to the custody of the Minister for Defence.  By that means they kept certain of us individual officers, many men who had joined up, and for a time the whole Second Northern Division in a state that we did not know exactly what was going to happen other than that we thought three or four months would see the beginning of definite concerted action against a particular part of this country known as the Six Counties. That state continued up to the very time of the attack on the Four Courts. On the occasion of the clash between the volunteers and the British Government on the Belleek-Pettigo Border I remember going to the then Chief-of-Staff, General O'Duffy, in order to volunteer for that particular area, because I happened to be acquainted with it.  He told me on that occasion that they were changing the whole plan of campaign; that is, there was to be no mass action.  They had a plan to send in flying columns into the Six Counties. These flying columns were to be thoroughly equipped for work in that area.  Now that was eye-wash as I have already proved, but to show you how far the eye-wash went, two days or three days before the attack on the Four Courts I fully equipped&mdash;with the exception of arms&mdash;a flying column of forty men which came from the division   of Deputy Aiken.  They were fitted out with trench coats, boots, leggings and the rest, with as I said the exception of arms.  And the arms they were to be supplied with are the arms that we are talking about now in this particular Vote.  They were going to be supplied with these arms but the attack on the Four Courts came off.  They did not, however, know what it was about at the time.  All they knew was that it had happened.  On the grounds that our people in the North were absolutely let down over this particular transaction which is not merely a matter of £1,400, it is much more serious than that but we can only now talk about the £1,400&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       The Deputy is succeeding admirably. 
     
     
      
       On the grounds that this whole transaction absolutely and definitely let down our people in the North, and let down not only our people in the North, but the people of the rest of Ireland, I oppose this Vote most strongly. 
     
     
      
       The Vote that is under discussion arises out of the military policy of the Beggar's Bush section of the I.R.A. during the period 1922, immediately after the Truce, and in that connection, in order to understand thoroughly the deception that was practised on our people in the North, both on the civil population and on the Army, it is necessary that some light should be thrown on the Army policy at that period.  Some time after the Truce a meeting of I.R.A. officers was held at Clones.  It was called by the Chief-of-Staff, General O'Duffy, and the question was there discussed as to what should be the attitude of the Army in view of the Articles of Agreement that had been signed in London. General O'Duffy at that time outlined the military policy in the North.  He told us, regarding the Articles of Agreement, that a Republican Constitution would be drafted, that there would be no Oath of Allegiance in the Constitution and that the I.R.A. would remain the Irish Republican Army. Some of the officers present at that meeting raised the obvious point that   if the military activities in that area were allowed to cease, vested interests would become established, and it would be difficult to renew hostilities and to strike, with the support of the civil population, for the complete independence of our country at a later date.  A definite undertaking was given on behalf of the Beggar's Bush section of the Army by General O'Duffy at that meeting that the longest period that the Army in that area would be allowed, or asked to wait, would be a period of from six to twelve months. During that time the Army in that area would be properly trained and equipped. 
     
     It was for the purpose of equipping the Army in that area that this transaction with Mr. Fitzgerald was carried out.  But things, apparently, did not develop along the lines that were outlined to us by General O'Duffy on that night.  Shortly afterwards a number of Army officers were arrested on their way to a Derry football match.  Arising out of their detention in Derry Prison, General O'Duffy, Chief of Staff of the Beggar's Bush Section of the I.R.A., ordered a wholesale raid on the Specials and on the Loyalists of the North-East.  Consequently, the war that was not to be resumed, as we thought, until we were in a position to prosecute it to a successful conclusion, was started.  War was there and then declared by the Ulster Specials on our people.  It then became necessary for the Army authorities and the Second Dail to make an effort to have this war discontinued, or, at least, to pretend to the public, to the authorities in the North-East and to the British Government that this war policy was not being carried out with their complete sanction and approval.  Consequently they agreed&mdash;that is, the British Government, the North-Eastern Government, and that section of the Republican Army of which General O'Duffy was Chief of Staff&mdash;that a Liaison Commission should be set up for the purpose, on paper at any rate, of maintaining peace in that part of Ireland.  A Liaison Commission was set up consisting of two representatives of the British Army on the Southern side, two on the Northern side, two of the Six County Government, and two representatives   of the I.R.A. in this part of the country. I was the senior representative of the I.R.A. on that Commission.  Consequently I think I am in a position to know what the Army policy was, and why this warlike material was required. Reports were forwarded to the Chief of Staff at Beggar's Bush and to the late Michael Collins&mdash;that is to say, reports of the meetings of this Liaison Commission.  For the information of the House I will read some extracts I have here, copies of my reports and some of the reports of the British representatives, Colonel Montague Bates and Colonel Boyce:&mdash; 
     Courthouse, Monaghan, 
     22nd Feby., 1922. 
     To Chief of Staff, 
     Beggar's Bush Barracks, 
     Dublin. 
     On Monday, the 20th instant, I met the Southern representatives of the British Government (Col. Montague Bates and Col. Boyce) at their Headquarters, Monaghan.  We discussed the Border question in detail.  I pointed out that the two urgent matters that were causing anxiety and irritation were the continued detention of the men arrested in Enniskillen on the night of the raid over the Border, and the arrest and detention of Irish officers in Newry.  I made it clear that peace on the Border was impossible, and further raids certain to occur, unless these men and men similarly circumstanced were immediately released. 
     They agreed with my view point, and arranged to meet the members of the Commission from the Northern Area on Tuesday, 21st instant. 
     We met on the Monaghan-Tyrone Border.  Major Clemson attended on behalf of the British Government and District Inspector King on behalf of the Ulster Government, and Col. M. Bates on the Southern side.  It was unanimously agreed that these men should be immediately released in the interest of peace, and Major Clemson arranged to proceed immediately to Belfast and personally place our views before the North-Eastern Authorities.... 
     On February 23rd the British representative, Colonel Montague Bates&mdash;he   was representing the British Army&mdash; reported to the Provisional Government, to General O'Duffy, Chief of Staff of the Beggar's Bush Section of the Army, and to me, as follows:&mdash; 
     Lt. Col. Sutton stated with reference to questions regarding release of prisoners as put forward by the Southern representative, that the G.O.C. Ulster Division was not prepared to go into any political questions, and that the Northern Commission had no authority to discuss questions relating to prisoners.  This, of course, was understood, but as has been pointed out in our daily report, No. 1 and No. 2, paragraph 11 (4), and also in the Southern representative's letter for Chief of Staff, paragraph 1, the question of peace on the Border depends on the settlement of this question of prisoners.  This was confirmed in the afternoon by the Commandant of the 5th Div., Hogan, in an interview we had with him. 
     The question of the composition of the Northern Commission then came up. Capt. King we understand is only temporarily appointed, and has not been vested with the same authority as the Southern representative. Both the Northern and Southern Commission agreed that it would be better if the Northern Government appointed a more senior official as their representative, who could deal with questions arising along the whole border of the six counties and was able to keep in personal touch with the Northern Government.  It would greatly assist the work of both Commissions if this could be settled as soon as possible.... 
     The question of refugees was then discussed with Sir Basil Brooks.  It was pointed out that this was a difficult question, as even if guarantees were given that these refugees would be safe from interference by the authorities yet it would be impossible to guarantee them from aggression by irresponsible individuals who had a personal spite against them.  It is important that these refugees should be enabled to return to their homes as soon as possible as they are causing a great deal of trouble in spreading rumours on either side of the Border. Col. Comdt.  Ward said that if he was   given a list of refugees from the Monaghan area he could make inquiries, and would do his best to see that they were not interfered with if they returned.... 
     After leaving the Northern Commission we motored to Clones to interview Div. Comdt. Hogan, at his Headquarters at the Hibernian Hotel, Clones.  He stated that unless the question of the release of the 14 prisoners at Enniskillen, 5 officers at Newry, and 13 prisoners at Derry Gaol was settled satisfactorily, there would be certain trouble on the Border, that counter measures would be taken, and further raids made either by his order or by the order of the local Commandants on the spot, without necessarily awaiting for orders from the Government.  On the question of the enforcing of the Proclamation re being in possession of arms, Hogan stated that certain trouble would arise.  He said that the disarming would not be impartial, and that it was aimed at the Catholics and all Southern sympathisers. The &ldquo;B&rdquo; Specials, of course, would have authority to carry arms, and that as every able-bodied man, and in some cases, those who were not able-bodied men, could enrol in the &ldquo;B&rdquo; Specials, then it would mean that only those who were not Northern sympathisers would be disarmed.  He mentioned that 95 per cent. were &ldquo;B&rdquo; Specials. This would place all Catholics and Southern sympathisers at the mercy of the Northerners.  He further stated that, if this proclamation was put in force, then they (the South) would disarm all Northerners, not only on the South side of the Border, but also in the Six Counties area, by concerted raids.... 
     
      
       On a point of order.  I do not know, in view of the fact that anything seems to be in order in this debate, whether I would be in order in asking the Deputy a question as to what particular subject this rigmarole has relevance? 
     
     
      
       All this matter that has been annoying Deputy Tierney so much   has reference to the Vote for the buying of arms to carry out the Army policy outlined in that interview with Lieutenant-Colonel Montague Bates and General Hogan. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether the rest of the House is in agreement, but I, for one, protest against the Deputy&mdash;being allowed to bring in all these pieces of history that have passed. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;That is good&mdash; history. 
     
     
      
       Let us be calm.  I would say this for Deputy Tierney, that if this is a preamble, it is a somewhat long preamble.  I was going to ask Deputy Ward if he was coming to the point.  Perhaps he is. Even on a liberal basis of ruling I think the Deputy's preamble is a long one. 
     
     
      
       I mentioned that it had become necessary to set up such a body as this Liaison Commission, because a state of war was actually in existence in that area. 
     
     
      
       I understand now this is part of the book we are promised. 
     
     
      
       We have not time to write books. 
     
     
      
       You have circulated the Book of Ananias. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy has not time to write books he is speaking books. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Tierney is, of course, not interested in military matters. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy does not want to have the policy of the Party to which he belongs at the present time&mdash; the policy of the Party on this Six County question&mdash;exposed.  I can quite well understand that it is very unpleasant for him to sit there listening, but, with the permission of the Chair, the Deputy will listen to a little more. 
     
     
      
       As long as the Deputy is clear that my permission is necessary, I am prepared to agree with him. 
     
     
     
      
       I am glad to have your acquiescence.  In order, for a while at any rate, that we might be able to get the Specials in the North to cease their aggression against our people, in consultation with General O'Duffy and with the late General Collins, certain proposals were made to the representatives of the Northern Government on the Commission to the effect that the Commission be a Peace Commission, charged with the duty of preventing all provocative action and removing all cases of irritation between the people loyal to the Northern Government and the rest of the people of Ireland. It was proposed that the existing machinery be applied for the purposes of No. 1 and that responsible persons&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy ought to come to the war portion and leave the peace alone. 
     
     
      
       I was trying to show that we were endeavouring to prevent this war coming on at that particular time until we had our own people there properly equipped to prosecute the war to a successful conclusion.  In order to do that I suggested, as representing the Beggar's Bush section of the Army, that with the approval of General Collins and General O'Duffy, certain alterations should be made in the constitution of the Commission to keep the bluff going on a little while longer. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy ought not to read any more of it, but ought to come to this Vote for £1,400. 
     
     
      
       We would like to hear more of the tin soldiers. 
     
     
      
       What did Deputy Gorey say? 
     
     
      
       I would advise the Deputy not to mind what Deputy Gorey said. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Gorey shouldered one of the rifles. 
     
     
      
       Did you ever shoulder one?  I think it would be too heavy for you. 
     
     
     
      
       In 1916? 
     
     
      
       He was not heard of then.  He was recruiting for the British Army. 
     
     
      
       You are a liar. 
     
     
      
       I must ask Deputy Gorey to withdraw that remark. 
     
     
      
       I would not like to deprive Deputy Gorey of his accustomed vocabulary. 
     
     
      
       While I must ask Deputy Gorey to withdraw the remark he made, I want to say that I have no sympathy with Deputy MacEntee.  When a Deputy takes it on himself to interrupt no human agent can foresee what the aggrieved person may say.  In this case he said a thing grievously against order.  I am sure he will withdraw, and I wish we could get along without these interruptions. 
     
     
      
       I did not ask for your sympathy. 
     
     
      
       Deputy MacEntee's views on order do not give me any concern, fortunately, but I am concerned with my own views on order. 
     
     
      
       We reached the stage, A Chinn Comhairle, on the Commission when I was no longer able to maintain the bluff, and when I made a final report to General O'Duffy and to General Collins regarding the situation.  We were asked, at least I was asked, to continue pretending that we meant to have peace and goodwill amongst the people on both sides of the Border at that time, while in reality aggressive action was being carried out under the explicit instructions of General O'Duffy.  It will be necessary, I think, to read a further report that will about finish the reports for the present. 
     
     
      
       We will hear no more reports, and should have no more reports. 
     
     
      
       No reports at all? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Amongst the articles that were seized belonging to the Six-County people by officers and men acting   under the command of Maj.-Gen. Hogan were some motor cars, one belonging to a Mr. Haddon of Aughnacloy. I do not think that is included in the Vote, but Deputies will be interested to know that that gentleman succeeded in getting a malicious injury decree against the people of Co. Monaghan for the motor car seized by Gen. Hogan.  Finally, when I retired from the Commission, Maj.-Gen.  Hogan arranged and came to the conclusion, apparently, that the Crossley cars and tenders of the British Commissioners would be useful to him, so he quietly arranged that he would seize these motors and exchange them with another officer in the Army in a division far removed from the Border.  I am not so much concerned with the attitude of the chiefs of the Army at that time towards the British Government, but I am very much concerned with their attitude towards the people of the North, and with the deception they practised upon them.  There was a civil policy in operation at that time as well as a military policy.  On the 10th December, 1921, Mr. MacNeill, who subsequently functioned on the Border Commission, interviewed the public representatives of Co. Fermanagh. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must come to this Vote now by some process. 
     
     
      
       The Vote is concerned&mdash; 
     
     
      
       No, it is not; not with this matter. 
     
     
      
       It is entirely concerned. 
     
     
     
      
       No; the Deputy must make his speech some way relevant to the Vote.  Other Deputies have succeeded in doing so. 
     
     
      
       All matters relating to civil and military policy in the Six Counties relate to the Vote. 
     
     
      
       Not at all. 
     
     
      
       Inasmuch as the Vote is concerned with the procuring of arms. 
     
     
      
       Would not the history of the eighteenth century leading up to that policy have equal relevance? 
     
     
      
       Even the most liberal view towards this particular question would not bring Deputy Ward's remarks into order.  I gave him a quarter of an hour for a preamble, and since then the Deputy has not said anything about the Vote.  He ought to conclude n.  He might move to report progress and think it over until to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       I move that progress be reported. 
       Progress ordered to be reported. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported.  The Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
       The Dail adjourned at 8.30 p.m. until 12 o'clock on Friday, 9th March. 
     
   
 