 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - REMEDIES FOR UNEMPLOYMENT. 
     
      
       asked the President whether, in view of the indication given by the Minister for Finance that the Government would welcome suggestions from Deputies for the solution of the unemployment problem, he will ask the Dail to appoint a Committee to consider and report upon the causes of the continuance of widespread unemployment in Saorstat Eireann, and to recommend remedies therefor. 
     
     
      
       I do not consider that the setting up of a Committee on the lines suggested by the Deputy would be calculated to add to the existing information regarding causes of unemployment. So far as remedies for unemployment are concerned a Committee has already reported upon relief measures capable of immediate or early application.  The remedy for unemployment due to general economic conditions lies in the improvement of those conditions, and the extent to which Governmental action can usefully be directed to this end is not a question which could be profitably referred to a Committee of the Dail. 
     
     
      
       Is the President satisfied that the causes of unemployment have been sufficiently examined and that the matter of remedies has been sufficiently examined also? 
     
     
      
       They have been reported upon at very considerable length and they have been examined at great length also. 
     
     
      
       Have the reports not been rather in the direction of   dealing with a temporary problem and not with the general problem of unemployment? 
     
     
      
       The general problem of unemployment was one of the matters examined by the Committee and it was reported upon at great length by that Committee. 
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that no employment has been found for any of the unemployed in Dublin City or elsewhere arising out of the Committee's recommendations? 
     
     
      
       No, sir.  The Committee's recommendations have been examined with a view to finding a solution along the lines recommended, but success in that respect has not yet been achieved. 
     
     
      
       Will the President say to what extent, if any, effect has been given by the Government to the recommendations of the Committee? 
     
     
      
       Every possible effect has been given to the Committee's recommendations.  All the recommendations have been accepted and acted upon. 
     
     
      
       Will the President mention one? 
     
     
      
       The question of the exploration of the economies of housing.  That is one of the matters suggested by the Committee.  They recommended that employment could be given during the winter period in that connection.  Success in that matter, as I say, has not yet been achieved. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that that Committee in their first Report stated that they did not consider it part of their duty to investigate the causes of unemployment and, in fact, they did not investigate the causes of unemployment? 
     
     
      
       That is another question altogether.  The Committee was not asked to report upon the causes of unemployment; rather were they to recommend the means of dealing with unemployment. 
     
     
      
       The President has stated that the causes of unemployment   have been investigated.  By whom have they been investigated? 
     
     
      
       By practically every Department of the Government. Every Department has had the matter under consideration and very valuable information has been compiled in that respect. 
     
     
      
       Seeing that the Government has not been able to do anything really practical or effective in this matter, why should the Government not agree to try to get the assistance of all Parties? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is assuming something to be the case which is not the case. 
     
     
      
       It is not assumption at all, but common knowledge. 
     
     
      
       Will the President say if his Party has done all that can be done to relieve the problem of unemployment? 
     
     
      
       It is not a question of Party&mdash;not what any Party can do.  The whole problem is one of seeing what sensible constructive proposals can be put forward to relieve unemployment in the light of the circumstances existing.  It is not a solution which will necessarily fall to any one Party, but rather to the whole of the State. 
     
     
      
       How can Parties in opposition possibly help in finding a solution if they have no opportunity of getting data and the information that is necessary? 
     
     
      
       They can do a lot by a little more sensible consideration of the problems which affect the country.  A little more sensible consideration before people commit themselves to pronouncements would be one of the best methods of doing it. 
     
     
      
       The President during a recent debate stated that the Dublin building trade was working at full capacity during a particular time. Does he still state that?  My information from the secretaries of the building trades is quite the contrary.  At   no time were they working at full capacity. 
     
     
      
       At no time?  I think the Deputy is mistaken in that. 
     
     
      
       Yes, at no time. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - RESIGNATIONS FROM R.I.C. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that, contrary to the final sentence in his reply of November 16th last, no steps have apparently been taken to consider the case of Mr. T.J. McElligott, now of Bedford, Listowel, Co. Kerry, whose services to the national movement from his resignation from the R.I.C. in 1918 are on record; or to consider any similar case. 
     
     
      
       The cases of Mr. T.J. McElligott and some half a dozen others, similarly situated, have been under my consideration for some time past and, whilst I have not yet come to a definite conclusion as regards any of them, I may say that, so far as I have gone, I have formed the opinion in his case that, whatever his leanings were afterwards, his resignation cannot be attributed to national sympathies. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that there are several cases of R.I.C. men who are dissatisfied with their treatment in this matter? 
     
     
      
       There are many dissatisfied, but there are just half a dozen people whose cases were not dealt with fully because of their subsequent activities. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say when he came to the conclusion that Mr. McElligott's resignation was not for political purposes or because of his political leaning? 
     
     
      
       Just within the past two or three months, when I had an opportunity of examining his case.  If the Deputy would care to discuss this case&mdash;not necessarily to-night but at some time, on the adjournment&mdash;he can do so, but I suggest that he should first read Mr. McElligott's own letter of resignation, which was published in the   Police and Prison Officers' Magazine on the 11th June, 1919. 
     
     
      
       I will raise this matter on another occasion when I have made an examination of the case. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state the cause of the delay in introducing proposals for legislation to deal with the claims of ex-members of the R.I.C., which were recommended by the Committee of Inquiry; and when he proposes to carry out the promise which he made some eighteen months ago. 
     
     
      
       As I have already informed Deputy O Culachain on the 6th ultimo, certain difficulties presented themselves in the drafting of this Bill. They were in process of being overcome when it became necessary to concentrate attention on legislative measures of a more urgent character.  The Recess will give the desired opportunity of completing this Bill, which I hope to introduce in the Dail on the resumption of business after the Recess. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - CLERICAL-OFFICER EXAMINATIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state (1) the number of clerical officers who were declared successful as a result of the Limited Examination, 1925, who have satisfactorily completed their probationary period, whose age was 50 or over on the date of appointment, and who are at present in the Civil Service; (2) the number of clerical officers who (a) were declared successful as a result of the Limited Examination, 1927; (b) were declared to be qualified as a result of the Limited Examination, 1927, and (c) whose age was 50 or over on the specified date, 1st May, 1927. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the Deputy's question is in the form of a tabular statement and it will appear in the Official Report. 
       The following is the reply:&mdash; 
     
     
        (1)  Number of clerical officers who were declared successful as a result of the 1925 Limited Examination who have satisfactorily completed their probationary period, whose age was 50 or over on the date of appointment and who are at present in the Civil Service 7 
     (2)  Number of clerical officers who (a) were declared successful as a result of the 1927 Limited Examination ... ... 100 
     (b)  were declared to be qualified as a result of the 1927 Limited Examination ... ... ... 58 
     (c)  Number of clerical officers appointed from the 1927 Examination whose age was 50 or over on the 1st May, 1927 ... 3 
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - OVERSEER OF BUILDINGS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether a vacancy in the Department of Public Works for an overseer of buildings for Dublin, Division F., has existed since October last; whether it is intended to make any appointment for the post; if so, whether it is intended to make a selection from qualified men amongst the existing staff of the Board of Works, by way of promotion; if not, whether it is intended to hold an examination into the qualifications of applicants, and appoint the candidate who receives the highest marks; and, if not, whether he can state how it is proposed to make the selection. 
     
     
      
       The post of overseer of the buildings in the Phoenix Park district fell vacant in October last and the question of filling it has been under consideration for some time.  It was decided recently to fill the vacancy. The qualifications and suitability of the carpenters in charge and working foremen within the existing Board of Works staff were reviewed and after careful consideration a selection was eventually made from outside of a man possessing the necessary technical knowledge and considered to fulfil most suitably the particular requirements for the position. 
     
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state, seeing as he alleges that the men employed in that particular Department had not the necessary qualification, why was not some examination held before the appointment was actually made? 
     
     
      
       It would be very difficult to discover by means of an examination whether a candidate was suitable for this particular post.  It is a very responsible position.  The man who holds this position is in charge of the buildings in the Park, very important public buildings.  He requires to be a man having technical knowledge and experience, preferably a man with a knowledge of carpentry and also building works generally.  As well as that he has to come in contact with people of very high rank and has to be in a position to discuss various matters with them in a suitable manner.  It is not easy to find such a man.  As a matter of fact this position was previously held by a man who was brought from another country&mdash;from Scotland&mdash;and it has always been a difficult matter to find a man for this post. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the Parliamentary Secretary states that this is a post requiring highly technical knowledge of the building trade, does he not consider that that is all the more reason why an examination should have been held for this post or why the position should not have been advertised so that qualified men would apply for it? 
     
     
      
       I do not think it would be possible by means of an examination to find out whether a man was qualified for a post like that or not.  How could you examine a carpenter by means of an examination?  It would be impossible. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - LOCH CORRIB DRAINAGE REPAIRS. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid an bhfuil fhios aige go bhfuil na hoibreacha a bhaineas le Bord-Dreineala Loch Oirib ag dul i ndonacht in   aghaidh na bliana; go bhfuil na tuilte uathbhasacha sa cheanntar sin fa lathair, ach go bhfeudai an sceul a fheabhsu beagainin da mbeadh na geatai uisce ionoscailte; nach feidir tri chinn de na geatai sin i gCathair na Gaillimhe agus ceann eile ag Conga d'fhoscailt chor ar bith; nach leor an rata aitiuil cothuighthe i gcoir an deisiuchain; agus an bhfuil an tAire toilteannach iasacht agus deontas airgid (tuairim is £800) do thabhairt go luath chun na geatai sin do chur i dtreo ceart. 
     
     
      
       The Commissioners of Public Works have been informed that the sluice-gates referred to are in bad condition and in need of repair.  In the absence of details they cannot state whether the gates could be put into working order for a sum of £800. There is no fund available out of which either a free grant or a loan could be made to the trustees of the district for the purpose of carrying out restoration works. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - ALLEGED DISORDER AT CLONDALKIN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware that responsible residents have made frequent representation to the Garda Siochana complaining of scenes of great disorder which occur every Sunday at Clondalkin; and whether, in view of the fact that the disorder still continues, he will state what immediate steps he proposes to take to remedy matters. 
     
     
      
       Only one complaint was received by the Garda Siochana in regard to disorder at Clondalkin on Sundays.  On the 11th June two local clergymen made certain representations to the Garda Siochana, as a result of which the District Officer of the Garda arranged to be present in the village on Sunday, the 17th June, and following Sundays.  No great disorder was discernible and there was no general drunkenness.  The police are paying very special attention not only to Clondalkin, but to all centres that attract a large number of people each Sunday and I have no reason to believe   that any disorder which can be prevented by the police takes place. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister not aware that the scenes witnessed in Clondalkin every Sunday are of such a disgraceful character that all the local people, including both the Catholic clergyman and the Protestant clergyman, have repeatedly protested against this thing and have asked that some remedy be found for it? 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Deputy listened to my reply.  I stated that on the 11th June two local clergymen made certain representations to the Garda Siochana, and since that time the Garda have given special attention to Clondalkin and the neighbouring villages and their report is that no great disorder was discernible and that there was no general drunkenness. 
     
     
      
       The Minister tells me that their report is that after special activities in the district they have not discerned any drunkenness in the place.  The Minister said that on one Sunday one person was arrested for drunkenness.  Is it not a fact that on the Sunday referred to the police actually arrested fourteen people?  In answer to a question put by me recently the Minister stated that only one person was arrested on that Sunday. 
     
     
      
       I gave the Deputy full particulars in reply to a recent question, as to the arrests in Clondalkin on a number of Sundays. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that I did get a reply to that question, but I am not satisfied that the reply is at all accurate.  The local Sergeant himself told one clergyman on that date that the reason he had not his full force in the street looking after the drunken people coming to the place was because of the fact that two of the Garda were minding fourteen prisoners.  When I asked for a report I discovered that there was only one person arrested on that day although the local Sergeant told the clergyman that fourteen persons had been arrested on that occasion. 
     
     
     
      
       I was simply going to ask the Minister if it was not a fact that notwithstanding the attention which the Superintendent of the Garda has given to this district personally, the two clergymen who complained previously as to the conditions there on Sunday are still very dissatisfied with the conditions prevailing in the Clondalkin district? 
     
     
      
       I do not know that.  Of course, the Deputy recognises that these places are outside the city and city people go out there on Sundays and it is a difficult matter for the Garda.  As far as I can gather the Garda are taking every step to check disorder and drunkenness, but in a place like that it is a very difficult matter and I am sure the Deputy recognises that. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the Garda under existing conditions cannot control the situation in Clondalkin and places like that, will the Minister endeavour to remove the causes of these conditions? 
     
     
      
       What causes? 
     
     
      
       I understand that the licensed houses in Clondalkin are permitted to open an hour earlier and to close an hour later than the licensed houses in the city? 
     
     
      
       I am aware that that may be one of the reasons, but the Deputy must be aware that I have no control over that.  I cannot regulate the opening or closing of public-houses.  Application is made to the District Justice and the District Justice decides the matter in question. I do not decide it. 
     
     
      
       I ask permission to raise this matter on the adjournment. I have gone through this district on several occasions myself. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - SUPERVISION OF MOTOR BUS TRAFFIC. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he is aware of the circumstances   in which Michael Nolan was knocked down and killed by motor bus No. YI. 1570, on the 29th June, 1928; whether he has received any request from the coroner, on behalf of the jury, asking that more supervision be exercised with regard to the speed of buses, especially at night, and that proposals for legislation to that effect be introduced; and whether he will now state what steps it is proposed to take in the matter. 
     
     
      
       I have received a detailed report of the fatal motor accident to Michael Nolan on 29th ultimo and am aware that the Coroner's Jury added a rider to their verdict suggesting that more supervision be exercised with regard to speed of omnibuses especially at night.  The whole question of traffic regulation is at present being considered by a Committee; and their report must be awaited before legislation can be introduced. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that another fatal accident occurred within eight days of the date of Nolan's death and within five hundred yards of the spot where Nolan was killed, and has the Minister given any instructions to the Civic Guard in the area to take more effective steps to supervise bus traffic? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must bear in mind that the driver whose car killed Nolan was held not to be guilty of negligence.  Accidents will, of course, occur but if a driver be a man who has not been found guilty of negligence you cannot blame the Garda for not taking steps to regulate the traffic. 
     
     
      
       In view of the unsatisfactory answer of the Minister and in view of the failure of his Department to take effective steps to control bus   traffic in this area I desire to give notice that I will raise the matter on the adjournment. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state when the report of the interDepartmental Committee will be available? 
     
     
      
       I can not.  As a matter of fact, it was not appointed by my Department but I know that it is sitting and holding inquiries at the moment. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister explain how part of the recommendations of the Committee come to be published in the &ldquo;Irish Independent&rdquo;? 
     
     
      
       I have already informed the Deputy that it was not my Department which appointed the Committee.  I do not know anything more than the Deputy about it and he had better put a question to the Department responsible. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - MOTOR BUS PROSECUTIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he can state the number of bus drivers who were prosecuted (1) for exceeding the speed limit; (2) for overcrowding, during the six months ended 30th June, 1928; the number of cases in which fines were imposed; the total amount received in fines; and whether he can give the same information for the corresponding period in 1927. 
     
     
      
       The following are the details of prosecutions of drivers of omnibuses during the six months ended 30th June, 1927, and 30th June, 1928.  There are, however, a number of cases in respect of the latter half-year awaiting trial in the District Courts:&mdash; 
     
     
       
        HALF YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1927. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Prosecutions 
             Cases in which fines were imposed 
             Total Fines 
           
         
         
           
             Speeding 
             Overcrowding 
             Speeding 
             Overcrowding 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             202 
             152 
             156 
             105 
             207 
             16 
             6 
           
         
       
     
     HALF YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1928. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             1104 
             401 
             913 
             353 
             865 
             8 
             8 
           
         
       
     
     
      
       You are making money on it. 
     
     
      
       And yet we are supposed to be neglecting our duty. 
     
     
      
       That is your duty. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - COMPLAINT ABOUT MENTAL HOSPITAL. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Dli agus Cirt cad ta deanta no cad is mian leis a dheanamh fe an dearbhmhoid a cuireadh chuige ag Sean De Luachra agus a d'aithnigheadh ag Runaidhe na Roinne an 30adh Meitheamh, 1928 (Uimhir a 271/259). 
     
     
      
       This complaint deals with the administration of a Mental Hospital, which is not a matter within the scope of my Department. I think the Minister for Local Government and Public Health would be the proper Minister to approach in the matter, and I understand that Mr. Loughrey has also made the complaint to him. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - COURSE FOR IRISH TEACHERS. 
     &gt;D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Oideachais ceard ta deanta fe chursa leigheacht a sholathart do na muinteoiri Gaedhilge chun iad a chur i n-oiriuint mar mhuinteoiri ins na scoileanna leanamhnacha. 
     
     
      
       The Committee of Technical Instruction have been asked by my Department to furnish detailed information as regards the educational qualifications of the whole-time Irish teachers employed by them.  When this information is available it is proposed to arrange for such courses of instruction as may be considered necessary for those of the Irish teachers whose educational qualifications show that with the help of such courses they might reasonably be expected to become efficient teachers in continuation schools. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister state whether there is any likelihood of these schools being established within the next six months and if so, is there any likelihood of teachers being provided with courses in the meantime? 
     
     
      
       I could not answer that. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - LAIRAGE ACCOMMODATION AT THE NORTH WALL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will adopt means to prevent the erection of a private covered lairage at the North Wall by the British and Irish Steam Packet Company, which, the general manager of that company stated before the Ports and Harbours Tribunal, it is intended to erect, until he receives the report of the Ports and Harbours Tribunal in regard to the erection of a public municipal lairage at the North Wall. 
     
     
      
       I have no powers to prevent a steamship company from providing additional facilities on its own property for dealing with traffic. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - UNEMPLOYMENT STATISTICS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the number of persons registered as unemployed at Employment Exchanges in Saorstat Eireann on January 1st and July 1st, 1928, or the nearest dates thereto for which returns are available. 
     
     
      
       The number of persons registered as unemployed at all the local offices of the Department (Employment Exchanges and Branch Employment Offices) in Saorstat Eireann was:&mdash;27,510 in the week ended 2nd January, 1928, and 20,952 in the week ended the 2nd July, 1928. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary give any idea of the number of unemployed persons who are not registered? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy did not ask for that.  I have given the number of those registered.  The Deputy asked for that in his question, and that is the only information available. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he will state the reasons for refusal to pay further unemployment insurance benefit to Laurence May, West End, Monasterevan, Co. Kildare, Kildare Branch Office (2944). 
     
     
      
       The number of contributions paid for Laurence May of West End, Monasterevan, County Kildare, is 265.  Against these he has received unemployment benefit for 265 days on claims made on the 10th May, 1926; 14th April, 1927, and 14th April, 1928. Having, therefore, exhausted his contributions, he will not be entitled to receive any further benefit until further contributions have been paid for him. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that the Parliamentary Secretary has stated that this man had 265 stamps on   his card, and that under the Act an unemployed man or woman is entitled to one week's benefit for every six stamps on the card, does it not follow that he would be entitled to more benefit? 
     
     
      
       No.  Apparently the Deputy misunderstands the answer.  I think when he reads it he will see that it is correct. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - MILITARY SERVICE PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he can state if Peter Golden, of Killabuonia, The Glen, Caherciveen, Co. Kerry, is the man represented as Peter Golden, Kerry, in the list of persons supplied by his Department as being in receipt of pensions under the Military Service, Pensions Act, 1924; and, if so, whether he will state the years of service, and the services rendered which entitle this man to such pension. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The years of service which entitle Peter Golden to his pension make up the period from the 1st April, 1921, to the 30th September, 1923.  The Board of Assessors reported to me that he rendered service as required by the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, throughout that period. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - MILITARY SERVICE PENSIONS (KERRY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he can state if Patrick Gillsenan, Cahirciveen, Co. Kerry, is the man represented as Patrick Gillsenan, Kerry, in the list of persons supplied by his Department as being in receipt of pensions under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924; and, if so, whether he will state the years of service, and the services rendered, which entitle this man to such pension. 
     
     
      
       The person to whom the pension is being paid is Patrick Joseph Gillsenan, of Church Street, Cahirciveen, Co. Kerry.  The years of service which entitle him to his pension make up the following   periods:&mdash;Half the period from the 1st April, 1920, to the 31st March, 1921. Entire period from the 1st April, 1921, to the 30th September, 1923.  The Board of Assessors reported to me that he rendered service as required by the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, throughout these periods. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he can state if Daniel Curran, of Garrieny, Waterville, Co. Kerry, is the man represented as Daniel Curran, Kerry, in the list of persons supplied by his Department as being in receipt of pensions under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924; and, if so, whether he will state the years of service, and the services rendered, which entitle this man to such pension. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. 
       The years of service which entitle Daniel Curran to his pension make up the following periods:&mdash; 
       One-eighth of the period from the 1st April, 1920 to the 31st March, 1921. 
       Entire period from the 1st April, 1921 to the 30th June, 1922. 
       Entire period from the 25th August, 1922, to the 30th September, 1923. 
       The Board of Assessors reported to me that he rendered service as required by the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, throughout these periods. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - LUACH GUNNA. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Cosanta cathoin a tabharfar do Mhicheal Mac Giollarnath, Inse Buidhe, Gort Inse Guaire, luach an ghunna a togadh uaidh ag an gCaptaoin Tadhg O Domhnaill i mbliain a 1922 agus nach feidir tasc na tuairise fhaghail air anois (uimhir thagartha: Roinn Cosanta 2/6308). 
     
     
      
       Ta fiosruithe a dheanamh agum sa gcas seo chun a dheimhniu gur togadh gunna o Mhicheal Mac Giollarnath. 
     
     
      
       Ma faghthar amach gur togadh gunna   uaidh an bhfaghaidh se luach an ghunna? 
     
     
      
       Innseochaidh me sin duit uair eigin eile. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - TIPPERARY SOLDIER'S DEATH. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that the late Private Thomas Sheehan, 3 Emmet Street, Tipperary, who joined the National Army in February, 1927, died in St. Bricin's Hospital on the 14th May, 1928; that his death is alleged to have been due to inattention during his illness, which commenced on the 25th March, 1928, while he was stationed at Dundalk; that it is further alleged that, although his temperature was 102, he was requested to walk a distance of about 200 yards to the doctor's quarters; that he was sent to hospital in Dundalk, and that during a period of one week which he spent there he was not medically attended and received unsuitable food; that he was then sent to Portobello Hospital, from which, on the 5th April, 1928, he was rushed to St. Bricin's Hospital in a dying condition, and died there on the date stated; and whether, in view of these allegations, the Minister will have inquiries instituted into the circumstances surrounding the death of the late Private Sheehan. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that Private Thomas Sheehan died in St. Bricin's Hospital on the 14th May, 1928.  The circumstances surrounding his death have been investigated. He was admitted to the Barracks Hospital in Dundalk on the 16th March, 1928, suffering from influenza. He was discharged to duty on the 21st March, 1928.  He was again admitted to hospital in Dundalk on the 26th March, 1928.  His temperature then was 100.  The Medical Officer sent an Army Medical Services Orderly to assist him from his quarters to the hospital, where a bed had already been prepared for him.  The distance is about 120 yards.  It is incorrect to say that he did not receive proper attention at Dundalk or that he was given unsuitable food.  As he was unfit for any but   a fluid diet, he was given milk, lemon drinks, bovril and tea.  He was transferred to Portobello Barracks Hospital on the 2nd April, 1928, where better facilities for dealing with his case were available.  A Medical Officer accompanied him in the ambulance.  On the 5th April, 1928, he was transferred to St. Bricin's Hospital, which is the principal military hospital in Dublin. It is incorrect to say that he was rushed there in a dying condition.  His transfer was effected in order that he should receive the best possible medical attention. The patient's case was one in which a slowly developing but progressive broncho-pneumonic condition was present, increasing in extent to the hour of death.  The medical documents show a very closely detailed account of the patient's signs, symptoms and treatment from the first day of his illness. His case received the greatest care and consideration, and I strongly repudiate the aspersions which the Deputy's question casts on the officers of the Army Medical Service. 
     
     
      
       In view of the seriousness of the case, will the Minister state why there was so much delay in bringing the man from Dundalk to Dublin in the first instance, and, secondly, when he was being brought, why he was not brought to St. Bricin's directly instead of being brought to Portobello Hospital? 
     
     
      
       I gather that at first it was diagnosed as an ordinary case of influenza. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - DREINEALA LOCH OIRIB. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Rialtais Aitiula agus Slainte Puibli an bhfuil fhios aige go bhfuil baoghal ann go loitfar an riar uisce do chathair na Gaillimhe de bharr an port ar a dtugtar an Terryland Embankment bheith da lot ag na tuilte i Loch Oirib; agus an mian leis an Aire dul i gcomhairle leis na Ranna eile go mbaineann an sceul leo d'fhonn congnamh airgid idir iasacht agus deontas do thabhairt do Bhord-Dreineala Loch Oirib leis an bport sin do dheisiu. 
     
     
     
      
       Taobh amuich de leitir a fuarthas on dTeachta ar an 12adh la den mhi seo, nior cuireadh aon aithris chuise i dtaobh na ceiste seo chun mo Roinnese. Ceist isea i seo do Bhord Dreineala Locha Oirib, ar an gcead dul sios, agus, ina dhiaidh sin, d'Oifig na nOibreacha Puibli agus tathar tar eis aithris chuise an Teachta do chur chun na hoifige sin. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM (WESTMEATH). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will state why Mrs. Mary Murtagh, of Mullaghcroy, Delvin, Co. Westmeath, has been refused the old age pension. 
     
     
      
       A second appeal has been received in this case.  It seems the claimant receives maintenance from her son on a farm of 153 acres.  It is estimated that her means, as calculated for old age pension purposes, are in excess of the statutory limit for the receipt of a pension but the claim will be investigated locally before a decision is given. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - WEXFORD CORPORATION ELECTION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will state what action he proposes to take on the irregularity that is alleged to have occurred at the recent Corporation election in Wexford, when a nomination paper duly filled in on behalf of Patrick White, Carcur House, Wexford, was refused by the Returning Officer. 
     
     
      
       A local election can only be questioned on petition.  I have no jurisdiction to take action in the matter referred to by the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that a grave irregularity is alleged to have occurred at the recent election for the Wexford Corporation, when the Returning Officer is stated to have refused   to accept a nomination paper which was in order, in view of the provisions of Section 10 of the Representation of the People Act, 1918; whether he is satisfied that the allegation is correct; and, if so, whether he will state if, in the opinion of his Department, the election was valid. 
     
     
      
       This matter was brought to my notice.  A Returning Officer at a local election has to decide questions arising at the election. Such decisions are not subject to review except on petition and by a court of competent jurisdiction.  I am not therefore prepared to express any opinion in the case. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state whether he has inquired from the Returning Officer his reasons for refusing to accept this nomination? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - A KERRY LIME KILN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that a lime kiln, capable of burning fifty barrels of lime daily, had been built by the landlord of the Mahony estate at Blackwater, Co. Kerry, and worked for many years to the great advantage of the tenantry of that estate; that it was purchased about sixteen years ago by the Congested Districts Board, and has since been idle; and whether, in view of the fact that this kiln is built near a deep-water pier, and that there is abundance of limestone to be had in the neighbouring islands, the Minister will take steps to have this kiln worked again, so as to secure to the tenants mentioned the advantages they enjoyed, in respect of lime, before the estate was purchased. 
     
     
      
       The late Congested Districts Board purchased the lime kiln at Blackwater on 26th May, 1915, but were unable to make any arrangements for the working of it.  They also purchased a limestone island in the Kenmare   River for the purpose of supplying limestone and lime, but the project has not been in any way developed for the reason stated above.  The possibility of using the lime kiln is at present being investigated. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - ESTAT DO ROINNT. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh ce an fath nach bhfuair Nioclas Canney&mdash;ata ina thionontaidhe (1580/35) ar estat A.C. Lewin, Cnoc Clochain, Tuam&mdash; aon mheudu gabhaltais nuair a bhi an t-estat san da roinnt le goirid. 
     
     
      
       Nior dineadh estat an Ghenerail A.C. Lewin, ata togtha ag Coimisiun na Talmhan, do roinnt fos.  Nuair a beifear a roinnt deanfar eileamh gach duine oiriunach do bhreithniu go curamach. 
     
     
      
       An neosaidh an Runai Pairliminte a bhfaghaidh an fear so seans maith, mar diultiughadh do phinsean do thabhairt do nuair a d'eirigh se as an R.I.C.  Is e seo an fear ar a raibh diosboireacht ar a chuis coichthigheas o shoin. 
     
     
      
       Ta an cheist a scrudu fa lathair. 
     
   
   
     (CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS).   (ORAL ANSWERS). - BOIRA WELLS FLOODED AREA. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he will state the nature of the report of the officials of his Department, who recently visited the Boira Wells flooded area; what steps it is proposed to take to remedy the present condition of the residents in that area; and whether the Minister is aware that the Land Commission are pressing those people for land annuities, notwithstanding the fact that their land was completely flooded during the whole month of June. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have had an inspection made, and in view of the size of the work and the necessity of providing for the maintenance they consider it is not one for them, but could be more properly dealt with under the Drainage Acts or the pending Drainage Bill when it becomes law. 
     
   
   
     QUESTIONS ON THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
      
       With regard to the question to be raised on the adjournment, I have notice from Deputy Davin that he intends to raise a general matter arising out of Question No. 8.  Deputy Brady also desires to raise a matter arising out of Question No. 7, on the adjournment. It is not easy to find a solution except that Deputy Davin's is the more general question.  Deputy Brady's question concerns public behaviour in a particular village.  Deputy Davin's is a more general question dealing with the speed of buses, and would lead to legislation.  I think that as Deputy Davin's is the more general question, Deputy Brady might give way to him. 
     
     
      
       I realise that Deputy Davin's question is a more general question, but perhaps you would give   me permission to make a short statement about the conditions in Clondalkin just now. 
     
     
      
       I could not do it now, but we might be able to take the notice for to-morrow evening, if that would suit the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       That would be all right. 
     
     
      
       The situation in reference to matters raised on the adjournment is that there is really no machinery for settling the order of precedence.  I will take Deputy Davin's question to-night and Deputy Brady's on to-morrow night. 
     
   
   
     ORDER FOR LATE SITTING. 
     Ordered: That the Dail sit later than 9 p.m., and that the motion for the adjournment be taken not later than 10.30 p.m. 
   
   
     SUMMER RECESS. 
     
      
       I think it would be a great convenience to many Deputies if the President could indicate when the Dail intends to adjourn for the Recess.  I see that it is stated in the newspapers this morning that there is a possibility of adjourning on Friday.  A certain number of Deputies want to make arrangements for going away, and if the President could give some indication of his intentions in the matter, it would facilitate them. 
     
     
      
       If I were to express a desire, it would be that we should adjourn on Friday, but looking over the list of items that we have to deal with, I think it may be necessary to meet for one day next week and one day the week after.  The Dail would probably be able to finish on the day on which it meets next week, but it would afterwards have to receive any Bills sent back from the Seanad if amendments were inserted in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       Does the President mean a day in August as the day on which the Dail will meet on the second occasion? 
     
     
     
      
       I think it might run to the end of July or perhaps 1st August.  It will be a matter for the convenience of Deputies, of course. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - VOTE 57&mdash;RAILWAYS. 
     
      
       I ask for leave to introduce the following Supplementary Estimate:&mdash; 
       Go dtugaidh an Dail cead chun go dtabharfai isteach an Meastachan Breise seo leanas i gcoir seirbhise na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1929, eadhon:&mdash;Vota a 57 (Boithre-Iarainn). 
       That leave be given by the Dail to introduce the following Supplementary Estimate for the service of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1929, viz.:&mdash;Vote 57 (Railways). 
       The purpose of this Supplementary Estimate is to give again this year the contribution which it has been found necessary, in recent years, to give to the Donegal railways.  I am informed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce that, if we did not vote this Supplementary Estimate before the Recess there would be a danger that these railways might close down during that period. 
     
     
      
       What is the amount of the Estimate? 
     
     
      
       I think it is the same as usual. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the amount of this Supplementary Estimate is for the same amount as was voted for this particular railway last year? 
     
     
      
       It is £1,000 less. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that as a result of reducing this particular Estimate there is the possibility of a deadlock ensuing as far as that particular railway is concerned, because I understand that a number of the employees with long service have   been threatened with dismissal?  In view of the fact that none of the members of the staff wants a railway upheaval as a result of the action of the Londonderry and Lough Swilly Railway Company, I think we should have a statement either from the Minister for Finance or the Minister for Industry and Commerce as to how the position stands at present. 
     
     
      
       We cannot have that now. 
     
     
      
       This whole matter can be discussed when the Estimate is taken.  Apparently what the Deputy wants is that the Dail, in advance, should vote public moneys for redundant employees on that line? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       What the Minister is asking for now is leave to introduce a Supplementary Estimate. I take it that the Estimate itself will be taken to-morrow? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
       Leave granted. 
       Estimate ordered to be taken to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - CREAMERY BILL, 1928&mdash;MONEY RESOLUTION. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go bhfuil se oiriunach a udaru go n-iocfar amach as airgead a sholathroidh an tOireachtas aon chostaisi fe n-a raghfar chun aon Acht do chur in eifeacht a rithfar sa tSioson so chun socru do dheanamh chun Gno na Deiriochta agus daoine agus comhar-chumainn a bhionn ag gabhail do san do rialail agus do stiura nios eifeachtula maidir le nithe airithe d'fhonn an Gno san d'ath-cho-ghleasa nios fearr agus i gcoir nithe eile a bhaineann leis an ath cho-ghleasa san. 
     
     That it is expedient to authorise payment, out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas, of any expenses incurred in carrying into   effect any Act of the present Session to make provision for the more effective regulation and control in certain respects of the Dairying Industry and persons and co-operative societies engaged therein with a view to the better re-organisation of that Industry and for other matters connected with such re-organisation. 
     This is the Money Resolution in connection with the Creamery Bill.  The expenses which will arise in connection with the passage of that Bill will be trivial.  They will be confined to the printing of a few forms and to certain visits of inspection to the creameries by the officers of the Department. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     Resolution ordered to be reported. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Resolution reported and agreed to. 
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - CREAMERY BILL, 1928&mdash;THIRD STAGE. 
     The Dail went into Committee. 
     Section 1 agreed to. 
     SECTION 2. 
     (1)  Where a creamery or a company owning a creamery was (whether before or after the passing of this Act) acquired with moneys provided by the Oireachtas, every person engaged in the manufacture of milk products or in the sale of milk who obtains (whether before or after the passing of this Act) a supply of milk (in this Act referred to as a new milk supply) from a person who supplied milk to such creamery during the whole or any part of the period which commenced on the 1st day of January, 1927, and ended on the 30th day of June, 1927, shall, unless he obtained such new milk supply under an agreement with the company in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Act or the form set out in the Second Schedule to this Act, be liable to pay in accordance with this Act to the company a principal sum calculated in the manner hereinafter specified with interest at the rate   and from the date hereinafter mentioned. 
     (2)  The principal sum payable in respect of a new milk supply by any person to the company under this section shall be ascertained and certified by the Department in accordance with the following provisions, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  the Department shall in respect of such person select and appoint some one year prior to the year in which the selection is made but not being in any case prior to the year 1927 nor subsequent to the year 1933; 
     (b)  the Department shall ascertain the day in the year so appointed on which such person received the largest quantity (in this Act referred to as the peak day quantity) of milk on foot of the said new milk supply; 
     (c)  the Department shall appoint the day (in this Act referred to as the transfer day) on which such new milk supply was transferred from the said creamery to the said person and such day shall normally be the day on which such new milk supply was first received by such person, but the Department may in any particular case appoint any earlier day not more than six months prior to the said day on which such new milk supply was first so received; 
     (d)  the said principal sum payable by such person to the Company shall be calculated by the Department at the rate of one pound for every complete gallon of milk in the peak day quantity; 
     (e)  the interest payable by such person to the Company shall be interest on the said principal sum at the rate of five and one-half per cent. per annum from the transfer day; 
     (f)  the Department shall issue to the Company a certificate (in this Act referred to as a certificate of liability) in respect of such person certifying the amount of the said principal sum payable by such person to the Company under this section and the rate at and date from which interest on such principal   sum is payable under this section by such person to the Company. 
     (3)  Every certificate of liability issued by the Department under this section shall be conclusive evidence of all matters purported to be certified therein. 
     
      
       I move Amendment 1:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), page 2, lines 35, 36 and 37, to delete the words &ldquo;during the whole or any part of the period which commenced on the 1st day of January, 1927, and ended on the 30th day of June, 1927,&rdquo; and substitute therefor the following words &ldquo;at any time after the 22nd day of February, 1927.&rdquo; 
       The effect of the section is to provide that a creamery that gets milk supplies shall pay for them, and for that purpose some period must be indicated within which the creameries will get the milk supplies.  As the Bill stood that period was defined as from the 1st January, 1927, to the 30th June, 1927, but on thinking it over we decided that in view of the fact that there are other companies also purchased, such as the Golden Vein Dairy Company&mdash;and we hope to purchase other companies this year or next year&mdash;we should not limit ourselves by dealing in this section purely with transactions of the purchase of the Condensed Milk Company.  That company was purchased on the 22nd February, 1927, and so far as that company is concerned this section as it stood would be all right.  It was always intended that this Bill should cover not only the purchase of the Condensed Milk Company, but the purchase of companies such as the Golden Vein Dairy Company and creameries, say, in North Cork or Kerry.  In order to make the Bill apply to these it has been decided to alter the date to the 22nd day of February, 1927. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know whether, in this or some other section of the Bill, the Minister is taking power to deal with the case of a supplier who dies and who had entered into an agreement. Suppose a supplier died will it   be necessary to have some provision to deal with the position of his representative? 
     
     
      
       In any Act of Parliament a decreased person is included in the term &ldquo;personal representative.&rdquo; When a person is referred to, his legal representative is always included. That is a strictly legal question, but that is the position.  There are amendments dealing with that point which will come on later.  Generally speaking, if I am asked the wider question, whether there is going to be any elasticity provided in the case of a man who gives up supplying a creamery, there is, because, as the Bill stands, the Department have discretion in a case of that sort.  It is for the Department to issue a certificate and, administratively, they can always exclude or include anybody on his merits.  We will deal with that bigger point in a later amendment. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know from the Minister if the definition that he has put upon the term &ldquo;person&rdquo; refers also to a society, and would it also refer to an individual? 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  A &ldquo;person&rdquo; is a society or a joint stock company or an individual. 
     
     
      
       If it refers to an individual, I am afraid that the term &ldquo;person&rdquo; may prove to be rather complicated. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Person&rdquo; is a well-known legal term, and means a joint stock company. 
     
     
      
       And it might also mean individual? 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 2:&mdash; 
     
     In sub-section (2) (a), page 2, lines 49, 50 and 51, to delete the words &ldquo;some one year prior to the year in which the selection is made but not being in any case prior to the year 1927 nor subsequent to the year 1933&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;the year in which the selection is made or some earlier   year not being prior in any case to the year 1927.&rdquo; 
     This amendment is for the same reason as the last one.  The point is that we want the section to cover future transactions. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
      
       I move amendment 3:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (2) to delete paragraph (b) and to substitute the following new paragraph:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The Department shall ascertain the week in the year so appointed on which such person received the largest quantity of milk on foot of the said new milk supply and one-seventh of this quantity shall be regarded as the peak day supply.&rdquo; 
       I think it is only reasonable we should take into consideration that in many creameries the peak day will be a Monday or the day following a holiday. In many parts of the country creameries do not find it economic to work on Sundays, and consequently the milk supply on Monday includes three milkings: Sunday morning, Sunday evening and Monday morning.  It would be possible for a creamery to send in those three days' milkings as representing an ordinary day's supply, and take it as the peak day.  I think the most reasonable way of fixing the standard entitling to compensation would be by taking a peak week and dividing it by seven, which would give you the real basis upon which to form your estimate of the value of the milk received in any one day as the best day of the year. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has said something that has rather surprised me.  I thought most of the creameries took their milk supplies on Sunday mornings as well as on Monday mornings, or any other morning of the week. 
     
     
      
       No, and it is to meet cases of that sort I moved my amendment. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection to this amendment, but I do not think it is of any practical importance.  I believe if the amendment is accepted it will create a certain amount of unnecessary work, for this reason: First of all, we have never failed to agree as   to the peak day.  In fact, there has never been any discussion between the Dairy Disposals Board, the Department and the creameries as regards the peak day, whether it be Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday.  You agree for some time in the middle of July, some day in the middle of the week.  You would never take a Monday or a Sunday. Some day in the middle of July would be regarded as the peak period. I have never heard of a dispute, and I am sure there never was one, between the Dairy Disposals Board and the Department about the peak day.  It is not a question of looking up the accounts and finding out the day on which, for some reason or other, they got the largest amount of milk.  Some day in the middle of the week is taken, and that is accepted as the principle throughout between the I.A.O.S., the Department of Agriculture and the creameries.  If you want to be extremely correct, I agree that Deputy Maguire's amendment looks better, as it rules out all possibilities of friction, but the trouble is that this Bill covers a large number of agreements, all voluntary and about which there is no dispute.  If you change the system, if you make a new arrangement in regard to the peak day other than the arrangement existing already on which these agreements are based, it will really mean if we are to administer the Act strictly that we will have to re-open these agreements, and all for the sake of a few shillings or a few pounds. 
     
     The Bill covers 70 or 80 agreements that have been already made, where the figure has been ascertained and the peak day ascertained by agreement.  They have got a definite figure by agreement.  If we insert this amendment we will have to re-open, for the sake of a few shillings or a few pounds, voluntary agreements about which everybody is quite satisfied and about which there is no dispute.  It will be a pity to have to do that in view of the fact that there is no dispute in regard to the peak day. The Department always settled that with the I.A.O.S. or the societies in a rough and ready fashion.  There is never a question, if the society says Tuesday, of the Department saying Wednesday.  Under no circumstances   would we attempt to look up the books of a creamery and see whether by accident on some Monday morning they got a particularly large supply because of a certain amount of milk being held over from Sunday.  I will give an undertaking, for what it is worth, that in the administration of this Act under no circumstances will we take such a day as Monday.  We have never done so.  We have never taken a day when there is a double milk supply.  If the Deputy is satisfied with that I will give a definite undertaking, so far as this Bill is concerned, that we will continue the policy we have always adopted and take a fair day as the one in which the largest supply has come in. 
     
      
       That would meet the case, but there is also the possibility that a holiday might come in. 
     
     
      
       The Bill covers that. I will give an undertaking that we will ask the creameries not to regard the peak day as the day in which there was a double supply, but a day in which there is a normal supply. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister in the Report Stage bring in an amendment which would cover Deputy Maguire's point?  It is not necessary that it should go through the whole form included in Deputy Maguire's amendment, but in the amendment it could be set out that Monday would never be taken as the peak day. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if the Minister's undertaking would be of much use, even though it is given in good faith.  &ldquo;The Department shall ascertain the day and the year&rdquo; and so on.  It may be compelled to take the highest day, as the Bill stands, whether an undertaking is given or not. 
     
     
      
       I have no doubt a judge would interpret that in quite a liberal fashion&mdash;in other words, that he would take the whole Act as it stands. I have no doubt a lawyer would compel a judge to take into account that this only refers to normal supplies of milk.  That would take a long legal argument to go into now, but I am satisfied that the Department would not   take a day following Sunday or a Church holiday as the peak day. 
     
     
      
       Or a day following a holiday, or a day on which a creamery would not in the ordinary way receive its supplies. 
     
     
      
       I will consider that. The trouble is that there may be some creamery, say in Limerick, where by agreement Monday was the peak day, because on Sunday they got the supplies as they did on the Saturday and the Friday.  There may be some of our agreements where the peak day was Monday, and for all I know we might have to re-open these. 
     
     
      
       If the peak day operated in such a way that an undue price had to be paid for a creamery it would be to the interest of suppliers to re-open the agreement. 
     
     
      
       It may be to their interest, but here is a case where the purchase money and the peak day were agreed on and everybody was satisfied. 
     
     
      
       That would be all right if the suppliers had been taken into consultation before the price and the peak day were fixed, but in other cases they had no choice but to accept the letter of the law interpreted by the Minister's officials. 
     
     
      
       That goes to the root of a great many questions.  This Bill took the view that the Disposal Boards could not do business with each individual supplier.  The suppliers must elect a committee.  If farmers are capable of organisation at all, then we presume their organisation represents them.  We cannot draft or carry out schemes on any other basis than this, that the committee elected by the farmers themselves, and over which they have complete control, represent the suppliers.  If you once get away from that basis we can never make an agreement, for you have to consult every individual farmer and be at the mercy of every small minority of three or four cranks; if you think that is necessary then what you are saying is that it is impossible to organise farmers.  If you agree they are up to the standard   where they can be organised, and we must assume they are up to that standard, we must accept it that the committee they elect is speaking for them.  If we once get away from that we can never reorganise and we can never make agreements, because we would not be dealing with organised bodies; we would be making agreements and establishing new organisations which might be upset at any time by any single individual.  It would be a most extraordinary state of affairs if we had to assume that the committee elected by the farmers of a parish could not speak for them.  Occasionally they do not, at a particular moment, but we cannot do business on the assumption that they do not.  There are rare occasions when the committee does not represent the farmers, and they have no remedy except to change the committee the next time.  But at the same time we must assume that as long as the committee are there they represent the farmers who elected them, or we must assume at the worst that they represent a very big section of them.  Here you have a case where committees, all over the country, quite voluntarily made these bargains, signed these agreements, and are quite ready to carry them out.  It would lead to a great deal of work for the Dairy Disposals Board, who are only three or four officials, who have their hands full now, and it would lead to a situation in which most of the committees in the country who disapprove of a thing could say: &ldquo;Re-open these agreements,&rdquo; because of details.  I will give a most definite undertaking that we will never choose as the particular peak day a day on which an abnormal supply of milk comes in because the previous day's milk has not been supplied, or because of any accidental circumstance like that. 
     
     
      
       I am quite prepared to accept the Minister's undertaking that the peak day will not be the day following Sunday or a day following one on which the supply of milk was not received, but I do think where the peak day was selected for a Monday, or such a day, it would be entirely unfair to the suppliers themselves if the   matter could not be re-opened.  On the Minister's admission, it would be an unfair basis of calculation.  I can quite understand that the committees must be held responsible to a certain extent to speak on behalf of suppliers, who are also placed in the peculiar position in which committees very often find themselves in connection with the various influences that are brought to bear on them to encourage them to do things that are really not in the best interests of the suppliers. If in such an instance it occurred that the committee, having acted with due regard entirely to the position of their suppliers, I would say that if two-thirds of the suppliers, by petition or otherwise, requested that the agreement entered into on their behalf by the committee should be re-opened, the matter should be re-opened and reinvestigated in the light of that, and in the light of what the Minister says, that is, on the basis of calculating the amount of money to be paid on the supply of milk.  Otherwise I am quite prepared to accept the Minister's acceptance of the principle. 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy misunderstood one point.  I said that in the County Limerick, where they take milk on Sunday and Monday, it is possible, for all I know, that the suggestion of some committee to the I.A.O.S. or to the Dairy Disposals Board would be: &ldquo;Let us take the peak day as Monday, 10th July,&rdquo; and that Monday would be quite normal for that creamery, because they take milk on Sunday just the same.  I was pointing out that if we accepted Deputy Aiken's suggestion, while it might meet cases of a district where the creameries did not take milk on a Sunday, it would not meet the case if it was to re-open agreements perhaps in Limerick, where the peak day was settled as Monday, and which agreements were quite fair and the day was one actually suggested by the committee. 
     
     
      
       I think if the Minister put in something like this&mdash;&ldquo;being a day following a day on which the creamery receives its normal supply,&rdquo; it might cover what Deputy Maguire wants. 
     
     
     
      
       That might be Saturday, and it would then bring you to Sunday.  Saturday might be a normal supply day. 
     
     
      
       If that was the peak day it would be all right. 
     
     
      
       It might not be.  That might run you into the very difficulty you are trying to avoid. 
     
     
      
       But if it might not be you could not take it.  The peak day must be a day on which the creamery receives its normal supply. 
     
     
      
       Yes, but there is a normal supply to-day, and it must be the day following that.  That might be the particular day that Deputy Maguire wants to avoid. 
     
     
      
       Monday does not follow Saturday.  Sunday intervenes. 
     
     
      
       I would suggest to Deputies that they should leave that section.  This question has never arisen in practice.  There was never a dispute about it in that way.  There are seventy or eighty cases covered by this section, and I will give an undertaking that we will not choose any abnormal day. 
     
     
      
       There is a further danger in this clause, in connection with the term &ldquo;person&rdquo;&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       We will dispose of the amendment first. 
     
     
      
       If I had a little more information on it we might come to terms on it.  I am satisfied with the undertaking that the Minister gave, that he will have due regard to the point that has been raised.  But the section also refers to a person in receipt of a milk supply.  We will assume that a dairyman in a town or city will receive a supply of milk from a person who has been supplying one of the creameries. Will he also be held amenable for compensation for the milk he has received from that farmer, or number of farmers, and be made liable to the co-operative creamery for the quantity of milk supplied on the same basis?  Furthermore, if he is, will the fact be taken into account that the dairyman is living in a town where some fete is being held   on a particular day, or for a week, that he receives on that day or during that week a quantity of milk greater than his ordinary supply?  If he decides on ceasing his contract, as the clause makes provision for, and thereby evading payment to the creamery, there is nothing in the clause that I see to prevent him from entering into another contract with the farmer who had previously been supplying to the creamery, and in that way debarring the ordinary farmer who had been supplying to the creamery from continuing that contract or of ever re-opening it again.  These are rather dangerous points that I see in this clause, if this is to apply to individual dairymen in towns or cities. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will see in Section 2: &ldquo;Where a creamery or a company owning a creamery was acquired with moneys provided by the Oireachtas,&rdquo; that is to say, where one of the Newmarket Dairy Company's creameries was acquired by moneys provided by the Oireachtas, &ldquo;every person engaged in the manufacture of milk products or in the sale of milk who obtains a supply of milk from a person who supplied milk to such creamery,&rdquo; and so on, and then follow the various things that are set out in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f).  We are dealing now with the case of a supplier to a creamery concern bought by the Dairy Disposals Board and sold to another creamery, and we include definitely there &ldquo;every person engaged in the manufacture of milk products&rdquo;&mdash; which, of course, would cover the ordinary creameries &ldquo;or in the sale of milk&rdquo;&mdash;shall do certain things, and shall do that for this reason: We found that after we had bought the Condensed Milk Company, a tremendous amount of interest began to be taken in the milk supplies of County Limerick and County Tipperary.  Various firms and people who were never so interested before, began to make inquiries, to go down there and make other arrangements. This person wanted to start a casein factory, and another person wanted to start a whole-milk depot, and so on.  I am quite satisfied that that generally was done from ulterior motives.  There are a great many people in this country who do not like the   policy of handing over the whole manufacturing of milk products to the farmers on a co-operative basis.  That is not an accepted principle by every class in the country.  It is there, but there are a great many people who do not like it, although they do not like to say anything about it at the moment, because co-operation is in the air and in the fashion. 
       Deputies can take it that a great many people with money and other private interests in general connected with other forms of organisations, such as Joint Stock Companies, do not like that process at all.  It is rather a new process, rather revolutionary, and we found &mdash;I forget whether it was in County Tipperary or in County Limerick&mdash;that people were coming in and were going to start whole-milk depots for certain purposes.  They planked down a whole-milk depot next to a creamery we bought, and offered very attractive prices to the farmers for the whole-milk. I do not know how long that would last, perhaps one year or two years but, at least, some suggested that they were prepared to offer very attractive prices. There was nothing to stop them doing that in that district up to the year 1927, and there is nothing to stop them doing it in the various districts to which this Bill does not apply, but where there are very big milk supplies they did not do so.  If we allowed that, what would happen?  Someone would come along and put up a tin shed, take in the whole-milk, rail it to Dublin and get off their milk without paying a penny.  We deliberately inserted the word &ldquo;person&rdquo; not only to cover a creamery, but every other person, whether an individual or a limited liability company.  It was our intention deliberately to cover these.  I believe all individuals are covered.  Deputy Maguire's case is in regard to a creamery outside a town. 
     
     We have taken over the creamery and sold it with its supplies to some creamery in the district.  Some milkman in the town buys milk.  Has he to take shares?  I am afraid he would, but I do not think that case could possibly arise in practice.  I never heard of such a case.  Remember, if it was a genuine bona fide transaction, or was on the border line, or was a man half a mile away who, up to the date of the sale,   was supplying milk to the creamery and if he decides to sell in the town of course we would let him off.  We have power to do so in the section.  It is for the Department to say who the supplier shall be.  There is plenty of elasticity in the Bill, and plenty of elasticity to allow a man to sell out his cows, to give up supplying milk at all, or to make butter with it at home.  If ten or fifteen men say: &ldquo;We will not supply the new creamery,&rdquo; there is no reason why we should charge them, because, after all, we have the issuing of certificates, and we do so, as a rule, by agreement with the creamery that is purchasing.  We would never force them to pay for milk they did not get. On the other hand, we would never force a milkman in a town to pay for milk which he got from two or three suppliers.  But we must have provision in order to cover the cases I mention, the case where people threaten to come and put up a whole-milk depot right up against the creamery which we have closed down in order to collar all the milk.  But that point would have to be left to administrative action.  In no case would we attempt to charge a supplier who had gone to town with his milk. 
     
      
       Is it not a fact that Kilmoyler and Cappaunice, in County Tipperary, applied for registration and that the Minister refused to register them, although there is no creamery in this district? 
     
     
      
       I could not say; probably it is. 
     
     
      
       They have applied and have been refused. 
     
     
      
       There are bound to be such cases arising.  How can we get over that?  Either you have to have redundancy or you should have someone who will have authority to draw the line and to say that no creamery shall come in there.  The whole principle underlying this purchase, any way, in this matter of redundancy was to see that each creamery had an economic area.  Anyone connected with creameries knows full well that is vital. When you start to map out creamery areas difficulties will undoubtedly   arise.  There will be three creameries in a district, and it is a question of closing one of them.  They all agree that there is only milk for two.  On the other hand, five per cent. or ten per cent. of the suppliers to one will be a little bit inconvenienced by the closing of one.  What are you to do?  Are you to allow the three to go on pulling the devil by the tail for the rest of their existence or close one and inflict a small degree, perhaps, of inconvenience by making the suppliers bring the milk a mile further?  That is the whole dilemma.  If you once say that everyone may do his own business, that if they want that creamery kept open they should be allowed to keep it open, you should also say that when they become bankrupt they should not come to the State looking for money or credits. Of course they will promise to do that now, but in three or four years' time, when they did go down, as of course they would, there would be an agitation in the Dail to take them out of their difficulties. 
     
     
      
       Is not five or six miles too far to carry milk, and is it not practically churned by the time it reaches the creamery? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Indeed it is.  I saw several instances of it. 
     
     
      
       Very well, what is your suggestion.  Take a district which is rather narrow but long, near the sea coast, or something like that in which there are two creameries, one at each end, receiving only 4,000 or 5,000 gallons daily, what are you going to do? 
     
     
      
       Where the distance is too far you could have a separating station. 
     
     
      
       It is all very well to say that.  Where the distance is three or five miles, the difficulty is not insuperable. Rather than have two uneconomic creameries in such a state of bankruptcy or poverty always in the bank's books, the way to remedy that is to have one first class creamery with ample conveniences for carrying on, one that is able to put in new equipment   and machinery.  I will tell you what they could do.  The difficulty is not insuperable.  They could make arrangements in the case of people living far away&mdash;say a five-mile limit&mdash; and I suppose there would not be more than thirty or forty such people&mdash;by which one man would bring the milk one day and another man another day. A little bit of organisation could do that. 
     
     
      
       The journey is too far, and another obstacle is that the milk is churned and will not be taken when it reaches the creamery.  That is the whole objection.  The distance is too far. 
     
     
      
       Then they should give up supplying milk to the creameries and turn to something else. 
     
     
      
       The Minister knows that there is a map hung up in the Department which settles that.  If we are to have more acquisition of creameries and the closing down of redundant creameries, the question is whether the circles drawn on the map are going to hold or whether there is going to be any elasticity.  The Minister says there is, but we have not seen any evidence of it. 
     
     
      
       The circles are purely arbitrary.  The idea of the circles was this.  I got a map made with a black spot for every creamery in the country, then a circle was drawn round that of a radius of one and a half miles, so that the diameter of the circle would be three miles.  There was a red circle for co-operative creameries, a black for proprietary creameries, and another for something else.  The idea was that at a glance you could see the situation &mdash;you could see the circles crossing each other.  But no one would attempt to draw a definite line round an area and say: &ldquo;This house, because it is one and three quarter miles from the creamery, must not come in.&rdquo;  The ordinary normal area as it works out in practice is an area which is not circular, not any shape at all, but quite irregular.  The circles were merely to give an idea at a glance of the present position as between the proprietary and the co-operative creameries, to show   that they were cutting across each others area of supply.  It was never intended to define an area within which a creamery should operate in such a definite way.  It never happened in that way, because, in fact and in practice, districts are all irregular.  Some man is three miles away, another three and a half, another one and a half, and perhaps the nearest creamery to the right comes within two miles of that creamery.  So that you need not be under any delusion as to the circles. It was never intended to draw up a regular area for each creamery. 
     
     
      
       In my district there are two creameries in a direct line.  One of the creameries used to have a large supply of milk.  This creamery was established in 1908 and was run for 15 years as a co-operative creamery.  Then it was sold to the Condensed Milk Co. 
     
     
      
       By the Society? 
     
     
      
       Owing to some mismanagement, the Society went down. When the Labour Government was in power in England the sale of butter was held up.  Now the people of the district have to travel a very long distance&mdash; five or six miles&mdash;in a mountainy district, and it is a great hardship on them. 
     
     
      
       Is that near Birdhill? 
     
     
      
       Yes, three miles from it.  I cannot see any reason why this creamery should have been made redundant. It covered a large supply, and was in one of the best dairying districts, while other creameries which have been left open have a less supply. Creameries have been established in other areas which are not as good dairying districts.  Some of these people, as a result, can hardly get to Mass on Sunday, as they do not get home until 12 or 1 o'clock.  As a consequence, they are out very much against the closing down of this creamery. 
     
     
      
       I am not sure that I know the case referred to, but I admit that there will be cases of hardship.  It would be extraordinary in a big scheme   like this if the first organisation was absolutely correct.  I will admit also that it might very well be that in practice it will be found that perhaps one or two creameries were closed that should not have been closed.  I will admit that as a general principle.  On the other hand, we must make an attempt to prevent redundancy, and we can only make a beginning somewhere. 
     
     
      
       As to the disadvantage of having to travel long distances, I am aware that for the past twelve months these people are supplying to a dairy, with a small supply, working economically, with a small number of hands.  They are paying within a halfpenny in the £ of the large supply dairy.  It would not pay the small suppliers to go five or six miles for the difference. 
     
     
      
       Generally it is the other way. 
     
     
      
       Could not the Minister meet the requirements by putting up a separating station?  In our district we have a separating station which cost only about £700&mdash;a one-man creamery it is called.  It can separate up to two or three thousand gallons. 
     
     
      
       Possibly that is the solution of it. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be more economical? 
     
     
      
       Possibly.  We are only in the experimental stage as yet with one-man separating stations. 
     
     
      
       We have two in our district in South Tipperary. 
     
     
      
       If you went to that particular parish, would there not be a first-class dispute in another parish as to whether you are right or I am right? 
     
     
      
       There is no dispute at all.  They are well pleased to get the separating station. 
     
     
      
       Supposing I did what the Deputy wants, some other Deputy, sitting on the same benches or some of the other benches, would raise a question on behalf of another section who did not like the change.  That will happen in a great many cases. 
     
     
     
      
       Every Deputy will have to look out for himself. 
       Section 2, as amended, agreed to. 
       Sections 3 and 4 agreed to. 
       SECTION 5. 
       (1)  When the Department has issued under this Act to the company a certificate of liability in respect of a society, it shall be lawful for such society to issue and such society if and when so required by the Department shall issue to the supplier of milk on account of whose milk supply such certificate of liability was issued such number of shares (in this section referred to as debt shares) of the nominal value of one pound each in such society as shall amount to three shares for every cow then owned by such supplier as certified by the Department. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 4: 
       In sub-section (1), page 4, line 29, to delete the word &ldquo;Department&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;company.&rdquo; 
       That is a drafting amendment.  It is obviously the business of the company and not the Department, once the Department has issued a certificate to the company. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 5: 
       In sub-section (1), line 29, to delete all the words after the word &ldquo;issue&rdquo; and to substitute the following:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;to each supplier of milk to such society such number of shares (in this section referred to as debt shares) of the nominal value of one pound each as the society with the approval of the Department may determine or, in default of determination by the society, as the Department may require: provided that there shall not be issued to any supplier under this section a number of such shares exceeding three shares for every cow then owned by such supplier as certified by the Department.&rdquo; 
     
     There are two kinds of suppliers, as the Minister pointed out.  There are the creameries which have acquired   the supplies which were formerly given to the Condensed Milk Company's creameries.  You have the original suppliers, and you have the other suppliers, some of whom have gone to the creameries which the Department have arranged for, and some of whom have gone to other co-operative creameries.  The Minister pointed out that Sections 2, 3 and 4 are provisions by which the Department would charge to the creameries the definite amount which is fixed upon them in respect of these purchase agreements.  Section 5 is a very important section, because the suppliers are dealt with there.  Section 5 decides that a certain amount be fixed upon.  The idea of the amendment was that since this transaction was carried out for the benefit of the creamery industry as a whole, and since we have not sufficient information on this side of the House to enable us to say that the suppliers to the redundant creameries, or to the creameries belonging to the Condensed Milk Company, should alone have to pay the purchase price, it seems to us that if the thing was being tackled on a national basis, in view of the fact that these people have to suffer inconvenience, even in cases where they were not members of redundant creameries, were not even members of the co-operative movement, but had been suppliers to a proprietary creamery, they may have had very good reasons from the business point of view.  They may not have been satisfied with the general conduct of the co-operative creameries in their area, and may have been getting a better price.  Now you are asking these people to change their supplies and are putting them to a great deal of inconvenience probably, and, in their opinion, some loss.  That may be purely a local outlook, but it seems to me that there is some danger of injustice, and that an endeavour should be made to meet it. 
     I do not know whether the amendment I suggest covers the point.  The Minister has more knowledge than we have and probably understands what I am driving at.  Our idea is to distribute the liability more evenly and not to have it falling wholly on the suppliers to the closed creameries.  When   the Minister was dealing with the point in his opening speech the following discussion took place:&mdash; 
     Dr. RYAN: With regard to the 48 creameries closed down, and for which someone paid £38,000 for the milk supply, I presume that the farmers paid for their own milk supply. That would be like buying their own good-will. 
     Mr. HOGAN: No.  The existing co-operative societies paid that and the farmers took shares to that extent. 
     Dr. RYAN: They are paying, then, for their own milk supply? 
     Mr. HOGAN: No.  That is not the value of the milk at all.  First of all, the farmers are coming into a creamery that has all the advantages of a big milk supply from another source, and that is what they are paying for.  If you organise a creamery it costs a certain amount to build it. It generally costs £1 a gallon to get the plant and equipment to handle the milk, and the more milk you have the more equipment you want.  Three shares per cow will give it to you. 
     Then he goes on to say: 
     &ldquo;They will have the advantage when they take out these shares that at the end of eight years they will own that creamery without owing one penny to a bank.&rdquo; 
     I am not quite clear whether these debt shares cover the ordinary meaning of shares.  The ordinary meaning we take from the expression &ldquo;debt shares&rdquo; is that they are issued against a liability which the supplier has, and in the course of time, on paying these 8 annual instalments he gets rid of that liability.  If the Minister can show at the end of the time that he will have the same claim to the society, and the same rights as an old supplier will have, well and good.  There has been a feeling that he will not.  For example, in the committee of the creamery to which this supplier has now to go he will not have any representation in the management. We want to see that there are some safeguards for the suppliers, in that way that they will have some control   in the management and that the liability will be distributed more evenly.  As against the security that you are giving to him in making him a definite part of the co-operative movement you have the fact that there was a certain plant&mdash;I am speaking of the redundant creameries, because I think the point covers both, which was realised. We would be glad to know from the Minister when that plant is realised and the assets are sold that they will be put to the benefit of the redundant suppliers, and they will not be in a position that all the work they have given to the co-operative movement will be at a loss.  It seems to me at present that you are just taking them as entirely new people and that you are fixing a charge on them.  You are assuming that all the advantage lies with them, whereas, in my opinion, the old suppliers have the advantage.  They have an entirely new milk supply.  They have new people coming in, and they have people coming in who are prepared to finance the business.  If the Minister had gone a little further in this Bill towards the Co-operative Act, and had fixed a levy for the raising of capital on all milk suppliers throughout the country it would be easier to reach agreement.  The danger is at present that redundant milk suppliers may be unfairly treated.  On the other hand, in future agreements it may be right to make them pay, but in view of the position of the dairy organisation we would like to distribute the claims. The old suppliers, it is suggested, may not have been shareholders.  They may not have paid up their capital. 
     
      
       I understand Deputy Derrig's point.  Section 5 reads:&mdash; 
     
     (1)  When the Department has issued under this Act to the Company a certificate of liability in respect of a society, it shall be lawful for such society to issue and such society if and when so required by the Department shall issue to the supplier of milk on account of whose milk supply such certificate of liability was issued such number of shares (in this section referred to as debt shares) of the nominal value of one pound each in such society as shall amount to three shares for   every cow then owned by such supplier as certified by the Department. 
     Now mark, it is shares of the society and that these shares are issued.  These people are shareholders in the society to that amount.  The term &ldquo;debt shares&rdquo; is merely a definition term there.  People would possibly be led into a false conclusion by the term &ldquo;debt shares,&rdquo; because there are such things as ordinary shares and shares for the purpose of securing loans issued by co-operative societies.  There are different sorts of shares, but these are shares in the society purely and simply. The man who takes three of those has three shares in that society.  The suppliers on the aggregate who take, say, £1,000 worth, £2,000 worth, or £3,000 worth of shares has, as the case may be, 3,000 ordinary shares in that society and to that extent are the owners.  That is one side.  The other side is this: We find it extremely difficult to draft the Co-operative Bill, because when it comes to drafting it is a matter between the I.A.O.S. and the leading men on committees through the country.  They ought to know best what they want, and, of course, it is a matter for the Department of Agriculture finally.  You cannot get a Co-operative Act of any value until there is a certain amount of agreement between these bodies.  We found it extremely difficult to draft because we are venturing into new fields and trying to find how the new creameries can operate.  When we come to details, we will find the difficulties arising. 
     There is one thing agreed and it is essential and at the basis of the whole policy, and that is every supplier must take three shares per cow.  The Co-operative Bill must be passed next session, and when that is passed the other suppliers will come in and take all a share.  The position is that the new suppliers will have taken three shares per cow, the old suppliers will have three shares per cow, and, of course, have ample time to pay up these shares.  The time will be the same, eight years, and five and a half per cent. interest, and by that time everyone will have shares in the company according to the number of cows he or she may own.  The company will be satisfactorily   financed.  Moreover, the private guarantors will be released.  That will place the whole co-operative movement on a new basis, and that is the underlying idea.  Meanwhile we have to deal with this Bill, which is more urgent on account of the transactions which took place.  Apart from its urgency, we found that when we could not draft a Co-operative Bill, we had to make a beginning somewhere, and these were the steps.  We intended originally to include the provisions of this Bill in the Co-operative Bill.  At any rate, we had to go ahead with this as a beginning. This will provide three shares per cow. Every new supplier will become a shareholder, will have the same rights absolutely, and be in the same position as a supplier old or new.  When the Co-operative Bill is passed the other suppliers to that society will have to take shares.  When that time comes the society will be on an absolutely sound basis.  I think that covers the point that Deputy Derrig mentioned.  With regard to the complaint where a redundant creamery is sold, there is taken into account first the value of the plant. That is deducted from the gross figure, and it is the nett figure that the society pays. 
     
      
       What about the committee? 
     
     
      
       Of course, as shareholders, they will have the right to vote. They have the fullest right.  They are members of the society.  They have an absolute right to vote.  In fact, they have a better right than anybody else, because they will have shares before the others. 
     
     
      
       When will they become shareholders? 
     
     
      
       When the shares are issued. 
     
     
      
       When the Minister takes over these creameries does he also take over the stock? 
     
     
      
       No, unless you bought a society in that way, and we have not done that up to the present.  Take a company like the Condensed Milk Company at £365,000.  We bought that at a gross figure.  We have a guarantee from   Lovell and Christmas that the stock was worth £200,000, and we had a further guarantee that if the stock did not fetch £200,000 they would pay the difference.  We bought that society as a going concern. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that if this is a Creamery Bill, the Minister should do now in relation to it what he proposes to do under the Co-operative Bill as regards creameries.  There is no doubt about that; it should be done now.  As to the figures, I do not know what proportion the paid up share capital bears to the capital of the creameries throughout the country. 
     
     
      
       Very little. 
     
     
      
       A number of co-operative creameries have failed throughout the country because the share capital was never paid up.  Some of these people who were closed down were suppliers to redundant creameries that have since closed down.  When they are forced to join another co-operative creamery, they will have to come in there and pay £3 per cow over a period of eight years.  It might well happen, and it would happen in a large number of cases, that where these men would be paying £3 per cow into a creamery whose members have not paid up £3 or anything like it, that that would cause a great injustice.  The usual thing in a co-operative society, or in most cases, is that a man comes in and pays his first moiety and he is never asked for anything else.  There is a large amount of capital not called up, and there is a large overdraft at the bank.  I do not see why in this Bill it would not be made compulsory in all societies and creameries that are affected by this Bill that all suppliers should pay £3 per cow over a period of eight years, if necessary.  If the Co-operative Bill is to come, it will come, but we should see that every piece of legislation that we pass here is made complete, absolutely as far as we can make it so. 
     
     I think that there should be a new section introduced into the Bill to make it compulsory on suppliers of milk to creameries to pay up £3 per cow.  The new suppliers should be put on the same footing as the old suppliers.  These are people who ordinarily supplied milk   to a creamery that has now been found redundant, and now they are being forced to join a new co-operative society.  I submit that they should pay up only as much of the share capital as the members of that old society paid on the average per cow.  Take a case like this&mdash;it may be that I have ten cows, and I was supplying a creamery that has been found now to be redundant. I am now forced to go to another co-operative society.  Under this Bill I will have to put down £30 over eight years.  It may be that the society that I am forced to join was so organised that the members only paid 5/- per cow and they are running on a couple of thousand pounds overdraft.  It is not right that I should be forced to pay in £30.  That should be remedied in this Bill.  The farmer should not have to wait until another Co-operative Bill that may be delayed for two or three years is brought in.  Either these suppliers should be put on the same footing as the old suppliers or the old suppliers should be made to pay up £3 per cow. 
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister why he proposes to allow a larger amount than three shares per cow? 
     
     
      
       I would like the Minister to clear up a little bit better this question of the number of cows.  It states in this section: &ldquo;When the Department has issued under this Act to the Company a certificate of liability in respect of a society it shall be lawful for such society to issue and such society if and when so required by the Department shall issue to the supplier of milk an account of whose milk supply such certificate of liability was issued such number of shares... of the nominal value of £1 each in such society as shall amount to three shares for every cow then owned by such supplier as certified by the Department.&rdquo; I would like to know what means the Department have of determining what the number is or how they are to take statistics of the number of cows owned by a farmer?  Will it be determined by the number of cows the farmer has on his farm when the inspector visits the farm?  Sometimes a farmer has 30   cows.  He keeps 15 of these for milking purposes and he sells the other 15 at the market in a commercial way. When the inspector comes to the farm he sees the 30 cows, though the number that the farmer would be milking would be only 15 and the inspector would say to the farmer: &ldquo;You will have to pay £3 per cow on 30 cows.&rdquo; That would not be fair to the farmer. If the inspector comes to a farm in that way and discovers a number of cows in excess of what the farmer is milking, the farmer is up against it.  There may be a case where the farmer in the previous year had 15 cows but in the present year not more than 7 of these would be producing milk this year; 7 or 8 of them may be dry.  These are the matters I would like to see cleared up.  There are some technical points about this that would require a definite order to be made or that would necessitate some elasticity in this section so as to enable the inspectors to give due regard to the requirements of the farmer. 
     
     
      
       I will begin with Deputy Maguire.  His question is a very definite one.  He quoted the case of a man who had 15 cows and 15 strippers. I cannot imagine a man having 30 cows and milking all of them in the spring, and later on in the year only keeping 15 of them at home. 
     
     
      
       I did not mean a case like that.  I meant where a man would be selling some of his cows. 
     
     
      
       It would be more likely that there would be 15 cows and, say, 5 strippers. 
     
     
      
       I know of cases where farmers kept 30 cows in their farm up to a point, and then sold off some of them and kept the others for milking purposes. 
     
     
      
       That would be a matter for the committee of the creamery.  The committee would see how many cows each man actually has. In actual practice it would not be a matter for the Department at all.  Of course we have inspectors in the different counties, inspectors under the Dairy Produce Act and under the   I.A.O.S., and in that way there is a fair amount of inspection.  In the first place the committee would say: &ldquo;Such a man has ten cows apart from strippers and cows on the farm, for the purpose of selling them when they are about to calve down.&rdquo;  Until there was a dispute between the committee and supplier we would not come in at all. That is the way it works out in practice. If a supplier had fifteen milch cows and fifteen others in respect of which no milk was sent to the creamery, then if a dispute arose some of our officials would possibly consult with members of the committee, and they could look up the books of the company and see what amount the particular farmer in question supplied before.  They could get reliable information from the creamery managers and the inspectors under the Dairy Produce Act, and from other sources of information in the county.  From all these sources information could be secured, and very probably they would be able to arrive at something like fair play.  When you are dealing with a man who has cows, some for one purpose and some for another purpose you may possibly come across a case where there is fraud under the Act. You will probably have a man saying that he has thirty cows, but he sends the milk of only fifteen, and in another case a man with ten cows will tell you that he sends the milk of only five. That may be done, and in the last analysis we must really leave it between the various committees and the suppliers themselves.  It is only when there is a dispute that we come in, and we would come in with a possibility of getting at the facts.  We have our dairy produce inspectors and other inspectors under the various Acts, and we have also the books of the old company, and we know what the usual supplies were. 
     
     
      
       But you have already made bargains for a certain quantity of milk and, therefore, you have to get a certain number of shares. 
     
     
      
       We have arranged for a certain quantity of milk, undoubtedly. On the whole, we find in practice that £3 per cow always covers   that.  We do not dispute a few gallons one way or the other.  We find that £3 per cow always covers it; in some cases it was a little more and in some cases a little less.  In answer to a point raised by Deputy Aiken, I may say that the Department, first of all, are not under the necessity of forcing a committee to issue shares to the amount of £3 per cow.  In practice, I think, however, that they will always do it.  In the Co-operative Act it will be provided that every supplier must take three shares.  The reason is this: That, taking one creamery with another, you cannot build the creamery or finance it at less than three shares per cow.  That is an iron rule and it is the principle agreed to by the I.A.O.S. They, to some extent, represent the suppliers and the creameries.  Even where three shares per cow do more than build the creamery, it is extremely sound that they should have some money on hands in the way of working capital.  It is well that they should have some money over and above for improvements and investments of one kind or another which they will find they will require.  You are doing nothing more than is prudent when you tell a creamery society to issue three shares per cow.  Even where the amount subscribed in that way would be more than enough, the fact that you have a little money over is all to the good.  It is there against a possible loss, and it will be there for the purpose of buying equipment. 
     
     In a case where there are shares issued for £3 per cow, if there is a mortgage on that, they could only call up the amount that will pay the mortgage. That is set out in paragraph (b) of Section 5: &ldquo;Such society shall, so long as any part of the debt remains unpaid, either by deduction per gallon on the price of milk purchased by it from the holder of such debt shares or in such other way as it may decide call up in each year so much of the capital at the time uncalled of such debt shares as may be required to provide for the payment to the Company of the amount of the instalment and interest of the debt falling due in that year&rdquo;; so that, in fact, where they get a good bargain, they will only call in fifteen   shillings in the pound and leave five shillings outstanding.  That is there as security if they want to borrow money from the bank.  It is agreed that, so far as the new suppliers and the old suppliers are concerned, everyone of them should be forced to take three shares per cow in order to make the average creamery economic. 
     Deputy Aiken's point was to insert in this Bill provision to deal with co-operative societies not affected by this Bill, co-operative societies who have not paid anything towards belonging to the Condensed Milk Company or any other company which we purchased or intend to purchase.  That would.  I think, be a mistake.  We have to make a beginning somewhere.  This Bill is complicated enough, and it deals with a certain definite problem.  If we go outside it now and attempt to deal with a different problem, a slightly different even if somewhat co-related problem, we raise all sorts of questions.  We could not think of inserting at this stage a section making it obligatory on every supplier of every society to pay up £3 shares at once.  I do not think it would be right to do it at this stage.  It would not be right in this case, because the money is mortgaged at once.  I do not think we should put that in any Bill until we have made provision for auditing and other matters of that sort.  That provision would properly be in a Bill that deals with appointment committees, affiliation with the I.A.O.S., inspection of books and proper audit.  All that hangs together and should be included in the same Bill.  I agree it makes it much easier for us to collect the shares from the other suppliers, and, while I admit that, at the same time I could not think of inserting a provision like that in this Bill.  It would mean four or five times as much money as is involved in the purchase of the Condensed Milk Company.  When one considers all the implications it is obvious that the proper place to insert it is in the other Bill, the Bill dealing with audit, appointment of committees, affiliations with the I.A.O.S., etc.  In such a measure there will be safeguards to see that the money is properly spent in the interests of the shareholders.  In this case we will get the money as it is paid up. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has stated that a beginning should be made.  It was in order to make a beginning that I suggested that he should see that the shareholders and societies touched by this Bill&mdash;that is, shareholders and societies that are new suppliers but that had been closed down&mdash;should be included. I do not want the Minister to put in this Bill a clause making it compulsory on all creameries, but on the creameries affected by this Bill.  I refer to creameries which receive new supplies because other creameries have been closed. 
     
     
      
       That limits it to some extent, but the same difficulties are involved, and I do not like to make this Bill any more complicated than it is. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that it would make it any more complicated. It would be putting into effect in this Bill a very good principle. 
     
     
      
       It would affect 75 per cent. of the creameries, and would involve a large amount of money coming in at once.  You can only do one thing at a time.  The Dairy Disposals Board have their hands full, and if this section is inserted, it would have to be hung up until we finished off this Bill, or, at least, until the spade work was done.  A Co-operative Bill will be introduced next session, and I will try and deal with that point then. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that a large section of the suppliers have no shares at all? 
     
     
      
       Of course. 
     
     
      
       Will they be compelled to take shares? 
     
     
      
       Certainly, so as to relieve the guarantors. 
     
     
      
       I have not heard from the Minister in regard to my point about the three shares. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I forgot that.  I do not want to develop it at great length now, but it will be almost absolutely certain that if we are to buy some creameries which are still unbought, we will have to buy them at   more than £3 a cow.  There are certain creameries that should be bought in regard to which suppliers would actually agree to pay more than £3 a cow and in regard to which they are pressing us to buy them.  They are provided for in every other respect.  I want the Bill not only to apply to the Condensed Milk Company but to any purchase that takes place this year or next year. 
     
     
      
       Where the purchase is completed the £3 will stand? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       We will have three classes in each creamery, namely, compulsory shareholders, ordinary original shareholders, and suppliers who are not shareholders? 
     
     
      
       Every supplier will be a shareholder. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       As this Bill is intended to cover any future purchases of creameries for the next few years, I would like some provision to be made for districts which differ materially from those to which this Bill is intended to apply.  I have in mind areas where the economic supply of milk would be worth considerably less than £1.  I know a district where the conveyance of milk would cost 11⁄2d. a gallon and the economic value of that milk will be a good deal less than the value of milk supplied to creameries where the milk supply is conveyed free of charge.  That is an outstanding, but a rather usual, case.  The conditions in the West are different to those in the South and there ought to be some special provision made where the economic milk supply is different. Therefore there should be distinction made where not only economic conditions of the supply, but the value of the plant and machinery would be taken into account.  I am not satisfied with the Bill, because it does not take into account the conditions of creameries in the West. 
     
     
      
       You cannot legislate for contingencies.  There will be contingencies after this Bill is passed, but this Bill will not be the last one. 
     
     
     
      
       Does the Minister fully understand what Deputy Moore asked him about the three classes of shareholders? Is he not right&mdash;until the Co-operative Act is passed there will be three classes? 
     
     
      
       Yes, until it is passed there will be suppliers who have shares voluntarily, those who have no shares, and those who had to take shares. 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied with the Minister's explanation as to why he did not make it compulsory on suppliers to creameries affected by this Bill to pay £3. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy would wait until we put the section. 
     
     
      
       Very well. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw my amendment. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I move: 
       In sub-section (1), page 4, line 31, to delete the words &ldquo;such number of&rdquo; and in line 33 to delete the words &ldquo;as shall amount to three&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;the number of such shares to be so issued to any such supplier being calculated at the rate of three or such greater number as the company shall require of such.&rdquo; 
       I have explained that point already. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       The question is, &ldquo;That Section 6, as amended, stand part of the Bill.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I think that on Report the Minister should bring in an amendment such as I suggest.  I think that now would be the correct time to do it. I am certain, where a farmer comes into a creamery whose shareholders have only paid five shillings a cow and who is forced to sign an agreement to take out shares at £3 a cow, will not be pleased. 
     
     
      
       I will consider that point, but if it has a great many implications which would alter the Bill to any great extent and would mean   several consequential amendments I might not be inclined to agree to it. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it will. 
     
     
      
       That will require a great deal of consideration. 
     
     
      
       You might change the phrasing in line 33 of the sub-section and say: &ldquo;Shares held on an average by every member per cow.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The book-keeping of that would be absurd and you would have to go back again and make another calculation.  I think the other way would be simpler.  We are coming along with a Co-operative Bill.  Deputies forget that this is agreed by all interests.  There is a minority who do not agree, but it has been agreed by the I.A.O.S., by practically every committee in the country, by the Department, and by practically everyone concerned. It has been agreed that this arrangement of three shares a cow is safe and necessary to the committee.  If the I.A.O.S., which represents a great number of the committees, agrees, and if a body like the Shorthorn Breeders' Association, which represents a tremendous number of dairy farmers, also agrees why should we complain? 
     
     
      
       You stated that more than £3 would be necessary in certain cases. 
     
     
      
       I suggested that in future more than £3 a cow will be necessary in certain cases, and that people who are actually going to pay more will perhaps be anxious to do so. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the people who are satisfied are not the people who have nothing to complain about? 
     
     
      
       They will complain when we charge them. 
     
     
      
       I think it should be made an even levy. 
     
     
      
       I want to see the inception of co-operation getting a fair chance, and certainly the new suppliers to a co-operative creamery will have a grievance if they have to pay more than the original suppliers. 
     
     
     
      
       They will not have to pay more. 
     
     
      
       They will until the Co-operative Bill comes into force. 
     
     
      
       I cannot do any more in the matter, and I have considered all the pros and cons. 
     
     
      
       You are making it compulsory on suppliers who were supplying redundant creameries. 
     
     
      
       Yes, that is so. 
     
     
      
       That is not fair. 
     
     
      
       As I explained before, if every supplier takes three shares per cow it will take the full amount to finance the creamery.  We are making a beginning with a portion of the creameries. Suppliers coming in must pay for it, such as it is.  Later on we will come along with the Co-operative Bill, and the other suppliers will have to take shares.  When every supplier takes three shares per cow that will finance the undertaking.  The arrangement may not be ideal, but I cannot argue it any further. 
     
     
      
       Suppliers who take milk from a redundant creamery have to pay for it at the rate of £3 per cow. 
     
     
      
       The supplier has to pay for his share in the creamery.  He is joining in a creamery which formerly had, say, four thousand gallons.  It will now have eight thousand, and is worth twice as much as before.  Assuming that one-half are new suppliers and one-half old suppliers, the new suppliers will own half that creamery and will have an interest in the creamery represented by half its value.  The old suppliers will have the full value of one-half, and they will have the profit which the owner had before then.  There will be nobody to come in to compete with them, and if they cannot make money out of it in that way they will never make money.  In a Bill like this we cannot cater for a particular problem. 
     
     
      
       In view of the Minister's statement that this Bill shall apply to the future purchase of creameries, I must take exception to it.   If this Bill is intended to apply to future purchases in the West of Ireland, it is going to be fatal to any creamery purchased under these terms. 
     
     
      
       Is there a proprietary creamery in the West of Ireland? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Where? 
     
     
      
       There is no proprietary creamery, but I have in mind the kind of creamery which will be bought under this Bill. 
     
     
      
       We will not buy anything but proprietary creameries. 
     
     
      
       There are auxiliary creameries whose headquarters are in the North of Ireland, and already negotiations have taken place to buy them. If they are to be purchased on the terms contained in this Bill&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       If I am not able to purchase them under the terms of this Bill I cannot do so.  I am thoroughly incapable of catering for a problem that has not matured yet. 
     
     
      
       If purchased, they must be purchased under the terms of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       We need not purchase them under the terms of the Bill.  If we are to make agreements which do not come under the terms of the Bill we will have to come here for another Bill.  If we are to try to hammer out an Act for a special set of circumstances which we are not sure of or for which we have not got the full facts, we cannot do it. 
     
     
      
       Will we get an undertaking that no creameries will be purchased in the West of Ireland? 
     
     
      
       I will give the Deputy an undertaking that we will apply this Act only to creameries to which it is intended to apply. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister is making no case against the suggestion that all suppliers should be compelled to take shares. 
     
     
     
      
       There is not even an amendment down to that effect.  I do not think I could insert it in the Bill, because it would have all sorts of implications and would mean a very large number of consequential amendments. If that is so, I could not insert it in the Bill, but I will see if it is so between now and the Report Stage. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 6. 
       Any agreement (in this Act included in the expression &ldquo;agreement validated by this Act&rdquo;) in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Act and made whether before or after the passing of this Act between the Company and a society shall be and (in the case of any such agreement made before the passing of this Act) be deemed always to have been valid and accordingly it is hereby declared that as and from the date of such agreement such society shall have and (where such agreement was made before the passing of this Act) be deemed always to have had power, notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial and Provident Societies Act, 1893, and the rules of such society, to do all such acts and things and execute all such documents as may be necessary or proper to carry out the terms of such agreement. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In line 17, to insert after the word &ldquo;form&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or substantially in the form.&rdquo; 
       That is a purely drafting amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 6, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 7. 
     
     Any agreement (in this Act included in the expression &ldquo;agreement validated by this Act&rdquo;) in the form set out in the Second Schedule to this Act and made whether before or after the passing of this Act between the Company and a society shall be and (in the case of any such agreement made before the passing of this   Act) be deemed always to have been valid and accordingly it is hereby declared that as and from the date of such agreement such society shall have and (where such agreements was made before the passing of this Act) be deemed always to have had power, notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial and Provident Societies Act, 1893, and the rules of such society, to do all such acts and things and execute all such documents as may be necessary or proper to carry out the terms of such agreement. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In line 31 to insert after the word &ldquo;form&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or substantially in the form.&rdquo; 
       That is the same amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 7, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
       SECTION 8. 
       Any agreement (in this Act included in the expression &ldquo;agreement validated by this Act&rdquo;) in the form set out in the Third Schedule to this Act and made whether before or after the passing of this Act between the Department and a society shall be and (in the case of any such agreement made before the passing of this Act) be deemed always to have been valid and accordingly it is hereby declared that as and from the date of such agreement such society shall have and (where such agreement was made before the passing of this Act) be deemed always to have had power notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Industrial and Provident Societies Act, 1893, and the rules of such society, to do all such acts and things and execute all such documents as may be necessary or proper to carry out the terms of such agreement. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In line 45 to insert after the word &ldquo;form&rdquo; the words &ldquo;or substantially in the form.&rdquo; 
     
     
        That is the same as the previous amendment. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     Section 8, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     Section 9 ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     SECTION 10. 
     (1)  Where a society is required by or under this Act or is bound by an agreement validated by this Act to issue shares to any person and does issue such shares accordingly then, whether such person does or does not take such shares, it shall not be lawful for any other society to take any supply of milk from such person. 
     (2) If a society takes a supply of milk from any person in contravention of this section it shall be lawful for the Department to serve by post on such society a notice in writing requiring such society to cease to take a supply of milk from such person, and if such society after the expiration of seven days from the service of such notice takes a supply of milk from such person such society shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding ten pounds together with a further fine not exceeding two pounds for every day during which the offence continues. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 9, after the word &ldquo;lawful&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;without the consent of the Department signified in writing.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I will accept the amendment. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       To add at the end of sub-section (2) a new sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     
     When the Department is satisfied that any person to whom debt shares have been issued by a society under the authority of Section 5 of this Act would suffer any injustice   or unreasonable hardship by supplying or continuing to supply milk to such society, the Department may authorise any other society to accept a supply of milk from such person. 
     
      
       I will accept that amendment also.  Possibly it may be necessary to re-draft it.  I do not think the amendment is necessary really, because the discretion is there already. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
       Section 10, as amended, ordered to stand part of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the Minister what is the necessity for Section 11. 
     
     
      
       I know a man in Tipperary who has 80 cows. 
     
     
      
       You do? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  Why should not he be made to pay?  He has increased his stock from 35 cows to 80, and it is quite possible there may be men who are on the border line&mdash;men with 50 and 60 cows.  I do not see why they should not take their shares like anybody else.  There is no danger that this will become a limited liability company, because such men are the same as anybody else in the society.  Such a man has only one vote.  He has no control other than the control that one vote gives him in the society.  As I say, I know where one man has run up his stock to 80 cows, and why should he not be made to pay? 
     
     
      
       I cannot see the danger, but at first sight it appears to be a danger. 
     
     
      
       I do not believe there is a danger, because we only repealed the Act in that one respect, that a man may not hold 200 shares for the purposes of the Act. 
     
     
      
       Would this apply to &ldquo;dry&rdquo; shares? 
     
     
      
       There are &ldquo;dry&rdquo; shares in cases where money was raised in a bank and where a man went security for it, but he would have no other interest in the creamery.  Would such &ldquo;dry&rdquo; shares be included? 
     
     
     
      
       A man has to take three ordinary shares per cow, apart from any loan or guarantee.  There will be no necessity for a guarantee if a man takes three shares per cow. 
     
     
      
       This is only to apply to the shares per cow? 
     
     
      
       That is all. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it would be fair to allow a shareholder in who is not supplying milk to the creamery to purchase a large quantity of shares in the creamery. 
     
     
      
       He cannot do that. This only applies for the purposes of this Act.  The old limit extends to him. I cannot recall at the moment the provisions of the Industrial and Provident Societies Act in connection with a shareholder coming in and taking shares who is not a supplier.  But, whatever the provisions are in that Act they are untouched. 
     
     
      
       Then this section would not apply to that? 
     
     
      
       No.  This section only applies to the case of a man who is a supplier in the way set out in this Bill and who has to take shares under this Bill. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister convinced that there is no loop-hole in the Bill whereby these &ldquo;dry&rdquo; shareholders could get in and take more shares? 
     
     
      
       I have consulted the lawyers on that point and they say no. 
       Section 11 agreed to. 
       SECTION 12. 
       Whenever the Department has whether before or after the passing of this Act advanced any moneys on loan to a society, any other society shall have power and in the case of any moneys so advanced before the passing of this Act be deemed always to have had power to guarantee the repayment of such moneys to the Department. 
     
     
      
       There is just one question I wish to ask in connection with this section.  Does the section   mean that in the case of a society that has failed it may be lawful for a society about to be formed to take over its liabilities?  Take the case of a society that has been operating for some time and that through one cause or another has failed.  It has been unable to pay its debts or to meet its liabilities.  Does the section mean that if a new society is formed&mdash;part of the finances of which are provided by the State&mdash;and purchases the business of a society that has gone wrong, that the new society must make good to the State any losses that have been sustained by the old society? 
     
     
      
       This section is simply in the Bill for the purpose of meeting one case.  There was one case in which we found it very difficult to come to an agreement.  Finally we came to an agreement by another society giving a guarantee.  In one case, as a result of a considerable amount of local pressure, and where if we had not done so a considerable amount of hardship would have resulted, we sold a creamery to a certain society, but we did not regard it as a very sound transaction.  There would have been considerable hardship if we had not done so.  It was the wish of the other societies in the district that we should do so, and what happened was that they offered to give the guarantee.  We accepted the guarantee, and this section is to cover that particular case. 
     
     
      
       In the case of a new company taking over the liabilities of a concern that has failed, will it only be bound to meet whatever liabilities there may be in regard to a Department of State, leaving out altogether whatever creditors there may be? 
     
     
      
       Would you give me a case? 
     
     
      
       Take the case of a creamery that is indebted to the extent of £2,000.  Let us assume that it is taken over by a new society for £500. 
     
     
      
       From whom? 
     
     
      
       From the old society. 
     
     
      
       We would not buy a society burdened with debts. 
     
     
     
      
       It may happen that in the case of some societies they may owe money to parties other than the State.  The point I want to get at is: will the outside creditors receive no consideration? 
     
     
      
       Take the case of the Condensed Milk Company, which we bought.  We made arrangements that they would have to pay their debts, or that if they did not do so that we would have to get an offset of some kind or another if the debts were to be liquidated. Until the debts were liquidated we would not buy.  This section deals with a society which we sold, and which was not in debt, to a small society in the neighbourhood.  We did not think it an economic proposition to do so, but the position was that considerable hardship would have resulted if we had not done so.  Another big society in the district came forward and said that if we purchased they would guarantee the price. 
     
     
      
       Then this section does not aim at giving to a Government Department a priority as regards existing debts? 
     
     
      
       No. 
       Section 12 agreed to. 
       SECTION 13. 
       (1) It shall not be lawful for any person to erect, establish, or acquire any creamery unless such creamery is erected, established or acquired under and in accordance with a licence granted by the Minister under this section and it shall not be lawful for any person to maintain a creamery which was erected, established, or acquired in contravention of this section. 
       (2) The Minister may, if he so thinks fit, grant to any person a licence to erect, establish, or acquire a creamery at such place and subject to such (if any) conditions as the Minister shall specify in such licence. 
     
     (3) If any person erects, establishes, acquires, or maintains any creamery in contravention of this section he shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall   be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds together with, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not exceeding ten pounds for every day during which such offence is continued. 
     
      
       I move amendment 12:&mdash; 
       To delete all words after the word &ldquo;person,&rdquo; line 34, to the end of the section, and substitute the words:&mdash; 
       (a) to acquire by purchase or otherwise a creamery which at the time of such acquisition is being worked and carried on as a creamery, or 
       (b) to establish a creamery in any premises in which the business of a creamery is not being carried on at the time of such establishment, 
       unless such acquisition or establishment is done by such person under and in accordance with a licence in that behalf granted to such person by the Minister under this section. 
       (2) It shall not be lawful for any person to maintain a creamery which was acquired or established by him or any other person in contravention of this section. 
       (3) The Minister may, if he so thinks fit, grant to any person a licence to acquire a specified creamery then being worked and carried on as a creamery or a licence to establish a creamery in any specified premises and the Minister may attach to any such licence such conditions as he shall think proper and shall specify in such licence. 
       (4)  If any person acquires, establishes, or maintains a creamery in contravention of this section he shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds, together with, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not exceeding ten pounds for every day during which such offence is continued. 
     
     (5)  For the purposes of this section the establishment of a creamery   by a person shall be deemed to take place when such creamery is opened by such person for the carrying on of creamery business therein. 
     What the amendment means is simply this: that the section has been re-drafted and that no creamery can be established without a licence. 
     
      
       With regard to my amendment to this section, I just want to know from the Minister what is the necessity for putting in &ldquo;person&rdquo; rather than &ldquo;society.&rdquo;  I know, of course, that person includes society. 
     
     
      
       It may be that in the future it may be necessary to give a licence to the Dairy Disposal Company to act temporarily as a holding body. For instance, the Dairy Disposal Company may at some time or another be working three or four creameries together. If a large number of creameries are to be worked together, then you will have to have some such body as a holding body set up to work them; and it would have to get a licence.  This amendment is intended to meet a contingency of that sort. 
     
     
      
       I take it then that it is not contemplated to let the business into the hands of individuals but of societies? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Will a creamery be entitled to register as a society under the Act without being affiliated to the I.A.O.S.? 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection then. 
     
     
      
       I think that we are providing under the Co-operative Bill that every creamery must be affiliated to the I.A.O.S., but that does not apply under this Act.  This only deals with new creameries, and until the Co-operative Act is passed there is no question of affiliation. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Amendment 13, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Section 13, as amended, agreed to. 
     
     
        SECTION 14 (4). 
     (4) This section applies to any creamery erected or established at any time between the period which commenced on the 1st day of January, 1928, and ended on the day immediately preceding the passing of this Act. 
     
      
       I move amendment 14: 
       In sub-section (4), page 7, to delete all from the word &ldquo;erected&rdquo; in line 3 to the end of the sub-section, and substitute the words &ldquo;which, on or after the 1st day of January, 1928, and before the passing of this Act, either was opened for the first time for the carrying on of creamery business therein or was re-opened for the carrying on of creamery business after a period during which such business was not carried on therein.&rdquo; 
     
     The purpose of Section 14 is to make Section 13 retrospective as from the 1st January, 1928.  The reason for this is, that a certain German company went down to Tipperary and proceeded to put up a casein factory there so as to compete with the Condensed Milk Factory, purchased by us and which we propose to hand over to the farmers. The Condensed Milk Company can take all the creamery milk for that district. This German company got a sudden interest in the district, and they came along and proposed to set up a casein factory.  There was a casein factory there already but it is now closed.  This German company is very wealthy and could afford to make losses for a great number of years.  If they wished they might consider it good business to smash the Condensed Milk Company so as to get a monopoly of the skimmed milk. As a rule when people come into this country to start an enterprise they come to some member of the Government and say &ldquo;How much money are you going to give us?&rdquo;  These people came in and they said they did not want any money. It was just love of Ireland brought them in to start the business.  I told them if they started it would be against my wishes and the whole policy of the Department in the matter.  They were encouraged by a local society to start, and that was a piece of black-legging and that was a piece of black-legging   who are giving us any trouble.  These German people have put up some very slight buildings in the last six months. They did that in the teeth of the advice of the Department of Agriculture, and knowing that this Bill was going to be passed they continued to do it.  I want under this section to get power to stop their activities. 
     
      
       Is that the only case that would come under this section? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The people in Tipperary wanted something that would give employment.  Does the Minister not know the reason the co-operative society refused to take over the creamery is that they were charged too much for it? 
     
     
      
       I know that the Tipperary Co-operative Society is the only society that has refused to make a bargain. It is one of the biggest societies in Ireland.  They suffer from some disadvantages. They, one of the biggest societies in the country, come along and tell us &ldquo;We will pay the money but no interest.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that they made an offer to buy the creamery? 
     
     
      
       They never wanted to buy it.  I believe the suppliers wanted to buy it, but a small minority wanted to make trouble to show how strong they were. 
     
     
      
       That is not fair to Tipperary. 
     
     
      
       Will the suppression of the German factory mean that there will be no casein manufactured in the Free State? 
     
     
      
       It would mean we would stop the manufacture of casein there by the German company.  Our policy is that all the milk products should be manufactured by the farmers' societies.  Condensed milk manufacture is a notoriously better paying proposition than casein manufacture.  The farmers will own the casein factory and the condensed milk factory.  They will own the raw material for that factory,   which is the same raw material as is used for the manufacture of casein. When the farmers come to own the condensed milk factory, if they want to start a casein factory they can do so. They will own the skimmed milk, which is the raw material, and the equipment of the factory.  Meanwhile we intend to keep out this firm who are anxious to bid for that skimmed milk and to split the farmers of the district. 
     
     
      
       I think it is desirable that amendments 14 and 15 should be debated together. I propose, on this, when giving a decision, to put the question that the words proposed to be deleted, that is by the Minister's amendment, stand part of the Bill.  If that question were negatived, then the Minister's amendment would be inserted, and Deputy Ryan would not be able to move his amendment. 
     
     
      
       I put my amendment down to get an answer from the Minister. I asked him did he only want to deal with that particular company and he said &ldquo;yes.&rdquo;  I withdraw the amendment. 
     
     
      
       Is it not agreed that the industry and commerce should be mobile as far as possible?  It may well happen that the farmers' societies may not have the enterprise to start casein manufacture.  It may be found to be a very profitable side-line.  It does not look a thing that we should entirely approve of, keeping out an enterprise not already established. 
     
     
      
       You can always give a licence if you wish. 
     
     
      
       The enterprise to start it may not be there. 
     
     
      
       You can always give a licence.  The position is that you have a condensed milk plant there capable of dealing with all the skimmed milk in the district.  That is to be transferred to the farmers.  They are the owners of the raw material.  We are not going to allow any outsider to come in and be-devil that situation.  If we did what would happen?  If you allow a company with big resources in money to establish a casein factory there they   would pay a certain price for skimmed milk until they had killed the factory owned by the farmers, and then you would be faced with the problem we were faced with when we purchased the creameries. 
     
     
      
       I agree that the local society should be protected, but is there not an intermediate course by which there would be milk enough for them both? 
     
     
      
       No.  I do not believe this is genuine.  I believe it was got up not so much in an anxiety to produce casein as in a desire to spoil the attempt at organisation by the farmers of that district on a co-operative basis.  The worst aspect of this case is that this attempt was helped by a big co-operative society. 
       Amendment 14 put and agreed to. 
       Amendment 15 not moved. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 14, as amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
       SECTION 15. 
       (1) Every person in charge of a creamery shall, upon being so required by an officer of the Department, produce to such officer all records, books and other documents in his custody relating to such creamery and permit such inspector to examine and take copies of or extracts from the same. 
       (2) If any person fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding five pounds. 
     
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       In sub-section (1), line 7, to insert after the word &ldquo;creamery&rdquo; the words &ldquo;to which the provisions of this Act apply.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I accept that. 
       Amendment put and agreed to. 
     
     Question&mdash;&ldquo;That Section 15, as   amended, stand part of the Bill&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     Sections 16 to 19, inclusive, agreed to. 
     First, Second and Third Schedules agreed to. 
     Title agreed to. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. Bill reported with amendments. 
     
      
       I would like the Report Stage to be taken to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       As the Minister is not prepared to accept amendments this evening, he might do so to-morrow.  I have a few consequential amendments. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister would put back the Report Stage till Thursday we would have no objection to the Fifth Stage being taken on the same day. 
     
     
      
       Very well, Thursday. 
       Report Stage ordered for Thursday. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - NATIONAL GALLERY OF IRELAND BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill.  The object is set out in the long title.  The Directors of the National Gallery were advised that they were not in a position to lend pictures for exhibition in this country, or in other countries.  This is simply a Bill to get out of that disability, and that is practically all that is to be said in the matter. 
     
     
      
       This Bill seems to me to be in the nature of a private Bill. 
     
     
      
       No.  In what sense private? 
     
     
      
       However, its purpose is a very laudable one, and I do not intend to offer any opposition to it.  If such local exhibitions would do something towards cultivating the public taste and stopping these execrable prints that we see, not only in houses, but in the churches and elsewhere, it would be very good.  I have heard, although I suppose I would not be in order in referring to it now, some   criticism of the way in which pictures are kept in the National Gallery.  I suppose it would be out of order to refer to the matter now. 
     
     
      
       On the Estimates. 
     
     
      
       I shall not do so now. 
     
     
      
       I understand that, by order of the Department of Local Government, an inquiry was held in connection with the transfer of the Lane pictures.  Naturally, that gave rise to the belief that the Government had some hope that it would be possible to get these pictures back.  The present is a favourable opportunity for the Minister to make a statement. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid it does not arise on the present Bill. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       If the House has no objection, and as there is an international exhibition coming off to which the Gallery would like to send two Dutch pictures, I would like the House to give me the further stages of this Bill to-morrow.  The Bill is a simple one, and if the House has no objection I would ask for the Committee Stage to-morrow. 
       Committee Stage ordered for to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - OIREACHTAS (PAYMENT OF MEMBERS) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the Oireachtas (Payment of Members) Bill, 1928, be read a second time.&rdquo;  As Deputies are aware, the payment of travelling expenses to members of the Oireachtas is at present confined to railway fare. That has been found to be inconvenient and unfair to Deputies in many cases. The development of the bus traffic throughout the country has meant that many Deputies can more easily, speedily and conveniently travel by bus than by rail, but if they do so, at present, it means that they have to pay their own expenses.  There are also Deputies who own private motor cars   who could much more easily and conveniently to themselves come to town in their cars than by rail but if they come in their own cars they must do so at their own expense.  The purpose of this Bill is to make it possible for Deputies who travel by bus or by other public conveyance to do so, if it is more suitable than by rail, and also if Deputies find it more suitable to come in their own cars, that they can be paid an amount not in excess of the first class railway fare.  I think that arrangement would be more satisfactory to Deputies than the existing one and the cost would not be much greater.  As Deputies will see, we propose slightly to alter the present arrangement in one respect.  In the Act:&mdash; 
       the expression &ldquo;travelling facilities&rdquo; means the provision of free, first-class railway travelling and the repayment of such other travelling expenses as the Minister for Finance shall be satisfied to have been reasonably incurred. 
       In the Bill we set out in sub-section (b) of Section 1:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;the repayment of such other (if any) travelling expenses as the Minister for Finance shall be satisfied were reasonably incurred.&rdquo; 
     
     In fact we have not paid any other travelling expenses but there may be circumstances in which it would be reasonable to repay certain other travelling expenses.  For instance a Deputy might find that he could travel home by rail but that if he did so it would mean passing a night at some place on the way.  There are Deputies who have complained of that, that when they go home by rail, it means that they must pass a night somewhere on the way because the trains did not suit. It is proposed to make regulations in consequence allowing members to use their own cars, but that a Deputy who has not his own car and travels by rail to a certain point, and who would, if he were to make the whole journey by rail be compelled to pass a night on the way, to allow that Deputy to hire a motor car for the completion of the journey.  Regulations will have to be drawn up covering that.  There are at present a few difficulties of that nature and it is proposed to meet them under   this paragraph.  However these are minor matters.  The main purpose of the Bill is to meet the case of Deputies who travel by bus or those who travel in their own cars. 
     
      
       Why should motor cars be singled out purposely?  Are there not other ways of travelling, and are there not other vehicles that Deputies might use as well as motor cars? 
     
     
      
       Of course when aeroplane traffic becomes general we will amend the Bill. 
     
     
      
       There is such a common method as travelling by motor boat. Assuming that I might find it desirable to get from Cork and go down the river by boat&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I think when these difficulties arise we can amend the Bill. As it stands the Bill meets difficulties that have been brought to our attention up to the present. 
     
     
      
       The Minister says that the Bill will cost very little more than the present cost.  The view of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges was, and I think there was no dissension from any Party, that they would not ask for the concessions if it were to involve additional expenditure on the State.  That was the view of the Fianna Fail Party, the members of which very clearly and forcibly expressed their views, and it was also the view of the Party that I belong to, the Labour Party and the Independent representatives. I do not think the Bill should involve any increased expenditure, because it is more convenient for a good many Deputies to travel by bus than first-class by train.  The fare by bus is much lower than it is by train.  I think, before the Committee Stage, the Minister might consider inserting sub-section A (2): 
       &ldquo;The repayment of fare paid for travelling in any public tram, omnibus, charabanc or similar public conveyance...&rdquo; 
       the provision that exists already in sub-section (iii): 
     
     
       &ldquo;where railway travelling is available over any portion of a journey travelled in such motor car, not exceeding in respect of such portion of such journey the cost of first-class railway travelling...&rdquo; 
     I think, as the Bill stands, it might conceivably be open to a Deputy to travel to Donegal by way of Cork in a bus, possibly addressing certain meetings en route, and under the Bill his expenses could be paid.  Of course it can be dealt with by regulation.  The desire of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, and I believe the desire of the Dail, is not to throw any additional cost on the taxpayer.  This is merely a re-arrangement to meet the situation, the fact that there are buses running on certain routes, and that certain Deputies have private motor cars and find it more convenient to use them.  We do not want to throw any additional cost on the taxpayer at all. I would like the Minister to consider the situation of Deputies residing in the city and county of Dublin.  Up to the present Deputies from the city and county of Dublin have not, as far as I know&mdash;certainly I have not in four years&mdash;received any free travelling at all.  I think that applies to the other Deputies also.  If you bring in bus and tram it might be possible&mdash;although it is hardly worth while&mdash;for a Deputy living in Rathmines to charge 2d. a day for tram fare coming in and 2d. a day going out.  I believe I am speaking the mind of the Deputies from the city and county when I say that we do not want that done.  We are satisfied if the Minister makes regulations. 
     
      
       You are generous. 
     
     
      
       Is this an obstructionist speech? 
     
     
      
       After all, we can walk.  I do not know when Deputy Flinn was talking about travelling by boat if Deputy Good could sail around. 
     
     We do not want any concessions.  If there was a County Dublin Deputy living in the extreme north of the county &mdash;in Skerries or Balbriggan&mdash;I think he might reasonably ask for them.  But we who live in or near Dublin do not want to be put to the trouble of filling in forms every day or every week, and   consequently we do not want hereafter to be any more of a burden to the taxpayer than now. 
     
      
       It hardly seemed to be necessary for Deputy Cooper to get up and repudiate the idea that he wanted twopence a day.  I do agree&mdash;and I got up specially to endorse what he had said&mdash;that the understanding in the Committee of Procedure and Privileges was that we did not desire that the cost to the State of travelling expenses for Deputies should be increased.  As far as I can see, in the great majority of cases in which these facilities are used it will probably mean a reduction of the total charged.  That will probably leave something over for particular cases which are now cases of hardship. I think the special value of this is that it will economise the valuable time of Deputies.  There are at present Deputies in Kerry, West Cork and other places who have practically only one day at home in the week if they spend three days here.  I regard this measure as one which ought to be supported, on the grounds that it will economise time and in a really material manner convenience Deputies in doing their work for the purpose of the Dail. We do not anticipate that it will increase the expense to the State.  I do not think it ought to, and if it would to any very large extent I think it ought to be opposed.  But in so far as it will not, I think it ought to have a perfectly free passage. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Wednesday, July 18th. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - DENTISTS BILL, 1928&mdash;FROM THE SEANAD (RESUMED). 
     Before Section 28 a new section inserted as follows:- 
     (1) This section shall apply to any person who before the establishment of the Board satisfies the Minister or after the establishment of the Board satisfies the Board that he fulfils the following conditions, that is to say&mdash; 
     (a)  that he was a citizen of Saorstat Eireann on the 1st day of January, 1928, and 
     
        (b)  that he was on the 31st day of December, 1921, not less than twenty-one years of age, and 
     (c)  that his principal means of livelihood during the whole period of seven years immediately preceding the passing of this Act was the practice of dentistry in Saorstat Eireann, and 
     (d)  that he was not guilty at any time of any crime or conduct which, if he had at that time been a registered dentist, would have caused his removal from the register. 
     (2)  For the purposes of the application of this section to a person who was a dental mechanic before the passing of the Dentists Act, 1921, the expression &ldquo;practice of dentistry&rdquo; in the foregoing sub-section shall be deemed to include the work usually performed by a dental mechanic. 
     (3)  Every person to whom this section applies shall on passing either of the examinations in dentistry to be prescribed and held under this section and on making the prescribed application and paying the prescribed fees be entitled to be registered in the register. 
     (4)  Two examinations shall be prescribed and held under this section, the first of which shall be held after the expiration of five months and before the expiration of six months from the passing of this Act and the second of which shall be held after the expiration of eleven months and before the expiration of twelve months from the passing of this Act. 
     (5)  An examination prescribed and held under this section shall if held before the establishment of the Board be prescribed and held by the Minister, and if held after the establishment of the Board shall be prescribed and held by the Board. 
     (6)  Nothing in this Act shall operate to prohibit any person to whom this section applies from practising or representing himself or holding himself out as practising or prepared to practise dentistry or dental surgery during the period between the passing of this Act and the   publication of the results of the second examination held under this section. 
     (7)  Every person to whom this section applies who is registered in the register under this section and is resident in Saorstat Eireann shall so long as he is so registered and resident be entitled to vote and be elected at an election of the elected members of the Board held after he is so registered as if he were registered in the register by virtue of a previous registration in the General Dentists Register under Section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1921. 
     Amendment by 
     
      
       
       
       (b)  In sub-section (1) (b) of the proposed new section to delete all words after the word &ldquo;that&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;he be not less than twenty-five years of age at the date of the passing of this Act and.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       I promised on the last day to make available for Deputies certain information which was requested when we were on this amendment.  I was to find out for them, as far as was in my power, how many of the aspirants to the dentists profession who had been passed by a Dail Committee would be prevented from going for the examination enabling them hereafter to get on the Register if we insisted on the age limit which is included in the Seanad amendment. Of the people who were on the Dail list I found it impossible to get in touch with two, and about them I know nothing.  Of those with whom I was able to get in touch five would be precluded, even from attending the examination, if the age limit were twenty-one years on the 31st day of December, 1921. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister have any objection to giving us the names, so that we might see whether they would coincide with what we might have to say on the matter? 
     
     
      
       If it is thought desirable, I will do so. 
     
     
      
       I understood that on the second last occasion when this Bill   was under discussion here the Minister was at a disadvantage in not knowing how any of these names would be affected, and that in the meantime he agreed to find out if any would be affected.  I suggested that there were two names that I knew of that would be affected, and the Minister now states that there are five.  I do not know whether it is desirable or not to have the names mentioned, but the fact that remains is this, that the principle itself is sufficient.  There are names on this Third Schedule which were passed by this House, which were approved of by the Seanad, and which are now deleted by this amendment, and I say that on that basis alone the Minister might agree to accept the amendment which I have put down, which would not debar anybody, particularly on this Schedule, from going for this examination. 
     
     
      
       I think we have brought out an extremely important thing, that of the twenty-two names that there were on the Third Schedule as it passed the Dail five names would be excluded under this new amendment which comes to us.  There does not seem to me to be a great deal between the Minister and Deputy Briscoe, and I would suggest that the difference between them could be bridged by a modification the same as that I proposed when the Bill was originally before the Dail.  These line-ball cases are bound to occur when you have a sharp line of demarcation, and you must always have some sharp line of demarcation, but it is a bad thing to have a sharper line than you can avoid.  In the amendment that comes to us there are two lines.  You will have hard cases, where some people nearly come up to one line, and you will have hard cases because some people nearly come up to another. When you have the age line and when, in addition, there must be a certain number of years of practice, there are two hard lines, and it seems to me that if you were to say that the Dental Board shall have power to admit to this examination any of those engaged in the practice of dentistry for a certain period, then I would say ten years, and let that include their training and their   actual practice as dentists.  If you are to say that the Dental Board should have power to admit to this examination those who in the practice of dentistry for ten years, they were satisfied with, I think it would go far to meet Deputy Briscoe's point and that it would very nearly satisfy the Minister. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to withdraw my amendment if the Minister is prepared to accept Deputy Thrift's suggestion.  As a matter of fact, in the original debate on this matter, I suggested that I would be better pleased if the Minister would extend the period of seven years to ten years, but that he would include in that ten years the period that a man would be engaged as an apprentice, or practising for a period of not less than ten years.  Then you could leave the matter of the qualifications to the Dental Board.  What we want to do in this Bill is to allow only such people to practise through this Dental Register as are qualified from a practical dental point of view, and a period of a couple of days' or a couple of months' difference will not get over the difficulty of what the Dental Board itself will provide, that is, only to put on a dental register such men as are absolutely qualified, which they can test by means of the examination. 
     
     
      
       This raises a point of procedure.  I understand the Deputy's proposal is to drop paragraph (b) of the Seanad amendment and change (c) by inserting ten years instead of seven. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       That ten years' practice does not necessarily mean making his complete livelihood&mdash;it would embody also years of apprenticeship. 
     
     
      
       &ldquo;Who has been engaged for ten years in the practice of dentistry to the satisfaction of the Dental Board&rdquo; would be something like the words I would suggest. 
     
     
      
       I am agreeable to that. 
     
     
      
       Engaged in the practice of dentistry in Saorstat Eireann? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The point of procedure is that I have a Seanad amendment coming down as to which there are further proposals for amendment to be sent back to the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       Is it necessary to put in that qualification when you have &ldquo;to the satisfaction of the Dental Board&rdquo;?  What we want is to get men who are actually qualified to practise. If they have been doing it for a certain time, and satisfy the Dental Board that they can do it properly, I do not see why we should refuse to allow them to go on making their livelihood. 
     
     
      
       I think there is a definite argument against that, but the House does not seem to be favourable to it, and that is, that these people were engaged in illegal practice since 1921.  You are now going to admit seven years of illegal practice in order to permit them to get a definite status as dentists.  Retrospectively we are legalising a practice which these people knew from the day they started was illegal.  They were people who simply were taking their chances here.  They tried their hand when they found that legislation was not being enforced against them for particular reasons, and they simply said: &ldquo;As long as the going is good, we are going to go on as dentists; we are going to get at least four or five or six years' practice, even if we are going to be wiped out then.&rdquo; If the House wants to have it, it may. 
     
     
      
       Does not the fact that the House is agreeable to an extension from seven to ten years exclude that possibility?  Anybody who has been practising for ten years must have been practising prior to the Act of 1921. 
     
     
      
       For how many years? 
     
     
      
       Altogether ten years. 
     
     
      
       We are going back and getting the 1921 Act again, and saying that instead of being twenty-five years at the date of the 1921 Act, it does not matter what the age is, and instead of saying five years of practice you are saying three years.  In that three years you will have the young   man who started his apprenticeship at the early age of thirteen, of which we have one example.  That man has done ten years, having started his apprenticeship at thirteen, and we are going possibly to allow that man to become a qualified dentist.  I do not think that is right. 
     
     
      
       If he is competent. 
     
     
      
       I do not think he should be allowed to stand for examination. 
     
     
      
       Probably the Dental Board would not allow him. 
     
     
      
       I do not think it necessary to change this with regard to bringing in the matter of apprenticeship. I want to point out to the House before they embark upon this change that the date of birth regulation rules out five people&mdash;I am leaving out the two of whom I know nothing.  The change of practice period from seven to ten years will rule out four, and they will be a different four from the other five. 
     
     
      
       The ones who have the longer period are more entitled to it. 
     
     
      
       I want to get back to our old schedule.  The Dail have decided upon this, and I think we ought to stick to it.  I feel, when the Minister is speaking, that he has always a certain amount of reason on his side.  When he speaks about irregular practice, I feel some sympathy with him.  On the other hand, there were some of these candidates allowed to work in the Free State &mdash;people who had not been living here, but who have been living here for the last four or five years.  They have spent a good deal of money in establishing a practice, and they have been doing good work.  We on the Committee were satisfied that these people were entitled, after an examination, to be registered. We do not want them to be registered without examination.  I am still of opinion that we should stick to what the Dail decided upon.  There are twenty-two names on the list at present, but one goes on the Fourth Schedule, and that leaves twenty-one.  That is what I am prepared to support.  If   the Minister can see his way to go back to that, I think we will get out of all the difficulties.  I want to stick to our Third Schedule. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the Minister ought to make a strong point about the illegal practice.  He may be right in the interpretation, but it would not be fair to carry the implication as far as saying that many of the dentists who did not register believed they were doing something that was illegal.  I do not think they did. 
     
     
      
       A new suggestion has been put up by Deputy Sir J. Craig, that we reject the Seanad amendment and abide by the schedule. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection to any of these names on the schedule, but what I want is that there should be a Dental Board set up for the purpose of a certain examination to consider those whom they think have had sufficient years of practice and who may be competent.  If they are not competent from the point of view of a practical demonstration of dentistry they should be turned down, but I do not consider it fair that the House should turn down men who may be qualified.  I do not see why we should put any on until we are sure they are qualified, but it is unfair to turn down even one who may be qualified without turning him down in a practical, proper way by letting him submit himself for examination.  With regard to Deputy Sir James Craig's proposal, if the Minister is prepared to leave the schedule as it is, and allow my amendment, as it stands, to come in for people outside of these, so that if they are properly qualified they may be allowed on, I am satisfied.  Otherwise I do not know how we are going to get round it.  I believe that the best way to get away from doing any injustice would be to say that all men should sit for an examination.  Certainly those whom the Dail Committee have passed as suitable will have no trouble in passing if they are all that the Committee think they are. Nobody should be allowed on who is not qualified, and nobody who is qualified should be kept off.  That is the reason I propose leaving out the age limit and years and leaving it to the   Dental Board to have an examination. That is the best way out, and there will be no chance of doing an injustice to anybody. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy Briscoe's proposal is rather akin to the proposal of the Seanad.  Sub-section (2)  of their amendment says: &ldquo;for the purpose of the application of this section to a person who was a dental mechanic before the passing of the Dentists Act in 1921, the expression &lsquo;practice of dentistry&rsquo; in the foregoing sub-section shall be deemed to include the work usually performed by a dental mechanic.&rdquo;  That is to say that a person may present himself for examination without any other experience than that of a dental mechanic, and a dental mechanic may have had no practical experience at all.  Deputy Briscoe talks of an examination being of a practical nature.  Who are the unfortunate victims who are to be the subjects, I will not say of this  viva voce  examination, but of this  ore rotunde  examination&mdash;who are going to be brought forward that these men may show that they have some experience in pulling and stopping teeth?  A great many mechanics carry on the practice of dentistry in their spare time. 
     
     
      
       They should be stopped. 
     
     
      
       They are what may be called half-timers.  They give their time to the employer during the day and in the evening they draw teeth for their friends.  They have no general practice.  No plates and so on, but they are known to have a knowledge of dentistry, and people come to them.  There are some mechanics who may never have pulled or stopped a tooth, but yet may be able to pass an examination which would be mainly a paper examination. 
     
     
      
       During the time this Dental Bill has been under discussion I have taken great trouble to find out what the type of examination would be.  I am satisfied, and I believe that Deputy Thrift and Deputy Craig would agree with me, that no such   men as Deputy Cooper speaks of would get through such an examination. When I speak of a practical examination I do not expect a man to be examined in the same manner as a man would who was finishing his course in a university.  I simply mean it to be an examination to see that men know what they are about so that any such man as Deputy Cooper mentioned could be prosecuted and prevented from practising.  What I am anxious about is that we do not pick up, from paper, men who are qualified to practice dentistry and disqualify other men who may be more capable.  All should go before a proper authority to be examined. 
     
     
      
       It was a great misfortune for the Committee that Deputy Briscoe, who has evidently made a study of these matters, was not on it.  I am sure that Deputy Briscoe has gone to a great deal of trouble, but how we can say what kind of an examination a dental board, which is not yet established, is going to set, I cannot understand.  The Committee took a commonsense standpoint.  They tried to find out whether a person had been definitely engaged in the practice of dentistry.  The evidence they took was on two lines.  In the first place they took testimonials from patients where patients had submitted testimonials, as in the case of a man who was engaged in practice in schools, convents and so on.  Where it was evident a man had been dealing in dentistry with the inmates of such institutions he obviously was a man of some knowledge and skill.  Secondly, we came to the dealings of a man with wholesalers, with persons who supplied the various materials which any dentist, engaged in the practice of dentistry, constantly requires.  On those tests we recommend certain names to be placed on the register immediately without an examination and certain other names to be placed subject to an examination. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       With all Deputy Briscoe may say about the character of the examination, I do not see how   we can have a definite assurance, because the Dental Board is not yet established, and if the Board is not yet established I believe the Minister is the person who sets the standard of the examination under a Seanad amendment.  I do not know if Deputy Briscoe has been in conference with the Minister as to the standard. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps Deputy Cooper would stand over the same kind of examination which I presume he was a party to himself in the English House of Parliament. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Cooper was not a member of the English Parliament in 1921 and had nothing to do with the passing of any Dentistry Act in the English Parliament.  I am dealing with these matters from an Irish standpoint, not from a British standpoint, and from the point of view of getting the best possible treatment for Irish men and women. 
     
     
      
       I maintain it would be better to have still the names set forth in the Third Schedule of certain people who should be permitted to appear for an examination.  Furthermore, in Section 28 of the Act we arranged that 
       &ldquo;the several persons named in the Third Schedule to this Act shall on passing an examination in dentistry prescribed and held under this section within two years after the passing of this Act and on making the prescribed application and paying the prescribed fees be entitled to be registered in the register.&rdquo; 
     
     We went on further and arranged that the Minister should hold this examination, that it should be under his control until the Board had been established, and after the Board had been established that the Board should hold the examination.  The one thing we did not do was actually to specify, as was done in the 1921 Act, the nature of the examination.  I still maintain we are going to make a mistake if we do not adhere to what the Dail originally did in setting forth the names of the people who were originally asked to pass an examination   and in another Schedule the names of the people we thought did not require to pass an examination and adhere to Section 28 where arrangements were made for these examinations to be held. 
     
      
       The ordinary layman hesitates before he says anything on a question like this which may be described as professional.  I think the Dail has the idea before it of providing services for people and insuring that they get qualified services.  The Committee set up judged these applicants by a certain standard and over and above that they have to stand an examination.  From what I know I think the Committee exercised a good deal of care.  Now a proposal has come that they be judged by a different standard as to whether they can stand for an examination or not. Surely an examination is a thing which will prove whether a man is capable of carrying out the work which he professes or not, and it is by that examination in the end that we will determine whether a person will be registered or not.  I personally would agree with the proposal of Deputy Sir James Craig that the Third Schedule as it stands in the Bill be adhered to. 
     
     
      
       I believe if the Minister could see his way to accept the amendment I propose it will get over that difficulty.  It will not affect any of the men here from the age point of view.  It is stated there are four others who will be affected by the seven years period.  If the Minister sees his way to accept Deputy Thrift's suggestion to allow all men irrespective of age, with ten years experience, to stand an examination all those men on the Third Schedule will be allowed to stand that examination.  There were certain names proposed and accepted in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Two were accepted, I thought. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       They were not definitely excluded, because they would come in under those amendments from the Seanad. 
     
     
     
      
       No.  Some of them do not. 
     
     
      
       One of them at least would be allowed to sit if he was qualified from the point of view of age and years in the Seanad's amendment.  I do not know the great difficulty.  After all, the important thing is to get men who are qualified. 
       I would like to disabuse the mind of Deputy Cooper.  I meant nothing suggestive when I spoke of the British House of Parliament.  I thought he was there.  I meant nothing except to say that the English Parliament had specified an examination, and I thought that examination might be adopted here.  I meant nothing personal.  If the Minister accepts Deputy Thrift's suggestion, I withdraw my amendment.  Let every man go before the Dental Board through the prescribed examination, or whatever way they have to go before the Dental Board.  If the Dental Board consider that he is a suitable man to be let loose on the public for the purpose of practice in dentistry, all right.  I do not see how we can keep a man off. 
     
     
      
       Will Deputy Briscoe explain what he means by &ldquo;every man&rdquo;?  Does he suggest that he or I should go on? 
     
     
      
       No, every man who has ten years practice in dentistry. 
     
     
      
       Would it not be possible to accept the schedules as they are?  There seems to have been an overwhelming opinion in the Dail, at any rate, as to accepting those schedules as they are.  Having done that, you then come to the question as to whether you will accept the amendments of Deputy Thrift and Deputy Briscoe.  The first thing seems to be a clear way of accepting the schedule and then perhaps, in addition to that, you would accept the two proposals in the amendments. 
     
     
      
       A very good suggestion, but the Seanad said they were not prepared to accept the two.  They would accept one or other, but not both. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister will take mine I will be quite satisfied. 
     
     
     
      
       I wish the Deputy would not refer to what the Minister might do; this is not a Party measure; it is a measure for the House. 
     
     
      
       I agree, but after all the Minister is in charge. 
     
     
      
       I should like to make myself clear about that.  I take exception to what practically was a very carefully arrived at decision by a Committee of this House, being very seriously modified, by, what I think, was a Committee of Examination in the Seanad.  I am quite prepared to accept the verdict of this specially-qualified Dental Board as to those who should be allowed to go up for this examination. As the Minister does not seem disposed to accept that, the best thing we can do, failing that alternative, is to go back and stick to our own schedule. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps I might as well go back a little in the history of this thing.  When the Bill left this House there was a third schedule containing twenty-one names.  One name has since gone to the other schedule. The Seanad Committee wanted to remove one name and to insert four others.  On consideration they did adopt the point of view that if they insisted on getting any one of the four on they could not remove one name to which they objected and that was on the list as it came from the Dail.  There were four names, and around those names there was a certain controversy, and at the end a Senator brought forward a resolution of this type.  The Seanad afterwards agreed to this modification of it.  They wanted to get away from this question of names. They held strongly that there were certain people passed by the Dail Committee who should not be on the schedule, and they held that there were certain people not on it who should have been put on.  I would agree with regard to two of these names.  I was present when the two committees and this departmental and professional Committee investigated these names.  There are two names which could reasonably be admitted.  If this goes back to the Seanad with a proposal to have both the schedule and the names and to allow other names,   the Seanad are going to insist on putting on four names, not merely two. That means that the Bill will come to this House with four additional names. I might as well say now in advance that when an individual sends in one application and states in the first page that he did not apply to be put on the register in 1921 because he could not get on on account of being under age, and when the same individual comes in a second page and says he did not apply for political reasons and produced what seems to me to be almost entirely a forged certificate that it was on that account that he did not go on, what are you to think?  That man does not deserve consideration.  Those are important facts as they seem to me. 
     
     
      
       Is that a name that is to be put up by the Seanad? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I think that was turned down by the Dail Committee. 
     
     
      
       It was not before the Dail at all.  The Seanad sent back a schedule of names, and they are going to insist on their four names.  I think we should be very jealous about these names.  It is for that reason that I am somewhat reluctant to agree to the amendment, which stated that certain people who came in under this should be allowed to present themselves for examination, the examination, being limited to a single examination, but there are two occasions on which it will be held. 
       There is possibly this suggestion to be made as a way out of the whole difficulty.  I am prepared first of all on the amendment that came from the Seanad to recommend to the House here the omission of (b) altogether wiping out the age limit, if in consideration the period of seven years is increased to ten years.  But there is an objection about that.  This Bill has undergone many changes from the original principle on which it was founded.  It has again been brought from the Seanad and though we are admitting a rather objectionable thing, it cannot be helped.  That examination would wipe out undesirable people. 
     
     
        As against that Deputy Sir James Craig and others feel that we should stick to the people who in the absence of any member of this type, the Dail Committee decided, should be admitted to the examination.  It must be remembered that while five would be knocked out by the keeping of the age limit, two only would be knocked out of the original Dail list by the ten years practice period; by increasing the period from seven years to ten years two of the original Dail nominees for examination would fall.  One of those would never be brought in.  He had three years and nine months practice in the Free State.  If we take Ireland with certain crossings to England he would have nine years.  There would be two people in the original Dail selection who would fall if we accept the amendment that I am suggesting in lieu of Deputy Briscoe's amendment. We are in any event going to do a hardship to a certain number of people who are named as having satisfied the Dail Committee.  Deputy Briscoe says that they considered that they had passed But they had no right to consider that they had passed until the Seanad had considered the Bill.  That matter was not settled until the Seanad had finished with the Bill.  I do not think they could claim any rights until the Seanad had accepted the Bill.  I might propose this to the Seanad that we take this list of names, and say that they should be admitted to the type of examination that these other people are going to be put through, and that in addition to that we should have this modification, and I will not put it further&mdash;I want it brought back to the original thing that I brought into the Seanad, namely, that the age period would be, on 31st December, 1918, twenty-one years of age and the principal means of livelihood during the period of ten years since.  Let the Deputy consider that everybody on the schedule can go for examination and have two tries at it, and in addition to that anybody who is a citizen of Saorstat Eireann and of good character and is twenty-eight years of age and has ten years' practice is to be eligible.  That fits in with the principle that I put up in the Seanad that we are asking for   ten years experience and that we are not counting any practice before a man attained his majority.  Originally in the Dail we had decided that we were going to give these people the right to sit for examination for two years after the passing of the Act.  In the Seanad this was limited to one year.  I suggest that that should hold for all of the third schedule people as well as this list.  If there is agreement on that, I will arrange to have an amendment brought in to-morrow to meet that. 
     
      
       Where would that come in? 
     
     
      
       We would refuse to accept amendment number 4; we could not accept 3 or 4, and we would have to modify 2. 
     
     
      
       Leaving the Third Schedule in the Bill? 
     
     
      
       Yes, leave this in, but we would make conditions applicable to the Third Schedule people the conditions that are here.  Again I would insist that the modifications should be: making the age 21 years on the 31st December, 1918, and ten years practice. 
     
     
      
       I thought the Minister's suggestion was to delete paragraph (b). 
     
     
      
       My reason was to meet Deputy Briscoe.  If the House was to accept the amendment I have proposed I think it would be satisfactory. 
     
     
      
       I think it is a very excellent suggestion. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister has met us very fairly, and I think we should be quite satisfied. 
     
     
      
       I do not think he met my point at all. 
     
     
      
       Oh, yes.  I understand the Minister retains our third schedule, and they are to go for examination.  That largely meets Deputy Briscoe.  Then in case there are people who have not commended themselves   to the Dail Committee for lack of evidence, or proved their claim to ten years' practice, and that they are now twenty-eight years of age, they are to be allowed to sit for the same examination. If that is agreed to, there can be hardly any case of hardship left. 
     
     
      
       I do not understand either Deputy Thrift or Deputy Craig saying that this is an excellent suggestion, because it is only negative.  On the one hand you allow a man of any age to be permitted to stand for examination and, on the other hand, you specify that they must be of a certain age.  I am quite agreeable to the men who were passed by the Dental Committee.  If you are permitting men from twenty-three to twenty-five years, you should certainly allow the men of twenty-five years who are not now there to present themselves for examination.  They should be given consideration.  If they are suitable or desirable men, put them on; if they are not suitable or desirable, then put them off.  You should not legislate by giving the preference to one class and penalising another class.  I do not see where the equity comes in, and I cannot see that there is anything fair in that suggestion. If Deputy Thrift says that on the one hand certain men are to be allowed for examination and then men of twenty-seven years of age are kept off, I do not see the fairness of it.  I think Deputy Thrift should agree that there should be no interference with the Dental Committee's selection of men, provided they have ten years' experience, including apprenticeship.  They should be allowed to sit for examination.  I say it is most unfair and most unjust to exclude men from presenting themselves for examination when they may be fit and suitable, and the only thing against them is that they happen to be below a certain age. 
     
     
      
       The very material point is that all this is in a Bill which has certainly taken a year to go through two Houses.  Men were given every chance to send forward their names.  Certain people availed of that and they were scrutinised by a Committee of the Dail, by a Committee of the Seanad, and by a professional Committee. 
     
     
        Both Houses of the Oireachtas appointed Committees, and there was a professional Committee also appointed to investigate the actual applications of the men.  We set out with a view of having permitted to stand for examination only those who had ten years practice since they attained their majority. We relaxed that in favour of certain people whose cases we had before us and on whom we passed judgment.  I do not think there is any injustice done to the people in the Deputy's mind if the amendment I have suggested is accepted. 
     
      
       I did not wish to mention this matter because I thought it would be rather indiscreet.  I am quite prepared to substantiate what I have to say.  The reason I am so anxious for certain men to be given a chance is that one member of the Minister's Departmental Committee, one member active on that, indicated to me that in two cases men's names were not properly sent forward to the Dental Committee because of some error or&mdash;he did not put it as strong as this&mdash;some prejudice.  In one case it was distinctly an error of judgment on their part.  They did not believe the man's story.  Subsequently, they found they had erred, but that man has not been given any consideration, and is not being given any consideration, and I consider that that is very unfair. I do not want him to be put forward unless his case is scrutinised and unless he is found properly qualified.  The only way you can get men qualified to practice is by examining them. 
     
     
      
       Again, if there is any person about whom the professional Committee made any mistake or in whose case they took a wrong judgment, there was plenty of time to rectify that.  The whole thing has been before the Seanad for a long time, and it has been a long time before the professional Committee.  A considerable time was spent in the consideration of applications, and there must have been at least five months in which any error on the part of the professional Committee could have been rectified.  The individual himself must have been negligent. 
     
     
     
      
       And before that a long time elapsed in which anything that was wrong could have been rectified.  An advertisement was issued asking interested persons to submit their claims to the Committee and quite a long time elapsed between the issue of the advertisement and the submission of these claims to the Committee.  Deputy Briscoe forgets that all interested people had a chance of applying to the Committee and of having their claims submitted, and all claims submitted were very carefully examined. 
     
     
      
       No member of the profession who applied had any idea of whether he was approved or disapproved until the Third Schedule was published two months afterwards. Therefore, no opportunity was given to him to set about rectifying any error.  He could not have made any effort to protect himself.  He had no opportunity of doing anything until the names were published.  In connection with the case I have in mind, I think the Minister will recollect that I sent him a note across the House asking if something could be done to have this matter looked into.  I sent that note across immediately that the Schedule was published.  It was only then that these men could set their grievances in motion.  All the while there were amendments being put in indicating that they would be accepted and indicating that possibly they might have a chance of presenting themselves for examination.  It was only at the last minute that the Schedule of names was put through. Then they realised they had no chance. I contend that the amendment that I have put in is the most reasonable and we as legislators, who are not here as a Dental Board, should consider that we should only select such men as are competent; those only should be allowed to practice and nobody else.  Without such an amendment, I consider that I could not support a measure like this. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has referred to one case particularly.  The Deputy brought one case in person before the Seanad Committee and after hearing the facts put forward   by him, the Seanad Committee refused to put the name on. 
     
     
      
       The member of the Dental Committee whom I have mentioned was not called before that Committee. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy pleaded a certain man's case before the Seanad Committee and they refused to put his name on. 
     
     
      
       I pleaded no case. I put up no case that a man was qualified or unqualified.  The person who answered was another person altogether. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the point made by Deputy Briscoe that there was not sufficient time, the Committee reported on the 9th February and the report was ordered to be printed on the 15th February.  The Seanad did not conclude its operations until the 15th June.  Therefore fully four months elapsed and if that is not enough time for a man to make his case, I do not know what is.  If a man takes four months in connection with a matter in which his livelihood is affected, and who waits to see what the Seanad will do, surely such a man is not likely to be very effective? 
     
     
      
       This has been a most complicated and most difficult Bill. There has been a good deal of changing about and we now seem to have reached a point at which there is one single matter standing in the way of practically unanimous agreement.  The merits of both sides seem to be more or less balanced and I think that the   question of having universal agreement might well weigh.  The Minister has been good enough to say that he has not been proposing it from his point of view and that it is a question for the House.  I think the House might well take into consideration that in doing what they are now asked to do they will be closing up the last point of disagreement.  Having met one side on the Schedule they might very well meet Deputy Briscoe's point by accepting the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that it is quite wrong to meet Deputy Briscoe on a single case.  Deputy Cooper pointed out the length of time in which he had to plead before the Seanad Committee.  I assert it was pleaded before them.  Although the Deputy argued that a particular member should have been called who was not called, it was the Seanad SubCommittee which had to pass judgment as to who was a proper person to come before them to give evidence. Having the case specially brought to their notice they decided the matter. 
     
     
      
       That was not the same case. 
     
     
      
       The Seanad has taken up a certain line and they wish us to amalgamate certain dates and a certain list of names which the Dail and Seanad agreed on.  Deputy Briscoe now asks us to allow a man, who was more or less refused by the Seanad Committee, to appear for examination.  I do not think that that is right. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 43; Nil, 50. 
       Ta. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckely, Daniel. Cassidy, Archie J. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon.
 Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. 
             Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Hayes, Sean. Houlihan, Patrick. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killane, James Joseph. Killiea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John.
 Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipp.). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Byrne, John Joseph. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlon, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Craig, Sir James, Crowley, James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Good, John. Haslett. Alexander. Hassett, John J. Hennessy, Michael Joseph. 
             Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Keogh, Mysles. Law, Hugh Alexander. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. Wolfe, George. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Briscoe and Dr. O'Dowd; Nal: Deputies Thriff and P. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       (c)  In sub-section (5) of the proposed new section to insert after the word &ldquo;section&rdquo; the words &ldquo;shall be in accordance with the Regulations laid down in Chapter V. of the Dental Board Regulations adopted by the Dental Board of the United Kingdom on December 9th, 1921, and approved by the General Medical Council on December 15th, 1921, and&rdquo; 
       I am moving this amendment for the reason that when speaking on this matter in the Seanad, the Minister indicated that the examination which these candidates would have to sit for would be of a standard not less than that set for the ordinary candidates qualifying at the University.  It is definitely clear that it would be impossible for these men to pass an examination which would require a University education.  In suggesting this amendment I feel that an examination as prescribed by the Dental Board in England should be severe enough.  I quote the examination that was prescribed by that Board.  The Minister made it quite clear in the Seanad that it was his intention to have prescribed such an examination as it would be impossible for these men to go through.  I submit an examination in accordance with the regulations laid down in Chapter 5 of the Dental Board Regulations, adopted by the Dental Board of the United Kingdom, should be the examination for these men who are qualified to sit for the examination. 
     
     
      
       I am astonished at Deputy Briscoe trying to tie us down to British regulations.  According to Deputy Briscoe we are not good enough to make regulations or to say that we cannot prescribe our own standard of dentistry, but we must be tied down by British regulations. 
     
     
     
      
       I have given a reason. 
     
     
      
       And we are to be tied down incidentally to getting less qualified dentists than we could have normally.  He admitted that if the Minister or the Dental Board is allowed to set the examination at their discretion the candidates cannot pass this examination.  Therefore we must take the British precedent and adopt British rules.  Even then the candidates may not be satisfied.  Whoever heard of an examination in which somebody was not dissatisfied?  The unsuccessful candidates could then say, &ldquo;Oh, it is all Deputy Briscoe's fault. He insisted on tying us down to the British standard and succeeded, insisted on our copying British examination papers, and then we could not pass.&rdquo;  I hold that it would be very much wiser if this House used its own discretion in this matter, to have an Irish Board or Irish standards.  If the competition is such that we can get better dentists than they have in Britain let us have them, because the foundation of a nation's happiness and success is based on sound teeth.  I want Deputies on every side of the House to have sound teeth, and I want the children of Deputies to have sound teeth. I think that the Dail should not tie itself to the chariot wheels of British rules, but adopt our own strictly Sinn Fein examples. 
     
     
      
       I think that Deputy Cooper quite misunderstood the whole position.  I do not think that Deputy Briscoe wishes to aim at emulating Great Britain so far as new dentists or practising dentists in this country are concerned.  Deputy Cooper must remember that hither to we could divide the dental profession in this country into two classes. 
     
     There was one class which had qualified for the degree of L.D.S.I. which gave them a licence, if you like, to pull teeth and perform other similar acts of surgery.  I hope that our friend, Deputy Cooper, did not come under the village blacksmith when he had a toothache and wanted the offending molar extracted. I think, were it not for that fact,   the Deputy would not be so severe on the class which we are trying to help in this Bill.  As I pointed out previously, you might divide the practice of dentistry into two classes, one the professional class which passed a qualifying examination entitling them to put the letters L.D.S.I. after their names, and the other the class known as mechanical dentists who frequently became expert in the practice of surgery as applied to the dental profession. 
     
      
       If the Deputy had been here half an hour ago he would have heard me saying that. 
     
     
      
       I was at my tea then, exercising my molars.  The mechanical dentists were men who became rather proficient in surgical matters such as the extraction of teeth, the making of dentures, and so on.  Deputy Briscoe's amendment is in my view an attempt to do partial justice to men who have been practising dentistry with registered qualified dentists for a considerable period, and who in the course of their practice acquired a good deal of proficiency in the art of dental surgery.  When the Deputy asks that these men should pass an examination, which is on a par with the examination required by the Dental Board in England I feel sure that it is not because he feels that we have what is called the inferiority complex developed here, but because he believes that it is right and proper to provide an examination for them.  As I said on a former occasion, it would be rather difficult to expect young men who have been practising dentistry for six or seven years to study for a purely theoretical or academic degree.  By the fact that they have been in practice for a considerable period as qualified dentists, and that in the course of their practice they have extracted teeth and done most, if not all, the things that a qualified dentist would do, Deputy Briscoe wants to see that the examination will be made, not as easy as possible, but that it would be as strict, but not more strict, than the corresponding examination at the other side of the Channel.  I support the amendment, because it seeks to do justice to a class who have given very good service to the community. 
     
     
     
      
       Sub-section 2 refers to dental mechanics, whom Deputy Anthony proposes to allow with others to proceed to an examination. The only question for discussion is the standard of examination.  Deputy Briscoe read out a quotation from the Seanad debates in which I said that the standard of examination should be the same as that set for the final professional examination.  I was there only repeating what the mover of the first proposition in the Seanad had said when moving his amendment.  He had said repeatedly that he thought the standard of examination should be no less severe than that which the ordinary man going through the dental college would have to sit for.  Deputy Briscoe, by reading that quotation. probably intended to convey to the Dail the idea that if this amendment be not passed the examination will in fact be of the same degree of difficulty as that which the student in his final year at the dental college or in a university college would have to pass. That is not so.  It will be of whatever standard the Dental Board, when set up, likes to establish, or, in the absence of the Dental Board, whatever the Minister for Public Health likes to set up, and that is the choice now that the Dail have to face.  Are the Dail going to leave it to the discretion of the Board, or are they going to insist on this particular amendment which, if the Deputy did want to insist upon in this way, he might have avoided mentioning the particular things that he wanted to be the regulations in the schedule? 
     
     Previously when we discussed this, and arranged the schedule of names, a schedule representing the people who were to be permitted to go forward for an examination, the Dail then thought it right to leave the standard of that examination to the Dental Board, and until it was established to leave it to the discretion of the Minister.  I do not see why we should change from that point of view now when we have not got merely more people but have actually given leave for other people to come in.  We have allowed the list to be enlarged.  Why should it be necessary now, on second thoughts, to prescribe a standard of examination, and why do people in the Dail think that on   the consideration they have been able to give to the particular types likely to come forward that they are in a position at this moment to prescribe the standard of examination that these people ought to stand? 
     
      
       I am not anxious to press the amendment.  But the Minister has indicated that an examination will be set up by the Dental Board. 
     
     
      
       That is the proposal in the amendment. 
     
     
      
       My reason for introducing this was to get an explanation from the Minister, because he stated definitely in the Seanad debates that. 
       If the Third Schedule people, whose cases have been examined into by the various Committees, are of the calibre that the three Committees thought they were, they will have no difficulty in passing the examination. If they are not, they are not the people who should operate as dentists. Senator Dowdall wants to give a standard for the examination.  I did not advert to that in the amendment, because I took Senator Hooper's words, and I thought from the acclamation with which his words on that point were greeted that there was agreement that the examination was to be of the type ordinarily set for a final examination, and that would be the type of examination which the Board or the Minister would have set. 
     
     
      
       That is the Seanad view. 
     
     
      
       It was the Minister's expression.  If the Minister now states that it is the Dental Board which will prescribe the examination I would withdraw the amendment. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy looks through the debates in the Seanad he will see that Senator Guinness asked me if the amendment was defeated who would prescribe the examination.  I said then that it would be left to the discretion of the Board. 
     
     
      
       Does it not seem to be indicated from what the Minister said   that the examination is to be of a particular type set by the Board? 
     
     
      
       I have nothing to do with the examination, but the Minister for Public Health might. 
       Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
       Progress ordered to be reported. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported; the Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT NO. 7) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE (RESUMED). 
     Question again proposed: That the Bill be now read a Second Time. 
     Debate resumed on the following amendment: To delete all the words after the word &ldquo;That&rdquo; and substitute the following:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;the Bill be not further considered until the Dail has come to a decision on the total number of members that should constitute the Seanad.&rdquo;&mdash; (Eamon de Valera.) 
     
      
       To resume the debate on this particular Bill at this Stage is very much like recounting tales of far off things and battles long ago. I think when most of us were discussing this measure we were suffering under the disabilities of those who steal the best hours of the night.  I think the debate on it was taken after the all-night sitting which the President imposed on this Dail.  I think the President, no less than the rest of us, was suffering from that disability also, for before resuming the debate on this Bill I had taken the opportunity of reading his speech, and I must say he seems to have dealt entirely then with the size of the Seanad and not with the term of office.  He gave one the impression that after the labours of the preceding night he was feeling like the rest of us, a sunbeam that has lost its way.  At any rate, as I said, he advanced no reason whatsoever for reducing the term of office for Senators from twelve to nine years.  I am sure the President must have very good reasons for making the reduction suggested, and the only thing   I regret is that he should keep them locked up within his own breast and not disclose them to the Dail.  I do not say that those reasons would be convincing, but I am sure they would be substantial ones, and if the President is prepared to state them now I would, with the permission of the Chair, give way momentarily while he does disclose them to us. As I said on the occasion of the Second Reading of this Bill, he devoted his attention entirely, I think, to one of the amendments to the Bill which appeared on the Order Paper.  That was the amendment proposed by Deputy de Valera, that the Bill be not further considered unless the Dail has come to a decision on the total numbers that should constitute the Seanad.  I suggest that it was not sufficient to deal with the Bill in relation to the amendment, and that he should give the positive reasons that actuated him in introducing it. 
     
     I do not see any virtue in the number nine, and seven is a mystical number. These are the seven deadly sins and the seven contrary virtues.  I am not going to suggest that the President is more familiar with one than with the other. I hope he, as a matter of fact, has a very practical and intimate acquaintance with one, and that he only knows the other by reputation and hearsay. But I do suggest that if there is any good reason for reducing the term of office, the reason was equally strong, and would have been equally applicable towards reducing the term from twelve to six or five years.  Deputy de Valera in opposing this Bill gave very cogent reasons why the term of office of the Senators should be reduced to six years.  It would seem to me that if we did reduce it to six years it would be possible at the same time to reduce the number of Senators very considerably. There is a very good practical reason for that.  If we were able to reduce the number of Senators to twenty-five or thirty we would save a considerable sum of money each year.  I am perfectly certain, judging by the record of attendances of Senators in the Seanad, that the legislative efficiency of that Chamber would not be affected adversely. Possibly, in view of the fact that the number of positions were more limited, competition for   them would be keener, and you would get a better type of Senator who would attend more regularly and fulfil the duties entrusted to him much more conscientiously.  As I said, one is at a disadvantage in discussing constitutional amendments of this sort, because when a Bill of this description is introduced one would have expected that the President would have examined the term of office and discussed it with reference to the duties which the Senators have to perform. 
     I do not see very much point in allowing a Senator to hold office for nine years.  I do not see that it is going to make that Senator any more conscientious in the discharge of his duties.  It is going to give him a certain feeling of security in office for a long term.  The first year, being a new broom, he might attend very regularly and be very keen in performing the functions of a Senator, but when the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh years are passing you will probably find that particular Senator is dormant and that he is rusticating down the country.  In the ninth year, if his name is coming before the Dail and Seanad, or before the public in any way, he might awake and return to his duties. The very fact that he is elected for a long term makes him feel independent of the body that has elected him.  I think the danger in that regard has increased very much by reason of the fact that he does not have to submit himself to the direct suffrage of the people, but is elected by the Dail and Seanad combined, where his personal pull and influence, particularly with the majority Party in both Houses, will count, I am afraid, for a great deal more than any personal merit of his or any attention he has devoted to his office.  For that reason it would seem to me there is a good deal to be said for making the term of office of a Senator shorter. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       If a Senator is elected for, say, three years or five years&mdash;well, the wheel of polities turning may put other people in power in this House who will not have the same political views as he has, and he would   be inclined, I think, to justify himself, at least the best of the Senators, the men of the strongest character, would be inclined to justify themselves before that adverse majority in this House by being particularly painstaking and conscientious in the discharge of their duties, and particularly constant in their attendance in the Seanad, and in that way proving that they fulfil the qualifications expected from them in the Constitution.  Another point to be considered is, and I think we can look at it from the point of view that the Government have disclosed, that their mental attitude towards legislation is this: That, provided the majority in the Dail think any legislative proposal is a good one and sound one, then it must be passed through this House with the greatest haste, and passed through the Seanad with the greatest haste, and be made law.  If it should happen that the majority in the Dail passed from one Party to the other, and a Nationalist Government sits on the benches opposite, a Republican Government sits on the benches opposite&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy makes a very clever distinction. 
     
     
      
       I do not.  I am enforcing one with the other.  I am emphasising the fact that the only Government which can be a Nationalist Government is a Republican Government. 
     
     
      
       We maintain we are Republicans. 
     
     
      
       We are the Republicans here.  If Deputies on the Labour Benches do not want to associate with us as Republicans we cannot help it, but the Republicans in this country are those on these benches. 
     
     
      
       We maintain we have as good a right to call ourselves Republicans as you. 
     
     
      
       Do I take it, then, from the Chairman of the Labour Party that their political objective is the same as ours?  That they wish to amend the Constitution, to delete the objectionable clauses in it, and instead of making   it a monarchical constitution to make it a republican constitution? 
     
     
      
       When he knows more clearly what the Deputy's objective is he will be able to say. 
     
     
      
       I do not think there can be any doubt as to the Deputy's objective or the objective of the Party to which he has the honour to belong.  It is the establishment of a Republican Government for the whole of Ireland.  I do not think that there can be any doubt in the mind of any member of this House, in the minds of the public outside, or in the minds of those who have elected us upon our election pledges, as to what our objective is.  I am asking the Leader of the Labour Party if he associates himself with it. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy, having said that, will continue on the Bill. 
     
     
      
       However, to get back, I think I was saying that, supposing public opinion outside does change, and notwithstanding everything that the President and the members of the Executive Council may allege against us, does decide to entrust the government of the country to us, to carry through the programme which we have set before them, I take it that we should be placed in exactly the same position in relation to the Seanad, or in relation to the legislative proposals which we may wish to submit to this House, in fulfilment of our pledges to the people, as the President and the members of the Government have been. Their attitude has been this, that once they have decided upon certain legislative proposals, they are to be rushed through this House, rushed through the Seanad, and made law by a declaration that their immediate enactment is essential to the preservation of the public peace and safety, and that they cannot any longer be referred to the people or in any way held up, even by the Seanad.  That was the position before the President introduced the Constitutional amendments which have already gone through this House and which have been adopted by the Seanad. 
     
     But we submit that it is not a desirable   thing that the privilege which this Government has enjoyed should be denied to its successors, and therefore we say that since those Articles which provide for the immediate enactment of legislation adopted by this House have been deleted from the Bill, the Senators themselves, by virtue of the fact that they enjoy a prolonged term of office, should not be in a position to defy, as they would be under this, for a considerable period of time the wishes of a majority Party in this House, and that therefore the term of office of a Senator ought not very greatly exceed the lifetime of the Dail. In that way, in case a constitutional crisis should come, it would be capable of an easy and a peaceful solution in so far as retiring Senators would be compelled to present one-third of them. selves for election to this Dail after two years, and then, before the Dail would dissolve, another third would be compelled to present themselves also to the Dail for election.  In that way we feel that the majority Party in this House would be able to modify the personnel of the Seanad so as to make it conform to Party divisions here. 
     It might be argued, of course, that in that way we would not be strengthening the Seanad.  We agree, and we admit that.  We do not see that there is any reason whatsoever under the present Constitution why the Seanad should be strengthened or in any way improved.  My own feeling is that since we are out to amend the Constitution fundamentally we should dispense with the Second House, or with any corporate body which would in any way impede the Constitutional changes which we are anxious to bring about. For that reason, therefore, we would like to make it possible for us, without too much strife, and without engendering bitterness and ill-feeling, to make quickly the composition of the Party divisions in the Seanad conform to the Party divisions which exist in this House, so that the majority Party in this House would quickly become the majority in the Seanad. 
     For that reason we would like the term of office of Senators to be the shortest possible.  We do not wish it to be unduly lengthened, and we think   that a period of nine years is too long. I think we have to that extent the qualified support of the Labour Party. Deputy O'Connell, speaking, I think, against the Bill, intimated that at the same time he was prepared to vote for it because of the fact that it did propose to reduce the term from twelve years to nine.  That was the equivalent, it seems to me, to saying that the Bill, like the curate's egg, was bad only in parts.  He appealed to us to let the Bill go through.  I do submit that it is not fair for him to ask us to swallow the Bill simply on the grounds that it does not contain the fully-fledged chicken.  That may be a very sound principle for a landlady to adopt so far as our breakfast table is concerned but I do not think it is a good principle for a legislature. 
     The Bill is bad and wrong in so far as it does not curtail the term of office of the Seanad sufficiently.  If you make it six years, or five years, you could reduce the number of Senators and make an appreciable saving.  If you make it five or six years you could enable the majority party in this House to make the composition of the Seanad conform more nearly to the political divisions which exist in this House, and in view of the Constitutional changes which we are anxious to make, and which I believe the Irish people desire, every impediment and every obstacle in the way of a majority party which seeks to bring about these changes is a danger to the nation and a danger to the public peace.  For that reason, therefore, we wish, as I said, to disable the Seanad, if you like.  We do not believe it exists there for the people's good, or for the good of the country generally. It has been forced upon us.  I do not believe that the Constitution Committee, when sitting, if they were free agents in the matter, would have selected a Seanad composed of this type at all.  They might have selected some other revising body, but I do not think they would have taken the line they took.  There is absolutely no difference of function or of class, no quality which differentiates the Seanad from the Dail, except possibly the accident in some cases of birth or wealth or position. Senators generally do not represent a separate distinct interest in this nation   or a separate distinct class with special powers and functions.  They have simply been selected at random and they have had these honours and these duties imposed on them, and from the first day they began to act they have failed to fulfil a single duty imposed on them by the Constitution, and they have signally failed to justify themselves as a Seanad.  Therefore we are opposed to prolonging the term of office of these people, who do not fulfil any useful function in the State. 
     
      
       Ba mhaith an smaoineamh e an treimhse a laghdu o 12 bliain go dti 9 mbliana, mar is tuisce a bheas comhaltai uile an tSeanaid fe chomhacht na Dala.  Ach ni thuigim ce'n fa nach dteightar nios sia ar an mbealach ceart agus an treimhse a chiorru go dti 6 bliana.  Cad ta in a choinnibh sin?  Ni fheicim aon ni in a choinnibh.  Da ndeanfai e sin fein, bheadh treimhse nios fuide ag an Seanad na mar a bheadh ag an Dail. Ta fhios agam gur maith leis an Aireacht buaine agus seasamhacht a bheith ann agus bheadh an sgeal mar sin da ndeanfadh siad mar a adeirim. 
       Da mba rud e gurab iad na daoine a dheanfadh an togha, bheadh leithsceal eigin ag an Rialtas.  Bheadh costas trom ag baint leis an togha sin, agus mar sin de.  Ach is docha nach fada go mbeidh an Bille ina Reacht, ag fagaint toghachan an tSeanaid fe'n Dail.  Is beag costas a bheas ag baint leis mar sin agus ni feidir leis an Rialtas e sin do chur os ar gcoir mar leithsgeal. 
       Rud eile,. ta comhaltai ar an Seanad anois nar dhein a gcuid dualgaisi do choliona.  Ba dheas an rud liosta no tuairisc d'fhail ar an meid la a bhi an Seanad in a shuidhe agus ar an meid oibre a rinne na comhaltai so.  Ba mhaith an rud e tuairisc chruinn a fhoillsiu ar an sgeal san.  Da ghiorracht e an tearma, seadh is curamai agus is duthrachtai a bheidis.  Thiocfadh leis na daoine an liosta do sgrudu agus is beag seans a bheadh ag cuid de na comhaltai ag an togha. 
     
     An oraid a thug an t-Uachtaran uaidh le linn an Bille seo bheith os ar gcoir roinnt seachtain o shoin, ta se leighte agam agus thugas fe ndeara nar mhinigh se dhuinn cad 'na thaobh gur   chuir se naoi mbliana isteach in ionad se blian.  Dubhairt se a lan ach nior bhfiu leis tagairt don sceal san in ao' chor.  B'fheidir go raibh an ceart aige. B'fheidir go bhfuil fa fe leith ann nar mhaith leis e a nochtadh.  B'fheidir nach bhfuil aon fa leis.  Ach nior dhein se aon tagairt don sgeal san cho maith agus is feidir liom d'fheiceal.  Is fior gur lughaide comhacht an tSeanaid an tearma oifige a chiorru.  Is fearr e sin don Dail agus is fearr e don naisiun, do reir mo thuairime.  Ta suil agam go mineochaidh an t-Uachtaran, no Aire eigin, cad ta i gcoinnibh se bliana mar thearma an tSeanaid.  Ni bheadh moran costais ag baint leis an togha agus ta a lan Teachtai nach bhfuil ar an dtaoibh seo&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       B'fheidir go mhineochadh an Teachta an tairbhe a thiocfadh as laghdu an tSeanaid. 
     
     
      
       Ni doigh liom gur ceart iad d'fhagailt annsin go ceann 9 mblian gan faic le dheanamh acu.  B'fhearr liom gan iad do bheith ann in ao' chor ach, ma ta siad le bheith ann, is fearr 6 bliana mar thearma na 9 mbliana. 
     
     
      
       Again I contemplate the absence of participation in this debate by the members of the majority party, and express regret that they do not feel it either commensurate or desirable to give to this House or to their constituents the reasons which animate them personally in voting for a Bill of this kind.  It is not by any means the most important Bill of the series of Bills which have been offered to us, but it does raise rather interesting mathematical possibilities.  You have the Dail of 153 and the Seanad of 60.  Now the period of tenure of office by members of the Seanad does decide the speed with which any given composition of the Dail will alter the present composition and orientation of the Seanad.  I have been working it out.  It is rather a complicated formula, but the upshot of it is this&mdash;I do not want to be controversial&mdash;I think it will be assumed that at present the Seanad does represent a definite orientation, and that it is   related as positive and negative to the two different outlooks in this House. 
     
     
      
       And that they do no work. 
     
     
      
       If the Dail is constituted in this proportion&mdash;106 antagonistic to the Seanad and 46 in favour of the Seanad, and no time and under no condition will this Dail be able to alter the constitution and orientation of the Seanad.  Now that is a very remarkable proposition.  If the Dail is returned by the country in proportion of two to one in favour of an attitude of mind for which the Seanad does not stand, at no time, as far as I can see, will it be able to alter its composition. But the first couple of years after the first couple of elections there is a very slight change, but you get on the flat of the curve and remain permanently in that position.  I wonder if the House contemplated that when this Bill was introduced? 
     
     If this House was constituted in any less proportion than two to one, 106 to 46, in favour of the present view of the Seanad, then, though there is continuously a majority, it might be of two&mdash;thirds of the Seanad, a process of ossification of the Seanad will develop I do not know whether that was under stood when this Bill was offered to us. The shorter the term of office of a Senator, the quicker will be the state of ossification.  Perhaps the President did advert to that peculiar mathematical fact, and he may have had that peculiar mathematical purpose in his mind, but I think he ought to have explained to the Dail why he chose a period of nine years as distinct from a period of six or five or ten years, and what proportion of the Dail, returned in antagonism to the Seanad, he had envisaged as one necessary and likely to alter that change.  What I am suggesting is that you have got a permanent sterilisation, except by a re-altering of the Constitution.  I cannot conceive that any men in their senses deliberately would work out a formula of this kind&mdash;that a Dail of two to one is permanently sterilised in relation to the Seanad, and that anything less than a Dail of two to one will tend to the strengthening of the   opinion in the Seanad which is antagonistic to the majority of the Dail. 
     We certainly would like to see the period of tenure of office of the Seanad reduced until it did consist of&mdash;what the Minister for Local Government said it did consist of&mdash;sixty vacancies.  But, as we cannot get it down to that state, we would rather the period was reduced. We see no particular virtue in the six years.  If there was some arrangement in relation to the voting in this Dail for the constitution of the Seanad, so that a majority of the Dail &mdash;I mean a bare majority of the Dail, or a majority in proportion as it exceeded a bare majority of the Dail&mdash; would be capable of altering the constitution of the Seanad, then this matter of the period of office would be a matter of very great importance.  But the Government have deliberately stacked the cards, deliberately and knowingly.  I have either to accuse them of stupidity, or turpitude, and frankly I would rather accuse them of stupidity, because anybody can be stupid; I would rather imagine that they did not advert to the fact that in this method of election they do deliberately sterilise a two-to-one majority of the Dail in relation to any capacity to change the nature of the Seanad. But, if they do not accept the standard of stupidity, we must assume that they deliberately did intend that the one thing that was to be left outside the purview of the popularly-elected members of the Dail was the constitution of the body which they were empowering to hold up legislation for from twenty to thirty-four months.  A two-to-one majority in this Dail sterilised not merely now, but for all time. 
     The Seanad is in a position not merely to reproduce itself, but to strengthen itself against this Dail at anything less than a two-to-one majority in this Dail against them. That is important, as I say; that does raise the question of the period.  If the period is five years, then they can more rapidly ossify the Seanad.  If the period is nine years, they can do it a bit more slowly.  So that really it looks to me as if, having regard to all the other sort of things they have done, to the sort of mess they have put us in, to the fact that it is unlikely there will be   permanently in this House a Dail which is constituted two-to-one against the ideas of the Seanad, the lengthened period does give a certain amount of protection.  From that point of view, in so far as it fits in and, to a certain extent, neutralises the evil of their other courses, they do seem to have provided a certain argument for the nine years.  Our objection to the nine years is the Our objection we have to any single year in which membership of that Seanad shall be allowed to hold that position which it now holds under the Acts which they have passed, or attempted to pass, of being able to control the Dail.  The point I want to get out quite clearly is that they have stacked the cards now so that if, even at the next general election, and the election after that, and the election after that again, the country returns a majority of two-to-one against everything that the Seanad stands for, the Seanad is the one thing which, under this Bill and under the other Bills which they have passed previously, is utterly immune from the influence of this Dail to change its complexion in any way whatever. 
     
      
       As Deputy Flinn has pointed out, we are rather in an ignominious position here, because we have a certain number of Bills presented to us, each one of them dealing with a special point in relation to the Constitution, and we have not the advantage of having the mentality or the purpose of the Government clearly before us to make it clear to us what exactly they are aiming at in all these measures.  I do not know whether in the discussions which have taken place during the past six weeks it has been made clear to the Government that this precipitate action would not, in the long run, be beneficial to the country, and that to whatever extent legislation is being rushed through this House now, with the aid of certain devices which a majority can command, ultimately, in spite of that legislation, if there is a tide or a feeling in the country that wants to express itself in a certain way, that wants to alter the Constitution to make it more flexible and more amenable and to respond more fully to the wishes of the people, that legislation cannot hold.  The Government,    as has been already pointed out to them, are simply building up dams which, by virtue of the very fact that they are so ridiculous and so ignominious in the way they treat the dignity of this House by limiting its power, and the manner in which they have been introduced, cannot stand, and will not stand, before the rising tide of opinion when the people get clearly to understand such a point as Deputy Flinn has just pointed out, which is a very serious and very important one, that if, at the present time, it suits the majority who are in power to change the Constitution in certain ways, to enlarge the powers of the Seanad, and to leave its term of office at what seems to us the unnecessarily long period of nine years, these considerations do not seem to have been based on the fact that they were, at the same time, putting the Seanad in a position where it will be extremely hard and almost impossible for the Dail afterwards to change the legislation. I have no doubt that the legislation in general is against the wishes of the population, that no attempt is being made to defend it on democratic or national grounds, and that it is absolutely unjustifiable.  We have the unfortunate position that, by the shortsightedness of this majority, we are finding ourselves daily driven into certain positions under which, if a future Executive should attempt to change or modify what is done, it will be almost impossible to extricate ourselves, and there will be no remedy. 
     
     Surely on this whole question the Government ought to have recognised sufficiently during the last few months that this is not the time to take the action they are taking to sterilise the Opposition Party and the aspirations of the people, so that they will not be able to advance in the way they want to advance; surely they should have learned a sufficient lesson and heard enough speeches and arguments to make them realise that the present time, even if it is necessary to introduce certain measures to deal with the election of the Seanad, is not the right one to make these changes.  When you have a new Opposition which has only familiarised itself with the procedure of the   House, when you have not had the whole question of your Constitution dealt with in a broad and detached way, it is most unfortunate and unfair and not, I think, playing the rules of the game, to come along now with this Bill and pretend that as a kind of penance for their previous sins that the Government have done some little thing to recommend them, however much they have sinned in the past, to our kind offices in thus reducing the period to nine years.  That is simply nothing in comparison with the things already done.  It must be taken in relation to measures already passed, measures for the abolition of the Referendum and the Initiative and measures for the extension of the powers of the Seanad.  It must be taken, above all, in relation to the fact that, no matter how parties may change, it will be almost impossible to change from the new position; that however things may go, the measures the Government have passed will be such that they will enormously strengthen the Seanad, that the Seanad will be a great deal beyond the power of the Dail.  We are doing that, not because we have any real reason to believe that the Seanad has justified itself in the past, not because we have a kind of belief in the future, like the President has, that certain things are unlikely to happen.  Surely we must not take things for granted.  We must consider the people of the country whom we represent and ask ourselves whether it is fair to pass measures which we are not clear about ourselves and which have not been examined even from an elementary point of view. 
     A particular constitutional amendment might be quite clear, might be debated very extensively and everyone might understand its provisions and objects, but when we have a whole number of them suddenly cast on us, when we must examine each one anew in the light of the others which have been passed, then obviously we do not know where we stand.  The Government Party do not favour the election of the Seanad by the direct vote of the people. I think had it happened that the Seanad were elected by the direct vote of the people for example, there might have been some justification for leaving the period at nine years, but the   Seanad will be responsible to nobody. A certain number outgoing may even elect themselves.  They will have power in the next election to vote for themselves.  Those gentlemen will find themselves in a much stronger position if they succeed.  They will not be responsible to any constituents.  They will be, perhaps, persons who in their own estimation represent important aspects of the nation's life.  They will represent certain class interests.  From our experience of the Seanad in the past and from the complete failure of the Government to justify its position or say how in actual personnel the Seanad will be improved, how more highly qualified and better trained men will find a place there, we must only conclude that men of the type I referred to, the old Unionist type will eventually get in.  Surely the time is opportune to start the whole thing afresh, either by a vote of the people's representatives or the people themselves. If we found that these two roads were not open to us then we ought simply to have gone on with the Seanad election in the ordinary way, making whatever changes were absolutely necessary and ought not to have interfered any further. 
     But we ought to bear in mind the other side of the picture, that the shortening of the period is no quid pro quo in relation to the powers given to the Seanad.  There is no justification whatever for giving the Seanad twice as long a period of office as the ordinary members of the Dail.  There is no doubt that members of the Seanad will line up with certain political parties and become associated with them.  You will not have and cannot have an aristocratic class which the country will recognise should have representation there and which, whatever its political opinions may be, would, in the long run, give value to the country by reason of the improvements it will make in legislation.  You will not have that, but you will have the position that a certain political party will get a majority, we will suppose, at the next election for the Seanad, and they will remain in that position for nine years.  The Government, having their own future alone in view and not caring about the   consequences to the Constitution in doing what they are doing at present, will be quite satisfied that their majority should hold the Seanad for the next nine years.  We should not take that point of view.  We have not the advantage of being as intimately associated with the machinery of the State as they have been for the last five or six years, but if we had I think we would have had more regard to certain democratic and national principles which were so freely expounded in 1922, and instead of looking at this thing from a party point of view, we would, in the new circumstances, take a step in the right direction. 
     
      
       This is a further step in strengthening what might be called Rip Van Winkle government.  Everyone must be over 30 years of age before it is possible for him to be elected to the body and he will be elected for nine years at a time. 
     
     That means, of course, that the limitation must not be taken in a literal sense, because it creates an atmosphere in which the whole attitude adopted is that the people should be conservative in temperament, be above a certain age, supposed to be quite beyond the age when they indulge in follies of radical ideas, to be settled down, more or less, and to be fixed in some vested interest. The vested interests in this country are, unfortunately, all on one side, and because of that it makes it very difficult for people having the opposite point of view who want to change things.  And people who want to change things in this country will always be nationally inclined, and will always represent the vast majority of the people, who are the small farmers and workers in this country.  This is a stay upon the progress of this class in the community.  It is all very well to compare nine years with twelve years and to say that nine years is better than twelve years.  But when the Seanad was created first it was worse than the present Seanad in some ways, and in other ways it had less powers, less powers to interfere with legislation.  The nine years period of election given by this Bill means the lifetime of two Parliaments.  It means that the whole personnel of the whole   body will only begin to change in about ten to fifteen years.  It will be about ten or fifteen years more before it would begin to change its personnel properly. 
     In any case the forces in this country who are hostile to real national progress are now reaping while they have the harvest.  This is the period when the national spirit is weak as a result of what has happened in the past, ending in the civil war.  They are taking advantage of this period when that spirit is weak in order to dig themselves in.  They are digging themselves in here by nine years, and in the other Bill, to which I need not refer, to such an extent that the younger generation will come to the conclusion that it is a much better thing to brush the whole thing aside.  There is not any hope in the way the machine is being framed. From a strictly national point of view the process is as absurd as if the Germans after the war, or if you suppose the Belgians after the war, were to create a Senate in which the German element in Belgium was to have the upper hand and was to be glorified in a Second Chamber. 
     
      
       Is there a German element in Belgium? 
     
     
      
       There is. 
     
     
      
       Where? 
     
     
      
       Do you want to discuss European politics? 
     
     
      
       No; but you started it. 
     
     
      
       There is, as a matter of fact, in certain parts of Belgium a strong German element. 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
     
      
       I beg your pardon there is.  In any case in this country you accept people in this country as if they were citizens of this country without having gone through any process of naturalisation.  Up to this you have not set up any machinery for naturalisation.  You have set up no machinery by which to judge tomorrow a man who makes a claim and says &ldquo;I am an Irishman, and always was an Irishman.  You can accept me   if you like.&rdquo;  I know cases of men who do not want even to accept nationality of the Free State but who have actually voted in the elections.  I do not know how they voted, but I know they voted. 
       The whole situation from the point of view of nationality in the strict sense is in a state of chaos and we are simply placing our enemies in a position of privilege.  I am not in any way intolerant towards the British element in this country, but I think the basis of anything in the Constitution should be frakly to recognise them as having a very particular outlook and to prevent them being dangerous to the State as a whole.  If that were the attitude taken up they certainly would not be put in control of a machine which they can control for ten or twenty years and be enabled to prevent legislation by delays, which are provided for in other parts of the Constitution.  In the long run it will not succeed in the sense that the worse the Constitution is the better, because if the Government would only make it sufficiently bad, it would hasten the time when the country would be so sick of it&mdash;and indeed they are getting pretty sick of it at present&mdash; that some other line of action would be considered.  The nation has solidified recently very much against the Seanad, when it looks at a body consisting of sixty men all drawing salaries, and with nothing to force them to attend. They draw their salaries for nine years and they hardly ever attend at the Seanad meeting.  At least, you should provide for the absentees so that in regard to those who would be absent for a certain period, a year, or two years, you should be able to get rid of them altogether if you are going to make the body efficient.  The public opinion outside is that the Seanad is a complete farce.  Perhaps nothing has caused more discredit amongst a certain section of your own Free State opinion than the feverish and anti-national activities which you are displaying in regard to these Constitution Amendment Bills. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That the words proposed to be deleted stand part of the question&rdquo;&mdash;put. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided; Ta, 54; Nil, 49. 
     Ta. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Byrne, Alfred. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margt. Conlan Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thos. Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. 
             Henry, Mark. Hogan, Patrick (Galway). Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Mahony, dermot Gun. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph Wolfe, George. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Anthony, Richard. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley Daniel. Carney, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred, Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. French, Sean. Gorry, Patrick J. 
             Goulding, John. Holt, Samuel. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killane, James Joseph. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and Conlon; Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
     Question proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Now that the amendment which was proposed by Deputy de Valera has been disposed of, and we have an opportunity of discussing the Bill itself, I would like to submit some arguments which may convince the additional two or three Deputies who are necessary for the purpose of securing its defeat that the Bill is a bad one. 
     
     
      
       Call a vote now before the rest of them come in. 
     
     
      
       They can come in on both sides.  There has been during the course of the discussion on this Bill   practically no sound argument advanced in support of the proposal to leave Senators in their office for a period of nine years.  The fact that the Government has recognised that the period of twelve years at present provided for in the Constitution is too long is in itself an indication that they were thinking on the right lines.  Unfortunately, however, they do not appear to have studied the matter sufficiently seriously or given it the attention which a matter of this magnitude requires, or they would have, I think, realised that as a change was to be effected a much shorter period than a period of nine years would, in fact, have been better.  It is quite obvious that a person elected for nine years must feel himself independent of public opinion.  A Deputy elected to this Dail, knowing that the maximum period of his office will be five years, feels himself bound, if he wishes to secure re-election at the end of that period, to devote himself to the interests of his constituents, to pay attention to his duties, to attend regularly here at the meetings, and to take an active interest in the business of the House.  A person, however, elected for a longer period, say, nine years, would feel that the period in itself is sufficiently long to enable him to neglect any of the work of the assembly which he was elected to do except, perhaps, if he wishes to secure election again, during the last two or three years of his term of office.  We have had already raised for discussion in this House the question whether or not Senators are elected as a reward for the services rendered or because they are the best men to do the work which it is the duty of Senators to perform. It is becoming more obvious as the discussion on these Bills proceeds that the attitude of the Government is that individuals are elected to the Seanad, not because they serve a useful purpose there, but because it is the most convenient form of rewarding them for actions which they took in the past in support of the Government, or in support of the party that sent the Government here.  Those who have examined the conditions prevailing in the country and who have glimpsed   some of the difficulties under which the present Government are endeavouring to work must realise that one of the major difficulties with which they are faced is the fact that they have been forced to place into responsible positions, not merely in the Government, but also in the administration, individuals who are unfitted for the posts, but who had to be provided for at the behest of the organisation which elected the Government. 
       We have had what were called indications of appreciation placed into various positions and when there now exists, and it is proposed to continue, an institution the very purpose of which is to provide an easy means for giving political awards to supporters of the Government, we think it is up to those in this House who have some respect for the machinery of democratic Government to protest.  The Seanad has been under discussion from various angles here lately, and we must consider the proposals contained in this Bill in relation to the proposals contained in the various other Bills which came before us and which will come before us in the following week.  The men whom it is proposed to have elected for a continuous period of nine years will exercise considerable power in relation to the Acts passed by this House.  They will have power to suspend legislation for a period of over twenty months, and when we consider that the men who will exercise that power are men elected in this manner, as a reward for services rendered, we must say that we are taking liberties with the structure of the State that may lead to very serious consequences. If it was proposed to have the Second Chamber composed of experts in various subjects, of highly trained men, of men capable of seriously considering Bills passed by this House and pointing out defects in them, some argument could be advanced in support of that, but when instead we are proposing to give that power to a House, the only justification for whose existence is that some easy means must be provided to the Government for rewarding their friends, then it is obvious we are doing something which represents a victory of expediency over sound governmental principles. 
     
     
        That House of Senators, independent as they are of public opinion and elected for a period of nine years, might very easily interfere seriously with the interests of the Irish people by holding up Bills which this Dail considered necessary to be passed in the interests of the people.  We must remember also that the system of election is probably the most undemocratic system which could be devised, election in part by the Seanad itself.  The combined votes of the members of the Dail and Seanad are to decide who are to compose that Chamber.  Those outgoing Senators who may be re-nominated will have the right, if they so wish, to vote for themselves, to vote themselves back into office for another period of nine years.  Even if this proposal to give a period of nine years of office to Senators was combined with the proposal to alter the system of election so that the will of the people could act directly on the Assembly there might be something to be said for it, but not merely is the election by the Seanad to take place in that undemocratic manner, but those who will be placed into the Seanad will be placed there for a time which will make them independent of those who put them there, and members of this Dail, who will have the responsibility of putting a number of them into office, should ask themselves seriously whether they can select a group of individuals on whom they could rely for a continuous period of nine years to give close attention to their duties and carry out the wishes of those who gave their votes to them.  I do not think we could. 
     We have, I think, enough experience, learned in the recent history of the country, to realise that there can be very few men in the State who can be trusted to go straight in the interests of the State for nine years.  Why then take the risk of giving these powers to people who will have a very strong temptation to act in a manner that would not be in the best interests of the State?  The Bill itself is similar to other Bills which were introduced here recently.  It is drafted in the most involved manner possible.  It provides for the insertion in the Constitution of one section which will cease to have effect practically after the next election   to the Seanad is concluded, and it seems to us that if the Government had any respect for the Constitution they would not be putting into it purely temporary provisions of this nature. They would have provided that the term of office for Senators elected this year would be fixed by law, for example, so that those who wish to get some idea of the structure of the State and who would read the Constitution for that purpose would not have to wade through a lot of dead Articles for the purpose of discovering it.  The attitude of the Government in relation to all these Bills is shown very clearly. They think no more of the Constitution than, in fact, we on this side of the House do.  It is something which they maintain when it is useful to maintain, and something which they alter when it is necessary in the interests of their Party that it should be altered. 
     So long as the Constitution is something which gives them power to work their will with the people they support it.  If and when the Constitution becomes an impediment to their progress, then the Constitution will go by the board.  We think perhaps that in the particular circumstances of this nation, and particularly with relation to the very nature of the Constitution, it is useful that the Seanad should be regarded in that manner, and no other, as something that should be kept so long as there is no harm in keeping it and as something to be abolished by the enactment of law when it is necessary to abolish it.  If the Constitution was a representation of the traditions and ideals of the Irish people and if it could be regarded seriously as the fundamental law of this State, even these frivolous alterations of it could be regarded as of importance, but as it is not we must regard amendments to it as we would regard amendments to any other Act, something to be discussed on its merits and, in this case, to be rejected on its merits. 
     I would like to ask members of Cumann na nGaedheal in this House whether they do not think that much better service would be secured from members of the Seanad if they had to justify their work in that House once every five years, for example.  Do they not think that even in their own   interests it would be better to reduce the period of office from nine years? They want a Seanad and they profess that they want a good Seanad.  They even pretend to believe that the Seanad is capable of serving some useful purpose.  Arguing from that basis, I think that they will be able to see for themselves that the utility of the Seanad would be greatly increased if this Dail retained to itself a greater measure of control over them than this Bill would indicate that the Government wishes it to have.  If we could remind Senators that, if they neglect their duty, their period of office is likely to conclude at the end of the four or five years for which they would be elected, it would be, perhaps, possible that they would be more attentive to their duty, but when Senators know that they cannot be interfered with for the entire period of nine years, they can afford to laugh at any representation which would be made to them by the Dail, because the Dail that elected them will have gone out of existence long before their period of office will have concluded. The members of the Dail who will elect Senators here next November may not be here at all when the term of office of these Senators expires.  It is quite possible they will not.  A great many changes have taken place in this country during the past nine years and there is still ground for hope that even more important changes will take place during the next nine years. 
     In that connection it might be no harm to say that it is rather unfair to those who will go forward for election to suggest to them or leave them under the impression that they may be in office for a period of nine years.  They may make business arrangements calculating upon that fact.  They may alter the tenor of their lives to provide for the fact that they will be in a certain position for nine years, when every Deputy in this House knows that long before that period of nine years has expired, there is bound to be an alteration in the majority of this House and consequently a termination of the Seanad altogether.  In fairness to those individuals who are so busy canvassing in the Lobbies for some time past, it   would be no harm to remind them that, no matter what the Bill says, their period of office is much more likely to be less than the nine years mentioned here.  I would suggest seriously to members of Cumann na nGaedheal if they do want to keep the Seanad there, they ought to constitute it in such a way that they will be able to convince those who vote for them in elections that it is worth keeping there.  They will not be able to convince them of that if they are going to make the Seanad a place of rest, as it has been described by some Deputies, for discredited politicians.  I have seen Senators who, no doubt, take their duties very seriously.  We meet them in the Lobbies carrying attache cases, containing probably several back numbers of the &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; and looking as if they took their duties seriously, but there are several Senators whom we have never seen here. 
     It would be no harm if a list of attendances at the Seanad were provided. If that was done we would find that there is a very large number of them with less than 10 per cent. attendances. It is to people like that that we propose to give continuity of office for nine years.  When you have elected them, when next November you elect 20 of these individuals to that House, you will not be able to interfere with them, by any means or under any power under this Constitution, for the full period of nine years.  The only way you will be able to get rid of them will be by voting for Fianna Fail at the next election and I know that there are some opposite who would rather cut off their right hand than that it should have to write No. 1 after the name of a Fianna Fail candidate.  You may be faced with the situation in which that may be the only way out of the difficulty; think of the horror when such a drastic step would have to be taken in order to undo what you are proposing to do this evening.  I hope therefore that the small majority by which Deputy de Valera's amendment was defeated will be reversed when the vote on this Bill takes place and that there will emerge at long last from the ranks of Cumann na nGaedheal two or three honest individuals who will realise where the Government is going and   who will be prepared to call a halt by voting against this Bill. 
     
      
       I do not know how far the statements of Deputy Lemass with regard to the merits or demerits of the Seanad are relevant to this particular motion. 
     
     
      
       I would not like to have to give a detailed answer to that question. 
     
     
      
       At all events, I only propose to deal with what is in the Bill before us at the moment.  The principle of the Bill, as set out in the title, is to amend the Constitution by reducing the term of office of the members of Seanad Eireann and to make consequential alterations.  The principle, therefore, involved in the Bill, as I see it, is to reduce the term of office of Senators.  The Fianna Fail Party are proposing to vote against the principle of the Bill and hope, I suppose to defeat it on Second Reading. Suppose they do succeed in that, what will be the position? 
     
     
      
       That the Government will resign. 
     
     
      
       I am voting on the merits of the Bill, irrespective of whether the Government stand or fall. If the Second Reading of the Bill is defeated, the position will be that the term of office of Senators will continue to be twelve years.  We do not stand for that.  We believe that that term of office should be reduced, and accordingly we propose to vote for the Second Reading of this Bill.  We would be glad, if the Second Reading of this Bill were passed, that the term of office were further reduced to six years.  If, on the Committee Stage, Deputy de Valera puts forward an amendment to have the term of office reduced from nine years to six years we should certainly support that amendment.  But, in order to get a chance of doing that. we must vote for the Second Reading of this Bill.  If the Second Reading is not carried, then we will have the position as it is at present, a twelve years period.  We are prepared to vote for the Second Reading of this Bill, on the principle that it reduces the term of office of members of the Seanad.  I   think it was Deputy de Valera who said that if we must have a Seanad, then we ought to restrict its powers as much as possible.  On that principle, I think that he, too, should vote for the Second Reading of this Bill. 
     
     
      
       That is a nice way out of an unpleasant situation. 
     
     
      
       This Bill got a considerable amount of discussion&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is the President concluding? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I think there are some other members of our Party who wish to speak on this Bill. 
     
     
      
       In reference to what Deputy O'Connell said about the twelve years, what struck me from my little knowledge of vital statistics&mdash;no person is allowed to become a member of the Seanad until thirty-five years of age, at least that is the present arrangement, though it is proposed to change the age to thirty years&mdash;and from the evidence of our own census, the average life of a man in this country is forty-four.  Therefore, according to that, there are going to be very few Senators who will last the nine years. You are putting a strain upon these men that they may not altogether be able to meet.  Arguing from the medical point of view, I think it is hardly fair to expect men to put up with the duties that they are called upon to perform in that particular assembly and to last out for the nine years.  I quite recognise, of course, that they will do it, as a number of them have done for the last few years, by attending, as Deputy Lemass said, ten per cent. or twenty per cent. of the sittings, though the total number of sittings of the Seanad is not very heavy, as we know. I do not know if there is much in what Deputy O'Connell says, that by throwing out this Bill we will be going back to the twelve years period.  I think that having objected to the nine years term, we cannot very well vote for the Second Reading of this Bill in which the nine-years term is contained, and the only way in which we can express our dissatisfaction with the nine-years   term is to vote against the Second Reading.  If we are beaten on that, we will naturally attempt to put in some amendments on the Committee Stage to reduce the term.  I think that we are only acting logically in trying to defeat this Bill on Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       I was rather surprised to hear the sort of arguments that were put up against the Second Reading of this Bill.  I always understood that the greater contains the less. If we object to nine, then we must be in favour of twelve.  If nine goes, you can reduce it to six, but you cannot reduce twelve to six, because apparenly you are standing for twelve as against nine on this measure.  That is not the point that I am really concerned with.  The fact of the matter is that Deputies opposite have not considered one of these series of Constitution Amendment Bills.  Let us at least be candid with one another.  Surely Deputy Lemass was not serious during the whole course of his speech.  Did the circumstances of this measure warrant a fifteen or twenty minutes' speech?  Did they warrant Deputy Flinn's speech a few moments ago? What are the facts?  What are we dealing with in these matters? 
     
     Deputies opposite wish a continuation of the Seanad.  They see, as they have been seeing for the last five years, everything in the country against them and that everything is going to be against them.  They are incapable of seeing any way out; they are forestalled by people greater than themselves. Deputy Flinn was speaking of the impossibility of altering the Seanad.  He made up his mind that it had to be altered, but he does not know how it is to be done.  Deputy de Valera does not know how to alter it.  He has not the faintest conception of how he would alter it suppose he had to.  He does not concern himself in the least about it, and he is only concerned because this is a measure proposed by the majority Party who have an ulterior purpose.  The Party opposite look at everything brought before this House through coloured spectacles, and the leader of the Party asks members   of his Party who are tired and spent to get up and speak against the measures. 
     
      
       Why have twelve years instead of nine? 
     
     
      
       Twelve is objected to.  Few people stand for it. The Deputy's objection to a reduction in the number of years is not sufficient. &ldquo;Let us not pass this Bill,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;and obviously we are not in favour of altering the twelve, because twelve is what is there.&rdquo;  I think Deputy O'Connell put the thing in a nutshell. He is in favour of reducing it to nine, and reducing it still further, but in order to get out of twelve we have to put in something else or the twelve remains. 
     
     
      
       Why not put in six? 
     
     
      
       The whole pother is about three years; that is the whole trouble.  Deputies opposite a few moments ago did not know what they wanted.  One Deputy wanted one thing and another Deputy wanted another. The question to be decided is whether the period should be twelve years or nine.  When we have got the nine Deputies can make it only one if they so desire.  That is too laborious a procedure for men of that calibre. The whole thing is foolish.  Deputies opposite have the inferiority complex, and they will find it out.  They think we are misleading them.  We are not. We are asking them to look at this and every other measure with a view to its improvement, no matter who will be here in a couple of years' time, in the best interests of the country.  If you want a Seanad for six years there is a method of getting it, and that is by passing the proposal for nine years and then reducing it if you so desire. 
       Question put and declared carried. 
       Committee Stage ordered for 10th October. 
     
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - CONSTITUTION (AMENDMENT No. 9) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       This Bill can be explained in a very few words.  It proposes to regulate the panel according to law.  A Bill has been introduced   and the Second Reading of it is on the Order Paper to-day.  It proposes a method of election to the panel.  On the First Stage it is proposed that the Seanad nominates 20 members and that the Dail nominates 20 members.  Deputies might have some suspicion if we did not give them some idea of what the proposal is.  I gave information on the occasion of the First Reading of what in substance this Bill is about. It was suggested in the Joint Committee that a nominating college should select the members.  As, I think, I said on the previous occasion, a nominating   college is a very fine term, but there is always the difficulty about agreeing as to how it should be constituted.  I do not see any likelihood of any general agreement.  I do not mean to say that there might not in the future possibly be some sort of a general agreement among the constituent parts as to such a proposal.  In consequence, I think the best method is that the law should regulate how the panel should be adopted.  I accordingly move the Second Reading. 
       Question put. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 53; Ni, 48. 
       Ta. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Byrne, Alfred. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margaret. Conlan, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thomas Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Haslett, Alexander. Hassett, John J. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. 
             Henry, Mark. Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo.
 Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). 
             Fogarty, Andrew. French, Sean. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. Holt, Samuel. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killane, James Joseph. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Reilly, Matthew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P.
 Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and Martin Conlon; Nil: Deputies Cassidy and Everett. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     Committee Stage ordered for 10th October. 
   
   
     SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATE. - SEANAD ELECTORAL BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill. The Bill proposes to make arrangements for the conduct of the Seanad election and for the preparation of the panel.  It provides that the Minister will appoint at a suitable date, that is, prior to the 13th November in any year in which there is a Seanad election, a returning officer, that he will appoint a date for the issue of the ballot papers, and a date for the taking of the poll.  The Bill arranges that the panel for the Seanad election will be prepared by the members of the Dail, voting on principles of proportional representation, nominating as many qualified persons as there are members to go on the panel; by the Seanad, voting together on principles of proportional representation, selecting a similar number so that the panel shall consist of twice as many persons as there are vacancies to be filled, half of these persons being nominated by the Dail and half being nominated by the Seanad.  Paragraph 3 of the Report of the Joint Committee which dealt with this matter suggests that the panel of candidates set out before the Dail and Seanad for the purpose of the Dail and Seanad to vote members into the Seanad might be formed by a specially nominated college created for that purpose. It suggested at the same time that nominations should not be made exclusively from that college to the panel, that is, that the Dail and Seanad should have a certain amount of power to nominate to the panel also.  The Committee were unable to make recommendations as to how this nominating college might be got, and so far as the Executive Council are concerned, while this is a matter that long ago they gave a considerable amount of consideration to, they are not able to propose to the Dail how such a nominating college might be set up, and in fact are not able, and do not recommend to the Dail, that any better means can be got at the present time for putting up a panel for the Seanad election than by the Dail and Seanad setting up originally the panel themselves. Exception may be taken to the fact that the Dail is nominating to the panel simply the same number as the Seanad will nominate, but considering that the Dail and Seanad will vote together on principles of proportional representation to make the actual election there is no material point in that.  The Bill supersedes the Seanad Elections Act of 1925, and for that reason the Bill is complete in itself. Schedules 1 and 2 contain regulations guiding the Seanad returning officer as to the manner in which the elections shall be conducted, and as to the manner in which the counting shall take place.  For the purpose of the selection of the names to appear on the panel the Dail and Seanad will, as under the old arrangement under Article 32 of the Constitution, make their own regulations as to the way in which persons will be nominated and selected for inclusion on the panel.  The Bill also proposes to meet Paragraph 4 of the Report of the Committee, which says that outgoing Senators as such should not have the right to be included in any panel of candidates. 
     
     
      
       On a matter of order.  Is this Bill in order at all?  Is it not contrary to the Constitution as it stands at the moment?  I presume that the other Bill that has got a Second Reading just now is not law. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is asking, as a matter of order, whether this Bill is contrary to the   Constitution.  That is not a point for me to decide.  It is not a point of order. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that this Bill has been brought in too soon. 
     
     
      
       That this Bill anticipates a decision of the House? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       In so far as this Bill is concerned, any of the Bills, the passage of which would be necessary in order that this Bill should properly become law, will precede this Bill in its discussion, both in the Dail and in the Seanad.  The different Constitution Bills that affect this Bill have all gone through at least a Second Reading stage here, and the House has expressed its will in regard to them. Having expressed its will with regard to any constitutional point that is involved in those, it is not unreasonable that the House would express its will to the same extent with regard to this particular Bill, which is necessary if the will of the House, as expressed with regard to the other measures, is to be implemented. 
     
     
      
       I submit that the House ought not to be asked to come to a decision on a matter that is purely hypothetical.  The vote on this measure will be of no effect if, for example, the Bill that has just got its Second Reading does not go through. 
     
     
      
       You were nearly caught out on the other Bill a while ago. 
     
     
      
       I did not get notice of this point of order. Would the Deputy state the exact point? 
     
     
      
       The position is that this is in anticipation of a decision of the House, and that decision is the final passage, as far as this House is concerned, of the Bill with respect to the panel.  This Bill anticipates legislation with regard to the panel.  If, as a matter of fact, this Bill did not pass we would be thrown back to the other arrangements, which this Bill would not provide for at all. 
     
     
      
       If that point were to hold weight then I would say   that it would be out of order for the House to deal with the other two Bills, because those two Bills anticipated that the House would take another step subsequently. 
     
     
      
       After they became law. 
     
     
      
       You have three different Bills dealing with this, each one amending to a certain extent. 
     
     
      
       If that point of view were accepted how could a Bill ever be brought in to amend the Constitution? An amending Bill to the Constitution, because of its very nature, is against the Constitution as it stands when such Bill is introduced. 
     
     
      
       How could the Constitution be amended except by a direct Bill to amend it? 
     
     
      
       You could never bring it in. 
     
     
      
       A Bill to amend the Constitution is in accordance with Article 50. 
     
     
      
       The point, of which I should have had notice, is, as I understand it, that this Seanad Electoral Bill is based upon the supposition that the Constitution has already been amended in certain particulars and that therefore the House should not now proceed to its Second Reading until these amendments to the Constitution have actually been passed into law. I have myself given some consideration to that matter, and I have come to the conclusion that the point is not one for a ruling from the Chair.  It seems to me that the House is discussing this Electoral Bill with the knowledge that certain other measures that are before it have reached a certain stage in their passage through the House, and if the Seanad Electoral Bill was actually passed through all its stages in both Houses before certain other Bills had become law, it would, presumably, be a question of law to decide what the validity of the Act would be, having been passed.  It is not for me to decide.  From the point of view of procedure, it seems to me, as a matter of practice, it is desirable that at least a Second Reading should have been given to the Bill which makes provision   regarding the panel before this Bill goes to its Second Reading.  That is as a matter of practice, and the opinion is simply a personal one.  But I am not clear that if it were put to me as a point of order before Amendment No. 9 Bill had received its Second Reading that the Second Stage of this Seanad Electoral Bill could not be taken, I would accept the view that the Chair should refuse to receive the motion.  The matter might rather be for the Dail to decide when voting on the Second Stage than one for a ruling from the Chair.  The position is that certain Constitution amendments have been accepted in principle by the House, and the Second Reading of this Bill is now proposed.  It seems to me that there can be no ruling from the Chair which would prevent the House from deciding whether the Bill should receive a Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       If you are going to rule in that way, that it is a matter of law and if you are not going to decide it as a matter of common sense, if there is to be any amendment, as I hope there will be, of the other Bill when it is before us in Committee, that will probably affect this Bill and affect our attitude towards this.  My own personal attitude towards this would differ according to the question as to whether at any stage the number in the Seanad was to be dealt with.  For instance, if the relative voting power of the Seanad were to be diminished my objection to this would not be as strong as it is at the moment.  I think on the whole question it is quite clear that there is no urgency for this Bill, inasmuch as the other Bill has got to pass before this, and it is put off until October 10th.  As a matter of common sense, it seems that there is no point whatever in discussing this Bill at this stage. 
     
     
      
       On the question of urgency, I would like to say that it is not a mere matter of rushing this Bill through in any way.  The different stages that have to be gone through with these three Bills and the different steps that have to be taken before the Seanad election can be carried out are such that we figure out   that we must get the Second Reading of this Bill, so that we shall not be further delayed after the House reassembles on October 10th.  In so far as that time is laid out, it is essential that we should be able to take the Committee Stage of this Bill and the other Bills practically immediately after we resume, if the Seanad election is to be carried out in time. 
     
     
      
       On the matter of the length of time to devote to the Second Reading it may be nothing in comparison to the length of time devoted to it in Committee.  It seems to me that once the main principle is decided, it is a matter chiefly of detail for the Committee Stage.  That will take very much more time.  I cannot see the urgency for it at all, and I cannot say that the excuse made by the Minister for Local Government impresses me. 
     
     
      
       If we have to wait for the Second Reading of this Bill until October 10th, then we cannot have the Committee Stage of the Bill in a week.  It is essential that we should deal with the Committee Stage in the week that contains October 10th if we are to have preparations fully made for having the Seanad elections carried out in proper time. 
     
     
      
       Apparently the Minister is prepared, contrary to what I think is law and common sense, to put this Bill through.  We are going to oppose it.  We are opposing all these Bills, because of the fact that we think the Ministry has not given sufficient attention to the fact that the Seanad, as now constituted and as proposed to be re-elected, has powers which it is not right that any such body should have.  The Minister for Justice, or one of the other Ministers, when talking here on one of these Bills laid a great deal of stress on the question of representative government.  Now, it seems to me that this principle which has been introduced by Ministers, of giving a body which is not directly elected by the people a preponderating influence in the framing of legislation and in interference with legislation, is altogether against the principles of representative government.  I could   understand a person who was standing for representative government saying: &ldquo;Very well, we must put aside the Referendum; we must put aside the Initiative.&rdquo;  I do not say it would be wise, and I have opposed that on those Bills.  I cannot imagine anyone who stands for representative government, in the sense of government by representatives of the people, elected regularly by the people, putting aside the Referendum and the Initiative on the one hand, by which you can go to the people, on the grounds that they would be interfering with representatives of the people in their actions, and then, on the other hand, standing for a body that is not elected by the people at all, and a large element of which is now nominated and will be entitled to vote to reproduce itself.  Deputy Flinn a few moments ago pointed out in connection with another matter how slow the process would be of trying to change that with a large majority Party in this House, even if there was a two-thirds majority here, which would represent a very strong public opinion in favour of certain policies. They could not within this period of nine years anyhow change the Seanad and get a majority in favour of their views.  The President may say that is a big assumption.  Perhaps it is; but when we are dealing with matters of this kind we ought to consider the case of whether there is going to be later on a deadlock.  Assuming that the present Seanad is opposed to these changes&mdash; and I think we have very good grounds for assuming that the majority of the Seanad are opposed to these changes, which I believe the people will ultimately agree to&mdash;supposing we had in this House two-thirds of a majority in favour of them, it would take a much longer period than nine years before they had a majority there to carry out the views they were elected to put into operation.  The President says that they will not stand in the way.  Then why is he putting up a barrier of that particular kind?  I suggest he is doing it because he wants to strengthen his own particular side and for no other reason.  He and his Party are not thinking in terms of the general good. They are, I suggest, in all these Bills thinking that they are going to have   sixty votes added to their side, or the vast majority of sixty votes, and that it is going to give the Cumann na nGaedheal Party in these elections nearly sixty votes in addition to those they will get otherwise. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is a bit weak on the figures. 
     
     
      
       In what way? The President, when he nominated, was not weak on the section he nominated. The fact is that it would take, with the Seanad as it is composed at present, a two-thirds majority here, even if they were all voting consistently, over nine years to change the Seanad or to get a simple majority in the Seanad. 
     
     
      
       That is different from what the Deputy said&mdash;that I had nearly 60.  That was an exaggeration. 
     
     
      
       Except in the case where the people at the last election did not vote as you expected them, you have the 60. 
     
     
      
       I have not even a number of those I nominated myself&mdash; there is one of them at least going to support the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       You need not talk about my being weak on the figures if you forget the number you nominated yourself. 
     
     
      
       He did of course. 
     
     
      
       I did not hear that intelligent observation. 
     
     
      
       It does not make much difference whether you did or not. 
     
     
      
       The President ought not to interrupt Deputy de Valera in his speech. 
     
     
      
       We are opposed to these Bills because we do not think they are being conceived in the public interest.  Even from the point of view of a conservative body that would be anxious to have a directly representative House controlled, or at least a certain check put upon them, the proposals of the Government are not even consistent.  They are, as I say, proposals that can only be explained to anybody who is thinking generally in   terms of representative government, or a desire to get proper checks on legislation, on the ground that the President expects to have a vast preponderance of the Seanad votes on his side, and that all this talk about Thomas Davis and toleration is all so much nonsense when you begin to examine them in that particular light. 
     
     
      
       I never said toleration; I said justice. 
     
     
      
       That is not justice. Justice means equality.  We are standing for justice, as far as any section of the community is concerned, that they are entitled to get, man for man, representation the same as any other section, but not entitled to privileges. I say that this whole idea at the start, the idea of nomination by the President and the Executive Council, was a bargain in order to give a certain privileged class a predominance, and the whole of the circumstances in which that was conceived even have been departed from. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The President says no, but we all know that it is true, everybody here knows that it is true; that the reason for giving nominations to the President was that it was felt that the Unionist section of the country would not themselves, if there were popular elections, be able to get the number elected that would give them the privileges expected for them.  As I said, there might be some reason in the circumstances that were envisaged and that were thought of at first, there might be some excuse for giving that section a certain predominance in the voting over and above that to which they were entitled, man for man.  But the circumstances turned out very different, and the result was that they became in fact the dominating element. What was thought at the time was that in a united national Ireland, where you had not the division such as occurred, they would be a small percentage of the total.  The fact is that their policy largely became the policy of a large section of the national party and, consequently, the protection under cover   of which this nomination system was accepted was not necessary at all. However, although the need for it is gone, because it is useful to the President's Party, he proposes to continue it. 
       This Bill is based on the general assumption that the Seanad and the Dail are to have equality as regards voting strength, the panel, and everything else.  I say that that is altogether wrong; that when 60 members, who are not elected, are thrown in with 153 elected members, it is destroying the whole representative character of the electorate, and the principle of equality is such in this Bill that we object to it. We do not think the Senate ought to be given equality in the panel or in the voting.  As a matter of fact, in the case of the election to the Senate, if you did go away from the people at all&mdash;there were good reasons for not going to the people in the matter; I accepted these as good reasons why it was undesirable &mdash;we certainly did not expect that there was going to be the further step of taking the election away from this Dail.  This Dail could be regarded as representing the country, with the exception, as I have often pointed out, of those who were prevented from coming here by the political tests imposed. With the exception of these, the Dail could be taken as the country in miniature, and therefore the election by this body would not in effect be very much different from what you would have by the more expensive method of referring to the country as a whole. 
       As I have said, we are against the Bill, first of all because we think the principle is wrong&mdash;that of equality; secondly, because, at this particular stage, we see no reason why it should be introduced.  We want to see exactly what are the numbers in the Seanad; whether the Dail would change its mind about the numbers in the Seanad.  I hope that in Committee they will change their mind also about the period of office.  All these things influence the question of how the panel is to be formed.  Accordingly, as far as we are concerned, we are going to oppose the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I take it that the principle of the Bill is to provide a means for electing a Seanad.  It is a bad principle.   We are, therefore, opposed to the Bill, because we think that one of the easiest means by which the Seanad could be disposed of, with the least amount of trouble, would be to permit each electoral period to come and each group of Senators to retire, and provide no means for re-electing them. The Seanad would then gradually thin out, and, after a period of six or seven years, cease to exist.  Therefore, because the principle of the Bill is to provide for a continuity of the Seanad, we are against it.  But we are against it for several other reasons as well.  I do not think that any Bill ever introduced into any legislative assembly by any responsible, or irresponsible Government, contained such amazing provisions as this Bill.  Let us examine it. In the first place, in order to have an election, you must have a returning officer, and the returning officer for this election is appointed by a member of a political Party that would be putting forward candidates at the election.  The returning officer is appointed by an individual who will be a voter in the election.  That is a system of election that is new even in this country. 
     
     
      
       It is not. 
     
     
      
       I am very glad to hear that it has often been done before. as I often suspected it. 
     
     
      
       It happened in the the County Council elections, where the Fianna Fail Party in Midleton appointed their own personating agents, returning officers and polling clerks. 
     
     
      
       I am very glad to hear it and I hope it will have good results. 
     
     
      
       Very bad results. 
     
     
      
       That is an argument against the Bill.  I hope the Deputy will realise that, if it did work in Midleton, it will not work here. 
     
     
      
       Ask Deputy Corry. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said that the returning officer would also be a voter in the election.  That is not in the Bill. 
     
     
     
      
       I said the person who appoints a returning officer is a member of a political party and voter and would put forward his own candidates.  The returning officer is the man in whose hands the conduct of the election is. Section 7 reads:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;(1) A panel of candidates for a Seanad election prepared under this Act by the Seanad returning officer shall be conclusive as to the persons who are candidates at such election notwithstanding that any of such persons are dead or are not qualified for or are or have become disqualified for membership of Seanad Eireann and notwithstanding any informality or irregularity in their nomination.&rdquo; 
       This returning officer is nominated by a person with a direct political interest in the result of the election and is to have power to prepare a panel of candidates in any manner he chooses and any informality or irregularity committed by him does not invalidate the nomination. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is talking nonsense. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister will explain how.  The Minister himself in his introductory statement said he would have the appointment of the returning officer. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should read the Bill as a whole. 
     
     
      
       I have read it as a whole. 
     
     
      
       Has the Deputy found out how the returning officer does make the panel? 
     
     
      
       Yes, but the point I refer to is that any informality or irregularity in the preparation of the panel does not invalidate it.  Is not that so? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       If he acts irregularly, as Deputy Carey suggested some particular officer did in the County Cork, perhaps he will be proceeded against. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is suggesting this means any informality or irregularity on the part of the Seanad returning officer.  That is not   so.  The Seanad returning officer prepares the panel by associating the list he gets from the Clerk of the Dail with the list which he gets from the Clerk of the Seanad and the qualification is &ldquo;Notwithstanding any informality or irregularity in their nomination,&rdquo; whether in the Seanad or in the Dail. It means if in the preparation of their lists there is any irregularity or informality in the action taken in the Dail or Seanad that will not invalidate the list that is sent out by the Seanad returning officer. 
     
     
      
       I suggest to the Minister the purpose of this is to provide that any irregularity or informality committed by the returning officer will not invalidate the panel: 
       &ldquo;A panel of candidates for a Seanad election prepared under this Act by the Seanad returning officer shall be conclusive as to the persons who are candidates at such election.&rdquo; 
       The plain meaning of the words is that that section is intended to provide in advance for irregularities on the part of the returning officer whom the Minister is going to appoint. 
     
     
      
       All the Deputy's suggestions are certainly in keeping with one another. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that if the Government were anxious to give the impression that they wanted a fair election for the Seanad they should have arranged perhaps that the returning officer for Dublin City for the constituency in which this House is situated, or the returning officer for one of the University constituencies, who has experience in conducting elections in this manner, should act as returning officer, but no, despite the fact that the Minister is as interested as any other voter as to who shall or shall not be elected&mdash;he is more interested, because as a member of the Executive Council and as a member of the executive of Cumann na nGaedheal he is more likely to be concerned with the election than an ordinary back-bencher of his Party&mdash;he wants to keep the nomination in his own hands.  I suggest for the sake of common decency, to preserve whatever respect remains   amongst the people for the electoral system, that section should be abolished and some other arrangement substituted. Also, the powers of the returning officer should be such that a candidate at this election would have the same rights as one at an ordinary Dail election.  There is more than that in the Bill.  There are provisions in the Bill more amazing than that. 
     
     In a discussion upon one of the Constitution (Amendment) Bills which preceded this Bill reference was made to the advisability of having open or secret ballot in this election.  The Ministers were strong and keen in their defence of this system of secret voting. Deputies on this side of the House argued that there was no need for secrecy, that if we could have an open vote our constituents could, and should, know how each one of us recorded our preferences, but the Ministry were against it.  They wanted the secret ballot and wanted to preserve the secrecy of the vote.  That is what they said, but they have not provided that. They have provided that the Opposition will not know, but the returning officer nominated by the Minister will send out ballot papers on each of which will be stamped a number.  A similar number will be stamped on the counterfoil, and on the counterfoil, if you look at the First Schedule, Section 4, paragraph B, will be recorded the voter's number.  Any person who turns up the counterfoil can find out how each individual member voted by examining the ballot paper containing the same number as that which appears on the counterfoil.  The same system takes place in an ordinary Dail election, and it is often suggested that it destroys the secrecy of the Vote, but commonsense says where there are sixty or seventy thousand votes recorded the task of sorting out ballot papers to see how each particular voter recorded his preferences would be tremendous, and could be done only with the greatest difficulty.  That argument does not apply in this case.  There are only some 220 voters, and it would be no difficulty to find out exactly how each voter marked his paper.  It would be no difficulty for the returning officer.  He is a nominee of the Minister.  It would be   no difficulty for the Minister, but the Opposition will have all the advantage of a secret ballot.  They will not know. So long as the Government Whips know what does it matter?  All the fine arguments we heard about the secret ballot work themselves down to this, that the Ministers may know, but no one else may know.  This is the Bill the Minister says is so important that it must pass through its Second Reading in this session, because otherwise the Seanad could not be elected in time. Why not drop the farce of electing a Seanad at all?  If we are going to have an election in this manner, it is only a pretence.  Let the President, as he did in the past, nominate Senators.  It will at least be an honest attempt at getting a Seanad that will be amenable to his wishes.  A Seanad elected in the manner prescribed here will be a mere humbug. We have, therefore, in this Bill provisions by which the returning officer is nominated by the Minister. provisions by which any irregularity or informality committed by that returning officer will not be permitted to invalidate the election, provisions by which that returning officer may know exactly what ballot paper was sent to each voter and, when he gets it back, how each voter recorded his preferences. 
     We have more than that.  It is provided that the method of the proposal and selection of persons for nomination under this section by Dail Eireann and Seanad Eireann respectively for inclusion in the panel of candidates for the Seanad election shall be decided by Dail Eireann and Seanad Eireann respectively.  It is to be presumed that this section applies to qualified persons. A person must be qualified before he can be nominated.  The qualification is that Seanad Eireann shall be composed of citizens who shall be proposed on the ground that they have done honour to the nation by means of useful public services or because of special qualifications or attainments they represent important aspects in the nation's life. The nomination is to be by the Dail and Seanad.  Of course we may as well recognise that that section of the Constitution is just a mere jumble of words, meaning nothing, because I   think it could be argued that a person who becomes a member of Fianna Fail has done honour to the nation by reason of useful public services, and it could also be argued that a person who joined Cumann na nGaedheal had special qualifications and represented important aspects of the nation's life. 
     
      
       Hear, hear. 
     
     
      
       Any person in the State who had reached the age limit will be qualified to be elected to the Seanad and we know that the only argument that will be taken into consideration by the various parties in this House when putting forward their nomination will be an argument which will have no relation to that section, but which will involve the internal peace of their party and nothing else. 
     
     
      
       What about your party&mdash;are you an exception? 
     
     
      
       No, certainly.  This party has not yet decided that it will sufficiently degrade itself to nominate candidates at this election.  Having discovered that it is possible for any person to be nominated for this Seanad, we then turn to this Bill; we find provisions made here for nomination.  It was maintained in the course of a debate upon some of these Constitution Bills that it was proposed to divide evenly between the Dail and Seanad the power of nominating and electing Senators.  But when we get the Bill itself we find that in relation to the nomination of Senators it is proposed in fact to give to the Seanad double the powers of the Dail.  Twenty members or a number of members corresponding to the number of vacancies will be nominated by this Dail and the same number will be nominated by the Seanad, although the Seanad consists of only 60 members while this House consists of 153 members. 
     
     
      
       That does not say that they will be elected. 
     
     
      
       Not at all, but before a man can be elected he must be nominated.  The Deputy knows that. But he cannot be nominated unless he gets someone in this House or somebody   in the Seanad to propose him and he cannot get elected unless he gets a majority to vote for him.  First he must have a majority necessary to include his name in the panel.  The Seanad will, therefore, have much more power of nomination than the Dail. The Deputy has grasped that? 
     
     
      
       That is no argument. 
     
     
      
       I intend it as an argument. It is quite obvious that if twenty vacancies are to be filled and if each House has the right of nominating twenty candidates that three votes in the Seanad will be sufficient to secure a nomination, but it will take seven or nearly eight votes in the Dail to secure the nomination of a Senator.  In that way it is clear that a Senator has more than double the power of a member of the Dail.  Has the Deputy grasped that yet? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       The process of education is proceeding.  The fact remains, however, that the proposal contained in this Bill does in fact give to the Seanad, so far as the nomination of candidates is concerned, double the power that it gives to members of the Dail.  Why not go the whole hog?  Why not give the entire power of nominating Senators to the Seanad?  You have carefully made arrangements as to the manner in which the election will be held which will make it impossible for your opponents to get anyone elected. Why not now make similar arrangements to spike the guns in advance by insuring that only your friends can actually nominate candidates?  Personally, of course, it is my opinion, and the opinion of members of my Party, that if there should be a Seanad&mdash;a thing in which we do not believe&mdash;and if there should be an election of Senators&mdash;a thing which we do not approve of&mdash;in such case the Senators should be elected from a panel of candidates nominated through this Dail, and this Dail only; that we should not give Senators the power to reproduce from their own assembly and to decide who was to succeed them in their office. We think that is a bad principle.  Of   course, the whole Bill is based upon a bad principle.  What else could you expect?  I wonder if Deputy Carey, who has been anxious to speak on this matter, has actually read the Bill?  I doubt if he has. 
     
     
      
       Long before now. 
     
     
      
       I would ask him to turn to the first schedule.  Has he read the first schedule? 
     
     
      
       It is the history of Ireland you want me to read, I suppose. It would be more in your line if you were to read it. 
     
     
      
       It is not quite as long, and certainly it is much more interesting. It does provide, first of all, that every candidate can attend at the issuing of the ballot papers&mdash;and, remember, each candidate can inspect the issuing of the ballot papers.  He will know the number which goes upon the block, and he will know the number of each voter.  He will be able to get a considerable amount of information which will help him in his canvassing. If he is a member of Cumann na nGaedheal he will be able to say a word to the returning officer which will do him no harm, because of course the returning officer will be a member of Cumann na nGaedheal also, and when the ballot papers come in he will be able to know whether or not the friends that he did a good turn to will let him down when voting or not, or whether he was high up in the list of preferences. 
     
     
      
       I am surprised that Deputy Lemass would make an insinuation of that kind.  I think the Deputy ought to be more honourable than to make such an insinuation as that against a responsible officer.  I did not think that he would descend so low as to mention that sort of thing. 
     
     
      
       We are glad to know he will be a responsible officer but there is nothing about it in the Bill. Deputy Sheehy has said that he did not think I would make an insinuation like that.  Now this Bill contains a provision that the returning officer will be appointed by the Minister.  I want   to remind the Deputies that the present Minister may not always be the Minister for Local Government. 
     
     
      
       He will be as long as we can make him. 
     
     
      
       I may be Minister for Local Government and Public Health and when the next election takes place I may be filling the position. 
     
     
      
       A terrible thought. 
     
     
      
       Very doubtful indeed. 
     
     
      
       But if I am the Minister for Local Government and Public Health I will be able to appoint the returning officer. 
     
     
      
       You are prepared to do away with the Seanad and if you had power to do away with the Dail I doubt very much if we would be sitting here. 
     
     
      
       I may not be Minister, but Deputy O'Connell may be. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not going to annihilate the Dail and Seanad.  He was out for both but he will fail. 
     
     
      
       The fact is that if this Bill is passed into law, it will be law for any Government unless they repeal it.  If any responsible Government does succeed the present one it will repeal it.  The returning officer for all time will be appointed by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, if this Bill is not repealed and no matter who is appointed or what Party he comes from he will be a member of a Party and will be interested in the result of the election. 
     
     
      
       That is not fair to me to make that statement.  I might appoint myself. 
     
     
      
       Not fair to you?  Oh, I see.  It is of course quite possible that that might happen.  There is nothing in the Bill to prevent it.  The returning officer might be himself a candidate.  I have been unable to see any section in the Bill which prevents a Minister from appointing a candidate as a returning officer and if such a   section is not inserted is it not quite possible that an unscrupulous Minister for Local Government and Public Health&mdash;that is talking impersonally now&mdash;might make certain the election of a particular favourite by appointing him returning officer and give him the counting of the votes as well? 
     
     
      
       Surely, you would not do that. 
     
     
      
       No&mdash;I do not know; but I would remind Deputies that it would not be the first time that a returning officer exercised considerable influence in the election of a Senator. In fact, if rumours are correct&mdash;perhaps I had better go no further; but there was a certain amount of suspicion concerning the activities of some returning officer in relation to the last Seanad election.  Now that we have the opportunity of altering the system of election, now that we are actually proposing to alter it, should we not, in the interests of decent democratic government, provide against any possibility of a repetition of these abuses?  Certainly I think that any self-respecting Deputy in the Dail who will read the Bill&mdash;and, mind you, that will be a minority of the Deputies&mdash;and who can understand&mdash;again a minority&mdash;the amazing provisions which it contains will, I think, be forced, even against the orders of his Party Whip, to vote against it.  There is nobody in the Dail who can possibly contemplate with pleasure the prospect of having to justify to his constituents the fact that he voted for a Bill which contained the provisions which this Bill contains&mdash; provisions relating to the appointment of a returning officer by the Minister; provisions relating to the powers of the returning officer and the general benediction which is given to his acts in advance; provisions which provide that there shall in fact be a means by which the returning officer and the Minister who appointed him will be able to get behind the provisions regarding the secrecy of the ballot and find out how each Deputy voted. 
     
     
      
       Of course, that is quite untrue. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact? 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy has not read the Bill. 
     
     
      
       I draw the Minister's attention to Section 9 (3):&mdash; 
       &ldquo;The ballot papers shall be in the prescribed form and each ballot paper shall have a number printed on the back and shall have attached a counterfoil with the same number printed on the face, and every ballot paper shall at the time of issue thereof be marked on both sides with an official mark either stamped or perforated.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       You are skipping your lessons. 
     
     
      
       I have read the whole section, and paragraph (b) of Section 4 of the First Schedule says:&mdash;&ldquo;The elector's said number shall be marked on the counterfoil of the ballot paper.&rdquo; Paragraph (a) of the same section says that &ldquo;the number, name and description as stated in the electoral roll of the elector to whom the ballot paper is to be issued shall be called out.&rdquo; Then the number shall be marked on the counterfoil. 
     
     
      
       Has the Deputy read paragraph 21 of the First Schedule? 
     
     
      
       Plus paragraph 24, plus paragraph 25, plus paragraph 26. 
     
     
      
       Paragraph 21 sets out:&mdash;&ldquo;The Seanad returning officer and every of his assistants taking part in any of the proceedings under this schedule or the counting of the votes, and every candidate attending any of the said proceedings or the said counting shall, before so taking part or so attending, sign an undertaking in the prescribed form to preserve the secrecy of the voting.&rdquo;  Deputy Esmonde knows what that section is worth. Every Deputy in the House knows what it is worth.  Every Deputy who went through an election sent in the prescribed form a declaration of secrecy, but when he visited the polling booth he was not above taking a hint from the personating agent as to who had or had not voted, for the purpose   of sending out a car in case certain voters had not arrived. 
     
     
      
       There is no question of violation of secrecy in that. 
     
     
      
       If you read the declaration of secrecy in the prescribed form you would be amazed at all the provisions contained in it, and you would be amazed at the number of times that you broke them.  I am prepared to admit that a returning officer who is conscientiously anxious to carry out his duties properly would be able to preserve the secrecy of the ballot; but we have no guarantee that such a returning officer would be appointed. We have, in fact, the knowledge that the returning officer will be appointed by the Minister and that the Minister is an interested party in the election. It is well to state frankly and clearly that there have been abuses in connection with elections in the past.  I have here, for example, a ballot paper issued in connection with the last General Election in Dublin County Constituency. You will remember it was stated in the Press, and I can personally vouch for it, that a very large number of ballot papers was found in an old drain in the slobland near Merrion or Booterstown.  How did that large number of ballot papers get there?  The returning officer was responsible for their safe custody and the matter was never cleared up.  There were other instances. 
     
     
      
       What does the Deputy mean by saying that the matter was never cleared up? 
     
     
      
       Never satisfactorily cleared up&mdash;no satisfactory explanation was offered. 
     
     
      
       A statement of the plain facts was publicly made. 
     
     
      
       The returning officer said they were probably dumped there by some person in his employment and they were probably found there after the election was over.  Under the Electoral Act he was responsible for putting them in a sealed box and returning them to the Government or to the Clerk of the Dail.  The point in connection with this Bill is that if the   method of appointing the returning officer was different we could have confidence in him.  I am sure Deputies who know the returning officer for Dublin City would have every confidence in him if he conducted the election.  If it was understood that he was the returning officer, the objections that I have raised would have no weight.  If it is provided that the returning officer for one or other of the university constituencies, who has had experience of the manner of conducting elections by post, as this provides for, there would be no objection. But the proposal to have the returning officer appointed by a Minister who has a direct and party interest in the election is one which cannot be, I think, justified.  There are very few sections in the Bill which can be justified.  The whole Bill itself cannot be justified.  The Seanad cannot be justified and the action of the Government in seeking to perpetuate the Seanad cannot be justified.  Consequently, the existence of this Government cannot be justified. 
     
     
      
       We are opposing this Bill because in the first place it is part of the machinery by which the election of the Seanad is taken away from the people. 
     
     That is the first plank in our opposition to this measure.  We have given our reasons on previous occasions as to why we preferred, if and while we have a Seanad, that the election should be carried out by the votes of the people.  I do not propose to go into that point again.  The Bill, judged even from the point of view of an electoral machine, is bad in several places.  We strongly object to the provisions of Section 5, whereby the Seanad has a right to nominate an equal number with the Dail.  I have heard no justifications from the Minister for that provision.  The only statement he makes is that it does not matter very much, because when the election comes on they will be voting according to proportional representation, but when a man gets on a panel of forty members he has made a very big step forward in the election.  He has got a considerable distance on the way to   election.  I cannot see why three Senators can secure the election of a man to the panel while it takes, at least, seven members of the Dail to do the same thing.  No justification has been offered for that.  As it is to be done according to the system of proportional representation, nomination to the panel ought to be proportional to the numbers in the Dail and Seanad, if the Dail and Seanad are to make the nominations. 
     That is the clause that is open to serious objection and for which there is no justification offered and, so far as I can see, there can be no possible justification for it except to placate the Seanad in some way or to attempt to show that in these matters it is equal to the Dail and has the same rights as it has.  That is the only possible excuse or justification for it, the placation of the amour proper of the Seanad.  We object to that and will oppose it at every possible stage.  With regard to the whole elaborate system of election I do not think that it is necessary to go to all these rounds.  I think the whole system is copied from the system known as the postal voters system in a general election, where voting papers are sent to soldiers on active service and where they have to go round to get identification papers signed by their commanding officer, or a local peace commissioner.  I do not think that it is adding to our dignity by having to be identified by a local peace commissioner before we can vote. These are the provisions in the Bill.  It is a matter of two hundred votes. Imagine our Senators getting voting papers and going to a local peace commissioner to get themselves identified. 
     
      
       They will have to come from London to do that. 
     
     
      
       No, they can get somebody in London to do it.  We are liberal enough to take the identification of someone who can administer an oath over there.  I cannot see what objection there is to the method adopted when the first election of Senators took place under the Provisional Government.  I think that that would be a much more preferable system in comparison with the proposal in this   Bill.  As Ministers and Deputies who were here on that occasion will remember, the voting was carried on by those who attended here for that purpose. The Ceann Comhairle was the Presiding Officer, and each Deputy marked his paper and placed it in the ballot box on the Clerk's table, and that was all about it.  If there is to be voting by the Dail and Seanad I believe that that system could be carried out, and would be much more preferable to that set out in the Bill.  It would, I believe, get rid of a good many of the difficulties suggested by Deputy Lemass.  In any case, it would not leave grounds for the many suspicions which can be discovered in this Bill by anyone who sets out to discover them.  I think it would be a better system than that contained in the Bill, but my main objection to the measure is not what it contains, but that it should be there at all. 
     
     
      
       One would have expected when the Minister for Local Government was introducing an important Bill of this description, which takes away from the people the right of electing Senators, that he would have gone into greater detail than he did and have explained the various sections of the Bill.  Evidently he believes that he will be able to bring up his reserve forces from the Library and Committee Rooms to carry the Second Reading.  I think that the Minister was much too brief and manifested far too much haste.  I believe that the Government manifested too much haste in introducing this legislation.  It should not have been introduced in anticipation of the fact that legislation which is before the House has not been completed. I believe that the Minister had a certain reason in rushing this legislation, as he knows that the fifteen Senators who were nominated in 1922 will go out of office on the 6th December next, and unless the election takes place prior to the 6th December these fifteen Government supporters would not be able to vote at this particular election.  We, on these benches, believe that it is most undemocratic that nineteen outgoing Senators should have votes in the election, and that the Minister realises that if the election is   held after the 6th December fifteen of these Senators who were nominated by the President would not have a vote in regard to returning them.  There are nineteen Senators to be elected.  I believe that the principal reason of the Executive Council in introducing legislation of this description taking away rights from the people, which no democratic Government would do, was that they knew that, according to the numerical strength of the various parties, so far as the Labour Party is concerned it will be able to elect approximately two Senators. 
     
     Taking into consideration the approximate strength of Fianna Fail that party will be able to select six, but taking into consideration the strength of those who support the Government, together with Senators, they will be able to return eleven.  The Executive Council know that if the rights of the people were not taken away and if the people were allowed to vote as they should, the Government Party would not be able to return that particular number. Reference has been made to Section 5. So far as that section is concerned it stipulates that the Dail shall nominate as many candidates as there are vacancies, in other words, nineteen candidates. The Seanad can nominate the same number, although out of sixty Senators sitting in the Seanad only nineteen were elected by the votes of the people.  We are against this system altogether.  We believe, if you are going to have a Seanad, it should not be elected either by the Dail or the Seanad.  We believe it should not be elected by the Seanad, because only nineteen Senators were elected by the people and, while Deputies were elected by the people, they received no mandate from the electorate throughout the country to return Senators.  Consequently I hold that this is an undemocratic Bill.  There is one very strange peculiarity concerning the Bill.  It stipulates that candidates can attend in the place where the returning officer is sending out the voting papers.  Candidates can attend when the votes are being counted, but cannot attend here when recording their votes.  It will be a system of postal voting entirely.  The returning officer will send out the ballot papers by registered post, but there   is no stipulation that they are to be returned to him by registered post.  I believe that that is open to very grave abuse. 
     I remember, in connection with an election in the Six Counties a short time ago, one party alleged that he posted the ballot paper of a certain candidate, but the Six-County Government denied receiving it.  I am not saying that the same thing will happen here, but what is to prevent it? There are no provisions in this Bill to prevent it.  I agree with what Deputy Lemass said, namely, that the word &ldquo;secrecy&rdquo; is written all over the Bill. We agree that, so far as the votes in this House or in the Seanad are recorded, the public should know what is going on.  They should know for whom Deputies or Senators are voting.  There should be no secrecy, but while the Government on the one hand hold that there should be secrecy, they are prepared on the other hand to put a number on the back of every ballot paper and a corresponding number on the counterfoil.  They will thus be able to ascertain for whom Senators and Deputies voted.  If they want to have a secret vote let it be secret, although we believe that there should be no secrecy about it. 
     Section 7 provides that if, after the panel is formed, any candidate whose name is on the panel dies it is to be put on the ballot paper and the candidate would have to be announced as having been returned if elected, but in the First Schedule there is a stipulation that if a petition is made by a candidate against the result of the election the court can call on the returning officer to produce all the documents in regard to the election.  Deputies will remember that in the North Dublin City election recently, owing to blundering in the draughtsmanship of the Electoral Act, a bankrupt could get nominated, but could not get elected.  I can see the same thing happening here.  If any candidate is dissatisfied and appeals to the Court, the court may decide that the returning officer should produce the documents. If he should die in the meantime, as he may, unless the Government is prepared to inoculate this one official with monkey glands, I can see a crux   similar to that which arose in the North City arising.  I ask the House to reject the Bill.  It is undemocratic. I believe that the principle of democracy has been sacrificed on the altar of economy.  I believe that there will be some economies in regard to the Bill. If there is to be any economy, what becomes of the money saved as compared with the cost of the other system of election?  It will be a big amount.  I hope that the Minister will accept the suggestion that the saving effected by this new method of election will be brought forward by way of Supplementary Estimate for the relief of unemployment and passed before the Adjournment of the Dail. 
     
      
       We have not had any explanation yet as to why the Seanad should have, roughly speaking, two and a half times the voting power of the Dail.  I think we should have some explanation of that.  There also seems to be a point as to whether Senators who are absent from the country may attest before a Notary Public or some official on the other side.  It would not be necessary for them to appear at all.  I do not know whether it would be necessary for them to appear at any time. They appear very seldom at present. We will require some explanation as to why they choose to give that extra power of nomination.  It is not sufficient merely to say that it is equal when obviously it is not equal.  I do not want to go into it very elaborately, but apparently it is a case of taking it or leaving it.  While I am on the point I would like to say that the calculation which I made in the early part of the debate in relation to the time it would take to alter the Seanad under this scheme was wrong.  I made a mistake.  I left out the fact that the Senators who were elected by the Dail would themselves be voting, and to that extent that calculation is wrong.  I want to make that apology.  Apart from that, I do think that we ought to be treated somewhat more seriously than we have been, in relation to some justification as to why they choose to allow the Seanad this power.  There may be some reason.  I do not know.  Frankly, I find it impossible to formulate any reason as to why 60 of the Seanad should be   allowed to nominate as many Senators as the Dail.  I ask some reasonable explanation of that. 
     
     
      
       Exception was taken by Deputy O'Connell to the election being carried out under the postal system.  The question of having direct polling or having voting on the postal system was very fully considered, and it was thought more satisfactory for all concerned to adopt the postal system. The Seanad and the Dail might not be meeting on the same day or might not be meeting at the time at which the election would be held, and it seemed undesirable to bring the two Houses of the Oireachtas together simply for the purpose of having an election when it could be satisfactorily carried out by the postal voting system.  If it is thought that the system can be made more satisfactory by having letters returned by registered post, as well as sending them out in that way, that can be considered, but it will probably be found that there are reasons why persons should be allowed to post in the non-registered form.  Deputy Lemass challenges the bona fides of the system, basing his challenge on the fact that the Minister for Local Government appoints the Seanad returning officer. Under the Ministers and Secretaries Act the Minister for Local Government is made responsible, among other things, for the administration in connection with elections of both Houses of the Oireachtas.  There is no person who could or who should appoint the returning officer in cases where both Houses are voting together other than the Minister for Local Government. 
     
     He may appoint the returning officer for North or South Dublin, or for County Dublin or for the University, but I suggest that normally he would appoint a Civil Servant to carry out the work.  It is only playing with the different kinds of suggestions to say that because the returning officer is appointed by a person who is a politician that the control of the elections is in the hands of that particular politician. There was a suggestion, too, that the secrecy of the ballot in this particular case will not and cannot be kept at any rate from the Minister who   has the appointment of the Seanad returning officer.  To say that is simply to make light suggestions for purposes that are not purposes applied to the practical carrying out of the work and the practical settling of how this election should be carried out.  If Deputies will refer to Section 4 they will see that at every stage of the proceedings from the sending out of the ballot papers to the fixing up of the receptacles for the reception of the ballot papers when they come back and the counting of the votes, the candidates are fully entitled to be present on all these occasions.  Under Section 24 it is provided that &ldquo;upon the completion of the counting of the votes the Seanad returning officer shall seal up in separate packets the counted ballot papers and the ballot papers rejected as invalid.&rdquo;  These sealed packets will be retained for six months and subsequently destroyed, but as long as they are retained they can only be opened on the order of an election tribunal set up to deal with any particular claim that there may be.  It was suggested by Deputy Lemass that under Section 7 (1) arrangements are made to give an indulgence beforehand to irregularities on the part of the Seanad returning officer.  That section and sub-section are there in order to prevent the Seanad returning officer interfering in any way with the different sections for the formation of the panel sent up to him from the Dail and the Seanad.  If the Seanad puts on its panel that goes up to the Seanad returning officer the name of a person who is not qualified to be on the panel, then Section 7 (1) secures that the Seanad returning officer shall not interfere, good, bad or indifferent, but that he shall place the name on the panel that goes out.  The fact of a person being disqualified in any way will only affect him when the count is taking place, but if Deputies refer to Section 15 they will see that it makes provision by which non-compliance with the rules contained in any of the schedules to this Act shall not be a reason for declaring an election void where the tribunal dealing with the matter considers that it did not affect the result of the election.  The position   is that the Bill, in a sensible way, makes provision by which small errors will not give rise to inconvenience or trouble in connection with the election. 
     In so far as exception is taken to the Dail and Seanad having equal powers of nomination that, as I said in introducing the measure, is a minor matter.  You cannot lose sight of the fact that the electorate in this case is practically the same body that puts up the panel, and that there is very little object in setting up, by means of the Dail and Seanad, a very large panel when there are only a limited number of people who can be elected.  If it is desired either to increase, if that seems to be good, the numbers who should be put on the panel from the Dail, or to reduce to some extent the number of persons who can be put on the panel by the Seanad, that is simply a matter for discussion, but in the actual working out of the vote of the Dail and Seanad together the question as to whether you have a panel of thirty, forty, or fifty is not likely to affect the actual result of the vote very much.  That has to be borne in mind when we are discussing the numbers that shall be put up by the Dail and Seanad. 
     
      
       It is not so much a question of numbers.  It is that the actual   personnel will be very gravely affected by who resigns. 
     
     
      
       I am concerned entirely with numbers, and if the Deputy further considers it he will find that it is a question of numbers too. 
     
     
      
       Of number one. 
     
     
      
       Exception has been taken to the brief explanation given of this Bill.  The Bill is simple and very explanatory, and Deputies who read it will not require an elaborate explanation of it.  I beg to move the Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       The President stated here that he has not at all times had the support of his own nominees.  I would like him to explain what he meant by that.  Is it a fact that he nominated these people on a definite understanding, and have they broken this undertaking? What did he mean when he charged them with failing to answer the Party Whip in the Seanad on occasions? 
     
     
      
       I got no undertaking and I asked for none.  Any explanation I could give in the time at my disposal would be beyond the capacity of the Deputy to understand. 
       The Dail divided: Ta, 57; Nil, 52. 
       Ta. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Alton, Ernest Henry. Beckett, James Walter. Bennett, George Cecil. Blythe, Ernest. Bourke, Seamus A. Byrne, Alfred. Byrne, John Joseph. Carey, Edmund. Collins-O'Driscoll, Mrs. Margaret. Conlan, Martin. Connolly, Michael P. Cooper, Bryan Ricco. Cosgrave, William T. Craig, Sir James. Crowley, James. Davis, Michael. Doherty, Eugene. Dolan, James N. Doyle, Peadar Sean. Duggan, Edmund John. Dwyer, James. Egan, Barry M. Esmonde, Osmond Thomas Grattan. Fitzgerald, Desmond. Fitzgerald-Kenney, James. Haslett, Alexander.
 Sheehy, Timothy (West Cork). Thrift, William Edward. Tierney, Michael. 
             Hassett, John J. Hennessy, Thomas. Hennigan, John. Henry, Mark. Jordan, Michael. Keogh, Myles. Leonard, Patrick. Lynch, Finian. Mathews, Arthur Patrick. McDonogh, Martin. McFadden, Michael Og. McGilligan, Patrick. Mongan, Joseph W. Mulcahy, Richard. Murphy, James E. Murphy, Joseph Xavier. Myles, James Sproule. Nally, Martin Michael. O'Connor, Bartholomew. O'Hanlon, John F. O'Mahony, Dermot Gun. O'Sullivan, Gearoid. O'Sullivan, John Marcus. Rice, Vincent. Roddy, Martin.
 Vaughan, Daniel. White, Vincent Joseph. Wolfe, George. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Aiken, Frank. Allen, Denis. Blaney, Neal. Boland, Gerald. Boland, Patrick. Brady, Sean. Briscoe, Robert. Buckley, Daniel. Carney, Frank. Cassidy, Archie J. Coburn, James. Colbert, James. Cooney, Eamon. Corkery, Dan. Crowley, Fred. Hugh. Crowley, Tadhg. Davin, William. Derrig, Thomas. De Valera, Eamon. Everett, James. Fahy, Frank. Flinn, Hugo. Fogarty, Andrew. French, Sean. Gorry, Patrick J. Goulding, John. 
             Hayes, Sean. Holt, Samuel. Houlihan, Patrick. Jordan, Stephen. Kennedy, Michael Joseph. Kerlin, Frank. Killane, James Joseph. Killilea, Mark. Kilroy, Michael. Lemass, Sean F. Little, Patrick John. Maguire, Ben. MacEntee, Sean. Moore, Seamus. Morrissey, Daniel. O'Connell, Thomas J. O'Dowd, Patrick Joseph. O'Reilly, Mathew. O'Reilly, Thomas. Powell, Thomas P. Ryan, James. Sexton, Martin. Sheehy, Timothy (Tipperary). Smith, Patrick. Walsh, Richard. Ward, Francis C. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P.S. Doyle; Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Cassidy. 
     Motion declared carried. 
     Committee Stage ordered for 10th October. 
   
   
     QUESTION ON THE ADJOURNMENT. - CONTROL OF MOTOR BUS TRAFFIC. 
     
      
       The question of the regulation and control of motor bus traffic has been raised on several occasions in this House, and on every occasion that the matter has been raised here we have been answered by the assurance that an Inter-departmental Traffic Committee has been set up by the Ministry, and pending the report and recommendations of that committee nothing in the shape of amending legislation could be considered.  The question of introducing an amending Bill regarding traffic regulations in connection with motor buses is a problem in itself, but the administration of the law as we find it to-day is quite another matter.  I am here to charge the Minister and the Department responsible for the administration of these traffic regulations with not having these regulations carried out in the way they should be.  There is not the supervision one would expect, and which would be in the interests of the travelling public.  As a result, within the past seven or eight days two persons have been killed on Merrion Road. I thought fit to put down a question in connection with this matter.  The Minister, in reply, gave me information to show that for the first six months of 1927 there were 354 prosecutions for speeding and overcrowding, and 261 convictions were secured.  The average fine in the case of those convicted works out at 16s. each.  In the first six months of 1928 there were 1,505 prosecutions and 1,266 convictions, and the average fine works out at 13s. 8d. in the case of each person convicted.  That would go to show that there is leniency rather than an attempt on the part of the Minister's Department to enforce the existing traffic regulations.  There is an increase of almost 300 per cent. in the number of individuals prosecuted, either for exceeding the speed limit or   for allowing overcrowding of buses. Nobody, not even the Minister for Justice himself, could suggest that the number of motor buses plying for hire to-day is three times what it was twelve months ago.  Therefore there must be a growing disregard on the part of the bus drivers or owners for the existing traffic laws.  As to the question of speeding, we are aware that a regulation was recently issued by, I think, the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, under which the speed limit was increased from twelve to twenty miles per hour.  I do not think that even that has had the desired effect.  I will quote a couple of cases that were brought under the notice of the Courts recently.  The most recent case that I have brought to my notice is a case in the Booterstown-Blackrock area, the same area in which those two citizens have recently been killed by buses.  This case was tried in the District Court on last Wednesday.  I quote from the &ldquo;Evening Herald&rdquo; of the same date: 
       In the Dublin District Court to-day, before Mr. Little, James O'Brien, 33 Moss St., was charged with having driven a Red Car bus at a speed dangerous to the public on the road between Booterstown and Blackrock. 
       Edward O'Carroll, 75 Lr. Mount St., was charged with a similar offence at the same time and place when he was driving a General bus. 
       Sergeant Lynch, 25F, who, with Guard Hanrahan, 30F, proved the cases, told the Court that the buses were doing over thirty-two miles an hour and were apparently racing. (That is the point that I want to bring to the Minister's notice.) Each defendant was fined £3, which was reduced to £2 in the case of O'Carroll, who said he had already been fined £2. 
     
     Now, here is an individual who is brought up before the District Court and on the first offence is fined £3.  The other individual is brought before the Court on a second offence, and when he points that out to the District Justice the fine is immediately reduced to £2. In the Kilmainham District Court about three months ago I noticed another   case published in the papers where a bus driver was charged with having fourteen passengers in his bus in excess of its registered carrying capacity.  The District Justice fined the driver the sum of 10/-.  I understand that the bus was a long-distance one, belonging to the Irish Omnibus Company, and it would only take about two fares to make up that very small fine.  On the same day I understand that the Great Southern Railways Company was prosecuted and fined £20 for having one pig in a waggon in excess of the number allowed under the regulations of the Department of Agriculture. Of course, I could quote these cases until 11 o'clock to-morrow night if I wanted to, but I do not want to trouble the Minister. 
     
      
       Keep on till 11 o'clock to-night. 
     
     
      
       With regard to my own area, I read in the &ldquo;National and Leinster Times&rdquo;, where the driver of an omnibus was prosecuted.  His evidence was that he got a puncture, and that in order to make up the time lost in repairing it he was driving fast.  He admitted that he was doing at the rate of thirty-five miles an hour along a certain portion of the road.  The Justice said: &ldquo;Have you ever been up before me before?&rdquo; and he said that he had not.  The Justice then said: &ldquo;Have you ever been up before me in the Roscrea Court&rdquo;&mdash;he thought he recognised the driver&mdash;but the man said no. He was fined 10/-.  I submit that these fines, averaging 10/- and 13/8, which have been imposed in the years 1927 and 1928 upon a very large and growing number of drivers who have been endangering the public, will not meet the case and will not bring these road pirates within the limits of the law. 
     
     As to overcrowding, I happened on two or three occasions to witness buses leaving Aston Quay and Burgh Quay overcrowded and with people standing in the middle of the buses.  I want to know if there are at the points mentioned any police, either in uniform or detectives, responsible for seeing that buses are not overcrowded at the starting point.  I looked around on the couple of occasions when I was there,   and I certainly could not see any policeman in uniform.  I think a policeman in uniform would inspire more fear in the driver than a man in civilian clothes. At any rate, if there is no supervision in connection with the overcrowding of buses at the starting point, I seriously suggest to the Minister that it would be very difficult for a member of the Civic Guard to count the number of passengers in a bus when that bus is travelling at thirty-five or forty miles an hour. 
     In regard to the whole question of prosecutions, I think it is an absolute disgrace that the driver of the bus, who has instructions to get from one point to another within a certain time, should be prosecuted, and that the owner, who employs that driver and gives him instructions to work to a time-table, should be allowed to go scot free. Imagine a publican in the city of Dublin who allowed liquor to be consumed on his premises after hours being dealt with by having the assistant who served the drink prosecuted, instead of prosecuting the publican who allowed it to be done!  I seriously suggest that it is absolutely wrong, from the point of view of good administration, to prosecute and fine the driver and altogether ignore the bus owner, who arranges a certain time-table to be worked to, and who will sack the driver unless he keeps up to it. 
     The Minister for Justice will say that no case has been proved.  I ask him to send one of his office boys down to Eason's, in O'Connell Street, to purchase the time-table of all the buses now plying for hire.  If he made a careful examination of that, if he considers the times allowed for travelling to Ballina, Cavan and Limerick, for instance, making allowance for all the official stopping places but disregarding the unofficial stopping places, he would find that they could not complete their journeys in time without doing twenty-five to thirty miles an hour.  If a driver does not turn up to time at Limerick, Ballina or Cavan he is probably dismissed.  In some cases he is dismissed.  What happens to the bus driver who is fined £3 or £4 for exceeding the speed limit or for allowing overcrowding?  I can produce   facts to the Minister, if he wants them, to show that the bus drivers who are prosecuted and fined are obliged to pay these fines from their miserable weekly wages, and the bus owners are allowed to go scot tree. 
     I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to a thing that every Deputy who has been watching this matter can see for himself, namely, that buses, plying for public hire in and around the city and suburbs, are allowed to stop in the middle of a busy thoroughfare to pick up and let down passengers without being in any way interfered with by the police.  I want to know why the police do not force these people to go into the foot-path before they take up or let down passengers. The Minister for Justice, or any of his officials, could see that for themselves any day of the week in busy thoroughfares in and around Dublin. The Minister, I understand, is the licensing authority in so far as he is the person responsible for issuing licences and for seeing to it that the drivers are capable and competent to drive buses.  I understand that the test is not by any means a reliable one, and I would like the Minister to look into that aspect of the case.  But my real reason for raising this matter is this: No doubt the Inter-Departmental Committee that was set up a long time ago to inquire into this whole question of the revising of the existing traffic regulations, will report this year, or next year, or sometime or other.  Whenever that report is available I assume legislation will follow as a result of their recommendations.  I suggest to the Minister that if bus owners are going to be allowed to ply for public hire, the safety of the travelling public should be taken into consideration.  If the safety of the travelling public is to be taken into consideration the bus owners should be compelled to insure against damage to person or property. What is going to happen, or who is going to provide money for the widow and the four children of Mr. Nolan, who was killed on Merrion Road last week, or for the dependents of Mr. Egan?  Nobody. 
     
      
       Why not? 
     
     
     
      
       If action is taken by the widow against the bus owner responsible for the killing of her husband, no doubt a Dublin jury will award her £1,000, but where will it come from? 
     
     
      
       From the owner of the bus. 
     
     
      
       If you inquire you will find that the bus owner has not paid for the bus, to say nothing about paying for the life that has been lost.  I suggest that third party insurance should be insisted upon, but I dare say the Minister will say that that is an aspect of the question that will not be dealt with by his Department.  I suggest that the minimum fine should be increased, and that there should be more police supervision over over-crowding, instead of asking vigilant members of the Guards to count passengers when a bus is travelling at the rate of thirty or forty miles an hour. 
     
     
      
       I do not want to take away from the time at the Minister's disposal, but can he say if a magistrate has power to commit to prison a bus driver who is proved to be a danger to the public?  I think one magistrate stated the other day that he regretted that he had no such power. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Minister would also state whether it is not a fact that bus traffic in the Free State has been extremely free from accidents? I think bus owners do not want over-crowding, so that whatever regulations the Minister may make will be quite acceptable to them.  As a matter of fact, care is taken by drivers to secure that the passengers are conveyed with safety.  That is proved by the fact that bus travelling in the Free State has been freer from accident than in any other country in the world. 
     
     
      
       This is a very large question which has been opened up, and I am asked to deal with it in the very short period of six minutes, which I think is rather unfair. However, I will endeavour to get over as much ground as I possibly can in that time.  Deputy Davin started off with an attack on my Department.  He   said it was over-lenient in enforcing regulations, and he quoted as proof of that the average sum payable in fines for the last six months as working out at 13/8. 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I do not know whether Deputy Davin is quite serious in making that charge against my Department.  As far as this matter is concerned, my Department is the Courts.  What can the Guards do except bring prosecutions?  They have brought prosecutions.  They brought 1,104 prosecutions for speeding, and succeeded in 913.  They brought 401 cases of over-crowding, and they succeeded in 353.  They come into court and the magistrate fixes the fine which he considers to be right.  I have no power to increase that fine which the magistrate fixes. 
     
     
      
       You have power to make laws fixing the minimum fine. 
     
     
      
       There is no such law at the present time, and I have no power to make regulations fixing a minimum fine.  I have no power to make laws.  The Dail makes them. The Deputy, as a matter of fact, started by saying that he was simply going to deal with the efficiency in administering the existing law by my Department. My Department has nothing whatever to do with the amount of the fines.  The only way in which I am in the slightest bit interested in the amount of the fines is if a petition is brought before me&mdash;and petitions have been brought before me by motor drivers and by motor owners or by persons who considered themselves aggrieved&mdash;then I can exercise the prerogative of mercy and reduce the fine. I have got absolutely no power to increase any fine which has been imposed, and when Deputy Davin attacks the Guards and attacks the way in which they are administering the law, he attacks them upon the ground&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There was no attack on the Guards. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;that the fines are light, then I submit to the Deputy that that is not a fair method of attack.  I am perfectly sure that   the Deputy would not attack the Guards intentionally. 
     
     
      
       I did not do it. 
     
     
      
       What is he attacking?  He says the law is not being enforced. 
     
     
      
       Effectively. 
     
     
      
       That is not an attack on the Guards. 
     
     
      
       I am endeavouring to establish the proposition that the law is being enforced by the Guards and being enforced effectively, and it is not fair criticism of them to say that the fines are too low, because fines are matters which are entirely within the purview of the magistrate. No one else can deal with the fines except the magistrate.  Deputy Davin also said that the large number of convictions showed that there was a growing disregard for existing traffic laws. There may be.  It might be that competition amongst drivers and bus owners is forcing them into disregard of existing traffic laws.  I think it is highly probable&mdash;I do not want in any way to pre-judge what may be found by this Committee when it reports&mdash; but I think I can go this length and say that it is open to argument, at any rate, that in certain places there are more buses in competition than the traffic can justify, and that possibly&mdash;I will not go any further&mdash;competition is forcing persons into a disregard of the existing law, and that that is why the number of prosecutions have been increased five times within the last quarter, as compared with the corresponding period last year.  I would ask Deputy Davin if there was not another conclusion to be drawn and if the conclusion is not this: that the Guards are doing their work very well and very effectively.  There will be, and must   be. cases of speeding which pass undetected. There are other cases which are detected and the number of detections show that this matter is receiving careful consideration, and that it is also being competently and effectively dealt with at present.  Of course, the whole question of the supervision of road traffic regulations requires to be amended.  This bus traffic is an entirely new problem and must be dealt with as such.  But I would like to point out to Deputy Davin that I have received a great number of complaints from bus drivers. that they are unduly harassed and prosecuted. If I find the bus drivers say-find Deputy Davin attacking the prosecutions as being unduly lenient I think that probably the truth lies between the two, and I would ask the House to believe that the Guards are coping with this difficult problem in as careful and skilful a manner as they possibly can.  Deputy Davin went on to talk of the over-crowding of buses when starting.  I cannot answer him on that particular question.  He said that on two occasions he saw buses starting from O'Connell bridge over-crowded. I do not think that would be a normal arrangement because I know that the question of traffic from O'Connell Bridge was carefully gone into.  One of the District Justices was kind enough when certain cases came before him to offer himself, as it were, as an arbitrator between the various bus companies which start from there, and between themselves the bus companies made an arrangement by which they would start at different times so that that class of competition would be obviated. 
       It being now 11 p.m. the Dail adjourned until 3 o'clock on Wednesday, 18th July, 1928. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWER. - DAIL LOAN SUBSCRIPTIONS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state why the subscriptions of the following persons to the Dail Eireann Loan have not been refunded:&mdash;John Corbett, Derrybrick, Kilmihill, Co. Clare, £2; John Brown, Crossmore, Kilmihill, £3; Martin Downes, Crossmore, Kilmihill, £2; Michael Nolan, Benvoran, Kilmihill, £1; Pat Lorigan, Benvoran, Kilmihill, £1; Pat Goulding, Benvoran, Kilmihill, £1; Simon Hannan, Benvoran Kilmihill, £1; Pat Johnson, Crossmore, Kilmihill, £1; Michael Quinn, Benvoran, Kilmihill, £1; Michael Devitt, Ballagh, Ennistymon, £1; Thomas Devitt, Ballagh, Ennistymon, £3; Miss D. Hogan, Ballygowney, Bunratty, Co. Clare, £3; Mr. James Moloney, Killawina, Doora, Ennis, £3. 
     
     
      
       Some of the persons named in the Deputy's question do not appear to have applied to my Department for repayment, and it is necessary for them to do so before any action can be taken.  Those cases in which written application has been made for repayment are being dealt with in the ordinary course. 
     
   
 